Corporate Governance Report continued Your Boards year This section of the Corporate Governance Report focuses on the activities of the Board during the year, highlighting key activities and events.
It should be read in conjunction with the section on the UK Corporate Governance Code on pages 102 to 105 which explains how the Board complied with the Code during the year.
THE ACQUISITION OF A LOAN PORTFOLIO SECURED AGAINST RETAIL ASSETS IN DUBLIN, IRELAND The Board regularly reviews potential acquisition opportunities.
In April, following early monitoring by the UK New Business team, the Board began considering a potential opportunity to acquire a portfolio of loans secured against prime Dublin retail property.
These included Dundrum Town Centre.
The portfolio offered a compelling blend of best-in-class shopping centres with opportunities for asset improvement and development.
The Board considered the investment opportunity in June and reviewed key considerations including: The quality of the retail assets connected with the potential acquisition: The strategic fit of the potential acquisition within the Group: The Irish economy and real estate investment market: The likely sale process: and Dundrum Town Centre, Dublin Potential joint venture partners.
Management produced a number of detailed papers to help the Board consider the various aspects of the acquisition opportunity.
In particular the Board assessed various options for funding the acquisition, a risk analysis, how the assets would be integrated into the Groups portfolio, and expected returns.
A number of Board meetings were held to discuss and review the progress of the acquisition project and to approve the next steps.
In between meetings, the Chief Executive and other members of senior management kept the Board fully informed of developments.
The Board challenged and scrutinised the rationale for the acquisition and whether it was a good strategic fit, considered investor views, reviewed pricing and financing, assessed the likely approach from other potential bidders, and assessed the potential financing and resourcing impact of the transaction on the Group as a whole.
The Board had oversight of the work carried out by the project teams.
This enabled them to ensure to their satisfaction that the underlying assumptions relating to due diligence, market conditions and taxation were robust.
The Board approved the recommendation that the Company should acquire the loan portfolio.
During the project, Hammersons UK New Business team was supported by the Groups property and operational colleagues as well as internal legal, tax, treasury and finance functions.
Hammersons external legal team, valuer, tax advisors and corporate brokers also provided advice and guidance.
On 29 September 2015, the Company announced the joint-venture acquisition together with Allianz Real Estate of the Irish loan portfolio for 1.23 billion 74 HAMMERSON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT YOUR BOARDS YEAR FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION BOARD VISITS for retailers and consumers in line with the Product Experience Framework.
The day ended with a dinner where the Board and As an important part of the Boards work plan in 2015, two Board wider team were able to engage informally.
meetings were scheduled at locations away from the Companys head office in London in Leeds in June and in Reading in October.
In October, the Board held its meeting at the Companys new offices at Aquis House in Reading, followed the next day by the Such meetings provide an important opportunity for the Board annual Board strategy day.
The visit included a tour of the Oracle to see the Groups portfolio first-hand and to engage formally shopping centre, a presentation from the asset and leasing team and informally with colleagues.
They help the Non-Executive and centre manager covering the centres history and the vision Directors in particular to deepen their knowledge of the for its future, Product Experience Framework initiatives and Groups operations.
sustainability plans, marketing opportunities and operations.
In Leeds, the Directors began their visit with a tour of Victoria The Board also saw a presentation on the project to relocate Quarter and the Victoria Gate development project.
At the the head office finance and IT teams to Aquis House in Reading, meeting the Board received a project update from the projects covering how the project was planned and executed, and how asset management and development teams.
The background to effectively risks were managed and lessons learnt.
the project was explained in the presentation, providing context and detailing how the strategic decision to create a premium A lunch at the new Reading offices enabled local colleagues to destination influences all design and leasing decisions.
The Board meet and talk to the Board informally.
The Group Executive reviewed the timetable and key risks concerning the targeted Committee and a number of senior managers attended a Board completion date and letting.
As well as the assets brand plans, dinner in the evening where the Board was able to meet they also reviewed further opportunities to enhance the colleagues informally.
development and ensure that the centre opens with an experience NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR ENGAGEMENT Following the Board effectiveness review in 2014, it was agreed that there should be as many opportunities as possible for colleagues at all management levels in the Group to meet the Non-Executive Directors.
During 2015, a number of such opportunities allowed the Non-Executive Directors to meet with management and colleagues both formally and informally.
In June, the Non-Executive Directors joined the head office team at a celebratory event to mark the opening of the new head office at Kings Place.
The entire Leeds project team attended the Board dinner and site visit during the Boards visit to Leeds in June.
The Oracle shopping centre team attended the Boards site visit when it visited Reading in October and the Board also met the full Reading team at a buffet lunch.
Colleagues from management have also attended and presented at Board meetings, enabling the Non-Executive Directors to engage with colleagues across the business.
Overall, getting out and about in the business and listening to colleagues talking outside the Board room has given the Non-Executive Directors a useful cultural barometer and an insight into the The Boards site visit to Victoria Gate, Leeds business that they could get no other way.
COM 75 Corporate Governance Report continued BOARD STRATEGY DAY A market overview and latest forecasts for the investment and consumer markets: Ensuring that the Company delivers its mission to create Opportunities arising from emerging trends and technologies: desirability for its consumers and commercial partners and positive value for all stakeholders, depends on the successful Priorities and opportunities for deploying capital and likely implementation of the strategy set by the Board.
While the challenges: and Groups strategy is continuously discussed and refined throughout An overview of the Irish market.
the year, the Board takes time out of its regular schedule every In response to comments received in last years Board year to debate and reflect on broader strategic issues.
effectiveness review, the structure of the day was refined.
In The objective of the 2015 strategy day was to discuss and evaluate addition a number of key questions were posed to enable the the key decisions which will be required to be made during 2016 in Board to focus its thinking on specific areas and encourage active order for the Group to deliver on its stated strategic objectives discussion.
Insights and ideas generated in this way were further over the next three to five years.
The agenda for the day included: debated and refined and incorporated into the Business Plan for 2016.
Positive feedback was received from the Directors on the A review of progress against strategy over the last year: structure of the days activities.
DAVID ATKINS PERSPECTIVE My aim in preparing for this years annual Board strategy day was to get the Board prepared and thinking in advance about key topics for discussion by providing targeted reading material focusing particularly on performance to date and options and trends for the business.
This years strategy day was held in our new offices at Aquis House, Reading which gave the Board and especially the Non-Executive Directors an opportunity to meet new colleagues, see the style of the new offices and similarities with our London headquarters and get an opportunity to see one of our centres.
Visiting the Oracle shopping centre added an important dimension to the days activities and allowed the Directors to see strategy in action including marketing, digital initiatives and new retailer formats and simply experiencing a busy shopping centre first-hand.
Our discussions were structured with pauses for reflection and focused questions to prompt and guide the Directors and provide further support and challenge to the debate.
Important elements of the days debate were an opportunity to look into the future and consider the Irish business environment.
What if scenarios were discussed and we were able to consider the possible consequences of future technological advances on our business and the risks of major disruption to our business model.
In light of our recent Irish acquisition, we had a very fruitful discussion led by an invited speaker with expertise in the political, economic and business environment in Ireland.
The feedback on the format of this years strategy day was favourable and all the Directors found it useful.
Exploring and challenging different options for the business can be quite tactical but also allows strategic thinking about what could or might happen and how we could orientate the business accordingly.
I think we were all energised by the opportunity to discuss ideas together and, importantly, the day also helped support working relationships on the Board.
It provided an opportunity for Directors to work together which is harder to replicate in a routine Board meeting.
The Oracle, Reading 76 HAMMERSON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION HAMMERSONS APPROACH TO SHAREHOLDER Hammersons investor relations programme includes the ENGAGEMENT following activities: The Company has a comprehensive investor relations Bi-annual investor roadshows after full-year and half-year programme.
The Chief Executive, the Chief Financial Officer and results: the Head of Investor Relations meet regularly with institutional Industry conferences in UK, Europe and US: shareholders to discuss strategic issues and present the One-to-one meetings with management at the request Companys results.
The Company also engages with all of institutional shareholders: shareholders through regular communications, the Annual General Meeting and investor relations activities.
The Chairman Meetings on sustainability with Socially Responsible and the General Counsel and Company Secretary also each have Investment fund managers: an annual engagement with major shareholders.
Salesforce briefings at leading equities brokers: Investor tours of assets, organised as necessary, accompanied BOARD OVERSIGHT by centre managers and other colleagues: The Board is committed to ensuring that the Company engages Panel discussions with executive management at investor with shareholders and other key market participants, such as conferences and events: research analysts, to learn and understand their views.
The Board reviews an investor relations report at each Board meeting.
The An annual Capital Markets Day: Group Executive Committee also reviews these matters at its An annual sustainability report and investor webinar: and monthly meetings.
The investor relations report includes Bespoke research into themes and trends in the retail sector.
details of: In 2015, the annual Capital Markets Day involved a trip to The latest share price performance, benchmarked against peers: Elliotts Field, Rugby, and Victoria Gate, Leeds.
It included Recently published analyst research, including analyst views, presentations on how the Company is performing against strategy and any changes in analyst forecasts for the Company: and progress on-site at Victoria Gate, as well as a thorough discussion of the dynamics in the UK retail parks market.
Investor Any significant changes to the shareholder register: feedback was positive with investors commenting that they found Recent investor relations activity, such as road shows and it useful to see two key schemes under development and meet conferences: and operational colleagues.
The Companys website is an important means of communication The Chairman also meets with shareholders independently and a key source of information for shareholders and prospective of the Executive Directors.
In April 2015, he met institutional investors.
It contains RNS announcements, a live share price feed shareholders in London and Amsterdam.
Topics discussed and other information including an archive of published results included strategic goals, the geographical focus of the Companys and reports, press releases, details about the Groups assets and portfolio, the appropriate size of the Company and governance contact information for the Companys operational teams.
topics such as the composition of the Board.
Shareholder feedback Webinars, which include the full-year and half-year results, are from these meetings was positive.
streamed live to shareholders and analysts and are available for playback on the website.
The General Counsel and Company Secretary also acts as a focal point for communications on corporate governance matters.
She In October, the Company launched a dividend reunification met or spoke with a number of major shareholders during 2015 to programme with its registrar, Capita.
The programme has discuss corporate reporting and governance matters.
successfully reunited a number of shareholders with their unclaimed dividends.
The Company plans to launch a sale and INVESTOR RELATIONS PROGRAMME purchase programme during 2016 for shareholders holding small The Company continues to make full and transparent disclosure numbers of shares.
despite the decision taken in 2015 to cease publishing quarterly Interim Management Statements.
As well as the full-year and The Annual General Meeting provides all shareholders with an half-year results, the Company publishes Regulatory News Service important forum where they can put questions to the Board.
The RNS announcements and continues to run a comprehensive proxy voting results are available shortly after the meeting and are investor relations programme.
The Company believes the new published at www.
approach has worked well and will continue it in 2016.
