CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT In conversation with the Board Sarah Booth, the General Counsel and Company Secretary, talks to the Directors about their views on several aspects of the Boards activities.
These include how the Board works together and achieves effective decision-making, its role in promoting Hammersons culture and values, how effectively risk is managed and strategy is set, and the Boards input into succession planning.
Gwyn Burr David Tyler Timon Drakesmith Sarah Booth Gwyn Burr Lets start by considering how well you think the Board works The Boards diversity helps inform our debates and we have a wide together and achieves consensus.
range of experience to draw on.
As newer members of the Board, Pierre and Andrew will both add to its capability, bringing Pierre Bouchut financial and real estate experience to complement further our During my first year on the Board I have found the dialogue and existing skills.
Board members bring diversity of David Atkins talents, backgrounds and style but all approach meetings ready to contribute to and challenge the debate.
There is also a balance of Discussions are positive, transparent and open.
We also use interaction between all the Directors and our relationship with informal Board dinners to discuss wider business topics and management is healthy.
we hope to have more opportunities to do so in 2016.
Peter Cole Terry Duddy David Tyler encourages a collaborative and collegiate I agree.
The recent Board discussion on Ireland and the environment on the Board which fosters open discussion.
I find opportunities there was underpinned by very informative papers discussion about key risks facing the business, the economic prepared by management which enabled us to consider the risks environment and the changing nature of occupier and investment involved in what I thought was a well-balanced way.
This resulted demand is very helpful in shaping the Companys investment and in clear decision-making.
The Chairman is skilled at encouraging development activities.
all members to contribute to the debate and at bringing the discussion to a timely conclusion.
Andrew Formica Judy Gibbons I have also recently joined the Board.
During the interview process and in my initial meetings with fellow Directors, I was impressed Yes, that is a good example.
It required the Board to absorb a by everybodys collegiate, friendly but professional attitude.
The considerable amount of background information and understand Board is clearly unified in its thinking around strategy and the implications of a major acquisition in a new market.
The direction but each Director brings their own experiences and Boards discussion was robust and sufficient time was allowed for perspectives to the Board table.
everyone to become fully-briefed and have the confidence individually to give their approval to the project.
70 HAMMERSON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT IN CONVERSATION WITH THE BOARD FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Andrew Formica Judy Gibbons Peter Cole Sarah Booth Pierre Bouchut The UK Corporate Governance Code states that one of the key An example of our ethical stance came at a recent Board meeting roles for the Board is to establish the culture, values and ethics of where we debated an opportunity to accelerate a deal.
There were the Company and to set the tone from the top.
How well does the aspects of the proposed scheme which didnt fit with the Companys Board do in this area?
values and ethics, so we all agreed not to proceed.
This is a good example of where the Companys values influenced our decision.
David Tyler Terry Duddy Hammersons values are central to the way we run the business.
We make a point of setting them out clearly: ambition, The Executive Directors have worked hard and successfully on responsibility, collaboration and respect.
However, I recognise establishing the vision, mission and objectives of the business and that the way we live these values and our behaviours are even the values that underpin our strategy.
The recent office moves in more important than the statement of our values.
Hammersons Reading and London have been important in that process and the financial success must continue to be built on ethical behaviours.
work involved has been done with substantial and overt We deal with our business partners with respect and treat them as encouragement from the Board.
we would hope and expect to be treated ourselves.
Jacques Espinasse Andrew Formica The head office move to Kings Place has enabled a significant As Chief Executive, David Atkins provides strong leadership and shift in culture.
As we look ahead to a more geographically instils the culture that makes Hammerson such an attractive place diverse business in the future, it will become more important to work.
He is ably supported by David Tyler and the rest of the to have a single aligned Hammerson culture and values system.
Board, who all share his vision.
We will stay vigilant to monitor how well-aligned we are across the whole Group.
Timon Drakesmith Judy Gibbons I agree.
Given his long experience in the property industry and in the Company itself, David Atkins is a key culture champion at Yes, we have many opportunities to hold informal meetings with Hammerson.
I am particularly encouraged by the opportunities management that help us assess the underlying perceptions of our we have for Non-Executive Directors to interact with colleagues culture and values.
and set the tone from the top when they visit our assets, such as Gwyn Burr the recent Board visit to Reading.
I agree getting out and about more as a Board acts as a cultural David Atkins barometer and that is a good thing.
The annual colleague survey also I think we are doing well but there is more work to do to get our gives us a good insight into the tone and culture of the organisation.
values fully embedded through every part of the business.
Engagement between the Board and colleagues throughout the organisation is important and allows everybody to see how the Board works.
For example, when colleagues attend Board meetings, they are encouraged to explain any problems encountered, to take responsibility for outcomes and to share lessons learnt with the Board.
COM 71 Corporate Governance Report continued Sarah Booth Jean-Philippe Mouton Pierre Bouchut strategy day.
The introduction of new Directors to the Board Sarah Booth ensures that there is fresh thinking and challenge in our Turning to strategy and long-term thinking, how well do you think discussions.
It is particularly in areas like strategy where the the Board performs in these areas?
individual experience and specialist skills of the Non-Executives David Atkins allow them to make a significant contribution.
The annual strategy day in October included a good balance of Pierre Bouchut opportunities to think in the long and short term as we considered We are focused on the longer term and consider key questions that what the retail environment of the future will look like.
We also will affect the long-term sustainability of the business model the discussed the development pipeline and opportunities in this area.
impact of online and e-commerce development and the We have a clear strategy which is measured by clear targets and digitalisation of retail, for example.
The Group is developing KPIs.
We ensure that new Non-Executive Directors have a digital tools which are being implemented in our centres.
I am sufficiently full understanding of our business, assets and sure there will be a further comprehensive review of digital competitors to enable them to make a full contribution in developments to assess future opportunities.
Gwyn Burr Andrew Formica The nature of the business is long-term investment and I think we As a new Director, I see a consistent message from the Board do take a long-term view.
Our developments in Croydon and Brent around Group strategy and direction.
It is apparent that much Cross are good examples of this.
We have extended opportunities debate and discussion goes into the formulation of strategy and to assess our strategic aims at our annual strategy day where there that every Director is fully committed to its delivery.
is usually a vigorous debate including senior managers who David Tyler also attend.
The Boards thinking on long-term strategy doesnt happen in Judy Gibbons isolation.
It is influenced by the changing economic backdrop Yes, we have a well-articulated strategy which is well understood both in the UK and Europe and the fast evolving nature of retail by the Board.
I think we are effective at discerning whether a and customer behaviour.
Recently we have also looked at what the proposal is aligned with our strategy and then moving to review impact might be of an exit by the UK from the European Union.
This year, we are planning to make a number of disposals from our property portfolio and our programme will, of course, be influenced by our view of property investment markets in 2016 and beyond.
Peter Cole Setting, evolving and changing the Companys strategy is clearly a critical area for Hammersons success.
I find the Board works well in delivering in this area.
As well as the process during formal Board meetings, strategy and long-term thinking result from a process of less formal discussion during visits to the Groups offices in Reading and Paris, our shopping centres and the focused review and challenge during the course of the Boards annual 72 HAMMERSON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT IN CONVERSATION WITH THE BOARD FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION David Atkins Jacques Espinasse Terry Duddy Sarah Booth Sarah Booth In terms of risk management, how well does the Board assess the Lets move on to succession planning.
How confident are we that risks we are taking ?
To what extent do we apply sufficient we have identified a talent pipeline below the Board?
David Tyler Timon Drakesmith As Chairman, there is nothing more important to me than the This is a positive area for management reporting and Board people agenda.
Our aim is for Hammerson to have the most engagement.
I feel that we do a good job of highlighting the issues talented people in the sector.
I make a point of frequently meeting and debating the range of outcomes.
In this years Annual Report senior members of the management team and I know my fellow we have enhanced our risk reporting by introducing a risk heat Directors do so as well.
With my colleagues, I ensure that we map to show how risks changed during 2015. review the performance of the whole management cadre regularly to ensure that we identify and give our many talented people an Peter Cole opportunity to develop within the business.
In our capital allocation and particularly when considering major Terry Duddy developments or investment acquisitions, the risks involved are a key area of challenge and debate.
For example, the acquisition of Yes, we have a very solid and detailed succession planning and the Irish loan portfolio in 2015 was preceded by a number of talent review discussion at the Nomination Committee.
All strategic discussions, involving both internal and external input, Non-Executive Directors attend this, giving them the opportunity relating to the assessment of the risks involved.
These included to voice their views and air any concerns.
moving into a new territory, the loan structure, the assets Judy Gibbons themselves and the potential impact on the Company of I think the process for identifying talent below Board level is a financing decisions.
In 2016 we will work on reviewing progress on the Jacques Espinasse development of key individuals and their ability to move into their We take a robust approach to all aspects of risk management, next roles.
At the entry level, its good to see the investment in the giving it an appropriate level of weight when making major graduate programme is giving such a positive outcome.
The process is well-framed and quantified and it Gwyn Burr is regularly updated as the business evolves and develops.
We are seeing much more evidence than in the past of deep David Atkins thinking about our colleagues and their development needs and While we always do a thorough evaluation, we naturally recognise opportunities.
We should maintain a good level of visibility in this that we cannot eliminate all risk, although we hope we always area to facilitate continued informed debate.
identify the risks we take and are confident these are within our Jean-Philippe Mouton risk appetite.
The annual review of succession planning down to senior managers is thorough.
Identifying gaps is positive as it encourages talented individuals across the Group to consider new opportunities in the Company.
Jacques Espinasse The size of the Company is such that we cannot always have ready successors for every role, but we do focus on a couple of levels below the Board.
I feel that succession planning is carried out in an appropriate manner for the size of our Company.
