DIRECTORS BIOGRAPHIES David Tyler Jean-Philippe Mouton Chairman age 63 Executive Director age 54 Appointed to the Board: 12 January 2013 and appointed Appointed to the Board: 1 January 2013.
Past appointments: Director of strategic planning at Disneyland Committee membership: Remuneration Committee and Paris and roles at The Walt Disney Company and Standard Chairman of the Nomination Committee.
Other appointments: Chairman of J Sainsbury plc and Domestic & General Insurance plc.
Pierre Bouchut Past appointments: Finance director of GUS plc and senior Non-Executive Director age 60 financial and general management roles with Christies International plc, County NatWest Limited and Unilever PLC.
Appointed to the Board: 13 February 2015.
Chairman of 3i Quoted Private Equity plc and Logica plc.
Non-executive director of Burberry Group plc, Experian plc Committee membership: Audit Committee and Nomination and Reckitt Benckiser Group plc.
Other appointments: Executive vice president and chief financial officer of Delhaize Group SA.
Non-executive director David Atkins of La Rinascente SpA.
Non-executive member of the advisory boards of Qualium Investissement and Lombard Odier Asset Chief Executive age 49 Management Switzerland SA.
Appointed to the Board: 1 January 2007 and appointed Chief Past appointments: Executive director growth markets zone Executive on 1 October 2009. and chief financial officer of Carrefour SA.
Chief financial officer Other appointments: Member of the executive board of the and member of the management board of Schneider Electric SA.
European Public Real Estate Association.
Member of the British Chief executive officer and member of the Board of Casino Council of Shopping Centres BCSC executive board and trustee Guichard-Perrachon SA.
of the BCSC Educational Trust.
Member of the policy committee of the British Property Federation.
Director and Trustee of the Reading Real Estate Foundation.
Gwyn Burr Non-Executive Director age 53 Peter Cole Appointed to the Board: 1 May 2012.
Chief Investment Officer age 57 Committee membership: Audit Committee, Nomination Appointed to the Board: 1 October 1999.
Committee and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Past appointments: President and general council member Other appointments: Member of board, remuneration of the City Property Association.
committee and chairman of nominations committee of Sainsburys Bank plc.
Non-executive director of Just Eat plc, Metro AG and DFS Trading Limited.
Timon Drakesmith Past appointments: Senior roles in marketing, customer service and financial services at Asda plc.
Customer service and colleague Chief Financial Officer age 50 director at J Sainsbury plc.
Non-executive director of the Appointed to the Board: 30 June 2011.
Director of the Incorporated Society of British Advertisers.
Chair of Business in the Community, Other appointments: Non-executive director of Value Retail community investment board.
Chairman of VIA Outlets advisory and investment committees, and of the British Property Federations finance committee.
Past appointments: Finance director of Great Portland Estates plc and the MK Electric division of Novar plc and group director of financial operations of Novar plc.
Other financial roles at Credit Suisse, Barclays and Deloitte Haskins and Sells.
108 HAMMERSON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS BIOGRAPHIES FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Terry Duddy Judy Gibbons Non-Executive Director and Senior Non-Executive Director age 59 Independent Director age 59 Appointed to the Board: 1 May 2011.
Appointed to the Board: 3 December 2009.
Committee membership: Audit Committee, Nomination Committee and Remuneration Committee.
Committee membership: Nomination Committee and Remuneration Committee.
Other appointments: Non-executive director of Guardian Media Group plc, Michael Kors Holdings Limited and Virgin Money Other appointments: Chairman of Retail Trust and Giving Limited.
Chairman of Refresh Mobile Limited.
non-executive director of Debenhams plc.
Past appointments: Non-executive director of O2 plc.
Corporate Past appointments: Chief executive of Home Retail Group plc.
Venture partner of Accel Director of DSG Retail Limited and trustee of Education and Partners.
Senior roles in marketing and product development at Employers Taskforce.
Jacques Espinasse Sarah Booth Non-Executive Director age 72 General Counsel and Company Secretary Appointed to the Board: 1 May 2007. age 49 Committee membership: Nomination Committee and Appointed: March 2010.
Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Past appointments: General counsel at Sodexo, legal and Other appointments: Non-executive director and member corporate development director at Christian Salvesen PLC and of the audit and remuneration committees of SES.
Non-executive trained as a solicitor at Dickson Minto WS.
director and chairman of the audit committee of AXA Belgium.
Chairman of the Fondation JED-Belgique.
See the Nomination Committee Report on page 79 for further details on Directors skills and expertise Past appointments: Chief financial officer of Vivendi.
Nonexecutive director of Canal France, Maroc Telecom, SFR and Universal Music Group.
Non-executive director and member of the audit and remuneration committees of La Banque Postale Asset Management.
Non-executive director and chairman of the audit committee of AXA Holdings Belgium and AXA Bank Europe.
Andrew Formica Non-Executive Director age 44 Appointed to the Board: 26 November 2015.
Committee membership: Audit Committee and Nomination Committee.
Other appointments: Chief executive of Henderson Group plc and director of The Investment Association.
Past appointments: Non-executive director of TIAA Henderson Real Estate Limited.
