REMUNERATION REPORT Remuneration Report This report has been prepared in accordance with of Group senior management and evaluating Schedule 7A of the Companies Act 1985.
It also meets management performance.
the relevant requirements of the Listing Rules of the The remuneration of Non-Executive Directors is Financial Services Authority and describes how the determined by the Board as a whole.
No Director Board has applied the principles of good governance participates in the determination of his own as set out in the Combined Code on Corporate remuneration.
Governance issued by the Financial Reporting Council Company policy on Directors pay and bonuses in June 2006 the Combined Code relating to The Companys policy is to ensure that Directors Directors remuneration.
are fairly rewarded with regard to responsibilities During the year under review, the Company complied undertaken, and considers comparable pay levels in with the detailed code provisions set out in Section B the United Kingdom, in Chile, and in the international of the Combined Code except, as explained on page 64, mining industry.
Corporate and individual performance performance related pay measures did not apply to the is taken into account in setting the pay level for the Chairman, who was the only Executive Director Chairman as an Executive Director, and this is provision B.
1.1. reviewed on an annual basis to ensure it remains The Companies Act 1985 requires the auditors to in line with companies of a similar nature, size and report to the Companys members on certain parts of complexity.
Remuneration levels for Non-Executive this report and to state whether in their opinion those Directors are based on comparable levels for parts have been properly prepared in accordance with companies of a similar nature, size and complexity, and the Companies Act 1985.
The report has therefore take into account specific responsibilities undertaken.
been divided into separate sections for unaudited Remuneration includes fees paid for non-executive and audited information.
directorships of subsidiary companies and joint ventures within the Group.
Unaudited Information The Board does not consider it appropriate to make Remuneration Committee regular performance-related pay awards such as Membership bonuses to the only Executive Director, Mr. J-P Luksic, The Remuneration Committee currently comprises given his role as Chairman of the Board and his Mr. G S Menendez Chairman, Mr. C H Bailey and interest in the Companys shares both directly and Mr. D E Yarur, all of whom are considered by the as a member of the Luksic family.
Board to be independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Group has paid Mr. R F Jara for advisory services to the Group.
The Board has taken these payments Responsibilities into account in determining his fees as a The responsibilities of the Remuneration Committee Non-Executive Director.
are fully set out in its Terms of Reference which are available from the Companys registered office and No Director currently receives pension contributions.
may be viewed on the Companys website www.
The Committee is responsible for setting remuneration policy and for reviewing the remuneration of any Executive Directors and, where appropriate, it consults the Chairman, Mr. J-P Luksic.
The Committee used benchmarking data from various sources, but did not appoint external consultants to advise on Directors remuneration during the year.
The Remuneration Committee is also responsible for monitoring the level and structure of remuneration Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008 65 Remuneration Report continued adjusted in line with Chilean inflation, and are also Non-Executive Directors fees reviewed periodically in line with the Companys policy The fees payable to Non-Executive Directors were on Directors pay.
Amounts paid during 2007 and 2008 as follows: have been included in the table of Directors 2008 2007 US$000 US$000 remuneration on page 68.
Base fee 100 100 All Non-Executive Directors have letters of appointment with the Company, for an initial period of three years from Audit committee chairman 20 20 the date of their appointment, subject to reappointment Audit committee member 10 10 at the Annual General Meeting AGM.
These letters require the Non-Executive Directors to undertake that Remuneration committee chairman 16 16 they will have sufficient time to discharge their Remuneration committee member 10 10 responsibilities.
The appointments may be terminated Nomination committee chairman 10 10 by either party on one months notice.
The letters of Nomination committee member 4 4 appointment are available for inspection at the Companys registered office during normal business hours and at the These fees were redenominated into US dollars during AGM for 15 minutes prior to and during the meeting.
2008 in order to reflect the international nature of the The service contracts and letters of appointment do Groups operations and the location of the majority of not provide for any compensation for loss of office its Directors.
Prior to this, fees paid were denominated beyond payments in lieu of notice, and therefore the in sterling.
For the purposes of the table above, the maximum amount payable upon termination of these amounts for 2008 represent the US dollar fees in contracts is limited to one months payment.
place following the redenomination and the amounts for 2007 represent the sterling fees translated into Share options and long-term incentive schemes US dollars at the average exchange rate for that year.
No arrangements exist to enable Directors to acquire Fee levels will be unchanged for 2009. benefits through the acquisition of shares in the Company or any of its subsidiary undertakings, to benefit In addition to the above amounts, Non-Executive through profit-related pay or share option schemes or Directors also receive fees in their capacity as to participate in any long-term incentive schemes.
Non-Executive Directors of the principal operating Directors interests subsidiary companies and joint ventures within the The Directors interests in the shares of the Company Group.
These additional fees are included within the at the beginning and end of the year were as follows: amounts attributable to the Non-Executive Directors within the table of Directors remuneration on page 68.
Ordinary shares of 5p each 31 December 1 January Service contracts and letters of appointment 2008 2008 Mr. J-P Luksic has a contract for services with both 1 J-P Luksic 41,963,110 41,963,110 the Antofagasta Railway Company plc and Antofagasta C H Bailey 32,000 32,000 Minerals S. A.
Both contracts for services can be 1 Mr. J-P Luksics interest relates to shares held by Aureberg terminated by either party on one months notice.
Establishment, an entity which he controls.
The contract with Antofagasta Minerals S. A. replaced The Directors had no interests in the shares of the a previous contract with Minera El Tesoro with effect Company during the year other than the interests in from 1 April 2008 at the same monthly rate.
No the table set out above.
No Director had any material additional amounts were paid to Mr. Luksic on the interest in any other contract with the Company or its termination of the contract with Minera El Tesoro.
subsidiary undertakings during the year other than in There is also a contract between Antofagasta Minerals the ordinary course of business.
S. A. and Asesoras Ramn F Jara Ltda for the provision No changes took place in the interests of the Directors of advisory services by Mr. R F Jara which can also between 31 December 2008 and the date of this report.
be terminated on one months notice.
The amounts payable under these contracts for services are Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008 66 REMUNERATION REPORT REMUNERATION REPORT Total shareholder return is calculated to show a Performance graph theoretical growth in the value of a shareholding over a The following graph shows the Companys performance specified period, assuming that dividends are reinvested compared to the performance of the FTSE All Share to purchase additional shares at the closing price Index over a five-year period, measured by total applicable on the ex-dividend date.
Total shareholder shareholder return as defined below.
The FTSE return for the FTSE All-Share Index is calculated by All Share Index has been selected as an appropriate aggregating the returns of all individual constituents benchmark as it is the most broadly based index to of the FTSE at the end of the five-year period.
which the Company belongs and which relates to the London Stock Exchange, the market where the Companys ordinary shares are traded.
Total Shareholder Return Antofagasta plc vs FTSE All Share Index 400% Antofagasta plc 350% FTSE All Share Index 300% 250% 200% 150% 100% 0% Jan 04 Dec 04 Dec 05 Dec 06 Dec 07 Dec 08 Total Shareholder Return represents share price growth plus dividends reinvested over the period Total Return Basis Index 1 January 2004 100 Source: Datastream Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008 67 Remuneration Report continued 2008 the Directors fees paid by Antofagasta plc were Audited Information redenominated from sterling into US dollars.
Increases Directors remuneration over 2007 result mainly from inflation-linked increases The remuneration of the Directors in the year is set in respect of the amounts paid to Mr. J-P Luksic and out below in US dollars.
Amounts paid in sterling and Mr. R F Jara under their service contracts, and fees Chilean pesos have been translated at average rates paid to Directors for additional services as directors of for the relevant year, which are set out in Note 37 to subsidiary companies and joint ventures of the Group.
This amount is included in the amounts attributable to Mr. Luksic of US$3,154,000 2007 US$2,900,000.
The benefits expense represents the provision of car usage to Mr. J-P Luksic.
2 During 2008, remuneration of US$467,000 2007 US$434,000 for the provision of services by Mr. R F Jara was paid to Asesoras Ramn F Jara Ltda formerly Asesoras Ramn F Jara EIRL.
This amount is included in the amounts attributable to Mr. Jara of US$767,000 2007 US$683,000.
3 Details of fees paid to Ingeniera y Servicios Computacionales Geovectra S. A. Geovectra, a company controlled by Mr. J W Ambrus, are disclosed in Note 38 to the financial statements.
These payments were on normal arms length commercial terms for services performed by employees of Geovectra, and hence have not been included in Mr. Ambrus fees as a Director in the table above.
4 Mr. P J Adeane retired from the Board in 2006.
Following retirement, Mr. Adeane has continued to serve the Board as a Senior Advisor under a contract for services at the rate of 10,000 per annum.
This contract can be terminated on one months notice.
Mr. Adeane was paid 10,000 approximately US$18,400 under this contract for services during 2008 2007 10,000: approximately US$20,000.
Approved on behalf of the Board G S Menndez Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 9 March 2009 Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008 68 REMUNERATION REPORT
