Trends, risks and opportunities Risks Trends Licensing: consolidation of customers The semiconductor industry goes through cycles which About half of ARMs revenue comes from direct sales to include periods of increased consolidation, especially semiconductor companies.
If there are fewer semiconductor when revenue growth declines.
companies, then ARM may have fewer customers to sell to.
In 2008, there were several examples of ARMs customer Two-thirds of ARMs unit shipments come from wireless base consolidating either through acquisition of entire devices, so consolidation of this part of the industry could companies or one company acquiring the division of represent a loss to ARMs future licensing business.
This trend appears to be particularly marked in In addition, due to reductions in venture capital funding, the wireless baseband business, where ARM has a large there may be fewer technology start-ups to replace a market share.
reduction in the number of customers.
Mobile: convergence of smartphones and laptops Smartphones are getting smarter and laptops are getting The main processor in a laptop is typically based on the smaller and more portable.
This is creating an opportunity x86 architecture.
It has been announced that smaller and for smartphone technology to crossover into laptops and lower-power x86-based chips are being worked on that laptop technology to cross over into smartphones.
will be suitable for the main processor in a smartphone.
There is therefore competition from large, well-funded Consumers want portable products that keep them companies that have demonstrated advanced technology connected to their social and business networks, have and aggressive marketing strategies.
They are capable of an all-day battery life and are simple to use.
reducing ARMs market share in smartphone application processors and hindering any market share gains that might be made by ARM licensees in laptops.
Non-mobile: competing in microcontrollers Although growing strongly, in 2008 ARM had only a It could be difficult for ARM to be successful in the 10% market share of the 2.6 billion unit microcontroller microcontroller market.
ARM will need to displace many market.
This market is characterised by a large number of established in-house processor designs.
proprietary processor architectures, being developed by ARM may invest a lot of effort and cost to achieve modest many semiconductor companies, who sell very low-cost penetration.
As the microcontroller chips are low-cost, the chips into a highly fragmented end market.
royalty revenue per device will also be lower.
Physical IP: outsourcing by semiconductor companies As semiconductor manufacturing has become increasingly Currently, most major chip companies develop their expensive, most chip companies are considering whether physical IP using their in-house teams.
Even for companies to outsource their manufacturing facilities to specialist that have outsourced manufacturing, the rate at which foundries.
This creates a new opportunity for chip they want to outsource physical IP is unclear.
companies to outsource their physical IP R&D.
As all chips The foundries may choose to develop the physical IP.
This require physical IP technology, this could be a larger would add more value to their customers and help create market than processors.
lock-in by making it harder for the customer to change foundry.
There are also other independent physical IP suppliers who compete in this market.
16 ARM Holdings plc Opportunities Licensing: consolidation of customers Saving cost is often a major driver when two divisions, where both companies remained ARM licensees semiconductor companies come together.
ARM works after completion of the transaction.
with the merged company to demonstrate how increased In addition, as about two-thirds of ARMs licences are cost savings may be realised through the adoption of signed for non-mobile applications, much of ARMs ARM as a common technology across more divisions licensing opportunity is beyond wireless.
Technology start-ups account for a very small proportion None of the consolidation we have seen to date has had of ARMs revenues although every quarter throughout 2008 a meaningful impact on ARMs licensing opportunity as new customers came to license their first ARM processor.
much of the consolidation consisted of companies selling Mobile: convergence of smartphones and laptops ARM technology-based chips for smartphones software is available, and that our shared experience in are significantly lower-cost and lower-power than developing portable consumer products enables a new current products available based on x86.
ARMs market of low-cost mobile computers.
licensees have announced chips that are suitable In addition to the main microprocessor, mobile computers for netbooks and laptops, and they regard this market contain many chips that can incorporate ARM-based as a growth opportunity.
We expect that most mobile computers could The ARM community is working with software companies contain 35 chips that would increase additional ARM and OEMs to ensure that a complete ecosystem of PC-class royalty revenues.
Non-mobile: competing in microcontrollers ARM believes that it can capture a significant proportion The Cortex-M3 processor was specifically developed for of the microcontroller market as demonstrated by the 90% the MCU market and, by the end of 2008, had been unit growth rate in 2008.
ARM processors are already licensed 25 times.
highly competitive in the 32-bit MCU market and our In addition, the ARM community is working to ensure that strategy is to develop technology that enables companies as well as a broad range of ARM technology-based chips, currently using 8- and 16-bit MCUs to migrate to ARM all the software and software tools are available for endtechnology-based chips.
customers using established microcontroller distributors.
As most semiconductor customers already have access to ARM technology, many have already produced MCUs based on ARM7 or ARM9 processor families.
Physical IP: outsourcing by semiconductor companies ARM is a proven supplier of processor technology to Currently this is a small market that we believe will grow most of the major chip companies in the world.
We have over the medium-term as more major semiconductor developed the most advanced physical IP technology companies outsource.
ARM can demonstrate significant and we were market leaders in the outsourced physical IP cost savings for our customers if they outsource physical market in 2008.
IP to ARM: and with the combination of advanced physical IP and processor technology we have an unmatched offering.
ARM Holdings plc 17 Board of directors Doug Dunn, OBE, age 64 Warren East age 47 Tudor Brown age 50 Mike Muller age 50 Chairman Chief Executive Officer President Chief Technology Officer Doug Dunn joined the board as Warren East joined ARM Tudor Brown was one of Mike Muller was one of the an independent non-executive in 1994 to set up ARMs the founders of ARM.
Before director in December 1998 consulting business.
He was joining the company, he was joining the Company, he and became non-executive Vice President, Business at Acorn Computers where was responsible for hardware Chairman on 1 October 2006.
Operations from February he worked on the ARM R&D strategy and the development He was previously President 1998.
In October 2000 he was programme.
He joined the of portable products at Acorn and Chief Executive Officer appointed to the board as board in 2001 and became Computers.
He was previously of ASM Lithography Holding Chief Operating Officer and in President in 2008 with at Orbis Computers.
At ARM N. V. until his retirement in October 2001 was appointed responsibility for developing he was VP, Marketing from December 2004.
Before joining Chief Executive Officer.
Before high-level relationships 1992 to 1996 and EVP, Business ASML, he was Chairman and joining ARM he was with with industry partners and Development until October Chief Executive Officer of the Texas Instruments.
He is a governmental agencies and 2000 when he was appointed Consumer Electronics Division chartered engineer, Fellow of for regional development.
of Royal Philips Electronics N. V. the Institution of Engineering His previous roles include In October 2001, he was and a member of the board.
and Technology, Fellow Engineering Director and appointed to the board.
He was previously Managing of the Royal Academy of Chief Technology Officer, EVP Simon Segars age 41 Director of the Semiconductor Engineering and a Companion Global Development and EVP and General Manager divisions of Plessey and GEC of the Chartered Management Chief Operating Officer.
He is Physical IP Division and held several engineering Institute.
He is a non-executive a Fellow of the Institution of Simon Segars joined the board and management positions director of Reciva Limited Engineering and Technology in January 2005 and was at Motorola.
He was awarded and non-executive director and is a non-executive director appointed EVP and General an OBE in 1992.
He is a and Chairman of the Audit of ANT plc.
Manager of the Physical IP non-executive director of ST Committee of fide La Rue plc.
Mike Inglis age 49 Division in September 2007.
Microelectronics N. V. Soitec Tim Score age 48 EVP and General Manager He has previously been EVP, S. A. and TomTom N. V. Chief Financial Officer Processor Division Engineering, EVP, Worldwide Tim Score joined ARM as Chief Mike Inglis joined ARM in 2002 Sales and latterly EVP, Business Financial Officer and director and became EVP and General Development.
Before joining Manager of the Processor in early 1991 and has worked ARM, he was Finance Director Division in July 2008, having on many of the ARM CPU of Rebus Group Limited.
previously been EVP, Sales and products since then.
He led He was previously Group Marketing.
Before joining ARM, the development of the ARM7 Finance Director of William he worked in management and ARM9 Thumb families.
Baird plc, Group Controller consultancy with A. T. Kearney He holds a number of patents at LucasVarity plc and Group in the field of embedded CPU and held a number of senior Financial Controller at BTR plc.
He is a nonHe is a non-executive director positions at Motorola, Texas executive director of Plastic and Chairman of the Audit Instruments, Fairchild and Logic Limited.
Committee of National Express BIS Macintosh and gained his Group plc.
initial industrial experience with GEC Telecommunications.
He is a chartered engineer and a Member of the Chartered Institute of Marketing.
He is a non-executive director of Pace plc.
18 ARM Holdings plc Lucio Lanza age 64 Kathleen ODonovan age 51 John Scarisbrick age 56 and Oxford Advanced Independent non-executive Independent non-executive Surfaces plc and a non Independent non-executive director director executive director of Oxford director Lucio Lanza joined the board Kathleen ODonovan joined John Scarisbrick joined the Catalysts Group plc and in December 2004 following the board in December 2006. board in August 2001.
He was Plant Health Care plc.
She is a non-executive director CEO of CSR plc from June Young Sohn age 53 He was a director of Artisan, and Chairman of the Audit 2004 until October 2007 and Independent non-executive from 1996, becoming Committees of Prudential plc, previously worked for 25 years director Chairman in 1997.
He is Great Portland Estates plc at Texas Instruments TI in Young Sohn joined the currently Managing Director and Trinity Mirror plc and a variety of roles including board in April 2007.
He has of Lanza techVentures, an Chairman of the Invensys as Senior Vice President extensive experience in early stage venture capital Pension Scheme.
Previously responsible for TIs $5 billion the semiconductor industry and investment firm, which she was a non-executive ASP chip business, President both in Silicon Valley and he founded in January director and Chairman of of TI Europe and leader of in Asia.
In 1990, he joined US the Audit Committees of the the team that created TIs Corporation, a director of Venture Partners, a venture Court of the Bank of England DSP business in Houston, Cymer, Inc. and Audium capital firm, as a venture and EMI Group plc and a Texas.
Before joining TI, he Semiconductor Limited and partner and was a general non-executive director of worked in electronics systems an adviser to Panorama partner.
Prior to that, she was design roles at Rank Radio Capital, a Silicon Valley he was an independent Chief Financial Officer of International and Marconi based venture capital firm.
consultant to companies BTR and Invensys and before Space and Defence Systems in Previously he was President in the semiconductor, that she was a partner at the UK.
He is a non-executive of the semiconductor products communications and Ernst & Young.
director of Intrinsity, Inc and group at Agilent Technology, computer-aided design non-executive Chairman of Philip Rowley age 56 Inc. and Chairman of Oak industries, including Cadence Netronome Systems Inc.
Prior to that, Design Systems, Inc. and, director Jeremy Scudamore age 61 he was President of the hard from 1986 to 1989, was Chief Philip Rowley joined the Senior independent director drive business of Quantum Executive Officer of EDA Corporation and, before board in January 2005.
He Jeremy Scudamore joined Systems, Inc. Before that he the board in April 2004.
He that, Director of Marketing was Chairman and CEO of was at Daisy Systems Corp, as AOL Europe, the interactive was Chief Executive Officer at Intel Corporation.
VP of Marketing and later as services, web brands, internet of Avecia Group formerly GM of the EDA division.
From technologies and e-commerce the specialty chemicals 1977 to 1983 he held several business of Zeneca until provider until February 2007. positions with responsibility He is a qualified chartered April 2006 and previously for strategy and innovation at accountant and was Group held senior management Intel Corp including Chairman Finance Director of Kingfisher positions both in the UK and of the Microprocessor Strategic overseas with Zeneca and plc from 1998 to 2001.
From 1968 to that, his roles included ICI.
He has been a board to 1977 he was responsible Executive Vice President and member of the Chemical for processor architecture and Chief Financial Officer of EMI Industries Association and was design at Olivetti Corporation.
Chairman of Englands North Music Worldwide.
He is a He is also on the board of non-executive director of HMV West Science Council.
He was directors of PDF Solutions, Inc. Group plc and Misys plc and also a member of the DTIs a provider of technologies Chairman of Skinkers Limited.
Innovation and Growth Team to improve semiconductor for the Chemical Industry and manufacturing yields.
He Chairman of the Innovation holds a doctorate in electronic Team.
He is non-executive engineering from Politecnico Chairman of SkyePharma plc of Milano.
ARM Holdings plc 19 Shareholder information ARM Holdings plc Depositary Secretary and registered office The Bank of New York Patricia Alsop 101 Barclays Street 110 Fulbourn Road New York Cambridge CB1 9NJ New York 10286 United Kingdom United States of America Registered number 2548782 Legal advisers UK Law Auditors Linklaters  LLP One Silk Street 1 Embankment Place London EC2Y 8HQ London WC2N 6RH United Kingdom United Kingdom US Law Davis Polk & Wardwell Stockbrokers 99 Gresham Street London EC2V 7NG UBS Limited United Kingdom 2 Finsbury Avenue London EC2M 2PP United Kingdom Investec Bank UK Limited 2 Gresham Street London EC2V 7QP United Kingdom Registrars Equiniti Aspect House Spencer Road Lancing West Sussex BN99 6DA United Kingdom Shareholder Helpline 0871 384 2139 20 ARM Holdings plc Corporate governance Role of the board The board is committed to high standards of corporate governance and business integrity, which it believes are essential to maintaining the trust of investors and other stakeholders in the Group.
The board provides leadership for the Group and is responsible for setting the Groups strategic aims and standards of conduct, monitoring performance against the business plan and budget prepared by the executive directors and ensuring that the necessary financial and human resources are in place for it to meet its objectives.
The board requires all directors and employees to act fairly, honestly and with integrity and they are all subject to a Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, a copy of which is published on the corporate website at www.
The board has a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved for its decision, which includes the approval of major business matters, policies and operating and capital expenditure budgets.
The board is also responsible for sanctioning unusual commercial arrangements such as atypical licence agreements and investments.
The board delegates authority to various committees that are constituted within written terms of reference and chaired by independent non-executive directors where required by the Combined Code.
The Chairman has primary responsibility for running the board and the Chief Executive Officer has executive responsibilities for the operations and results of the Group and making proposals to the board for the strategic development of the Group.
There are clear and documented divisions of accountability and responsibility for the roles of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer.
Compliance with the Combined Code The Group complies, and complied throughout 2008, with the Combined Code 2006.
There are three elements that make up the Groups corporate governance framework: organisation and structure, the internal control framework and independent assurance.
The remainder of this section together with the remuneration report detail how the Group has applied these principles and complies with the provisions of the Combined Code.
Composition and operation of the board The Combined Code requires that at least half of the board, excluding the Chairman, should comprise independent non-executive directors and the board currently comprises six executive directors, six independent non-executive directors and the Chairman.
The Chairman was regarded as independent at the time of his appointment.
The executive directors are the Chief Executive Officer, the President, the Chief Financial Officer, the Chief Technology Officer and the General Managers of the Processor and Physical IP Divisions, all of whom play significant roles in the day-to-day management of the business.
The board has considered the overall balance between executive and non-executive directors and believes that the number of executive directors is fully justified by the contribution made by each of them.
All directors complete conflicts of interest questionnaires and any planned changes in their directorships outside the Group are subject to prior approval by the board.
The board reviews the independence of the non-executive directors on appointment and at appropriate intervals and considers the six non-executive directors to be independent in character, judgement and behaviour, based on both participation and performance at board and committee meetings.
There are no relationships or circumstances which are likely to affect the judgement of any of them.
Jeremy Scudamore, who has a strong background in industry and commerce, is the senior independent director.
In this role, he provides a communication channel between the Chairman and nonexecutive directors and is available to discuss matters with shareholders, if required.
Lucio Lanza, John Scarisbrick and Young Sohn all have a broad understanding of the Groups technology and the practices of major US-based technology companies.
Philip Rowley and Kathleen ODonovan are both financial experts with strong financial backgrounds.
The beneficial interests of the directors in the share capital of the Company are set out on page 36.
In the opinion of the board, these shareholdings do not detract from the non-executive directors independent status.
The table below shows directors attendance at scheduled meetings and conference calls or ad hoc meetings which they were eligible to attend during the 2008 financial year: Board Scheduled conference board calls ad hoc Audit Remuneration Nomination meetings meetings committee committee committee Number 7 3 4 3 2 Doug Dunn 7 7C 2 3 2 2C Warren East 7 7 3 3 Tudor Brown 7 7 3 3 Mike Inglis 6 7 3 3 Lucio Lanza 7 7 1 3 4 4 2 2 Mike Muller 6 7 3 3 Kathleen ODonovan 6 7 1 3 4 4 3 3 Philip Rowley 6 7 1 3 4 4C 2 2 John Scarisbrick 7 7 2 3 2 2 2 2 Jeremy Scudamore 6 7 1 3 4 4 3 3C Tim Score 7 7 3 3 Simon Segars 5 7 2 3 Young Sohn 7 7 1 3 4 4 3 3 John Scarisbrick was appointed to the remuneration committee on 24 September 2008.
ARM Holdings plc 21 Corporate governance continued In the event that directors are unable to attend a meeting or a conference call they receive and read the papers for consideration at that meeting and have the opportunity to relay their comments and if necessary to follow up with the Chairman or the Chief Executive Officer after the meeting.
During 2008, the Chairman held at least two meetings with the non-executive directors without the executives present and the non-executive directors met on at least one occasion without the Chairman being present.
The directors have the benefit of directors and officers liability insurance and there is an established procedure for individual directors, who consider it necessary in the furtherance of their duties, to obtain independent professional advice at the Groups expense.
In addition, all members of the board have access to the advice of the Company Secretary.
Information and communication with shareholders Before each meeting, the board is furnished with information concerning the state of the business and its performance in a form and of a quality appropriate for it to discharge its duties.
The ultimate responsibility for reviewing and approving the annual report and accounts and the quarterly reports, and for ensuring that they present a balanced assessment of the Groups position, lies with the board.
The board delegates day-to-day responsibility for managing the Group to the executive committee and has a number of other committees, details of which are set out below.
The board makes considerable efforts to establish and maintain good relationships with shareholders.
The main channel of communication continues to be through the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer and the Director of Investor Relations, although the Chairman, the senior independent director and the other non-executive directors remain willing to engage in dialogue with major shareholders as appropriate.
There is regular dialogue with institutional shareholders throughout the year other than during close periods.
The board also encourages communication with private investors and part of the Groups website is dedicated to providing accurate and timely information for all investors including comprehensive information about the business, its Partners and products, all press releases, RNS and Securities and Exchange Commission SEC announcements.
At present, around 20 analysts write research reports on the Group and their details appear on the Groups website.
Shareholders can also obtain telephone numbers from the website, enabling them to listen to earnings presentations and audio conference calls with analysts: and in addition, webcasts or audiocasts of key presentations are made available through the website.
Members of the board, including some of the non-executive directors, attend the annual analyst and investor day and develop an understanding of the views of major shareholders through any direct contact that may be initiated by shareholders, or through analysts and brokers briefings.
The board also receives feedback from the Groups brokers and financial PR advisers, who obtain feedback from analysts and brokers following investor roadshows.
All shareholders may register to receive the Groups press releases via the internet.
The board actively encourages participation at the Annual General Meeting, scheduled for 14 May 2009, which is the principal forum for dialogue with private shareholders.
A presentation is made outlining recent developments in the business and an open question-and-answer session follows to enable shareholders to ask questions about the business in general.
The resolutions put to shareholders at the meeting and the voting results will be published via RNS and the SEC and will be available on the Groups website.
Board evaluation, induction and training The board undertakes an annual board evaluation.
During 2008, this exercise was conducted internally with each director completing a questionnaire and was led by the Chairman and facilitated by the Company Secretary.
The evaluation covered board performance, processes, committees, composition, skills and director induction.
The overall conclusion was that individual board members are satisfied that the board works well.
They are also satisfied with the contribution made by their colleagues and that board committees operate properly and efficiently.
Various recommendations resulted from the evaluation which have been discussed by the board and will be acted upon by the board in 2009, as appropriate.
In particular, time is now allocated at board meetings and conference calls for discussions between the non-executive directors with and without the Chairman present and the Chairman will meet regularly with members of the executive committee in 2009.
Further, the Chief Executive Officer will meet each non-executive director individually at least once per year.
It is intended that there will be a further board evaluation each year, involving external consultants as and when the board deems appropriate.
A full, formal induction programme is arranged for new directors, tailored to their specific requirements, the aim of which is to introduce them to key executives across the business and to enhance their knowledge and understanding of the Group and its activities.
The Group has a commitment to training and all directors, executive or non-executive, are encouraged to attend suitable training courses at the Groups expense.
22 ARM Holdings plc Executive committee The executive committee is responsible for implementing the strategy approved by the board.
Among other things, this committee is responsible for ensuring that the Groups budget and forecasts are properly prepared, that targets are met, and for generally managing and developing the business within the overall budget.
Variations from the budget and changes in strategy require approval from the main board of the Group.
The executive committee, which meets monthly, comprises the Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, the President, the Chief Operating Officer, the Chief Technology Officer, the General Managers of the Processor, Physical IP, System Design and Media Processing Divisions, the EVP Human Resources, the General Counsel, the EVP Sales, the VP Marketing and the Company Secretary and meetings are attended by other senior operational personnel, as appropriate.
Biographies of the members of the executive committee appear on the Groups website.
Audit committee The audit committee has written terms of reference which are published on the corporate website at www.
The committee has responsibility for, among other things, monitoring the integrity of the financial statements of the Group and any formal announcements relating to the Groups financial performance and for reviewing any significant financial reporting judgements contained in them: reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups internal controls over financial reporting and providing oversight of the Groups risk management systems: making recommendations to the board in relation to the appointment, remuneration and resignation or dismissal of the Groups external auditors: reviewing and monitoring the external auditors independence and objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit process: developing and implementing policy on the engagement of the external auditors to supply non-audit services and considering compliance with legal requirements, accounting standards, the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority and the requirements of the SEC.
There is a procedure in place for employees to report areas of concern to management in confidence and, if they prefer, anonymously through a third-party telephone line.
The committee receives any such confidential reports from the compliance committee.
Two whistleblowing incidents were reported in 2008, both of which were fully investigated and the committee is satisfied that there has been no breach of policies and procedures and that any appropriate remedial action has been taken.
There have been no other whistleblowing reports up to 20 March 2009 being the latest practicable date before the printing of this report.
The committee also keeps under review the value for money of the audit and the nature, extent and cost-effectiveness of the non-audit services provided by the auditors.
The committee has discussed with the external auditors their independence, and has received and reviewed written disclosures from the external auditors as required by the Auditing Practices Boards International Standard on Auditing ISA UK and Ireland 260 Communication of audit matters with those charged with governance, as well as those required by the US Independence Standards Boards Standard No.
1, Independence discussions with audit committees.
To avoid the possibility of the auditors objectivity and independence being compromised, the Groups tax consulting work is carried out by the auditors only in cases where they are best suited to perform the work.
In other cases, the Group has engaged another independent firm of accountants to perform tax consulting work.
The Group does not normally award general consulting work to the auditors.
From time to time, however, the Group will engage the auditors to perform work on matters relating to human resources and royalty audits.
The Group may also seek professional advice from another firm of independent consultants or its legal advisers.
The current audit committee comprises Philip Rowley Chairman, Kathleen ODonovan, Lucio Lanza, Jeremy Scudamore and Young Sohn.
Philip Rowley is the financial expert as defined in the Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002 US and Kathleen ODonovan is also qualified to fulfil this role.
Both have recent and relevant financial expertise.
The external auditors, Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and the Company Secretary attend all meetings in order to ensure that all the information required by the audit committee for it to operate effectively is available.
Representatives of the Groups external auditors meet with the audit committee at least once a year without any executive directors being present.
Remuneration committee A description of the composition, responsibility and operation of the remuneration committee is set out in the remuneration report on page 33.
The terms of reference of the remuneration committee are published on the Groups website at www.
Nomination committee The nomination committee leads the process for board appointments and makes recommendations to the board in relation to new appointments of executive and non-executive directors and on succession planning, board composition and balance.
The terms of reference of the nomination committee are published on the Groups website at www.
It is chaired by Doug Dunn and the other members are John Scarisbrick, Lucio Lanza and Philip Rowley.
The committee considers the roles and capabilities required for each new appointment, based on an evaluation of the skills and experience of the existing directors.
In relation to the appointment of new directors, the services of external search consultancies are generally used.
There were no new appointments to the board during 2008.
ARM Holdings plc 23 Corporate governance continued Internal control risk management The Group fully complies with the Combined Codes provisions on internal control, having established procedures to implement the guidance in the Turnbull Report 2005.
The board has established a continuous process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group.
The board confirms that the necessary actions have been or are being taken to remedy any significant failings or weaknesses identified from this process.
The board of directors has overall responsibility for ensuring that the Group maintains an adequate system of internal control and risk management and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Building on the successful achievement of compliance with section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002 US for the 2006 and 2007 financial years, a considerable amount of resource and effort continued to be committed during 2008 and compliance in relation to the 2008 financial year was also successfully completed.
This is reported on in more detail in the annual report on Form 20-F that is filed with the SEC.
The processes and procedures have been successfully integrated into day-to-day business operations and proven to provide a sustainable solution for ongoing compliance.
The board has reviewed the system of internal control, including internal controls over financial reporting, which has been in place for the year under review and up to the date of approval of the annual report.
Such systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risks inherent in a fast-moving, high-technology business and can, therefore, provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Group has a number of other committees which contribute to the overall control environment.
These include: Risk review committee The risk review committee consists of the Chief Technology Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, the Group Financial Controller and the Company Secretary and it receives and reviews quarterly reports from the divisions and corporate functions.
The committee is responsible for identifying and evaluating risks which may impact the Groups strategic and business objectives and for monitoring the progress of actions designed to mitigate such risks.
The risk review committee reports formally to the executive committee twice a year where its findings are considered and challenged and, in turn, the executive committee reports to the board once a year.
Compliance committee The compliance committee consists of the General Counsel, the Chief Operating Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, the EVP Human Resources, the VP Corporate Operations, the Chief Information Officer and the Company Secretary.
It oversees compliance throughout the business with all appropriate international regulations, trading requirements and standards, including direct oversight of financial, employment, environmental and security processes and policies.
The compliance committee has a reporting line to the audit committee.
Disclosure committee The disclosure committee comprises the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, the Group Financial Controller, the General Counsel, the Director of Investor Relations and the Company Secretary.
It is responsible for ensuring that disclosures made by the Group to its shareholders and the investment community are accurate, complete and fairly present the Groups financial condition in all material respects.
In addition, there is a series of interconnected meetings that span the Group from the weekly management meeting chaired by the Chief Executive Officer, and the weekly business review meeting chaired by the Chief Operating Officer, the purpose of which is to monitor and control all main business activities, sales forecasts and other matters requiring approval that have arisen within the week, to the board meetings of the Group.
Each month management reviews with representation from relevant divisions and functions across the Group: revenues, orders booked, costs, product and project delivery dates and levels of defects found in products in development.
The outputs of the weekly business review meeting and the monthly operations meeting are reviewed by the executive committee which, in turn, raises relevant issues with the board of the Group.
The processes for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant business, operational, financial, compliance and other risks facing the Group have been in place for the year under review and up to the date of approval of the annual report and financial statements.
As required by the Combined Code, the audit committee has considered whether it would be appropriate for the Group to have its own internal audit function and has concluded that, taking account of its relatively small number of employees and a high degree of centralisation in the way the business is run, this is not appropriate at present.
The committee has confirmed this view to the board.
The Group has a published management system comprising documented processes and responsibilities across all business functions and operations.
As an autonomous part of this system, an operational audit function carries out a programme of audits to assess its effectiveness and efficiency, resulting in continuous maintenance and improvement of the system, adapting to changes in business operations as necessary.
To demonstrate compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, the audit function also maintains the documented controls over financial reporting and confirms the operation of them either by direct testing or through a monitored self-assessment programme.
The management system is audited externally by Lloyds Register Quality Assurance for compliance with ISO9001:2000 and to support the Sarbanes-Oxley compliance activity.
Any significant control failings identified through the operational audit function or the independent auditors are brought to the attention of the compliance committee and undergo a detailed process of evaluation of both the failing and the steps taken to remedy it.
There is then a process for communication of any significant control failures to the audit committee.
24 ARM Holdings plc Environmental, social, corporate governance and ethical policies While the Group is accountable to its shareholders, it also endeavours to take into account the interests of all its stakeholders, including employees, customers and suppliers and the local communities and environments in which it operates.
The Chief Financial Officer takes responsibility for these matters, which are considered at board level.
A corporate responsibility CR report is on pages 26 and 27 of this report and a more detailed version is available via the Groups website www.
The companys Code of Business Conduct and Ethics is also available on the Groups website and the Group regularly monitors employees awareness of Group policies and procedures, including ethical policies.
The Group also operates a whistleblowing policy which provides for employees to have access to senior management to raise concerns in strict confidence about any unethical business practices.
There is also a facility to make reports by telephone to an independent third party through a whistleblowing hotline.
As a company whose primary business is the licensing of IP, employees are highly valued and their rights and dignity are respected.
The Group strives for equal opportunities for all its employees and does not tolerate any harassment of, or discrimination against, its staff.
The Group endeavours to be honest and fair in its relationships with its customers and suppliers and to be a good corporate citizen respecting the laws of the countries in which it operates.
The Groups premises are composed entirely of offices since it has no manufacturing activities.
Staff make use of computer-aided design tools to generate IP.
This involves neither hazardous substances nor complex waste emissions.
With the exception of development systems products, the majority of products sold by the Group comprise microprocessor core and physical IP designs that are delivered electronically to customers.
A number of initiatives in this area have continued in 2008.
The Groups environmental policy is published on its website within the CR report.
An environmental action plan is implemented through various initiatives.
These include monitoring energy usage, resource consumption and waste creation so that targets set for improvement are realistic and meaningful, ensuring existing controls continue to operate satisfactorily and working with suppliers to improve environmental management.
In line with the Companies Act 2006, the articles of association enable the Company to send information to shareholders electronically and make documents available through the website rather than in hard copy, which provide both environmental and cost benefits.
Shareholders can opt to continue receiving a printed copy of the annual report if they prefer.
Health and safety Although ARM operates in an industry and in environments which are considered low risk from a health and safety perspective, the safety of employees, contractors and visitors is a priority in all ARM workplaces world-wide.
Continual improvement in safety management systems is achieved through detailed risk assessments to identify and eliminate potential hazards and through occupational health assessments for employees.
More detail about the Groups approach to environmental matters and health and safety is included in the CR report on pages 26 and 27.
By order of the board Patricia Alsop, Company Secretary ARM Holdings plc 25
