23 PV Crystalox Solar PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 DiRectoRs ReMUNeRAtioN RepoRt this report contains the information required by the companies Act 1985 and the relevant parts of the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority and schedule B to the combined code on corporate Governance.
the information contained in this report is not subject to audit except where specified.
COMPOSITION OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE the remuneration committee of the Board comprises the nonexecutive directors.
During the year the remuneration committee was chaired by Mr Maarten Henderson however to comply with the requirements of section B.
2.1. of the combined code 2006, Mr John sleeman was appointed as chairman of the remuneration committee at the first Board meeting of 2009. the chief executive officer, the chief Financial officer, other directors and external advisors may be invited to attend meetings as and when appropriate.
the terms of reference of the remuneration committee are available to members of the public upon request and are also available on the Groups website at www.
the remuneration committee meets not less than twice a year and is required to report formally to the Board on its proceeding.
Neither member of the committee has any personal financial interest in the matters to be decided, potential conflicts of interest nor any day to day involvement in running the business.
No director takes part in discussions relating to their own remuneration and benefits.
TERMS OF REFERENCE OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE the main duties of the remuneration committee are to: b determine and agree with the Board the framework or broad policy for the remuneration of the companys chief executive officer, the chairman, the executive directors, the company secretary and such other members of the executive management as it is designated to consider.
the remuneration of nonexecutive directors shall be a matter for the chairman and the executive members of the Board.
No director or manager shall be involved in any decisions as to their own remuneration: b in determining such policy, take into account all factors which it deems necessary.
the objective of such policy shall be to ensure that members of the executive management of the company are provided with appropriate incentives to encourage enhanced performance and are, in a fair and responsible manner, rewarded for their individual contributions to the success of the Group: b review the ongoing appropriateness and relevance of the remuneration policy: b approve the design of, and determine targets for, any performance related pay schemes operated by the Group and approve the total annual payments made under such schemes: b review the design of all share incentive plans for approval by the Board and shareholders.
For any such plans, determine each year whether awards will be made, and if so, the overall amount of such awards, the individual awards to executive directors and other senior executives and the performance targets to be used: b determine the policy for, and scope of, pension arrangements for each executive director and other senior executives: b ensure that contractual terms on termination, and any payments made, are fair to the individual, and the company, that failure is not rewarded and that the duty to mitigate loss is fully recognised: b within the terms of the agreed policy and in consultation with the chairman and or the chief executive officer as appropriate, determine the total individual remuneration package of each executive director and other senior executives including bonuses, incentive payments and share options or other share awards: b in determining such packages and arrangements, give due regard to any relevant legal requirements, the provisions and recommendations in the combined code and the UK Listing Authoritys Listing Rules and associated guidance: b review and note annually the remuneration trends across the company or Group: b oversee any major changes in employee benefits structures throughout the company or Group: b agree the policy for authorising claims for expenses from the chief executive officer and the chairman: b ensure that all provisions regarding disclosure of remuneration including pensions, as set out in the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 and the combined code are fulfilled: and b be exclusively responsible for establishing the selection criteria, selecting, appointing and setting the terms of reference for any remuneration consultants who advise the committee and to obtain reliable, uptodate information about remuneration in other companies.
the committee shall have full authority to commission any reports or surveys which it deems necessary to help it fulfill its obligations.
24 PV Crystalox Solar PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 DiRectoRs ReMUNeRAtioN RepoRt coNtiNUeD REMUNERATION COMMITTEE PROCESS the remuneration committee met twice during the year.
Details of attendance are shown in the corporate Governance statement on page 17.
During the year the main items considered were: b the overall scope of the remuneration committee: b a review of directors fees and remuneration by reference to a benchmark of similar groups: b the remuneration packages for those executive managers and the company secretary who were recruited during the year: and b to review the remuneration trends across the Group.
REMUNERATION POLICY FOR EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS executive remuneration packages are designed to attract, motivate and retain directors of the highest calibre needed to maintain the Groups position as a market leader and to reward them for enhancing shareholder value.
the performance measurement of the executive directors and key members of senior management and the determination of their annual remuneration package are undertaken by the committee.
there are five elements of the remuneration package for executive directors and senior management: b basic annual salary: b benefits in kind: b annual bonus payments, which cannot exceed 50% of salary: b share incentives: and b pension arrangements.
BASIC SALARY An executive directors basic salary is reviewed by the committee prior to 1 July, which is the start of the salary year and should an individual change position or responsibility.
in deciding appropriate remuneration levels, the committee considers the Group as a whole and relies on objective research which gives up to date information on a comparator group of companies of similar size and complexity.
the present incumbents were appointed internally and their current packages were agreed by contracts entered into on 21 May 2007 in readiness for transition to public status.
executive directors contracts of service, which include details of remuneration, will be available for inspection at the Annual General Meeting.
the salaries were reviewed on 1 July 2008. in line with the remuneration policy of the Group the salaries were reviewed on 1 July 2008 incorporating the results of the benchmark of similar groups.
on the recommendation of the remuneration committee the Board decided to increase the salaries effective 1 July 2008.
Revised salaries were agreed in sterling and euros as shown below.
Revised original annual rate annual rate payable in sterling iain Dorrity 300,000 212,000 peter Finnegan 250,000 212,000 John sleeman 50,000 37,500 Maarten Henderson 100,000 75,000 payable in euros Hubert Aulich 219,095 185,793 BENEFITSINKIND executive directors receive either a company expensed motor vehicle commensurate with their seniority or a monthly car allowance.
All other benefits in kind are available to all employees dependent upon local conditions in their country of employment.
ANNUAL BONUS PAYMENT An executive director may receive by way of further remuneration a bonus calculated in accordance with schedule 1 of their contract of service.
there is no contractual right to receive a bonus until it is declared in writing in respect of the financial year to which it relates and such bonus whether declared or not shall not be payable unless the executive director is employed on the date of payment.
the contracts of service state that a bonus of up to a maximum of 50% of the basic salary subject to deductions for tax and national insurance will be paid to the executive in June each year subject to the Group having achieved growth in its earnings per share over the previous financial year according to the following formula: 25 PV Crystalox Solar PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 ANNUAL BONUS PAYMENT CONTINUED the remuneration committee is currently reviewing the service contracts and intends to make its recommendations to the Board.
earnings per share Bonus % growth % over prior year of salary 10% 50% 9% to 10% 45% 8% to 9% 40% 7% to 8% 35% 6% to 7% 30% 5% to 6% 25% 4% to 5% 20% 3% to 4% 15% 2% to 3% 10% 1% to 2% 5% 0% to 1% 0% PENSION ARRANGEMENTS the executive directors contracts of service set out their basic salaries from which contributions can be made into the crystalox Group personal pension scheme or such other pension plan suitable to the executive and his country of residence.
Accordingly, pension contributions made by the Group are included in the basic salary set out in the service contracts.
the bonuses paid to executive directors in 2008 were in respect of performance for the period ended 31 December 2007.
Bonuses totaling 503,872 in respect of performance for the period ended 31 December 2008 have been provided for in the accounts for the period to 31 December 2008 and will be paid during the first half of 2009 once the accounts have been approved.
the above table has been restated below showing the bonuses provided in respect of 2008 performance and the prior year total 2007 has been restated on the same basis.
DIRECTORS PENSION AUDITED contributions contributions to defined to defined contribution benefit Total total scheme scheme 2008 2007 Maarten Henderson Hubert Aulich 62,712 62,712 63,545 iain Dorrity 17,006 17,006 9,819 peter Finnegan 16,197 16,197 10,265 John sleeman 33,203 62,712 95,915 83,629 26 PV Crystalox Solar PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 DiRectoRs ReMUNeRAtioN RepoRt coNtiNUeD DIRECTORS SHARE GRANTS AUDITED Value Value 2008 2007 Maarten Henderson Hubert Aulich iain Dorrity peter Finnegan 2,851,017 John sleeman 2,851,017 on 19 January 2007, 75,000 ordinary shares of 1.00 were granted at the market price on that date of 26 per share.
the total value of the grant was therefore 1,950,000 or 2,851,017. on 21 May 2007 each ordinary share of 1.00 in the capital of the company was sub divided into 50 ordinary shares of 2 pence each.
REMUNERATION POLICY FOR NONEXECUTIVE DIRECTORS the nonexecutive directors have specific terms of engagement and their remuneration is determined by the Board based on independent surveys of fees paid to nonexecutive directors of similar companies.
Nonexecutive directors are not eligible to join the companys share schemes or pension schemes.
SHAREHOLDER RETURN PERFORMANCE GRAPH UNAUdITEd the graph below shows the total shareholder return performance from 6 June 2007 when the Group listed on the London stock exchange to 31 December 2008. this is compared against the total shareholder return performance of the Ftse 250 index.
the graph is based upon 100 being invested in the shares of pV crystalox solar pLc in June 2007 if all dividends had been reinvested and the comparative figures for the Ftse 250 again assuming that dividends were reinvested.
the data has been sourced from thomson Datastream.
pV crystalox solar pLc Net total return index Ftse 250 total return index JOHN SLEEMAN CHAIRMAN OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE 25 March 2009
