60 Directors remuneration report Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2008 Directors remuneration report Introduction from Remuneration Remuneration Committee Committee Chairman 61 Constitution and terms of reference The economic environment in which Reed Elsevier does business changed substantially during the course of 2008 and, inevitably, the Committees agenda during the year evolved to reflect the Executive directors changing climate.
In the first half of 2008 we reviewed a number of longer term strategic issues: primarily the performance 61 Remuneration philosophy and policy measures used in our long term incentives, and the role and 63 The total remuneration package effectiveness of our share option programme.
We increased the 68 Retirement benefits performance targets to be applied to long term incentive awards 69 Service contracts made in 2008 and reconfirmed our continued use of share options.
The Committee continues to keep all aspects of executive remuneration under review, given the developing business and Non-executive directors governance environment.
71 Policy on non-executive directors fees Remuneration arrangements play an important role in the successful execution of Reed Elseviers talent strategy.
We successfully recruited Ian Smith as CEO to succeed Total Shareholder Return graphs Sir Crispin Davis upon his retirement in March 2009.
Gerard van fide Aast left Reed Elsevier when his role ceased to exist following 72 Total Shareholder Return graphs a restructuring of Reed Business.
His severance arrangements reflect the application of mitigation and the standard rules of our incentive plans.
Remuneration and share tables Notwithstanding Reed Elseviers strong performance during 2008 and positive outlook for 2009, in view of the wider economic 73 Directors emoluments and fees climate, the Committee decided not to increase the salaries 74 Directors shareholdings in Reed Elsevier for executive directors with effect from 1 January 2009.
75 Share-based awards in Reed Elsevier As in previous years, our approach to preparing this report has been to meet the highest standards of disclosure, whilst aiming to produce a clear and understandable report.
Following the This report describes how Reed Elsevier applies the principles publication in December 2008 of the amended Dutch Corporate of good governance relating to directors remuneration.
It has Governance Code, the Committee reviewed the current level been prepared by the Remuneration Committee the Committee of disclosure and believes that it already complies with the of Reed Elsevier Group plc in accordance with Schedule 7A of the substance of the requirements.
During 2009, the Committee will Companies Act 1985 and the Dutch Corporate Governance Code.
continue to monitor its approach to disclosure, as more detailed guidance and clarification on the amended Code provisions The Directors Remuneration Report was approved by the boards becomes available.
of Reed Elsevier Group plc, Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV and will be submitted to shareholders for an advisory vote at Mark Elliott the Annual General Meeting of Reed Elsevier PLC.
It contains Chairman, Remuneration Committee the disclosures required for financial year 2008 under the Dutch Corporate Governance Code and Dutch legislation.
The audited parts of the Directors Remuneration Report In compliance with the UK Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002, and under Title 9, Book 2 of the Civil Code in the Netherlands the following elements of this report have been audited: the table entitled Transfer value of accrued pension benefits on page 69: the tables showing Aggregate emoluments and Individual fees of non-executive directors on page 73: the tables on Individual emoluments of executive directors and Directors shareholdings in Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV on page 74: and the section Sharebased awards in Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV on pages 75-80.
