ANNUAl REPORT 2008 directors reMunerAtion report remuneraTion poLiCy other benefits The Remuneration and nomination committee is responsible for Company cars and other benefits provided to directors are deciding the Companys framework of executive remuneration and subject to income tax.
The benefits are included in the directors setting remuneration packages for each of the executive directors.
The committees policy is to motivate and retain executive directors Geoff McFarland is a non-executive director of Delcam plc, in by rewarding them with competitive salary and benefit packages respect of which no remuneration is payable by Delcam plc.
These are linked to the overall performance of the pensions Group and, in turn, to the interests of the shareholders.
The Company makes annual contributions of 15% of current basic The committee reviews annually all aspects of the executive salary to individual pension policies for Ben Taylor and Allen Roberts.
directors remuneration, performance and employment.
Neither bonus scheme payments nor other benefits are eligible for pension scheme contributions.
remuneraTion anD nominaTion CommiTTee Geoff McFarland participated in the Companys defined benefit All the members of this committee are non-executive directors and a scheme up to its termination on 5th April 2007 and since that date list of membership and the chair of the committee is set out on page the Companys defined contribution scheme.
The terms of reference of this committee are published on the in note 8 on page 56.
KPMG, who were appointed by the Company, provide advice in relation to certain benefits for the directors and on The non-executive directors do not participate in the Companys the Companys pension scheme.
The remuneration of the non-executive directors is determined by summary the executive directors.
Details of directors remuneration including pensions which form During the year, the committee recommended the appointment of the audited section of this report are shown in note 8 on page 56.
Bill Whiteley, who had made an approach to the Board to consider his appointment as a non-executive director.
Bill Whiteley was serviCe ConTraCTs anD CompensaTion interviewed by the committee, with other members of the Board The executive directors have each entered into a service contract in attendance, and his appointment was approved by the Board.
The contracts do not contain any specific As the appointment was not to fill a vacancy, but to take up an provisions governing the payment of compensation for loss of office opportunity that had arisen, neither an external search consultancy or employment, whether as a result of a takeover bid or otherwise.
nor open advertising was used.
The notice period for termination of the contract is twelve months to be given by either the Company or the director.
remuneraTion The non-executive directors have been appointed under contracts salary for services which are intended to continue for an initial period of The committee reviews basic salaries to take effect from 1st three years.
However, these contracts may be terminated by either July each year.
In deciding appropriate levels, the committee the Company or the director on one months notice.
takes account of financial data taken from a cross-section of UK companies within the electronics and engineering sectors.
perFormanCe GrapH bonus The graph below shows the Companys total shareholder return TSR performance, compared with the FTSE mid 250 index, This year the Company has introduced an annual performance which the directors believe is the most appropriate broad index bonus scheme for executive directors which is based on Group for comparison.
performance as measured against preset earnings per share eps targets established for the next four years, drawn from the 300 Renishaw business plan.
The performance conditions firstly require the achievement each year of a base line eps excluding directors 250 bonuses and the exceptional pension credits which for 2008 was set at 38.8p, 8% above 2007, with the target designed to deliver 200 75% of salary set at 49.5p, 38% above 2007.
The percentage bonus award increases on a straight-line basis between the baseline 150 and the eps target.
100 In addition there is a further 25% bonus award available for exceeding the eps target based on 5% of salary for every 1p per 50 share in excess of target.
0 For 2008, the Group is reporting eps of 47.24p pre-directors 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 bonus which therefore gives rise to a bonus entitlement of 47.24p Rebased to 100 at 30th June 2003 - 38.8p 49.5p - 38.8p x 75% 59.16% of salary for each of the executive directors.
Renishaw FTSE mid 250 There are no share options or long-term incentive schemes in The report was approved by the Board of directors on 23rd July operation for the directors but the position is kept under review.
2008 and has been signed on its behalf by:- The non-executive directors do not participate in a bonus scheme.
T D Snowden FCA Chairman, Remuneration and nomination committee Return
