Governance Remuneration report This Remuneration report forms part of the executive director and product group chief and consulting advice.
To carry out its duties Directors report and covers the following executive level and minimal increases below in accordance with its terms of reference, the information: this level.
Despite the economic conditions, committee monitors global remuneration the Company achieved near target earnings trends and developments and draws on a description of the Remuneration committee for 2008.
To enhance alignment of range of external sources of data, in addition and its duties: executives with shareholders and to support to that supplied by Deloitte LLP, including description of the policy on directors, retention in the current environment, the publications by other remuneration executives and the company secretaries committee introduced a 100 per cent consultants such as Towers Perrin, Hay remuneration: mandatory deferral of any bonus payable Group, Mercer and Watson Wyatt.
summary of the terms of executives service into shares at the product group chief contracts and non executive directors executive level and above and a 50 per cent Corporate governance letters of appointment: deferral for other senior executives.
The committee reviewed its terms of details of each executives remuneration reference in 2008 and concluded that, in the and awards under long term incentive Remuneration committee course of its business, it had covered the plans and the link to corporate The following independent, non executive duties set out in the Combined Code on performance: directors were members of the committee Corporate Governance, published by the UK details of executives interests in Rio Tinto during 2008: Financial Reporting Council the Code, shares: and Andrew Gould chairman from 24 April complied with Principle 8 of the revised graphs illustrating Group performance, 2008 Australian Securities Exchange Corporate including relative to the HSBC Global Sir Richard Sykes chairman until 24 April Governance Principles and Mining Index.
2008 Recommendations the ASX Principles, and Sir David Clementi was constituted in accordance with the INTRODUCTION Michael Fitzpatrick requirements of the Code and the ASX Rapid change characterised the environment Richard Goodmanson Principles.
The performance of the faced by Rio Tinto in 2008.
While focused Paul Tellier committee was evaluated in 2008 which work continued throughout the year on the confirmed that it had satisfactorily integration of Alcan, and the industry The committee met seven times during 2008 performed the duties set out in its terms of experienced strong commodity prices well and members attendance is set out on reference.
into the third quarter, the sharp global and page 160.
The committees responsibilities industry downturn in the fourth quarter are set out in its terms of reference which EXECUTIVE REMUNERATION necessitated quick action to compensate for have been approved by the Board and may Rio Tinto is subject to a number of different the sharp change in revenues and significant be viewed in the corporate governance reporting requirements for the contents of fixed costs.
The year also proved challenging section of the website.
They include: this Remuneration report.
Whilst UK due to the unsolicited pre-conditional offer recommending executive remuneration disclosure requirements relate to the from BHP Billiton, which occupied eleven policy to the board: directors, the Australian Corporations Act months of the year and created significant reviewing and determining the terms of and regulations both require disclosures for uncertainty for employees.
It also service, including remuneration and any key management personnel.
The Australian constrained Rio Tintos ability to take actions termination arrangements, for the Corporations Act also requires disclosures in to enhance the alignment between the chairman, executive directors, product respect of the five highest paid executives remuneration structure and business and group chief executives and the company below board level.
people priorities, which are key to secretary of Rio Tinto plc: The board has considered the definition shareholder value creation.
reviewing and confirming the of key management personnel and has Rio Tinto has pursued a divestment remuneration and conditions of decided that, in addition to the executive strategy during 2008 which was hampered employment strategy for other senior and non executive directors, they comprise by the global credit crisis.
A significant managers: the product group chief executives and the number of employees are in businesses that recommending share-based long term Group executive Business Resources.
have been identified for divestment, which incentive plans to the board: and The board also considered the definition presents a unique human resources monitoring the effectiveness and of five highest paid executives below board challenge when the divestment process is appropriateness of executive remuneration level and has decided that, based on the extended over many months.
criteria to determine this group of senior As announced at the end of 2008, management, these executives will be Rio Tinto is continuing to rationalise its The global head of Human Resources, Hugo selected from a population comprising key workforce and its assets in response to the Bague, and Jane Craighead, global practice management personnel and members of the downturn, and to use cash flows to repay the leader, Total Rewards attended committee Rio Tinto executive committee.
In addition existing level of debt.
In close collaboration meetings in an advisory capacity.
The to the key management personnel, the with management, Rio Tinto is working to chairman, Paul Skinner and the chief following members of senior management establish the delicate balance that is required executive, Tom Albanese, participated in are therefore included in this report: Hugo between the needs of Rio Tinto employees meetings at the invitation of the committee Bague, global head of Human Resources, and their families, the communities in which during 2008, but were not present when Debra Valentine, global head of Legal and its people and assets are located, and its their own individual remuneration was Grant Thorne, Group executive Technology shareholders.
Rio Tinto continues to believe discussed.
Ben Mathews, the company and Innovation.
that our people are amongst its most secretary of Rio Tinto plc, acts as secretary to Throughout this report, the executive important assets, and to treat them with the committee, but was not present when directors, product group chief executives, respect is in the best interests of everyone his own remuneration was discussed.
Group executive Business Resources and the and consistent with its profile as a world The committee appointed Deloitte LLP in five highest paid executives below board class organisation.
2008 to provide it with independent advice level will collectively be referred to as the Consistent with the challenging on executive remuneration matters.
economic environment, the Company took LLP also provides taxation advice to the This represents a change to the normal steps to conserve cash in 2009 including Group mainly related to Rio Tintos share ranking of remuneration observed in prior granting no increases in salary at the plans as well as providing unrelated taxation years in which the product group chief Rio Tinto 2008 Annual report 141 Remuneration report continued executives and Group executive Business executives within Rio Tinto and to facilitate Resources, the global head of Human Resources were both the key management the movement of executives within Resources, and the global head of Legal are personnel and the five highest paid Rio Tinto to meet the needs of the Group.
linked to three performance criteria: Group executives below board level.
2008 was an financial performance, Group safety unusual year in that the fall in the share Consistent with the Companys business performance and personal performance.
In price since November 2008 resulted in a strategy to have high quality long term the case of Dick Evans, the applicable criteria negative adjustment to the IAS 24 values for mining assets, the Company seeks to achieve are product group financial performance, share awards under the Mining Companies a remuneration mix which best reflects the Group and product group safety performance Comparative Plan MCCP.
The most senior long term nature of the business.
Rio Tinto as well as personal performance.
STIP executives experienced the largest negative aims to move towards a greater portion of payments for the other product group chief accounting adjustment thereby resulting in a remuneration being in long term incentives.
executives and the Group executive of re-ordering of the senior executives in terms The Company deferred bringing a proposal to Technology and Innovation are linked to of total remuneration based on the IAS 24 shareholders to enhance the variable Group and product or business support group valuation.
components of pay as a percentage of total financial and safety performance, as During the period since year end, remuneration due to the economic appropriate, as well as personal performance.
Rio Tinto has announced senior environment and the challenges facing the The target level of annual bonus for management changes which affect the mining industry in particular, and executive directors, product group chief executive group defined above.
On implemented a bonus deferral programme executives and group executives for 2009 is 12 January 2009, Dick Evans, executive instead.
The Company will continue to review 60 per cent of salary, the same as 2008.
The director and chief executive Rio Tinto Alcan, the remuneration structure to improve its targets for the global head of Human indicated his intention to retire on 20 April alignment with the business strategy.
Resources and the global head of Legal are 2009.
He will continue to act as an adviser The composition of total remuneration 50 per cent and 55 per cent respectively in to the Company for the remainder of his packages is designed to provide an 2008.
Executives may receive up to twice contract to 31 December 2009 and to assist appropriate balance between fixed and their target eg up to 120 per cent of base with the transition and integration of variable components.
This is in line with salary in the case of the executive directors Rio Tinto Alcan.
Jacynthe Ct was named as Rio Tintos objective of aligning total and product group executives for chief executive, Rio Tinto Alcan on remuneration with personal and business outstanding performance against all criteria.
Details of the executives Rio Tinto applies the following guidelines in 1 February 2009, the responsibilities of the remuneration are set out in Table 1 on pages the calibration of threshold 90 per cent Business Resources function were 152 and 153.
The Groups return to probability of achievement, target 70 per incorporated into other functions and the shareholders over the last five years is set out cent probability of achievement and Group executive Business Resources, Keith in the table on page 147. outstanding 20 per cent probability of Johnson will be leaving the Group.
Remuneration components Details relating to STIP awards for 2008 Board policy Base salary are on pages 146 to 149.
Rio Tinto operates in global, as well as local Base salaries are reviewed annually against a markets, where it competes for a limited global comparator group for the most senior Long term incentives resource of talented executives.
It recognises executives and adjusted as appropriate, Shareholders approved two long term that, to achieve its business objectives, the taking into account the nature of the incentive plans at the annual general Group needs high quality, committed people.
individual executives role, external market meetings in 2004, the Share Option Plan and Rio Tinto has therefore designed an executive trends and business and personal the Mining Companies Comparative Plan.
remuneration policy to support its business performance.
The committee uses a range of These plans are intended to provide the goals by enabling it to attract, retain and international companies of a similar size, committee with a means of linking appropriately reward executives of the calibre global reach and complexity to make this executives rewards to Group performance.
necessary to deliver very high levels of comparison.
As stated above, the committee Total shareholder return TSR was, at the performance.
This policy is regularly reviewed has agreed that for 2009 there would be no time of their introduction, considered the to take account of changing market, industry increase in the base salaries of the executive most appropriate measure of company and economic circumstances, as well as directors and product group chief executives performance and continues to be used for developing Group requirements.
The main with minimal increases below this level.
Long term incentives are not principles of the Groups executive Executive remuneration is explicitly pensionable.
remuneration policy are: related to business performance through the to provide total remuneration which is following long and short term arrangements: Share Option Plan SOP competitive in structure and quantum with Each year, the committee considers whether Global comparator companies practices: Short term incentive plan STIP a grant of options should be made under the to achieve clear alignment between total STIP is an annual bonus plan, designed to SOP and, if so, at what level.
In arriving at a remuneration and delivered business and support overall remuneration policy by: decision, the committee takes into personal performance, with particular focusing participants on achieving consideration the personal performance of emphasis on both short term business calendar year performance goals which each executive as well as competitive performance and long term shareholder contribute to sustainable shareholder benchmarking.
The maximum face value value creation and performance relating to value: and grant under the SOP is three times the base health, safety and the environment: providing significant bonus differential salary of the executive.
Under the SOP, to link variable elements of remuneration based on performance against challenging options are granted to purchase shares at an to the achievement of challenging personal, business, and other targets, exercise price based on the share price at performance criteria that are consistent including safety.
No options are granted at a with the best interests of the Group and discount and no amount is paid or payable shareholders over the short, medium and The committee reviews and approves the by the recipient upon grant of the options.
long term: individual performance of executives against Grants made to executives are set out in to provide an appropriate balance of fixed relevant targets and objectives at the end of Table 5 on page 157. and variable remuneration: and each year.
STIP payments to executive No options will become exercisable to provide internal equity between directors, the Group executive Business unless the Group has met stretching TSR 142 Rio Tinto 2008 Annual report Governance performance conditions.
In addition, before committee has the discretion to adjust the shareholders and adjust vesting levels approving any vesting and regardless of performance condition to ensure a fair accordingly.
performance against the respective measure of performance and to consider the In the event of a change of control or a performance conditions, the committee impact of a potentially truncated company restructure, the awards would only vest subject to the satisfaction of the retains discretion to satisfy itself that the performance period or other factors on the performance condition measured at the time TSR performance is a genuine reflection of validity of the original performance of the change of control or restructure.
the value available to shareholders.
The committee may at its Depending on the circumstances, the Under the SOP, vesting is subject to discretion, and with the agreement of committee has the discretion to adjust the Rio Tintos TSR equalling or outperforming participants, determine that options will be performance condition to ensure a fair the HSBC Global Mining Index over a three replaced by equivalent new options over measure of performance and to consider the year performance period.
Rio Tintos TSR is shares of the acquiring company.
If a impact of a potentially truncated calculated as a weighted average of the TSR performance period is deemed to end during performance period or other factors on the of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited.
If TSR the first 12 months after the conditional validity of the original performance performance equals the index, the higher of award is made, that award will be reduced condition.
If a performance period is one third of the actual grant or 20,000 pro-rata.
deemed to end during the first 12 months options may vest.
The full grant may vest if Options may, upon exercise, be satisfied after the conditional award is made, the the TSR performance is equal to or greater by treasury shares, the issue of new shares or award will be reduced pro-rata.
than the HSBC Global Mining Index plus five the purchase of shares in the market.
The performance condition compares per cent per annum.
Between these points, Currently it is Rio Tinto plcs intention to Rio Tintos TSR with the TSR of a comparator options may vest on a sliding scale, with no satisfy exercises by issuing new shares and group of other international mining options becoming exercisable for a three Rio Tinto Limiteds intention to satisfy companies over the same four year period.
year TSR performance below the index.
exercises by way of the transfer of existing The composition of this comparator group is Options granted under the 2004 SOP shares purchased on the open market.
reviewed regularly by the committee to before 31 December 2006 are subject to a ensure that it continues to be relevant in a single fixed base re-test five years after grant Mining Companies Comparative Plan consolidating sector.
The comparator group if they do not vest after the initial three year MCCP for the 2005 conditional award which vests performance period.
Options granted after Rio Tintos performance share plan, the in 2009 contains ten companies: Alcoa, 31 December 2006 are not subject to any MCCP, provides participants with a Anglo American, Barrick Gold, BHP Billiton, re-test and will lapse if they do not vest at conditional right to receive shares.
The Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold, Grupo the conclusion of the initial three year maximum face value conditional award Mexico, Newmont, Rio Tinto, Teck Cominco performance period.
There are no under the MCCP is two times the base salary and Xstrata.
The size and nature of the outstanding options that are subject to a of individual participants.
Awards made to comparator group is largely the same for the retest of performance.
executives are set out in Table 4 on 2006, 2007, 2008 and 2009 awards.
Prior to any options vesting subject to page 156.
The following table shows the percentage the committees discretion described above, The conditional awards will only vest if of each conditional award made in 2005 the Groups TSR performance against the the performance condition set by the which will be received by those participants criteria relevant to the SOP is calculated committee is satisfied.
Prior to the vesting of who were in executive director and product independently by Watson Wyatt.
conditional awards, the Groups TSR group chief executive roles at the date of If Rio Tinto were subject to a change of performance against the performance grant.
The vesting is based on Rio Tintos control or a company restructuring, options condition contained in the MCCP is four year TSR performance relative to the would vest subject to the satisfaction of the calculated independently by Watson Wyatt.
comparator group for conditional awards performance condition at the time of the In addition, the committee retains discretion made in 2005: change of control or restructuring.
to satisfy itself that performance is a Depending on the circumstances, the genuine reflection of the value available to Ranking in the remaining ten company comparator group 1st 2nd 3rd 4th 5th 6th-10th Percentage vesting 150 121.3 92.5 63.8 35 0 The historical ranking of Rio Tinto in for the 2008 conditional award at time of In addition, for conditional awards made relation to the relevant comparator group for grant were: Alcoa, Anglo American, Barrick after 1 January 2004, a cash payment each four year period based on the Gold, BHP Billiton, Freeport-McMoRan equivalent to the dividends that would have calendar year is reflected in the table below.
Copper & Gold, Newmont, Rio Tinto, Vale accrued on the vested number of shares over The members of the comparator group and Xstrata the four year period is made to those for each conditional award are determined Awards are released to participants as participants who were in executive director by the committee prior to making the either Rio Tinto plc or Rio Tinto Limited and product group chief executive roles at conditional award.
Comparator companies shares or as an equivalent amount in cash.
Ranking of Rio Tinto versus comparator companies Period Ranking Period Ranking 1994 97 4 out of 16 2000 03 7 out of 16 1995 98 4 out of 16 2001 04 11 out of 16 1996 99 2 out of 16 2002 05 10 out of 16 1997 00 2 out of 16 2003 06 10 out of 16 1998 01 2 out of 16 2004 07 5 out of 10 1999 02 3 out of 16 2005 08 3 out of 10 Rio Tinto 2008 Annual report 143 Remuneration report continued Awards may, upon vesting, be satisfied section are guaranteed to increase annually basic salary paid by the employee.
The by treasury shares, the issue of new shares or in line with increases in the UK Retail Price Company percentage in respect of Dick the purchase of shares in the market.
Index subject to a maximum of ten per cent Evans is 60 per cent.
The Companys Currently it is Rio Tinto plcs intention to per annum.
Increases above this level are contribution is paid into the Employee Profit satisfy exercises by issuing new shares and discretionary.
Sharing Plan and vests immediately.
Rio Tinto Limiteds intention to satisfy During 2008, there was no requirement Employees may request lump sum exercises by way of the transfer of existing for company cash contributions to be paid withdrawals in cash at any time.
On shares purchased on the open market.
into the Rio Tinto Pension Fund, although termination of employment or retirement cash contributions are required if the employees may request one or more of a Management Share Plan MSP Company wishes to enhance the benefits for lump sum payment in cash, a transfer of tax The Company also has the Management any individual member.
Company sheltered amounts to another registered plan Share Plan, which was created in 2007. contributions to the Rio Tinto Pension Fund or the purchase of a qualified annuity with Directors are not eligible to participate in the will recommence from 1 January 2009. the tax sheltered amounts.
This plan is designed to support the Rio Tinto reviewed its pension policy in Details of executive directors pension Groups ability to attract and retain key staff light of the legislative changes introduced entitlements are set out in Table 2 on in an increasingly tight and competitive from April 2006.
The Rio Tinto Pension Fund page 154. labour market.
Under the MSP, certain senior was amended to incorporate a fund specific management may receive a conditional limit to pensionable salary equivalent to the Performance and non performance related award of shares which is subject to statutory earnings cap for all members remuneration service-based and or performance-based previously affected: unfunded benefits Total remuneration is a combination of fixed vesting condition s depending upon the continue to be provided, where already and performance related elements, each of nature of the award.
Shares to satisfy the promised, on pensionable salary above the which is described in this report.
In addition, awards are purchased in the market and no fund specific limit.
some executives have specific arrangements new shares will be issued to satisfy awards Guy Elliott is accruing a pension of for remuneration outside these core elements under this plan.
Where applicable, 2.3 per cent of basic salary for each year of and which are detailed in the service participants are allocated shares to service with the Company to age 60.
The total approximate the cash amount of dividends unfunded arrangements described above remuneration for executives shown in Table that would have been received had the will be utilised to deliver this promise to the 1 includes these non performance related recipient owned the shares between the extent not provided by the Fund.
items, which are specific to the grant date and the vesting date.
Tom Albanese is accruing a pension circumstances of each executive, as well as In the case of a change of control, payable from normal retirement age of 60 one-time special bonuses or awards, such as awards vest on the date of the change of of two thirds of basic salary, subject to engagement awards.
control but, in the case of an award which is completion of 20 years service with the The performance related, or variable, subject to a performance condition, only to Group, inclusive of benefits accrued under elements are the short and long term the extent that the performance condition the US pension arrangements.
Proportionally incentive plans which are linked to has been satisfied.
Depending on the lower benefits are payable for shorter service achievement of business and personal circumstances, the committee has the or, if having attained 20 years service, performance goals and are, therefore, at discretion to adjust the performance retirement is taken prior to the age of 60. risk.
The rest of the elements of the package condition to ensure a fair measure of His benefits under the Rio Tinto Pension are fixed and are not at risk.
Excluding performance and to consider the impact of a Fund are restricted to the fund specific limit, post employment benefits, non-monetary potentially truncated performance period or with the balance provided through benefits and other cash-based benefits, the other factors on the validity of the original unfunded arrangements.
proportion of total direct remuneration performance condition.
The directors may Dick Evans was offered membership in provided by way of variable components, decide that the award is reduced pro rata to the Rio Tinto International Pension Fund, a assuming target levels of performance is set out in the table on the next page.
Fixed pay reflect the acceleration of vesting.
Awards funded occupational pension plan based in is represented by base salary and the values made to executives are set out in Table 4 on the UK.
His membership was to be effective of the share based awards not related to page 156. from the commencement of his employment company performance including the on 25 October 2007.
Subsequent to this Management Share Plan MSP.
Variable Post employment benefits executive offer, and prior to Dick Evans joining the components comprise the Short Term directors Fund, it was identified that the proposed Incentive Plan, the Share Option Plan and Executives may participate in post arrangement would not comply with the the Mining Companies Comparative Plan employment benefit arrangements offered requirements of US Internal Revenue Code.
STIP, SOP, and MCCP respectively.
No post employment benefits As a result, the same retirement benefit was awards have been excluded from the are provided to non executive directors.
delivered at no additional expense to the estimation of remuneration mix to provide a Guy Elliott and Tom Albanese participate in Company in the form of an annuity to be better representation of the balance between the UK non contributory Rio Tinto Pension purchased with an external third party at fixed and variable in the regular Fund the Fund, a funded occupational the time of his retirement.
As a result, no remuneration package.
The next table pension plan approved by HM Revenue & contributions were paid to the Rio Tinto demonstrates the significant emphasis that Customs.
The Fund provides both defined International Pension Fund in Dick Evans is placed on at-risk versus fixed benefit and defined contribution benefits.
remuneration as a percentage of total direct April 2005, the defined benefit section of Dick Evans also participates in the Alcan remuneration.
the Fund was closed to new participants.
This Plan Members of the defined benefit section comprises two types of plans: the Registered of the Fund who retire early may draw a Retirement Savings Plan, a tax sheltered pension reduced by approximately four per arrangement up to prescribed legal limits, cent a year for each year of early payment.
and the Employee Profit Sharing Plan.
The Executives can take their pension benefits Company pays a contribution of 50 per cent, unreduced for early payment from the age of 60 per cent or 70 per cent, determined by 60.
Spouse and dependants pensions are credited service with the Company, of any also provided.
Pensions paid from this regular contribution of up to four per cent of 144 Rio Tinto 2008 Annual report Governance Table showing remuneration mix Executive Fixed as % At-risk as % Options as % of 2008 total of 2008 total of total Tom Albanese 32 68 16 Guy Elliott 37 63 13 Dick Evans 32 68 16 Hugo Bague 52 48 0 Preston Chiaro 32 68 16 Bret Clayton 32 68 16 Keith Johnson 37 63 13 Grant Thorne 48 52 0 Debra Valentine 50 50 0 Sam Walsh 37 63 13 Share based remuneration not dependent In August 2007, Hugo Bague received a one her engagement and to establish retention on performance time grant of 20,000 Rio Tinto plc shares as during a period of high uncertainty due to In 2008, the Company made use of the MSP part of the terms of his engagement and the unsolicited pre-conditional bid from BHP in conjunction with the MCCP as a related to remuneration that was forfeited at Billiton.
Half of the shares vest on the third component of the annual grant for all resignation from his previous employer.
The anniversary of her employment and the executives below the product group chief first half of these shares vested, based on remainder vest on the fourth anniversary.
Grants of conditional shares service, 12 months after his commencement Executives may participate in share and vest based on service on 31 December 2010 date.
The second half will vest, also based on share option plans that are available to all and subject to the committee approving the service, 24 months after the commencement employees at particular locations and for vesting.
These grants for the relevant date.
In January 2008, Debra Valentine which neither grant nor vesting is subject to executives are disclosed in Table 1 and their received a one time grant of 10,000 the satisfaction of a performance condition.
Rio Tinto plc shares as a part of the terms of These plans are consistent with standard Service contracts The following table details the key aspects of each executives employment contract.
T Albanese G Elliott D Evans H Bague B Clayton P Chiaro K Johnson G Thorne D Valentine S Walsh 2008 roles held and role Group CEO Finance ED & CEO Global head CEO Copper CEO Energy Group Group Global Head CEO Iron Ore commencement date 1 5 07 director Rio Tinto of Human & Diamonds & Minerals executive executive of Legal 1 11 04 19 6 02 Alcan Resources 15 11 07 15 11 07 Business Technology 15 1 08 25 10 07 1 8 07 Resources & Innovation 1 6 07 1 6 07 Contract date 1 5 07 19 6 02 25 10 07 25 3 07 1 6 06 30 9 03 12 3 04 25 5 06 12 11 07 3 8 04 current contact Contract disclosed 8 5 07 Years of service completed 27 28 11 14 17 17 33 1 17 Standard contract Pension or superannuation fund participation.
conditions Salary subject to annual review.
Eligible for Rio Tinto Long Term Incentive Plans LTIP.
Eligible for employee car scheme in accordance with policy applicable in country of assignment.
Eligible for medical benefits programmes applicable to employees generally in country of origin.
Where applicable, receives expatriate secondment packages which may include a housing benefit, repatriation and tax equalization.
Term It is the Groups policy that executives service contracts generally have no fixed term, but are capable of termination giving no less than the notice set out below.
Dick Evans contract has a term of 27 months not 24 months as incorrectly stated in 2007 and ends on 31 December 2009.
Notice 12 months 12 months 12 months 12 months 12 months 12 months 12 months 6 months 12 months 12 months or remaining term after 31 12 08 Resignation Outstanding Long Term Incentive awards under the SOP, MCCP and MSP are forfeited as is any pro-rata STIP.
Retirement Pro-rata STIP paid based on portion of performance period worked.
LTIPs subject to performance test at completion of normal performance period and options or performance shares may vest at that time to the extent provided by the performance condition.
Options or performance shares held for less than 12 months at date of termination are reduced pro-rata.
MSP awards vest pro-rata upon retirement.
Termination by company Rio Tinto has retained the right to pay executives in lieu of notice.
Given the wide variety of circumstances leading to early termination, the general including executives service contracts do not provide explicitly for compensation but, in the event of early termination, including redundancy, it is the redundancy Groups policy to act fairly in all circumstances.
Pre-existing entitlements may apply under redundancy policies generally applicable to employees in particular regions.
Notice may be worked or fully or partly paid in lieu, at Company discretion, and additional capped servicerelated payments may apply.
Compensation would not provide reward for poor performance.
In the event of termination except for cause, STIP would be paid based on the portion of the performance period worked.
LTIPs would be subject to a performance test at completion of the normal performance period.
Options and performance shares may vest at that time to the extent provided by the performance condition.
Options or performance shares that have been held for less that 12 months at the date of termination would be reduced pro-rata.
MSP awards vest pro-rata upon termination for reasons other than cause.
Termination for cause Employment may be terminated by the Company without notice and without payment of any salary or compensation in lieu of notice.
Outstanding awards under the SOP, MCCP and MSP are forfeited as is any pro-rata STIP.
Change of control Contractual entitlements to severance are not triggered by a change of control.
LTIP rules in the event of a change of control apply to all plan participants and are set out in the sections of the report on pages 142 to 144 that deal with each LTIP vehicle including the SOP, MCCP and MSP.
Rio Tinto 2008 Annual report 145 Remuneration report continued TSR Rio Tinto plc vs FTSE 100 remuneration practice whereby employees Performance evaluation Total return basis Index 2003 100 are offered participation in such plans as Rio Tinto conducts an annual performance 500 part of their employment to encourage management, development and evaluation alignment with the long term performance process for all of its senior executives.
case of members of the executive committee, 300 Executives employed in the Rio Tinto plc the chief executive conducts the review.
In part of the Group may participate in the the case of the chief executive, the chairman 200 Rio Tinto plc Share Savings Plan, a savingsof the committee conducts the review in 100 related share option plan which is open to conjunction with the chairman of the board.
employees in the UK and elsewhere.
Under the The key objectives of the performance 0 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 plan, participants can save up to 250 per process are to: FTSE 100 Rio Tinto plc month, or equivalent in local currency, for a Improve organisational effectiveness by maximum of five years.
At the end of the creating alignment between the executives savings period participants may exercise an objectives and Rio Tintos business strategy.
TSR A$ Rio Tinto Limited vs ASX All Share Total return basis Index 2003 100 option over shares granted at a discount of up Provide a consistent, transparent and 500 to 20 per cent to the market value at the time balanced approach to measure, recognise of grant.
The number of options to which and reward executive performance.
400 participants are entitled is determined by the Engage executives through regular two way 300 option price, the savings amount and the communication on their performance.
length of the savings contract.
No Build further capability through aligning 200 consideration is paid or payable by the development decisions with business and 100 participant on receipt of the options.
0 section of this plan is approved by HM 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 Revenue & Customs HMRC.
Grants made to There is a three-step annual cycle conducted ASX Rio Tinto Limited executives are set out in Table 5 on page 157. according to the following schedule: Eligible UK employees, including some of i Set annual performance objectives as TSR US$ Rio Tinto Group vs HSBC Global the executives, may also participate in the part of the annual planning process at Mining Index Rio Tinto Share Ownership Plan, an HMRC the end and into the beginning of the Total return basis Index 2003 100 approved share incentive plan which was new calendar year: 700 introduced in 2002.
Under this plan, eligible ii Interim review completed by end of employees may receive an annual award of August: and 560 shares up to a maximum of five per cent of iii Annual performance review completed 420 their salary, subject to a cap of 3,000.
For the during early January of the following 280 2008 awards to be settled in 2009, in year.
recognition of the challenging economic 140 environment, the Company has reduced the All executives were evaluated according to 0 annual award of shares up to a maximum of this process in 2008.
The results related to 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 two and a half per cent of salary, subject to a individual and business performance are HSBC Global Rio Tinto DLC cap of 1,500.
In addition, participating detailed on pages 148 to 149.
Mining Index employees can save up to 125 per month, which the plan administrator invests in Remuneration paid in 2008 Rio Tinto plc shares.
The Company matches Performance of Rio Tinto and individual The effect of this performance on these purchases on a one for one basis.
The executives shareholder wealth, as measured by TSR, is Rio Tinto Share Ownership Plan includes The Company experienced strong share detailed in the table on the next page.
The restrictions on transfer of shares while the price performance for the duration of 2008 relationship between TSR and executive shares are subject to the plan.
with the exception of performance in the remuneration is discussed in the Executive Executives employed in the Rio Tinto fourth quarter when commodity prices remuneration and Remuneration Limited part of the Group may elect to dropped sharply.
This was reflected in the components sections appearing earlier in participate in the Rio Tinto Limited Share share price.
2008 earnings are in line with the report.
TSR on an annual basis is based Savings Plan, introduced in 2001, which is stretching targets approved by the board on a comparison of the opening and closing similar to the Rio Tinto plc Share Savings earlier in the year, despite the drop in share prices plus dividends.
Grants made to executives are set out in commodity prices and the relatively fixed methodology, even though the share price Table 5 on page 157. nature of Rio Tintos costs making it difficult exceeded the market average for over Executives, other than executive to realise significant reductions in costs 11 months in 2008, it would not be reflected directors, may be eligible to participate in within a short window of a few months.
in the TSR calculation due to the sudden the MSP as described on page 144.
The To illustrate the performance of the decline in share price in the last month of terms of each award are set by the Companys share price relative to markets, the year.
committee at the time of grant.
Awards may graphs showing the performance of be service based and or performance based Rio Tinto plc in terms of TSR over the last depending on the nature of the award.
five years, compared to the FTSE 100 Index Specific non performance based awards are and Rio Tinto Limited compared to the ASX described on page 145.
All Ordinaries Index are reproduced above.
A Where, under an employee share plan graph showing Rio Tintos performance operated by the Company, participants are relative to the HSBC Global Mining Index is the beneficial owners of the shares, but not also included to illustrate the performance of the registered owner, the voting rights are Rio Tinto relative to other mining normally exercised by the registered owner companies.
at the direction of the participant.
146 Rio Tinto 2008 Annual report Governance Rio Tinto shareholder return 2004-2008 Year Dividends Share price Share price Total shareholder return per share Rio Tinto plc Rio Tinto Limited TSR paid during the year pence A$ US cents plc Ltd Group per share 1 Jan 31 Dec 1 Jan 31 Dec %% % 2008 152.0 5,317 1,490 133.95 38.00 71.5 71.1 71.3 2007 116.0 2,718 5,317 74.30 133.95 99.5 82.9 91.8 2006 191.5 2,655 2,718 69.00 74.30 6.3 12.2 7.6 2005 83.5 1,533 2,655 39.12 69.00 77.5 81.3 78.4 2004 66.0 1,543 1,533 37.54 39.12 1.7 7.4 3.0 Rio Tinto Group and product group the original awards for those who were in vesting will forfeit the bonus deferral as well performance during 2008, and over the executive director or product group chief as the 25 per cent of salary portion, if performance periods of the long term executive roles at the time of grant of the applicable.
incentive plans which ended on conditional award.
2008 STIP amounts are set out in Table 1 31 December 2008, affected executives on page 152.
The deferred portion either remuneration as follows: Annual bonus STIP 100 per cent or 50 per cent appears in the STIPs have been determined for 2008 awards deferred share column.
The 50 per cent of Share based awards based on business performance, safety and the bonus that is not deferred and paid in SOP Rio Tinto TSR growth over the three the achievement of personal performance cash to executives below the product group years ending 31 December 2008 achieved objectives.
The committee determined that in chief executives appears in the cash bonus the level required by the applicable order to conserve cash and to create column.
performance condition for the 2006 award alignment between management and Financial performance was assessed to vest 100 per cent.
In addition, TSR shareholders, a 100 per cent bonus deferral against underlying earnings targets for the performance for the five year period ending for the executive directors and product group Group and product groups, as relevant, and 31 December 2008 for the 2004 option chief executives and a 50 per cent bonus established by the committee earlier in the re-test achieved the level required to vest deferral for the other executives would be year.
The potential impact of fluctuations in 100 per cent.
The vesting of the last option implemented for any bonus due in respect of exchange rates and some prices are outside grant subject to a re-test provision will 2008.
All bonus deferrals are into Rio Tinto the control of the Group.
The Committee occur in March 2009 based on performance shares valued on the date of grant.
In the therefore compares, on an equal weighting for the performance period ending case of the executive directors and product basis, both actual results unflexed and 31 December 2008.
Outstanding awards do group chief executives, the shares vest 100 underlying performance flexed for prices not have a re-test provision and there is no per cent on the basis of service at the end of and exchange rates.
The Committee retains provision in the plan currently for a re-test 2011.
In the case of the other executives, an discretion to consider underlying business on future awards.
amount equal to 25 per cent of salary has performance in deciding STIP awards.
The MCCP Rio Tinto ranked third in the ten been added to the amount of the bonus committee did not exercise its discretion to company comparator group at the deferral to provide enhanced retention in a offset the effect of the sharp decline in completion of the four year performance challenging period.
The shares vest on the performance late in the fourth quarter.
period ending 31 December 2008, resulting basis of service with 50 per cent vesting at Safety measures included Group or in 92.5 per cent vesting of the conditional the end of 2010 and the remaining 50 per relevant product group safety.
The 25 per award made 61.6 per cent of the maximum cent at the end of 2011.
Executives who cent weighting comprises 15 per cent opportunity to executives who were leave due to retirement with the Companys allocated to improving the All injury directors or product group chief executives consent or are deemed redundant will frequency rate AIFR and ten per cent at the date of the conditional award.
This receive their bonus deferral at departure and, allocated to a reduction in critical risk scores group included Tom Albanese, Guy Elliott, for those below product group chief as determined by the application of the Preston Chiaro, Keith Johnson and Sam executive level, pro rata vesting based on Semi-quantitative risk assessment SQRA Walsh.
The vesting shown in Table 4 on time of the 25 per cent of salary portion that approach.
Threshold, target and outstanding page 156, is in accordance with the has been contributed by the company.
measures were set relative to previous years performance condition applicable to the Consistent with the retention aspect of the performance according to the following: 2005 award and represents 92.5 per cent of deferral, executives who resign prior to Performance level Threshold Target Outstanding Excellent No AIFR 5% AIFR 10% AIFR deterioration Improvement Improvement SQRA complete zero fatalities zero fatalities 10% reduction 20% reduction in critical risk in critical risk score score Good No AIFR 10% AIFR 20% AIFR deterioration Improvement Improvement SQRA complete zero fatalities zero fatalities 10% reduction 20% reduction in critical risk in critical risk score score Fair No AIFR 20% AIFR 40% AIFR deterioration improvement improvement SQRA complete zero fatalities zero fatalities 10% reduction 20% reduction in critical risk in critical risk score score Rio Tinto 2008 Annual report 147 Remuneration report continued These measures reflect the number one was exercised to further adjust the scores with the business priorities of each business, priority of safety at all Rio Tinto operations downward to recognize the magnitude of the product group and Rio Tinto.
Corporate offices loss of life in accidents in 2008.
To achieve a strong linkage between receive a safety score based on the combined Personal performance targets and business financial and personal safety scores of the product groups.
Safety objectives were established for each performance and remuneration, the scores are subject to additional adjustment executive at the start of the performance business financial performance factor is downward should a significant number of period.
These comprise a balanced set of multiplied by the personal factor as set out incidents, especially the incidence of measures for each individual as discussed in below and applied to the target STIP fatalities, occur during the year.
In 2008, Rio the following section that reflect current percentage, which ranges from 50 to 60 per Tinto experienced eight fatal incidents operational performance, as well as progress cent of salary depending on the executive: globally resulting in 18 deaths.
Discretion on initiatives and projects designed to align Personal threshold 25%, target 100%, Business financial threshold 67%, target 100%, outstanding 133% outstanding 150% Product group financial Personal performance objectives Group financial Group PG safety 50% !exed earnings 50% un!exed 75% Executive directors, 25% earnings Group executives, global heads Product group CEO 20% !exed earnings 20% un!exed 30% !exed earnings 30% un!exed 75% 25% earnings earnings Personal contribution to key business performance drivers Dick Evans STIP reflects that of a product group chief executive The only exceptions to this template are for salary for Debra Valentine and Hugo Bague, committee assessed personal performance Rio Tinto Alcan where the business respectively.
including product group safety as 89 per cent performance metrics for the product group of target.
The overall STIP award is 62 per chief executive were driven by 80 per cent Tom Albanese cent of target 31 per cent of maximum upstream earnings 50 per cent flexed Based on record earnings in a challenging which is 37 per cent of salary.
100 per cent of 50 per cent unflexed and 20 per cent year overall, the committee assessed the bonus payment has been deferred into downstream EVA per the former Alcan bonus personal performance including Group Rio Tinto shares until his retirement on plan, and in the case of the Group executive safety as 99 per cent of target.
Technology & Innovation T&I, where safety STIP award is 86 per cent of target 43 per reflects measures applicable to T&I led cent of maximum which is 52 per cent of Hugo Bague projects and Group safety performance.
salary 43 per cent of maximum.
100 per Based on personal performance targets Strong markets for much of the year cent of the bonus payment has been related to human resources transformation followed by a severe global downturn during deferred into Rio Tinto shares.
projects, Rio Tinto Alcan integration and the fourth quarter made 2008 an unusual leadership of the human resources function year.
The impact of the downturn on Guy Elliott including work occasioned by the earnings was further exacerbated by a Based on personal performance targets unsolicited pre-conditional offer from BHP simultaneous increase in the costs of many related to work occasioned by the Billiton, the committee assessed personal inputs.
Earnings performance for the Group unsolicited pre-conditional offer by BHP performance including Group safety as as a whole measured against stretching Billiton, the divestments programme, the 98 per cent of target.
The overall STIP award targets resulted in a STIP score of 87 per cent efficiency and effectiveness of the finance is 85 per cent of target 43 per cent of of target for business performance.
Product function and the additional portfolio maximum which is 43 per cent of salary.
50 group performance varied from zero Copper responsibilities taken in the second half of per cent of the bonus payment has been &Diamonds to 109 per cent of target 2008 for the management of the deferred into Rio Tinto shares.
The committee did not downstream aluminium businesses, the exercise its discretion to adjust for the sharp committee assessed personal performance Preston Chiaro downturn in commodity prices at the end of including Group safety as 87 per cent of Based on personal performance targets the year and the impact this had on target.
The overall STIP award is 76 per cent related to growth projects, particularly the performance.
of target 38 per cent of maximum which is progression of feasibility studies for thermal Group safety performance resulted in the 46 per cent of salary.
100 per cent of the coal and uranium projects, support to the committee approving a score of 49 per cent bonus payment has been deferred into Rio divestment processes, significant supply of target.
Product group safety varied with Tinto shares.
chain improvements in the Hunter Valley, scores ranging from 18 per cent of target Australia, and initiatives related to climate Copper & Diamonds to 89 per cent of target Dick Evans change, the committee assessed personal Rio Tinto Alcan.
Based on personal performance targets performance including product group safety Consequently, total STIP awards for related to on-time and on-budget completion as 101 per cent of target.
The overall STIP executives, including personal STIP scores of the Sohar Aluminum smelter, progress award is 102 per cent of target 51 per cent detailed below, ranged from 29 per cent to with the Gove and Yarwun II construction of maximum which is 60 per cent of salary.
107 per cent of target 14 per cent to 53 per projects, the development of feasibility 100 per cent of the bonus payment has been cent of maximum, or a range of 17 per cent studies for new and expansion projects, deferred into Rio Tinto shares.
to 64 per cent of salary, depending upon the leadership of the Rio Tinto Alcan integration executive.
The executive directors, product programme, work occasioned by the Bret Clayton group chief executives and Group executives unsolicited pre-conditional offer by BHP Based on personal performance targets have target STIP awards of 60 per cent of Billiton, business sustainability and the related to both the Diavik and Argyle salary.
Target STIP is 55 and 50 per cent of environment and succession planning, the expansion projects, the progression of 148 Rio Tinto 2008 Annual report Governance pre-feasibility studies and feasibility studies Billiton, the committee assessed personal integration bonus of US$2,992,500 as set out on new projects including Oyu Tolgoi, La performance including Group safety as in the 2007 Remuneration report.
The bonus Granja, Resolution and Sulawesi, and business 107 per cent of target.
The overall STIP award was based on actual performance against sustainability including talent development is 93 per cent of target 47 per cent of plan, where plan was the achievement of and joint venture management, the maximum which is 51 per cent of salary.
50 explicit integration synergy targets in 2008, committee assessed personal performance per cent of the bonus payment has been the establishment of Rio Tinto Alcan within including product group safety as 82 per cent deferred into Rio Tinto shares.
the wider Rio Tinto Group including of target.
The overall STIP award is 29 per adoption of the One Rio Tinto model and the cent of target 14 per cent of maximum Sam Walsh readiness of a successor for Rio Tinto Alcan which is 17 per cent of salary.
100 per cent Based on personal performance related to by the end of 2009. of the bonus payment has been deferred into on-time and on-budget completion of key Dick Evans is eligible for a Rio Tinto Rio Tinto shares.
expansion projects in the Pilbara, the Alcan integration bonus in 2009 of 426 per cent of salary US$6,397,500 at target and progression of feasibility studies for global 640 per cent of salary US$9,596,250 at Keith Johnson projects including Corumba, IOC and maximum.
Again for 2009, this bonus will Based on the progress of the One Rio Tinto Simandou, business sustainability items be payable based on the achievement of project including the continued roll-out of the related to technology development including synergy targets and the integration of Aligning Business Systems project, the progress on the automated trains and Rio Tinto Alcan.
achievement of objectives set within each of automated drills, marketing effectiveness The integration bonus potential in both the Business Resources Areas including and work occasioned by the unsolicited pre- 2008 and 2009 was provided as part of his Exploration, Marine, Rio Tinto Procurement, conditional offer by BHP Billiton, the remuneration arrangements to maintain the Business Services and the global marketing committee assessed personal performance remuneration he was entitled to at Alcan at centre, and Rio Tinto Alcan integration, the including product group safety as 107 per the time of the acquisition.
committee assessed personal performance cent of target.
The overall STIP award is 107 including Group safety as 100 per cent of per cent of target 53 per cent of maximum Long term incentives granted in 2008 target.
The overall STIP is 87 per cent of target which is 64 per cent of salary.
100 per cent Options over either Rio Tinto plc or Rio Tinto 44 per cent of maximum which is 52 per of the bonus payment has been deferred into Limited shares, as appropriate, were granted cent of salary.
Keith Johnsons bonus payment Rio Tinto shares.
to each executive under the SOP on has not been deferred as he is leaving the 10 March 2008.
The committee reviewed the Group on 31 July 2009.
Other payments during 2008 performance condition applicable to this Retention grant and confirmed that vesting will be Grant Thorne In 2007, Rio Tinto introduced a retention dependent on Rio Tintos TSR relative to the Based on the progress of the expansion programme for certain senior Rio Tinto HSBC Global Mining Index over a three year projects under the management of employees, with the exception of the performance period.
Details of all options Technology & Innovation including Argyle, executive directors and the product group outstanding under the SOP are included in Kestrel, Clermont and QIT Madagascar chief executives.
The programme was Table 5 on page 157.
Minerals, progress on key technology designed to further support the Groups A conditional award of performance initiatives including Autonomous trucks ability to retain key staff in a competitive shares in either Rio Tinto plc or Rio Tinto and underground development, Rio Tinto labour market and during a period of Limited shares was made to each executive Alcan integration and leadership of the significant uncertainty due to the under the MCCP on 10 March 2008.
The Technology & Innovation group, the unsolicited pre-conditional offer from BHP committee reviewed the performance committee assessed personal performance Biliton.
This uncertainty combined with a condition applicable to the conditional including T&I safety as 110 per cent of buoyant market for senior professionals in award and determined that vesting will be target.
The overall STIP award is 96 per cent the resources sector in the early part of 2008 dependent on Rio Tintos TSR relative to of target 48 per cent of maximum which is magnified the risk to Rio Tinto of losing key eight other mining companies.
50 per cent of the senior employees with direct impacts on For retention reasons, the MSP awards bonus payment has been deferred into business performance.
On 1 December 2008, were used broadly as part of the 2008 long Rio Tinto shares.
Hugo Bague received a retention award term incentive programme for executives equal to US$350,000 under this programme.
below product group chief executive level.
Debra Valentine The awards are service-based and vest Based on leadership of the legal function Integration bonus subject to continuous employment on including establishment of a global legal Dick Evans received an integration bonus of 31 December 2010. function, and significant contribution to the US$1,350,000 68 per cent of target: 45 per unsolicited pre-conditional offer by BHP cent of maximum based on a maximum Rio Tinto 2008 Annual report 149 Remuneration report continued Bonuses and grants 31 December 2008, as well as the percentages The percentages of maximum bonuses made forfeited because the relevant company or to executives in respect of 2008 and long term individual did not meet the performance incentive grants vested in respect of criteria required for full vesting, are as follows: performance periods which ended on Bonuses and grants made during or in respect of 2008 1 2 3 Bonus SOP Options MCCP Shares MSP Shares % of % of %%% %% % maximum maximum vested forfeited vested forfeited vested forfeited vested forfeited Tom Albanese 42.9 57.1 100 92.5 7.5 N A Guy Elliott 38.1 61.9 100 92.5 7.5 N A Dick Evans 48.9 51.1 N A N A N A Hugo Bague 42.6 57.4 N A N A 100 Preston Chiaro 50.8 49.2 100 92.5 7.5 N A Bret Clayton 14.3 85.7 100 83.3 16.7 N A Keith Johnson 43.5 56.5 100 92.5 7.5 N A Grant Thorne 47.9 52.1 100 83.3 16.7 N A Debra Valentine 46.7 53.3 N A N A N A Sam Walsh 53.3 46.7 100 92.5 7.5 N A Notes 1.
Cash paid and deferred shares granted in March 2009 2.
Vesting of the 2004 and 2006 SOP options in April 3.
Vesting of 2005 conditional award in February 2009 in respect of 2008, including STIP and integration and March 2009 respectively for the performance for the performance period ending 31 December bonus period ending 31 December 2008.
The grants of shares and role and include ensuring compliance with Significant award to a former director options under the plans are conditional regulatory requirements, oversight of good In accordance with Schedule 7A 14 of the upon compliance with the Rules.
corporate governance practice and the UK Companies Act 1985, the Company is provision of corporate secretarial services.
required to disclose details of any significant Executives external and other award made in respect of loss of office to appointments CHAIRMAN AND NON EXECUTIVE former directors.
Oscar Groeneveld, a Executives may be invited to become non DIRECTOR REMUNERATION director of Rio Tinto between 1998 and executive directors of other companies.
It is Remuneration policy 2004, left employment during 2008 after Rio Tintos policy that such appointments Remuneration for non executive directors is 34 years service with the Group in a range of can broaden their experience and structured with a fixed fee component, details senior positions.
He received a A$4.045m knowledge, to the benefit of the Group.
This of which are set out on the next page and in redundancy payment during 2008. policy limits each executives external the table on page 145.
The board as a whole directorships to one FTSE 100 company or determines non executive directors fees, Shareholding policy for executives equivalent and they are not allowed to take although non executive directors do not vote The Company recognises the importance of on the chairmanship of another FTSE 100 on any changes to their own fees.
Fees reflect aligning directors and executives interests company or equivalent.
Consequently, where the responsibilities and time spent by the with those of shareholders and they are there is no likelihood that such directorships directors on the affairs of Rio Tinto.
Current therefore expected to build up a will give rise to a conflict of interest, the fee levels are set out in the table on the page shareholding.
The committee determined board will normally give consent to the opposite.
that executive directors should aim to reach appointment.
The executive is permitted to It is Rio Tintos policy that the chairman a holding equivalent in value to two times retain the fees earned.
In the course of the should be remunerated on a competitive their base salary over three years and year the following executives received fees basis and at a level which reflects his product group chief executives should aim from external appointments: Guy Elliott contribution to the Group, as assessed by the to achieve this over five years.
The chairman is not present at any executives share interests in the Group are Dick Evans US$120,000, and Sam Walsh discussion regarding his own remuneration set out in Table 3 on page 155.
A$10,000 in respect of their non Rio Tinto and he does not participate in the Groups related directorships.
incentive plans or pension arrangements.
Share dealing policy Executives participate in long term incentive Company secretary remuneration Letters of appointment plans which involve the awarding of Rio The remuneration policy described above Non executive directors have formal letters Tinto securities at a future date.
The board applies to the company secretary of each of of appointment setting out their duties and has a policy prohibiting an executive from Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited.
These letters are available limiting his or her exposure to risk in participate in the same performance based for inspection at Rio Tinto plcs registered relation to the securities.
This is contained remuneration arrangements as the office, prior to the annual general meeting in the Rules for dealing in Rio Tinto executives.
The individual performance and at the meeting itself.
Each non securities which is available in the measures for the Company secretaries STIP executive director is appointed subject to corporate governance section of the website.
comprise Group and personal measures.
subsequent election and periodic re-election All employees subject to the Rules receive Their personal measures reflect the key by shareholders as detailed on page 159. regular training and information about this responsibilities of the company secretarial There are no provisions for compensation 150 Rio Tinto 2008 Annual report Governance payable on termination of any non executive market.
During the year no directors Auditable information directors appointment.
purchased shares using these arrangements Under Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the UK The chairmans letter of appointment as purchases were suspended following the Companies Act 1985, the information summarises his duties as chairman of the unsolicited pre-conditional offer from BHP included in respect of the non executive Group and was agreed by the committee.
This suspension was lifted following directors and the directors short term stipulates that he is expected to dedicate three the announcement of the 2008 annual employee benefits and termination benefits days per week on average to carry out his results and the strategic partnership with in Table 1, and the information included in duties, including attending all board and Chinalco.
respect of the directors accrued benefits, committee meetings.
The chairman receives a transfer values and defined contribution base fee and no additional committee or Remuneration components pension in Table 2, Table 4 and Table 5 are attendance fees.
He is provided with private The following table sets out the annual fees all auditable.
medical insurance and participates in the Rio payable to the chairman and the non The Australian Securities Investment Tinto accident policy which are disclosed in executive directors in A$, as appropriate.
Commission issued an order dated Table 1 on page 152.
These are unchanged from 31 December 27 January 2006 and amended on The board announced on 14 January 2007.
22 December 2006 under which the 2009 that Paul Skinner had expressed a Rio Tinto does not pay retirement information included in the Remuneration preference to retire on 20 April 2009. benefits or allowances to the chairman or report to comply with paragraph 25 of Following the resignation of the chairman non executive directors, nor do any of them Australian Accounting Standard AASB 124 designate, Jim Leng, on 9 February 2009, he participate in any of the Groups incentive Related Party Disclosures relating to key agreed to remain as chairman until mid plans.
Where the payment of statutory management personnel compensation is 2009, by which time it is anticipated that a minimum superannuation contributions for also auditable.
This information comprises successor will be appointed.
The terms of his Australian non executive directors is required Tables 1, 3, 4 and 5 and the disclosures existing letter of appointment will remain in by the Australian superannuation guarantee provided under the headings Executive place over that period.
legislation, these contributions are deducted remuneration and chairman and non from the directors overall fee entitlements.
Shareholding policy In 2006, the board recommended that non Remuneration paid during 2008 Annual general meetings executive directors be encouraged to build Details of each element of remuneration Shareholders will be asked to vote on this up a shareholding equal in value to one year paid to the chairman and non executive Remuneration report at the Companies 2009 annual general meetings.
of the director base fee within three years of directors during 2008 is set out in Table 1 on their appointment.
To help facilitate this, page 152.
No post employment, long term or By order of the Board the Group put in place a non executive termination payments were paid and no directors share purchase plan through share based payments made.
Ben Mathews which non executive directors could elect to Secretary Remuneration committee invest a proportion of their fees net of tax on 6 March 2009 a regular basis to acquire shares on the open As at 31 Dec 2008 Base fees: Chairman 693,000 Other directors 70,000 A$160,000 Additional fees: Senior independent director 35,000 Audit committee chairman 30,000 Audit committee member 15,000 A$37,500 Remuneration committee chairman 20,000 Remuneration committee member 10,000 A$25,000 1 Nominations committee member 7,500 Committee on social and environmental accountability chairman 20,000 Committee on social and environmental accountability member 7,500 A$18,750 Overseas meeting allowances: Long distance flights over 10 hours per journey 4,000 A$10,000 Medium distance flights of 5-10 hours per journey 2,000 A$5,000 Notes 1.
No additional fee is payable to the chairman of the Nominations committee.
The total remuneration is reported in US dollars.
or alternatively, US$1 A$1.4469 to calculate the off bonuses as described on page 149.
The The amounts, with the exception of the annual cash Australian dollar value.
Committee has approved a 100 per cent bonus bonus, can be converted into sterling at the rate of 2.
2008 base fees for Paul Skinner includes two deferral for the executive directors and product US$1 0.5370 or alternatively into Australian months of backdated pay increase for November group chief executives and a 50 per cent bonus dollars at the rate of US$1 A$1.1680, each being and December 2007. deferral for the other executives.
All bonus deferrals the average exchange rate for 2008.
Tom Albanese was appointed chief executive with are in the form of Rio Tinto shares and are cash bonus is payable under the STIP and this may effect from May 2007.
The base salary paid to him disclosed under Deferred Shares.
In the case of be converted at the 2008 year end exchange rate of in 2008 reflects his first full year in that role.
Keith Johnson, who leaves the Group on 31 July US$1 0.6923 to ascertain the sterling equivalent 4.
Cash bonus includes STIP and other special one- 2009, bonus deferral did not apply and his STIP 152 Rio Tinto 2008 Annual report Governance Table 1 Executives and non executive directors remuneration continued 14 Post employment benefits Termination Total benefits remuneration Pension and Other post Currency superannuation employment of actual Stated in US$000 benefits payment Chairman 13 Paul Skinner 1,538 1,552 Non executive directors Ashton Calvert 189 A$ Sir David Clementi 205 190 Vivienne Cox 186 170 14 Jan du Plessis 53 Sir Rod Eddington 190 A$ 150 A$ Michael Fitzpatrick 201 A$ 222 A$ Yves Fortier 221 32 Richard Goodmanson 227 212 Andrew Gould 242 212 Lord Kerr 265 182 15 David Mayhew 191 158 Sir Richard Sykes 157 285 Paul Tellier 240 35 Executive directors Tom Albanese 1,443 2,110 1,706 12,639 Leigh Clifford 364 817 7,515 Guy Elliott 534 409 560 9,353 Dick Evans 338 4,409 US$ 63 423 US$ Other key management personnel Hugo Bague 46 2,416 Preston Chiaro 177 8 350 US$ 190 7 7,400 US$ Bret Clayton 79 2 1,229 US$ 82 3 4,053 US$ Oscar Groeneveld 281 8,807 A$ Keith Johnson 384 433 422 5,981 Andrew MacKenzie 518 5,554 Grant Thorne 195 704 A$ Debra Valentine 123 8 1,888 US$ Sam Walsh 327 137 A$ 290 7,686 A$ was paid in cash.
Non monetary benefits includes for executives, as includes the proportionate value of company 5.
The Other cash based benefits for non executive applicable, healthcare, the provision of a car, and provided transport.
In the case of Sir Richard Sykes, directors comprise overseas meeting allowances secondment costs, comprising housing, education, it includes the value of a retirement gift.
Other cash based benefits for executives professional advice, tax equalisation and relocation Elliott, it includes the value of personal tax advice include cash in lieu of a car and fuel.
For executives and non executive received.
For Paul Skinner, it includes medical Bague only, it also includes a cash supplement directors it also includes the cost of accompanied insurance premiums.
Rio Tinto provides accident equal to 20 per cent of the amount by which his travel in 2008 and the comparative figures for 2007 cover for employee members of the Rio Tinto Contributory Salary exceeds the Earning Cap as which have been restated.
In the cases of Tom Pension Fund.
Some of the executive directors and defined in the Rio Tinto Pension Fund.
Albanese, Paul Skinner and Guy Elliott, it also key management personnel are members of the Rio Tinto 2008 Annual report 153 Remuneration report continued Notes to Table 1 and continued from page 153 Rio Tinto Pension Fund, the total premium paid in decrease in the value attached to the MCCP under purchase additional shares where the Company will 2008 was 7,000.
Rio Tinto plc provides accident the IFRS2 accounting standard.
The decrease in the match their personal contributions up to a cover for non executive directors: the total premium fair values from 1 January to 31 December 2008 has maximum of 1,500 US$2,793 per annum.
Under paid in 2008 was 3,000. contributed to the negative MCCP compensation these plans, Guy Elliott and Keith Johnson each 7.
Total short term benefits represents the short term amounts arising for certain individuals.
Further details received a total of 4,500 US$8,380 and Tom benefits total required under schedule 7A of the UK of the valuation methods and assumptions used for Albanese a total of 3,000 US$5,587.
Companies Act 1985 UK and total remuneration these awards are included in note 48 Share Based 14.
The costs shown for defined benefit pension plans under the Australian Corporations Act 2001 and Payments in the 2008 Full financial statements.
The and post retirement medical benefits are the applicable accounting standards.
fair value of other share based awards is measured at service costs attributable to the individual, 8.
The value of share based awards has been the purchase cost of the shares from the market.
The calculated in accordance with IAS19.
The cost for determined in accordance with the recognition and non executive directors do not participate in the long defined contribution plans is the amount, or measurement requirements of IFRS2 Share based term incentive plans.
notional amount for Dick Evans, contributed in the Payment.
The fair value of awards granted under 9.
Deferred shares represents the deferral of the year by the Company.
The 2007 cost for Dick Evans the Share Option Plan SOP, the Management 2008 bonus under STIP into Rio Tinto shares.
has been restated to include the Alcan Employee Share Plan MSP and the Share Savings Plan SSP 10.
The number of conditional shares awarded to Savings Plan.
American product group chief have been calculated at their dates of grant using executives under the MCCP for the twelve month executives enjoy a Company matching of personal an independent lattice based option valuation period ending 31 December 2008 is shown in Table contribution for shares under the 401K model provided by external consultants, Lane Clark 4 of this report.
Other long term employee benefits arrangements up to a maximum of US$13,800.
Some of these awards will be in 2007 have been restated to exclude company Company matched personal contributions to the settled in cash, rather than the transfer of shares, contributions under the 401k arrangements for following values: Preston Chiaro US$13,800 and and so the fair value of these cash settled awards Preston Chiaro and Bret Clayton.
This was already Bret Clayton US$13,800.
has been calculated based on Rio Tintos share included in Pension and superannuation.
Jan du Plessis was appointed director with effect price at 31 December 2008.
MSP values include regular awards and from 1 September 2008. awards granted under the Mining Companies engagement awards made to Hugo Bague and 16.
David Mayhews fees for the full year were paid to Comparative Plan the MCCP has been calculated Debra Valentine as described on page 145.
The fees disclosed above using a Monte Carlo valuation model based on the 12.
The award of options to executives under the SOP include 15,000 US$27,935 paid to JPMorgan market price of shares and their relative TSR during the twelve month period up to 31 December Cazenove for David Mayhews attendance at Audit performance at 31 December 2008.
Over 2008, the 2008 is shown in Table 5 of this report.
committee meetings in his capacity as adviser.
fall in Rio Tintos share price combined with a 13.
Under the Share Ownership Plan UK executives are 17.
Andrew Mackenzie commenced his notice period on reduction in Rio Tintos TSR performance relative to beneficiaries of free shares up to a maximum value 15 November 2007 and ceased employment on the comparator group has led to a significant of 3,000 US$5,587 and may also contribute to 15 November 2008.
Table 2 Directors pension entitlements as at 31 December 2008 2 Defined Benefit pensions Accrued benefits Transfer values Age Years of At At Change in Change in At At Change, net Transfer value service 31 December 31 December accrued accrued 31 December 31 December of personal of change completed 2007 2008 benefits during benefit net 2007 2008 contributions in accrued 1 the year of inflation benefit net 1 ended 31 of inflation December 2008 000 pa 000 pa 000 pa 000 pa 000 000 000 000 UK directors pension pension pension pension 2, 3 Tom Albanese 51 27 183 286 103 102 1,634 2,836 1,202 1,496 2 Guy Elliott 53 28 381 434 53 49 5,602 6,728 1,126 764 Defined Contribution pension Company contributions Age Years of Year to Year to service 31 December 31 December completed 2007 2008 UK director US$000 US$000 4 Dick Evans 61 1 63 338 Notes to Table 2 1.
Price inflation is calculated as the increase in the 3.
Tom Albanese became a director of Rio Tinto plc 4.
Dick Evans became a director of Rio Tinto plc and relevant retail or consumer price index over the and Rio Tinto Limited with effect from 7 March 2006.
Rio Tinto Limited with effect from 25 October 2007 year to 31 December 2008.
He accrued pension benefits in the US plans for and has an unfunded notional defined contribution 2.
Transfer values are calculated in a manner service up to 30 June 2006, and in the UK fund for benefit.
The 2007 company contributions have been consistent with Retirement Benefit Schemes subsequent service.
The transfer value of his restated to include the Alcan Employee Saving Plan.
Transfer Values GN11 published by the Institute benefits in the US plans is represented by the of Actuaries and the Faculty of Actuaries.
Accumulated Benefit Obligation calculated on the accounting assumptions used for the Groups postretirement benefits disclosures.
Or date of appointment if later.
Share movements due to sale or purchase of 7.
Preston Chiaros 31 December 2007 balance was 2.
Or date of retirement, or resignation, if earlier.
shares, shares received under the Dividend understated in the 2007 Remuneration report by 3.
Shares obtained through the exercise of options Reinvestment Plan, shares purchased sold through 2,170 Rio Tinto plc shares.
under the Rio Tinto Share Savings Plan or the the Rio Tinto America Savings Plan or non 8.
Trading restrictions due to close periods, the Rio Tinto Share Option Plan.
The number of shares executive directors share purchase plan.
unsolicited pre-conditional offer from BHP Billiton retained may differ from the number of options 6.
The shareholdings of Tom Albanese, Preston Chiaro and the Chinalco strategic partnership have exercised.
and Bret Clayton include Rio Tinto plc ADRs held prevented executives from dealing for most of 2008 4.
Shares obtained through the Rio Tinto Share through the Rio Tinto America Savings Plan.
Ownership Plan and or vesting of awards under the Mining Companies Comparative Plan.
Conditional awards are awarded at no cost to the 6.
The amount in US dollars has been converted 1.
Or the date of retirement or resignation if earlier.
recipient and no amount remains unpaid on any from sterling at the rate of 1US$ 0.6923 and 2.
Awards denominated in sterling were for shares granted.
Australian dollars at the rate of 1US$ A$1.4469, Rio Tinto plc ordinary shares of 10p each and 5.
The value of the vested awards have been based on being the year end exchange rate used elsewhere in awards denominated in Australian Dollars were share prices, being the respective closing share the annual report.
for Rio Tinto Limited ordinary shares.
prices for Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited 3.
The weighted average fair value of conditional ordinary shares on the day of vesting.
The value of awards under the Mining Companies Comparative Guy Elliotts vested award has been based on a Plan granted in 2008 was 48.07 for Rio Tinto plc share price of 18.01 being the closing price for and A$107.04 for Rio Tinto Limited.
The weighted Rio Tinto plc shares on 27 February, the latest average fair value of conditional awards under the practicable date prior to the publication of this Management Share Plan granted in 2008 was 55.15 report.
for Rio Tinto plc and A$129.37 for Rio Tinto Limited.
Or at date of retirement or resignation if earlier.
Under the plans no options would be vested and 2.
All options granted over ordinary shares.
Rio Tinto the closing price of Rio Tinto Limited shares at unexercisable at the reporting date.
The exercise of plc ordinary shares of 10p each stated in sterling: 31 December 2008 was A$38.00 2007: A$133.95.
options is subject to restrictions contained in the Rio Tinto Limited ordinary shares stated in The high and low prices during 2008 of Rio Tinto Rules for dealing in Rio Tinto Securities.
Each option is granted over one plc and Rio Tinto Limited shares were 70.78 and restrictions due to close periods, the unsolicited share.
The date of grant was 10 March 2008.
pre-conditional offer from BHP Billiton and the performance conditions for the SOP are detailed on 4.
The option price represents the exercise price Chinalco strategic partnership have prevented page 142 to 143. payable on the options.
No amounts are unpaid on executives from dealing for most of 2008 and 2009.
The closing price of Rio Tinto plc ordinary shares at any shares allocated on the exercise of the options.
The fair value per option, granted during 2008, at three year contract A$5.14 and five year contract exercised by the difference between the market date of grant was as follows: Rio Tinto plc Share A$5.17.
Rio Tinto plc Share Option Plan 20.63: Rio price and the option price on date of exercise.
Savings Plan two year contract 3.46: three year Tinto Limited Share Option Plan A$44.04.
No options lapsed for failure to satisfy a contract 94p: four year contract 1.92 and five year 7.
The value of options exercised during 2008 is performance condition.
contract 90p: Rio Tinto Limited Share Savings Plan calculated by multiplying the number of options Rio Tinto 2008 Annual report 157
