Ashtead Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2008 | Board of directors | 29 Hugh Etheridge, Senior independent non-executive director Aged 58, Hugh Etheridge has been a director, Chairman of the Audit Committee and a member of the Remuneration and Nomination Committees since January 2004.
Mr Etheridge was appointed as senior independent non-executive director on 1 March 2007.
Mr Etheridge is Chief Financial Of cer of the Waste and Resources Action Programme WRAP, a non-pro t organisation established by the UK Government to promote sustainable waste management.
Before joining WRAP, Mr Etheridge was Finance Director of Waste Recycling Group plc and, prior to that, of Matthew Clark plc.
Gary Iceton, Independent non-executive director Aged 58, Gary Iceton was appointed as a non-executive director and a member of the Audit and Nomination Committees effective from 1 September 2004.
Mr Iceton also became Chairman of the Remuneration Committee on 1 March 2007.
Until 2000 he was a director of St Ives plc and Chairman and Chief Executive of its Books Division.
More recently, he was Chairman of Jarrold Limited and, prior to that, Chief Executive Of cer of Amertrans.
Michael Burrow, Independent non-executive director Age 55, Michael Burrow was appointed as a non-executive director and member of the Audit and Remuneration Committees effective from 1 March 2007.
Mr Burrow was formerly Managing Director of the Investment Banking Group of Lehman Brothers Europe Limited.
Bruce Edwards, Independent non-executive director Age 53, Bruce Edwards was appointed as a non-executive director on 8 June 2007.
Mr Edwards is the Global Chief Executive Of cer for Exel Supply Chain at Deutsche Post World Net, and a member of its Board of Management.
He joined DPWN following its acquisition of Exel PLC in December 2005.
Prior to the acquisition, Mr Edwards was a director of Exel PLC and Chief Executive of its Americas businesses.
Mr Edwards is also a non-executive director of Greif Inc, a NYSE-listed packaging and container manufacturer.
He is an American citizen and lives in Columbus, Ohio.
Audit Committee Details of the directors contracts, emoluments and share interests can be found in the Remuneration Committee Directors Remuneration Report.
Nomination Committee Finance and Administration Committee 30 | Ashtead Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2008 | Directors report Directors report The directors present their report and the audited accounts for Transfer of shares the financial year ended 30 April 2008.
Certi ed shares i A share transfer form cannot be used to transfer more than Principal activities one class of share.
Each class needs a separate form.
The principal activity of the Company is that of an investment holding and management company.
The principal activity of the ii T ransfers may be in favour of more than four joint holders, Group is the rental of equipment to industrial and commercial but the directors can refuse to register such a transfer.
users mainly in the non-residential construction sectors of the US and the UK.
iii T he share transfer form must be delivered to the of ce, or any other place decided on by the directors.
The transfer Trading results and dividends form must be accompanied by the share certi cate relating The Groups consolidated pro t before taxation for the year to the shares being transferred, unless the transfer is being was 109.7m 2007: loss of 42.7m.
A review of the Groups made by a person to whom the Company was not required performance and future development, including the principal to, and did not send, a certi cate.
The directors can also ask risks and uncertainties facing the Group, is given in the Business acting reasonably for any other evidence to show that the and Financial Review on pages 8 to 27 and in note 25 to the person wishing to transfer the shares is entitled to do so.
These disclosures form part of this report.
The Group paid an interim dividend of 0.825p per ordinary CREST shares share in February and the directors recommend the payment i Re gistration of CREST shares can be refused in the of a final dividend of 1.675p per ordinary share, to be paid on circumstances set out in the Uncerti ed Securities Regulations.
26 September 2008 to those shareholders on the register at the close of business on 5 September 2008, making a total ii T ransfers cannot be in favour of more than four joint holders.
dividend for the year of 2.5p 2007: 1.65p.
Purchase of own shares Share capital and major shareholders At the Annual General Meeting held on 25 September 2007 and Details of the Companys share capital are given in note 20 the general meeting held on 31 March 2008, authority was given to the financial statements.
for the Company to purchase, on market, up to 27,996,096 and 26,902,642 ordinary shares respectively at a maximum price of the higher of i an amount equal to 105% of the average of Voting rights themiddle market prices for an ordinary share as derived from Subject to the Articles of Association, every member who The London Stock Exchange Daily Of cial List for each of the is present in person at a general meeting shall have one vote five business days immediately preceding the date on which and on a poll every member who is present in person or by the ordinary share is agreed to be purchased, and ii the higher proxy shall have one vote for every share of which he or she of the price of the last independent trade and the highest current is the holder.
The Trustees of the Employee Share Option independent bid on the The London Stock Exchange Of cial List Trust ordinarily follow the guidelines issued by the Association at the time the purchase is carried out.
Details of the purchases of British Insurers and do not exercise their right to vote at made during the year are set out in note 20 on page 70. general meetings.
So far as the Company is aware, the only holdings of 3% or more Under the Companies Acts, members are entitled to appoint a of the issued share capital of the Company as at 20 June 2008 proxy, who need not be a member of the Company, to exercise the latest practicable date before approval of the financial all or any of their rights to attend and speak and vote on their statements are as follows: behalf at a general meeting or any class of meeting.
A member may appoint more than one proxy provided that each proxy is % appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different share or Standard Life Investments Limited 14.0 shares held by that member.
A member that is a corporate may Henderson Global Investors Limited 7.1 appoint one or more individuals to act on its behalf at a general Barclays Global Investors 6.9 meeting or any class of meeting as a corporate representative.
Gartmore Investment Management 5.0 The deadline for the exercise of voting rights is as stated in the Lazard Asset Management 5.0 notice of the relevant meeting.
Legal and General plc 4.5 Aviva plc 4.3 Ashtead Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2008 | Directors report | 31 Details of directors interests in the Companys ordinary share Policy on payment of suppliers capital and in options over that share capital are given in the Suppliers are paid in accordance with the individual payment Directors Remuneration Report on pages 36 to 42.
Details of terms agreed with each of them.
The number of Group creditor all shares subject to option are given in the notes to the financial days at 30 April 2008 was 70 days 30 April 2007: 72 days which statements on pages 72 and 73. re ects the terms agreed with individual suppliers.
There were no trade creditors in the Companys balance sheet at any time Articles of Association during the past two years.
At this years Annual General Meeting, the Company is asking shareholders to approve a number of amendments to its Political and charitable donations Articles of Association, primarily to re ect the provisions of Charitable donations in the year amounted to 24,573 in total the Companies Act 2006.
An explanation of the main changes 2007: 52,839.
No political donations were made in either year.
between the proposed and existing Articles of Association is set out in the explanatory notes attached to the Annual Auditors General Meeting Notice of Meeting which accompanies this Deloitte & Touche LLP has indicated its willingness to continue in Report and Accounts.
of ce and in accordance with section 385 of the Companies Act 1985, a resolution concerning its reappointment and authorising Change of control provisions in loan agreements the directors to x its remuneration, will be proposed at the A change in control of the Company fide ned, inter alia, as a Annual General Meeting.
person or a group of persons acting in concert gaining control of more than 30% of the Companys voting rights leads to an Annual General Meeting immediate event of default under the Companys asset based The Annual General Meeting will be held at 2.30 pm on Tuesday, senior lending facility.
In such circumstances, the agent for 23 September 2008.
Notice of the meeting is set out in the the lending group may, and if so directed by more than 50% document accompanying this Report and Accounts.
of the lenders shall, declare the amounts outstanding under the facility immediately due and payable.
In addition to the adoption of the 2007 8 Report and Accounts, the declaration of a final dividend, resolutions dealing with the Such a change of control also leads to an obligation within 30 days appointment and re-election of directors and the resolution of the change in control occurring for the Group to make an offer dealing with the approval of the Directors Remuneration Report, to the holders of the Groups senior secured notes to redeem them there are six other matters which will be considered at the Annual at 101% of their combined face value of $800m.
These relate to the reappointment of Deloitte & Touche LLP as auditors, the ability for the directors to Directors and directors insurance unconditionally allot shares up to approximately one-third of the Details of the directors of the Company are given on pages Companys share capital, the disapplication of pre-emption rights 28 and 29.
The policies related to their appointment and in relation to the previous resolution empowering the Company replacement are detailed on page 32.
Each of the directors to buy back up to 10% of its issued share capital, amendments as at the date of approval of this report con rms, as required to the Companys articles of association and amendments to by section 234ZA of the Companies Act 1985 that to the best the rules of the Companys Performance Share Plan.
The majority of their knowledge and belief: of these resolutions update for a further year similar resolutions approved by shareholders in previous years.
1 t here is no signi cant information known to the director relevant to the audit, of which the Companys auditors are By order of the Board unaware: and 2 ea ch director has taken reasonable steps to make himself aware of such information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of it.
Eric Watkins The Company has maintained insurance throughout the year Company Secretary to cover all directors against liabilities in relation to the Company 23 June 2008 and its subsidiary undertakings.
32 | Ashtead Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2008 | Corporate governance report Corporate governance report for the direction and management of the day-to-day business The revised Combined Code on corporate governance was and conduct of the Group.
In doing so, the chief executives role published in June 2006 following a review by the Financial includes, but is not restricted to, implementing Board decisions, Reporting Council the 2006 FRC Code.
delegating responsibility, and reporting to the Board regarding the conduct, activities and performance of the Group.
The chief The Company is committed to maintaining high standards executive chairs the Sunbelt and A-Plant board meetings and of corporate governance.
The Board recognises that it is sets policies and direction to maximise returns to shareholders.
accountable to the Companys shareholders for corporate governance and this statement describes how the Company All directors are responsible under the law for the proper conduct has applied the relevant principles of the 2006 FRC Code.
The directors are also responsible for ensuring that the strategies proposed by the executive directors The Company complied throughout the year with the provisions are discussed in detail and assessed critically to ensure they of the 2006 FRC Code on corporate governance except that, conform with the long-term interests of shareholders and are until the appointment of Mr Edwards on 8 June 2007, the Board compatible with the interests of employees, customers and and its sub-committees did not comply with the independence suppliers.
The Board has reserved to itself those matters which provisions of the 2006 FRC Code.
Following this appointment, reinforce its control of the Company.
These include treasury the Board and its sub-committees were in compliance with the policy, acquisitions and disposals, appointment and removal 2006 FRC Code.
of directors or the company secretary, appointment and removal of the auditors and approval of the annual accounts.
The Board The Companys Board comprises the non-executive chairman, Regular reports and brie ngs are provided to the Board, by the chief executive, the finance director, the executive heads the executive directors and the company secretary, to ensure of Sunbelt and A-Plant, the senior independent non-executive the directors are suitably briefed to ful l their roles.
The Board director and three other non-executive directors.
Short biographies normally meets six times a year and there is contact between of the directors are given on pages 28 and 29. meetings to advance the Companys activities.
It is the Boards usual practice to meet at least annually with the boards of The chairman undertakes leadership of the Board by agreeing Sunbelt and A-Plant.
The directors also have access to the Board agendas and encourages its effectiveness by the provision company secretary and are able to seek independent advice of timely, accurate and clear information on all aspects of the at the Companys expense.
Groups business, to enable the Board to take sound decisions and promote the success of the business.
The chairman, assisted All directors are subject to election by shareholders at the by other directors, reviews the effectiveness of each member first Annual General Meeting after their appointment and to of the Board no less than annually and facilitates constructive re-election thereafter at intervals of no more than three years.
relationships between the executive and non-executive directors Non-executive directors are appointed for speci ed terms through both formal and informal meetings.
not exceeding three years and are subject to re-election and the provision of the Companies Act relating to the removal The chairman ensures that all directors are briefed properly of a director.
to enable them to discharge their duties effectively.
All newly appointed directors undertake an induction to all parts of the In accordance with the Companys articles of association, Mr Cole, Groups business.
Additionally, detailed management accounts Mr Drabble and Mr Robson will offer themselves for retirement are sent monthly to all Board members and, in advance of and re-election to the Board at the next Annual General Meeting.
all Board meetings, an agenda and appropriate documentation in respect of each item to be discussed is circulated.
Non-executive directors The chairman facilitates effective communication with In the recruitment of non-executive directors, it is the Groups shareholders through both the Annual General Meeting and practice to utilise the services of an external search consultancy.
by individual meetings with major shareholders, to develop Before appointment, non-executive directors are required an understanding of the views of the investors in the business.
to assure the Board that they can give the time commitment He also ensures that shareholders have access to other necessary to ful l properly their duties, both in terms of directors, including non-executive directors, as appropriate.
availability to attend meetings and discuss matters on the telephone and meeting preparation time.
The non-executives The chief executives role is to provide entrepreneurial leadership letters of appointment are available for inspection at the of the Group within a framework of prudent and effective Annual General Meeting.
controls, which enables risk to be assessed and managed.
The chief executive undertakes the leadership and responsibility Ashtead Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2008 | Corporate governance report | 33 The non-executive directors including the chairman meet as The Audit Committees terms of reference will be available and when required in the absence of the executive directors to for inspection at the Annual General Meeting.
discuss and appraise the performance of the Board as a whole and the performance of the executive directors.
In accordance Remuneration Committee with the 2006 FRC Code, the non-executive directors, led by the The Remuneration Committee comprises Mr Iceton chairman, senior independent non-executive director, also meet annually in Mr Etheridge and Mr Burrow.
the absence of the chairman to discuss and appraise his performance.
The Remuneration Committee meets as and when required Performance evaluation during the year to set the compensation packages for the The performance of the chairman, the chief executive, the Board executive directors, to establish the terms and conditions of the and its committees is evaluated, amongst other things, against executive directors employment and to set remuneration policy their respective role pro les and terms of reference.
Mr Cole and Mr Drabble normally attend the meetings directors are evaluated additionally against the agreed budget of the Committee to assist it in its work.
The Committee also for the generation of revenue, pro t and value to shareholders.
engages remuneration consultants to advise it in its work as and when required.
The evaluation of the chairman, the Board and its committees was conducted by way of a questionnaire completed by all of None of the members of the Remuneration Committee is the directors, the results of which were collated by the company currently or has been at any time one of the Companys executive secretary and presented to the entire board.
Based on this directors or an employee.
None of the executive directors evaluation, the Board concluded that performance in the past currently serves, or has served, as a member of the Board of year had been satisfactory.
directors of any other company which has one or more of its executive directors serving on the Companys Board or Board committees Remuneration Committee.
Audit Committee The Audit Committee comprises Mr Etheridge chairman, The Remuneration Committees terms of reference will be who has relevant financial experience, Mr Iceton and Mr Burrow.
available for inspection at the Annual General Meeting.
By invitation, the Groups finance director, Mr Robson, and its director of financial reporting, Mr Pratt, normally attend the Nomination Committee The current members of the Nomination Committee are Mr Cole Committees meetings, as do representatives of our internal and chairman, Mr Drabble, Mr Etheridge, Mr Iceton and Mr Burrow.
Other directors are usually also invited to be The Nomination Committee meets as and when required to present if available.
recommend proposed changes to the structure and composition of the Board of directors.
The Audit Committee met on five occasions during the year and reviewed the draft quarterly and annual financial statements The Nomination Committees terms of reference will be available prior to their publication, considered the key accounting for inspection at the Annual General Meeting.
estimates and judgements contained therein and considered reports from both the internal and external auditors which Attendance at Board and Committee meetings held included audit plans and the key findings of their work.
The Audit between 1 May 2007 and 30 April 2008 Committee also reviewed the Groups accounting policies, evaluated the effectiveness of the Groups internal controls and Board Audit Remuneration Nomination financial reporting policies, and was responsible for dealing with Number of any matter brought to its attention by the auditors.
meetings held 7 5 4 1 Mr Cole 7 1 The Audit Committee also keeps under review the effectiveness Mr Dhaiwal 7 of both internal and external audit, as well as the independence Mr Drabble 7 1 of the external auditors including the type of and associated fees Mr Miller 7 for non-audit services.
Mr Robson 7 Mr Burrow 7 5 4 1 The principal non-audit fees paid to the Companys auditors, Mr Etheridge 7 5 4 1 Deloitte & Touche LLP, for the year relate to their work in Mr Iceton 6 5 4 1 connection with the review of our interim results and US 1 Mr Edwards 5 property tax compliance.
The Audit Committee is satis ed that the nature of work undertaken and the level of non-audit 1.
Mr Edwards was appointed as non-executive director from 8 June 2007. fees did not impair their independence.
34 | Ashtead Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2008 | Corporate governance report Corporate governance report Continued Finance and Administration Committee Before producing the statement on internal control for the The Finance and Administration Committee comprises Mr Cole, annual report and accounts for the year ended 30 April 2008, Mr Drabble and Mr Robson and is chaired by Mr Drabble.
The the Board reconsidered the operational effectiveness of the Board of directors has delegated authority to this Committee to Groups internal control systems.
In particular, through the Audit deal with routine financial and administrative matters between Committee, it received reports from the operational audit teams Board meetings.
The Committee meets as necessary to perform and considered the status of implementation of internal control its role and has a quorum requirement of two members with improvement recommendations made by the Groups internal certain matters requiring the presence of Mr Cole, non-executive auditors and its external auditors.
The control system includes chairman, including, for example, the approval of material written policies and control procedures, clearly drawn lines of announcements to the London Stock Exchange.
accountability and delegation of authority, and comprehensive reporting and analysis against budgets and latest forecasts.
Internal control The directors acknowledge their responsibility for the Groups In a group of the size, complexity and geographical diversity system of internal control and con rm they have reviewed its of Ashtead, minor breakdowns in established control procedures effectiveness.
In doing so, the Group has taken note of the relevant can occur.
There are supporting policies and procedures for guidance for directors, namely Internal Control: Guidance investigation and management of control breakdowns at any of for Directors on the Combined Code the Turnbull Guidance.
the Groups pro t centres or elsewhere.
The Audit Committee also meets regularly with the external auditors to discuss their work.
The Board con rms that there is a process for identifying, evaluating and managing signi cant risks faced by the Group.
In relation to internal financial control, the Groups control This process has been in place for the full financial year and is and monitoring procedures include: ongoing.
It is kept under regular review by the executive directors the maintenance and production of accurate and timely and is considered periodically by the Board and accords with the financial management information, including a monthly Turnbull Guidance.
pro t and loss account and selected balance sheet data for each pro t centre: The Board considers that the Groups internal control system is the control of key financial risks through clearly laid down designed appropriately to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk authority levels and proper segregation of accounting duties of failure to achieve business objectives.
Any such control system, at the Groups accounting support centres: the preparation of a monthly financial report to the Board, however, can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance including income statements for the Group and each against material misstatement or loss.
subsidiary, balance sheet and cash ow statement: the preparation of an annual budget and periodic update The Group reviews the risks it faces in its business and how these forecasts which are reviewed by the executive directors and risks are managed.
These reviews are conducted in conjunction then by the Board: with the management teams of each of the Groups businesses a programme of rental equipment inventories and full and are documented in an annual report.
The reviews consider inventory counts conducted at each pro t centre by whether any matters have arisen since the last report was equipment type independently checked on a sample basis prepared which might indicate omissions or inadequacies in that by our operational auditors and external auditors: assessment.
They also consider whether, as a result of changes in detailed internal audits at the Groups major accounting either the internal or external environment, any new signi cant centres undertaken by internal audit specialists from a major risks have arisen.
The executive directors reviewed the draft international accounting rm: report for 2008, which was then presented to, discussed and comprehensive audits at the pro t centres generally carried approved by the Audit Committee on 14 May 2008 and then out annually by internal operational audit.
A summary of by the Group Board on 19 June 2008. this work is provided annually to the Audit Committee: and a review of arrangements by which staff may, in con dence, raise concerns about possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other matters.
Ashtead Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2008 | Corporate governance report | 35 Statement of directors responsibilities The Board con rms to the best of its knowledge: The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report the consolidated financial statements, prepared in accordance and the financial statements.
The directors are required to with IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards prepare financial statements for the Group in accordance with Board and IFRS as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted of the assets, liabilities, financial position and pro t of the by the European Union and have also elected to prepare financial Group: and statements for the Company in accordance with IFRS.
Company the Directors Report includes a fair review of the development law requires the directors to prepare such financial statements and performance of the business and the position of the Group, in accordance with IFRS, the Companies Act and Article 4 of the together with a description of the principal risks and IAS Regulations.
IAS 1, Presentation of Financial Statements, requires that Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and financial statements present fairly for each financial year dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation the Companys financial position, financial performance and in other jurisdictions.
This requires the representation of the effects of transactions, as well as other events and conditions, Going concern in accordance with the fide nitions and recognition criteria After making appropriate enquiries the directors have a for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set out in the reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have International Accounting Standards Boards Framework adequate resources to continue in operation for the foreseeable for the Preparation and Presentation of Financial Statements.
future and that it is therefore appropriate to adopt the going In virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation will be concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
In forming achieved by compliance with all applicable International this view the directors have reviewed the Groups budgets and Financial Reporting Standards.
Directors are also required to: cash ow forecasts for a period of more than 12 months properly select and apply accounting policies: from the date of the approval of these financial statements, present information, including accounting policies, in a manner and considered the suf ciency of the Groups banking facilities that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and described on pages 23 to 25 of the Business and Financial Review.
understandable information: and provide additional disclosures when compliance with the By order of the Board speci c requirements in IFRS is insuf cient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting Eric Watkins records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time Company Secretary the financial position of the Company, for safeguarding 23 June 2008 the assets, for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities and for the preparation of a directors report and directors remuneration report which comply with the requirements of the Companies Act.
