Corporate Governance continued Communication Financial reporting: A detailed formal 1 The Company places a great deal of budgeting process for all Group businesses importance on communication with its culminates in an annual Group budget Alan Hearne shareholders.
The full report and accounts which is approved by the Board.
The 1 Fixed 34.4% are made available to all shareholders and results for the Group are reported 2 Variable 65.6% to other parties who have an interest in monthly against this budget to the Board.
2 the Groups performance on the Groups Financial and accounting principles and website.
The Company responds to internal financial controls assurance: numerous letters from shareholders and 1 Compliance with these is reviewed as customers when these are received.
A detailed financial and Companys website also provides up-toPeter Dowen accounting controls manual sets out the 1 Fixed 42.7% date information about its organisation, the 48 2 Variable 57.3% principles of and minimum standards services it offers and newsworthy subjects.
required by the Board for effective 2 There is regular dialogue with individual financial control.
institutional shareholders as well as Capital investment:The Company has 1 presentations after the interim and clearly defined guidelines for capital preliminary results and at other events.
These include annual budgets, Andrew Troup All shareholders have the opportunity to detailed appraisal and review procedures, 1 Fixed 42.9% put questions at the Companys Annual 2 Variable 57.1% levels of authority and due diligence General Meeting.
requirements where businesses are 2 being acquired.
Audit and internal controls The respective responsibilities of the Remuneration Report 1 Directors and the independent auditors in The Directors who were members of connection with the accounts are the Remuneration Committee throughout Gary Y oung explained on pages 61-63 and the 1 Fixed 39.6% the year were: Karen McPherson and 2 Variable 60.4% statement of the Directors in respect of John Bennett.
Roger Devlin has joined the going concern appears on page 61.
Committee since the year end.
2 The Board has procedures in place The Chairman and Chief Executive have as recommended in the guidance in assisted the Remuneration Committee in 1 The Combined Code on Corporate their deliberations on other Directors Governance and Turnbull: Guidance on remuneration.
The Company Secretary is in Phil Williams Internal Controls and these have been in 1 Fixed 40.7% attendance at the meeting to provide the 2 Variable 59.3% place for the whole year and up to the committee with any additional advice that date of approval of the financial statements.
The risk management policies are Remuneration Committee - described on pages 21-25.
Analysis of fixed versus performance Terms of Reference related pay for Executive Directors 2008 The Board is responsible for the Groups n the Committee has been delegated system of internal control which is Notes: responsibility by the Board to designed to provide reasonable but not Fixed compensation comprises: determine and agree with the Board absolute assurance against material Basic salary the framework or broad policy for misstatement or loss.
The Board reviews Benefits the remuneration of the Executive from time to time the effectiveness of the Directors and Senior Employees of Variable compensation comprises: system of internal control from the Company: the remuneration of Maximum Bonus Potential information provided by management Non-Executive Directors is a matter Face Value of LTIP Awards page 55 and the Groups external for the executive members of the auditors.
The key procedures that the n within the terms of the agreed Board who take advice from the Directors have established to provide policy, determine the total individual independent consultants.
No Director effective internal financial controls are remuneration package of each or manager is involved in any decisions as follows: Executive Director including, where as to their own remuneration: appropriate, bonuses, benefits, and long-term incentive allocations: Report and Accounts 2008
