54 Remuneration report This report sets out the remuneration policy and remuneration 2 Remuneration policy details of the executive and non-executive directors of the Company.
2.1 General remuneration policy Remuneration policy for the executive directors and the Chairman of the The Remuneration Committee, in setting remuneration policy, recognises Board of the Company is determined by the Remuneration Committee the need to be competitive in an international market.
The Committees of the Board of Directors the Remuneration Committee and approved policy is to set remuneration levels which ensure that the executive by the Board.
Remuneration policy for the non-executive directors directors are fairly and responsibly rewarded in return for high levels of is determined by the Board excluding the non-executive directors.
Remuneration policy is designed to support key business The report has been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act strategies and to create a strong,  environment.
1985 and also meets the requirements of the Listing Rules of the At the same time, the policy must attract, motivate and retain talent.
Accordingly, executive directors receive base salaries comparable UK Listing Authority.
with companies of a similar size and international scope and have the opportunity to earn enhanced total remuneration for meeting the 1 The Remuneration Committee 1.1 Composition of the Remuneration Committee performance targets set by the Committee.
In setting remuneration The Remuneration Committee consists of non-executive directors levels for the executive directors, the Committee takes account of the considered by the Board to be independent, and the Chairman of remuneration policy and practice applicable to other Group employees.
the Board who was independent on appointment to the Board.
The components of remuneration for executive directors are base salary It works within detailed terms of reference, copies of which are available a fixed sum payable monthly which is reviewed annually, benefits on request from the Secretary and on the Companys website at including car allowance and non-contributory health insurance, an annual www.
Its role includes making recommendations to the Board bonus with a deferred element to encourage director shareholdings, on remuneration policy for executive directors and the Chairman who long-term incentives comprising performance share plan awards and does not participate in discussions relating to his own remuneration, pension contributions.
defining the remuneration packages of executive directors and the Chairman together with any compensation payments to them and The Remuneration Committee considers that a successful remuneration approving the Remuneration report.
The Committee also considers the policy must ensure that a significant part of the remuneration package is remuneration policy of the Company for senior executives of the Group linked to the achievement of stretching corporate performance targets.
other than members of the Board and seeks to maintain consistency Performance-related elements for the year ended 30 September 2008 in the approach to remuneration policy.
The current members of comprise performance share plan awards, share options and annual the Remuneration Committee are Mr T C W Ingram Chairman, bonus.
The policy adopted by the Committee ensures that a significant Mr A J Hobson, Ms T Ingram, Ms R Markland, Mr I Mason and proportion of the remuneration of executives is aligned with corporate performance, generating a strong alignment of interest with shareholders.
As a result, significantly over half of the executive directors potential All the members of the Committee have been members of the Committee remuneration package is performance-related.
Policy on  the year other than Mr I Mason who joined the Committee based incentives for the forthcoming year is discussed below.
on 1 November 2007 and Mr M E Rolfe who joined the Committee on 2.2 Policy on salary of executive directors 1 December 2007.
It is the policy of the Committee to pay base salaries to the executive 1.2 Advisers to the Remuneration Committee directors at broadly market rates compared with those of executives of The Remuneration Committee keeps itself fully informed of developments companies of a similar size and international scope in particular those and best practice in the field of remuneration and it seeks advice from within the FTSE 50150 with more than 50% of revenue derived from external advisers when it considers it appropriate.
In order to be aware overseas, whilst also taking into account the executive directors of market trends in remuneration and current best practice, the individual performance and the performance of the Group.
In the year Remuneration Committee considers market data for comparable ending 30 September 2009 salaries of executive directors have been businesses.
The Remuneration Committee has received advice from increased by between 4% and 5% from those disclosed in this report, Deloitte and Hewitt New Bridge Street Consultants LLP HNBSC, in line with comparator information from the time of the review.
both independent firms of remuneration consultants appointed after consultation with the Board.
The terms of engagement of Deloitte 2.3 Policy on fees of non-executive directors and HNBSC are available on request from the Secretary.
Deloitte and The fees of the non-executive directors are reviewed every two years.
HNBSC were appointed by the Committee and provide no services to the For the two financial years ending on 30 September 2008, the basic Group other than advice on executive remuneration to the Remuneration fee for directors was 40,000.
An additional fee of 5,000 and 7,000 Committee, and, in the case of Deloitte, advice to the Groups North was paid for membership of the Remuneration and Audit Committees American business on a software implementation programme and advice respectively, and further payments were made to the chair of each of in relation to the audit of its Polish subsidiary.
Ms K Geary Director of these Committees 6,000 and 8,000 for chairing the Remuneration Human Resources and Corporate Communications, Ms R Fyffe Director and Audit Committees respectively.
A further payment of 4,000 was of Performance and Reward and Mr M J Robinson Secretary have made each year to the Senior Independent Director.
provided advice or services to the Remuneration Committee that For the two financial years ending 30 September 2010, the basic fee materially assisted it in its consideration of matters relating to directors has been increased to 55,000, but Committee membership fees will remuneration for the financial year.
The Chief Executive, Ms K Geary, no longer be paid.
The chairmanship fees will be increased to 13,000 Ms R Fyffe and Mr M J Robinson have, following the invitation of the and 17,000 for the Remuneration and Audit Committees respectively.
Committee, attended certain of its meetings.
However, they were not The payment to the Senior Independent Director will be increased present at any meeting when any matter relating directly to their own to 10,000. remuneration was discussed, nor did they advise in any way in relation to their own remuneration.
55 In relation to the Chairman of the Board, it is the policy of the Board 2.5 Policy on long-term incentives for remuneration to be comparable to that of the median fees for The Committee has undertaken a wide-reaching review of long-term non-executive chairs of companies of a comparable size and complexity.
incentives to establish a motivational and  structure that focuses on the creation of shareholder value.
It consulted The Chairmans remuneration will next be reviewed in 2010. with major investors and representative bodies regarding the proposed Non-executive directors are not entitled to participate in any bonus, changes and had a constructive and positive dialogue with them.
long-term incentive or pension schemes.
Under the new arrangements for the financial year ending 30 September 2.4 Policy on bonus 2009 executive share options will not be granted under the 1999 The bonus in the case of executive directors and indeed all employees Executive Share Option Scheme ESOS.
is designed to reward outstanding performance.
The Performance Share Plan PSP will be the main long-term incentive Bonus is linked to demanding strategic targets for the Group and for the vehicle for the financial year to 30 September 2009.
Currently PSP individual operating companies, the meeting or out-performance of which awards vest depending on the Companys Total Shareholder Return is a significant achievement.
The Committee considers the targets each TSR performance compared with a selected group of comparator year and selects those which it considers to be drivers of shareholder companies over a three-year period.
However, to best recognise the value.
Bonus payable to executive directors for on-target performance strengths of the performance conditions which have previously applied to is 75% of salary with maximum bonus potential of 125% of salary.
the ESOS and PSP, future PSP awards will vest on the following basis: Bonuses above on-target level represent superior performance against As has been the case with executive share options to date, a sliding scale one or more measures.
At the end of each year the Remuneration based on EPS will be used.
25% of the award will vest at the end of the Committee assesses the degree to which the targets have been met.
period if the increase in EPS exceeds RPI by 9% an average of 3% per The requirement to defer bonus into shares applies only to those year : 100% of the award will vest at that time only if RPI is exceeded in executive directors who have not yet met the shareholding policy of the that period by 27% an average of 9% per year.
Between those targets, Board see paragraph 2.7 below.
awards will vest on a straight-line basis, and if those targets are not met there is no opportunity for re-testing.
For the financial year to 30 September 2008, the cash multiplier which had previously applied was removed, and individual strategic objectives Awards will then be subject to a TSR multiplier whereby the level of vesting based on EPS achievement will be adjusted according to TSR were introduced.
performance over the same three-year period compared with a group of For the financial year to 30 September 2009, executive directors with no international software and computer services companies listed below.
specific divisional responsibility will have 75% of their bonus based on Group profit before tax and amortisation.
This replaces EPS as the main If Sages TSR is ranked at lower quartile in the group, the multiplier earnings measure now that EPS growth will be the primary measure in is 0.75: the long-term incentives see paragraph 2.5 below.
The remaining 25% If Sages TSR is ranked at median in the group, the multiplier is 1: and, will be based on individual strategic objectives.
For regional CEOs, 25% If Sages TSR is ranked at upper quartile in the group, then the of bonus is based on Group profit before tax and amortisation, 50% multiplier is 1.5. on EBITA of the relevant operating company or companies, and the Straight-line pro-rating applies between 0.75 and 1, and between 1 and remaining 25% on individual objectives.
1.5, but the multiplier cannot be higher or lower than these figures.
In respect of any bonus awarded in excess of 75% of salary, 25% of The minimum EPS growth performance required has been set at RPI 3% that excess is to be satisfied in deferred shares and 75% in cash if the in light of business strategy and market expectations.
The Committee executive director has not yet achieved the target holding of shares considers that this level of EPS growth would represent robust equivalent to 150% of annual salary referred to below.
If this shareholding performance in the market.
The proportion of award that will vest for this target has been achieved the bonus will be paid entirely in cash.
level of EPS growth is 25% previously 30% in the ESOS, before TSR These shares awarded in respect of bonus, which will be market performance is considered.
purchased ordinary shares in the capital of the Company will only be released after three years to the relevant executive director and will be The Remuneration Committee considers that this matrix approach to generally at risk of forfeiture if the executive director leaves within the performance conditions is appropriately demanding at this time and deferral period.
Awards over deferred shares were made to executive provides the best incentive for the generation of shareholder value.
directors as set out in the Directors remuneration table in paragraph 5 EPS growth has been chosen because it requires executives to produce below.
sustained improvement in the underlying performance of the Group: TSR has been chosen as it helps to align the interests of award holders with shareholders and complements the focus on Group financial results in the EPS condition and the annual bonus plan.
56 Wherever used in this Remuneration report, EPS refers to earnings Grant policy under long-term incentive plans per share before amortisation or impairment of intangible assets, The grant of awards under the PSP is currently limited to shares worth up exceptional items, amounts written off investments and is on a foreign to 150% of base salary.
However, shareholder approval is being sought currency neutral basis.
This measure has been selected since the timing at the Annual General Meeting in March 2009 to amend the rules of the of acquisitions can be unpredictable, with the result that the amortisation PSP to increase this limit to 300% of salary.
The reason for the increase charge in respect of intangible assets is inherently difficult to budget.
is to reflect the fact that, going forward, long-term share incentives will be The neutralised foreign currency basis has been selected as the Board granted under the PSP only and not under the ESOS.
It will therefore be considers this to be consistent with the presentation and assessment of necessary to have an increased individual limit under the PSP.
Although 300% would be the permitted maximum, in practice awards would be results by shareholders.
The comparator group for awards to be made in the year to 30 September 2009 for TSR purposes will comprise the For instance, to recognise the loss of share options in the overall package, following companies: and the need to reward superior performance with commensurate reward, PSP awards to executive directors for the year to 30 September Adobe Systems LogicaCMG 2009 will have a maximum value on award of 210% of salary.
ARM Holdings Micro Focus International This represents a core award to the value of 140% of salary, which if maximum EPS growth is attained, and TSR performance is ranked Autonomy Microsoft upper quartile against the comparator group, could rise to 210% of salary Blackbaud Misys ignoring share price movements, subject to shareholder approval to the Cap Gemini MYOB PSP rule amendment.
The Remuneration Committee considers that this Cegid Oracle grant level is appropriate, taking account of the interaction of the challenging performance criteria and recognising the increased Dassault Systemes Salesforce.
com competition for senior executives.
If, in due course, it were to become Exact SAP appropriate routinely to make awards higher than the 210% of salary Intuit Software AG maximum currently planned, then the Company will consult with its major Lawson Software investors accordingly, and prior to making such awards.
There are currently no plans to increase the 210% award level.
The Committee will keep under review the comparator group to ensure Awards under the PSP will normally be made to executive directors and that it remains appropriate.
senior executives across the Group after the preliminary declaration of the For comparator companies listed overseas the TSR is calculated in annual results.
For the financial year to 30 September 2009, they will be local currency since this is considered to give a better reflection of made following the AGM in March 2009. the underlying performance of the comparator companies over the For the year to 30 September 2009 and onwards, there are no intentions performance period.
The Committee will continue to review whether this treatment is appropriate.
to grant options to executive directors under the ESOS, which ceases in December 2009.
In the financial year to 30 September 2008 market value options were granted under the ESOS to senior executives and managers across the Group, as well as to other staff with high potential or to recognise significant achievement or local market practice.
Grants to executive directors were limited to shares under option worth 100% of base salary.
57 The performance targets governing the vesting of options are based on 2.8 Policy on service contracts stretching EPS growth measured over a fixed three year period from the In relation to contracts with executive directors, the Remuneration start of the financial year in which the grant is made.
30% of options will Committee aims to set notice or contract periods at one year.
If it is vest at the end of the period if the increase in EPS exceeds RPI by 15% necessary to offer longer notice or contract periods to new directors an average of 5% per year and 100% of those options will vest at that recruited from outside the Group, it is the Companys policy to reduce time only if RPI is exceeded in that period by 27% an average of 9% these as soon as contractually possible after the initial period to a notice per year.
Between those targets, options will vest on a straight-line basis.
If those targets are not met at the end of the three year period, then no Both executive and non-executive directors are subject to election further retesting of the performance criteria will be undertaken and the by shareholders at the first Annual General Meeting following their options will lapse.
appointment and thereafter require re-election at least once every three All-employee share schemes years.
The appointment of a non-executive director may be terminated UK based executive directors are entitled to participate in The Sage without compensation if that director is not re-elected by shareholders Group Savings-Related Share Option Plan the SAYE Scheme.
or otherwise in accordance with the Companys articles of association.
Mr G S Berruyer currently holds units granted under the Sage Plan The appointment of the non-executives is for a fixed term of one or three dEpargne dEntreprise PEE, which is an all-employee plan designed years, during which period the appointment may be terminated by the to enable French employees to acquire shares in the Company at a Board on notice, ranging from six to 12 months in the case of the discounted price under terms comparable to those offered to UK Chairman of the Board.
There are no provisions on payment for early employees under the SAYE Scheme.
There are no performance termination in their letters of appointment.
The Remuneration Committee conditions under either the SAYE Scheme or the PEE since these reviews the contracts of executives on an annual basis to ensure they generally do not apply to all-employee share plans such as these.
are in line with policy and market practice.
2.6 Policy on pensions Executive directors are permitted, where appropriate and with Board All the executive directors pension arrangements are defined contribution.
approval, to take non-executive directorships with other organisations in The Sage Executive Pension Scheme is the main pension fund for Sage order to broaden their knowledge and experience in other markets and executives in the UK.
It is a defined contribution plan where the standard countries.
Mr P A Walker is currently a non-executive director of Diageo contribution rate is 25% of base salary subject, where appropriate, to plc.
Mr P L Stobart is a non-executive director of Capital & Regional plc.
No components of remuneration, other than base Mr P S Harrison is a non-executive director of Hays plc.
Fees received in their capacity as directors of these companies are retained by each salary, are pensionable.
of them reflecting the personal responsibility they undertake in these 2.7 Policy on directors shareholdings roles.
In the year under review, these fees were 70,000 in the case of The Committee believes that all executive directors should hold a Mr P A Walker, 42,000 in the case of Mr P L Stobart and 57,000 in substantial number of shares in the Company.
It is, therefore, its policy the case of Mr P S Harrison.
that all executive directors over time hold shares equivalent in value to 150% of their annual salary.
Until the required holding is achieved, The Board recognises the significant demands that are made on executive directors will be expected to retain net of any shares sold executive and non-executive directors and has therefore adopted a policy that no executive director should hold more than two directorships of to meet the tax liability in respect of them at least 50% of: other listed companies.
The Board encourages executive directors to limit Shares received as deferred bonus: other directorships to one listed company and in no case should more Shares resulting net of exercise costs from the exercise of share than one directorship of another FTSE 100 company be taken.
Where an options granted from December 2004 onwards: and executive director holds non-executive positions at more than one listed Performance shares received under the PSP.
company only the fees from one such company will be retained by the In assessing whether the target of 150% of salary is met, vested but director.
No formal limit on other board appointments applies to nonunexercised options under the share option schemes of the Company executive directors under the policy but prior approval from the Chairman will be deemed to have a value equal to the net value after exercise costs on behalf of the Board is required in the case of any new appointment.
In the case of the Chairman prior approval of the Senior Independent and taxation of those options, as if exercised on the relevant date.
Director is required on behalf of the Board.
The service contracts of executive directors and the letters of appointment of non-executive directors prohibit the disclosure of confidential information relating to the Group both during the term of the contract and after its termination.
The letters of appointment of non-executive directors and service contracts of executive directors are available for inspection at the Companys registered office during normal business hours and will be available at the Annual General Meeting.
58 3 Directors contracts and compensation All executive directors have service contracts, which may be terminated by the Company for breach by the executive or by giving 12 months notice.
There are no pre-determined special provisions for directors with regard to compensation in the event of loss of office, with compensation based on what would be earned by way of salary, pension entitlement and other benefits over the notice period.
In the event that a contract is to be terminated, payments to the executive director may be staged over the notice period, or in the case of executive directors other than Mr G S Berruyer, the contract terminated and payments made in lieu of notice at the same time as salary would have been paid throughout the 12 months notice period.
There is no automatic entitlement to annual bonus or outstanding awards under share incentive plans.
Non-executive directors appointments may be terminated without compensation other than in respect of fees during the notice period.
The service agreement with Mr R Verni was terminated on 11 October 2007.
Mr Verni received payments in lieu of 12 months notice under the contract at the times when salary would have been paid under his service agreement.
Against these payments was set off the remuneration which Mr Verni received from third parties during that time.
All payments ceased on 11 October 2008.
The tables relating to executive share options and the performance share plan on page 61 onwards set out the treatment of his share awards.
Details of the contract of service or contract for services of each person who has served as a director of the Company at any time during the financial year are set out below: Unexpired term of contract on Director Date of contract 30 September 2008 Notice period under contract Executive directors G S Berruyer 30 September 2004 12 months 12 months from the Company and or 6 months from individual D H Clayton 25 July 2007 Age 60 or 12 months 12 months from the Company and or individual P S Harrison 1 April 2000 Age 60 or 12 months 12 months from the Company and or individual P L Stobart 26 September 2003 Age 60 or 12 months 12 months from the Company and or individual P A Walker 26 September 2003 Age 60 or 12 months 12 months from the Company and or individual Non-executive directors A J Hobson 24 May 2007 1 year 8 months 12 months from the Company and or individual T Ingram 23 November 2007 2 years 3 months 6 months from the Company and or 1 month from individual T C W Ingram 14 March 2008 6 months 6 months from the Company and or 1 month from individual R Markland 15 August 2006 1 year 6 months from the Company and or 1 month from individual I Mason 31 October 2007 2 years 1 month 6 months from the Company and or 1 month from individual M E Rolfe 23 November 2007 2 years 2 months 6 months from the Company and or 1 month from individual The following director ceased to be a director during the course of the financial year R Verni 8 July 2003 Nil terminated on 12 months from the Company and or individual 11 October 2007 Notes: There are no other benefits in the contracts relevant to termination payment.
59 4 Performance graph Total Shareholder Return TSR against FTSE 100 The Company is required to include a graph indicating its TSR performance that is, share price assuming reinvestment of any dividends over the last five years relative to a recognised equity index.
Accordingly the graph below shows the Companys performance relative to the FTSE 100.
This graph shows the value, by 30 September 2008 of 100 invested in The Sage Group plc on 30 September 2003 compared with the value of 100 invested in the FTSE 100 index.
The other points plotted are the values at intervening financial year ends.
The FTSE 100 Index is, in the opinion of the directors, the most appropriate index against which the TSR of the Company should be measured because of the comparable size of the companies which comprise that index.
TSR performance to 30 September 2008 for PSP awards made to date was as follows: 2006 awards TSR ranking of 9.13 out of 11 comparators 2007 awards TSR ranking of 10.17 out of 13 comparators 2008 awards TSR ranking of 10.42 out of 19 comparators 60 5 Directors remuneration The information set out in sections 5.1 to 5.4 below has been subject to audit as required by part 3 of Schedule 7A of the Companies Act 1985.
5.1 Directors emoluments and compensation audited information The total salaries, fees and benefits paid to or receivable by each person who served as a director at any time during the year, appear below.
These include all payments for services as a director of the Company, its subsidiaries or otherwise in connection with the management of the Group and any other directorship he or she holds because of the Companys nomination.
The other elements of directors remuneration are referred to under the heading General remuneration policy above.
Therefore, the figure above represents the fees paid to him whilst a director $23,356 and the payment in lieu of notice due to him $608,875.
2 Ceased to be a member of the Board on 26 April 2007.
5 An element of bonus has been deferred by the Company as an award under the Sage Group Deferred Bonus Plan.
Awards under that plan, which were made on 10 December 2008 over such number of shares whose market value is as close as possible to, but no greater than, the deferred bonus, will vest on the third anniversary of the date of grant.
In the event that a director ceases to be an employee of the Group for reasons other than death, retirement, redundancy, injury, ill-health or disability before the third anniversary of the date of grant, then the award will lapse unless the Remuneration Committee recommends otherwise.
The directors have no entitlement to the bonus deferred into an award of shares until it vests.
Full details of the award will be contained in the report for the year ending 30 September 2009.
6 Benefits in kind include the provision of car allowance and insurance.
7 Retirement benefits were accruing to four directors 2007: four.
All pension contributions accrued under money purchase schemes.
Apart from the payment in lieu of notice to Mr R Verni referred to in note 1 above, no payments for compensation for loss of office or otherwise relating to termination of office or employment were made during the year.
No other payments including non-cash benefits were made to third parties in respect of the services of a person who served as a director of the Company at any time during the financial year.
Including gains on share options, the total emoluments of the highest paid director were 1,307,000 2007: 1,459,000.
In the table above exchange rates of $1.97 1 and a1.31 1 have been adopted.
5.2 Directors share options audited information There are limits on the number of newly issued shares that can be used to satisfy awards under the Groups employee share schemes in any ten year period.
The limits and the Groups current position against those limits as at 17 December 2008 the last practicable date prior to printing this document, are set out below: Limit Current position 7.5% of Groups share capital can be used for discretionary share schemes 5.4% used 10% of Groups share capital can be used for all share schemes 5.9% used The Company currently intends to satisfy awards under the Performance Share Plan through the market purchase of shares.
61 Executive share options The Groups only current executive share option scheme is the ESOS where, in the year under review, executive directors received grants worth 100% of their base salary at the then relevant exchange rates where applicable.
Options granted to all directors of the Company and its operating subsidiaries throughout the Group under the ESOS that are e xercisable on or after 23 February 2003 but before 6 January 2008 will normally be exercisable only if the percentage increase in the Companys EPS has exceeded the RPI by at least 3% each year in the three year period since grant i. e. by a total of 9%.
If that target is not met at the end of the three year period, then those options will only be exercisable if EPS growth exceeds RPI by 12% over the four year period following the date of grant.
In respect of options exercisable on or after 6 January 2008 the performance criteria for exercise are set out in paragraph 2.5 above.
In respect of any share options exercisable prior to 23 February 2003 no performance conditions apply as such conditions were not deemed appropriate by the Remuneration Committee at that time.
For the options exercised in the year, the market price of the exercised shares at the date of exercise was as follows: G S Berruyer 1 September 2008 was 208.64p.
R Verni 1 February 2008 was 230.50p option price 134.00p.
The market price of a share of the Company at 30 September 20 08 was 195.30p and the lowest and highest market price during the year was 187.10p and 251.75p respectively.
Total gains on the exercise of share options were 684,275 2007: 1,736,952, including 684,275 2007: 1,736,952 on execu tive share options.
The table above does not show exercises of options after 30 September 2008 which are referred to in the notes to the table in paragraph 5.5 below.
On termination of his contract on 11 October 2007, the Committee permitted Mr R Verni to exercise any vested share options fo r a period of six months following the termination date.
Options which vested during the 12 months following the termination date of Mr R Verni, where the performance period for thos e options had ended prior to the termination date were permitted to be exercised within six months of their vesting date.
All-employee share scheme In relation to the SAYE Scheme, the outstanding options granted to each director of the Company are as follows: Shares under Shares under option at Granted Exercised Lapsed option at Exercise 1 October during during during 30 September price per 2007 the year the year the year 2008 Director share number number number number number Date exercisable P S Harrison 184.00p 5,081 5,081 1 August 2009 31 January 2010 P L Stobart 184.00p 5,081 5,081 1 August 2009 31 January 2010 Total 10,162 10,162 Notes: These options are not subject to performance conditions since these do not apply to this type of all-employee share scheme.
Under the PEE Mr G S Berruyer holds units in a French mutual fund, which holds shares in the Company.
The units must be held for no less than five years.
On 30 September 2007 14,801.8 units were held by Mr G S Berruyer at a price of a3.89 per share.
On 30 September 2008 16,566.38 units were held at a price of a2.668 per share.
Units are valued on a weekly basis.
The market price of a share on 3 March 2008, the date of the awards made in the year ended 30 September 2008 was 198.00p.
For awards which vested in the year ended 30 September 2008, the market price on the date of award 18 March 2005 was 206.50 p. The market price of a share on 18 March 2008, the vesting date of these awards was 192.90p.
The vesting of shares awarded under the Performance Share Plan is subject to performance conditions measuring the Groups tot al shareholder return TSR against a comparator group.
30% of shares vest other than for awards in March 2008 where 25% vest for median TSR performance as compared to that group whilst all shares vest for upper quintile top 20% TSR performance.
Between those points, shares will vest on a straight-line basis.
For awards made in 2005, TSR performance was such that 40.7% of shares originally awarded vested to executive directors.
In respect of the awards vesting in 2008 and 2009 the comparat or group for TSR comprised: Blackbaud, Business Objects, Cap Gemini, Cegid, Exact, Geac, Intuit, iSoft, Microsoft, Misys, MYOB, Northgate Information Solutions, Oracle, Salesforce.
com, SAP and Systems Union.
For those vesting in 2010 the group comprised: Blackbaud, Business Objects, Cap Gemini, Cegid, Exact, Intuit, iSoft, Lawson Software, LogicaCMG, Microsoft, Misys, MYOB, Northgate Information Solutions, Oracle, Salesforce.
For those vesting in 2011 the group comprised: Adobe Systems, ARM Holdings, Autonomy, Blackbaud, Cap Gemini, Cegid, Dassault Systemes, Exact, Intuit, Lawson Software, LogicaCMG, Micro Focus International, Microsoft, Misys, MYOB, Oracle, Salesforce.
The Committee permitted only the 2005 PSP award to vest to Ron Verni following the termination of his contract on 11 October 2007 as the vesting would have occurred during the 12 months following termination and the performance period relevant to the award was complete.
His award was subject to the same performance criteria as all other PSP awards made to executive directors.
64 5.4 Deferred shares audited information The outstanding awards granted to directors of the Company under the Sage Group Deferred Bonus Plan are as follows.
Awards of shares will vest on the third anniversary of the date of grant.
In the event that a director ceases to be an employ ee of the Group for reasons other than death, retirement, redundancy, injury, ill-health or disability before the third anniversary of the date of grant then the rights to the award will lapse, unless the Remuneration Committee recommend otherwise.
Awards are not subject to further performance conditions once granted.
No variations were made in the terms of the awards in the year.
The market price of a share on 10 January 2008, the date of the award, was 214.00p.
65 5.5 Interests in shares The interests of each person who was a director of the Company as at 30 September 2008 together with interests held by his or her connected persons were: Ordinary Ordinary shares at shares at 30 September 30 September 2008 2007 Director number number G S Berruyer 301,836 223,880 D H Clayton 31,000 31,000 P S Harrison 41,065 8,437 A J Hobson 24,126 24,126 T Ingram 3,600 3,600 T C W Ingram 33,552 33,552 R Markland 5,000 5,000 I Mason 10,000 M E Rolfe 10,000 P L Stobart 67,803 23,477 P A Walker 6,201,657 6,069,772 Total 6,729,639 6,422,844 Notes: There have been no changes in the directors holdings in the share capital of the Company between 30 September 2008 and 17 fide cember 2008 other than those referred to in the note below: On 10 December 2008 Mr P A Walker exercised options under the terms of The Sage Group No.
2 Executive Share Option Scheme over 440,000 ordinary shares at an option price of 136.00p per share.
He subsequently sold on that day 440,000 ordinary shares at an average price of 179.90p per share.
5.6 Significant awards to past directors No significant awards were made to any person who was not a director at the time the award was made but who was previously a director.
Approved by the Board of Directors and signed on its behalf: T C W Ingram Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 17 December 2008
