remuneration report Remuneration Policy The principal objectives of the Remuneration Committee, which is chaired by Mr E van Amerongen and comprises the Non-executive Directors are to attract, retain and motivate high quality senior management with a competitive package of incentives and awards linked to performance and the interests of shareholders.
The Committee seeks to ensure that the Executive Directors are fairly rewarded taking into account all elements of their remuneration package in the light of the Groups performance.
The Committee has appointed Deloitte & Touche LLP to provide independent market information and advice relating to executive remuneration and benefits.
Deloitte & Touche LLP are considered to be independent as they provide only very limited other services to the Group.
The Committee also engaged the services of an independent consultant, B Partridge Consulting Ltd, to assist in the review of executive remuneration for the year to 31 March 2008.
As described below, a significant proportion of potential total remuneration is performance related and is built around annual and longer term incentives.
For Directors achieving median performance, performance related pay would represent approximately 40% of total remuneration.
If performance were such that the maximum award available under each incentive scheme was paid, performance related pay would represent approximately 67% of total remuneration.
Basic Salary The basic salary element is determined primarily by reference to external data which takes into account the Executive Directors duties and responsibilities.
Basic salary is generally reviewed on an annual basis or following a significant change in responsibilities.
During the year Mr F Welhams basic salary was increased from 220,000 to 250,000 per annum and from 1 April 2008 to 257,500.
Mr T Drurys basic salary of 375,000 was increased from 1 April 2008 to 390,000.
Annual Cash Bonuses Annual cash bonuses are payable at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee as a percentage of basic salary dependent on corporate profit and operating cash flow performance compared to target.
For the year to 31 March 2008, the Executive Directors potential cash bonus ranged from 30% for achieving target performance to a maximum bonus of 100% for achieving a performance of approximately 15% above target performance.
Cash bonuses are not pensionable.
For the year ending 31 March 2009, the component of the annual bonus relating to operating cash flow targets has been replaced by individual personal objectives.
The maximum bonus for this component remains 25% of basic salary.
The maximum total bonus for the Group Chief Executive will be 125% and 100% for the Group Finance Director.
Long Term Incentive Plan Under the Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP senior employees may be granted an award annually, the vesting of which is subject to the attainment of two pre-determined performance conditions measured over a three year period.
Awards are in the form of Shanks Group plc shares.
The maximum value in any financial year cannot be more than 100% of basic salary as at the date of grant and is calculated on the Companys share price at that time.
The first performance condition is based on Total Shareholder Return TSR, where the Companys TSR achieved during the three year performance period is measured against the TSR achieved by those companies that constituted the FTSE Support Services Sector immediately before the date of grant of an award.
An award will only vest in full if the Companys TSR results in it being ranked in the upper quartile of the companies in the comparator group where the company with the highest TSR is ranked first.
If the TSR of the Company results in a median position in the comparator group, then 25% of the award will vest.
Vesting above the median position is on a sliding scale, with 3% of the award vesting for each percentile increase in the Companys rank above the median position up to the maximum award.
If the Companys TSR for the performance period results in a position below the median then the award will lapse.
The second performance condition is based on Earnings Per Share EPS and for an award to vest, the average growth in the Companys adjusted EPS calculated on a consistent basis must exceed the growth in the Retail Price Index over the same period by at least nine percentage points.
Having reviewed this performance condition and in light of market conditions the Remuneration Committee has decided to increase this to at least 12 percentage points for any grants awarded during the financial year 2008 9 and thereafter.
This condition will be kept under review for future awards.
No amendment may be made to the performance conditions which would be to the material advantage of participants without the prior approval of shareholders in general meeting.
