 13 6 08 10:33 Page 48 Corporate governance Combined Accountability and audit Code provision Comment Page The Directors explain their responsibility for preparing the Accounts and there is a statement by the C. 1.1 Compliant 35 auditors on their reporting responsibilities.
The Directors report that the business is a going concern.
C. 1.2 Compliant 34 The Board conducted a review of the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal controls in C. 2.1 Compliant 42 2008.
The review covered all material controls, including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management systems.
The Audit Committee, comprising the independent Non-Executive Directors excluding the Chairman, C. 3.1 Compliant 37 and 42 meets at least three times a year and met on three occasions during the year ended 31 March 2008.
David Galloway, Chairman of the Audit Committee, has recent and relevant financial experience.
The main role and responsibilities of the Audit Committee are set out in its terms of reference, C. 3.3 Compliant 42 details of which are included in the Combined Code Compliance Statement available on the Companys website, and these include all the requirements set out in the Code.
The terms of reference of the Audit Committee have recently been reviewed and are available on C. 3.3 Compliant 42 and 59 the Companys website.
The responsibilities of the Audit Committee are described in the Corporate Governance report and separate report of the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee has reviewed arrangements by which employees of the Company may, in C. 3.4 Compliant 42 confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other matters.
Arrangements are in place for the proportionate and independent investigation of such matters and for appropriate follow-up action.
The Audit Committee monitors and reviews the effectiveness of internal audit activities.
C. 3.5 Compliant 42 The Audit Committee has primary responsibility for making recommendations on the appointment, C. 3.6 Compliant 42 reappointment and removal of the external auditors.
A statement on how auditor objectivity and independence is safeguarded is included in the C. 3.7 Compliant 42 Corporate governance report.
Relations with shareholders The Chairman ensures that the views of major shareholders are communicated to the Board as a D. 1.1 Compliant 42 whole.
Non-Executive Directors are offered the opportunity to meet major shareholders and the Senior Independent Director has attended meetings with a range of major shareholders to listen to their views in order to develop a balanced understanding of the issues and concerns of the major shareholders.
The Corporate Governance report sets out the steps taken by the Board to ensure that Directors D. 1.2 Compliant 42 develop an understanding of the views of major shareholders about the Company.
48 Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 15110 04 06 2008 Proof 5 15110  13 6 08 10:33 Page 49 Combined Constructive use of the AGM Code provision Comment Page It is the policy of the Company to propose a separate resolution at its AGM on each substantially D. 2.1 Compliant Notice of separate issue and there will be a resolution to receive the Annual Report and Accounts for 2008.
AGM For each resolution proxy appointment forms provide shareholders with the option to direct their D. 2.1 Compliant Notice of proxy to vote either for or against the resolution or to withhold their vote.
The proxy form makes AGM it clear that a vote withheld is not a vote in law and will not be counted in the calculation of the Form of proxy proportion of the votes for and against the resolution.
It is the policy of the Company to ensure all valid proxy appointments received are properly D. 2.2 Compliant Notice of recorded and counted.
AGM It is the policy of the Company to ensure that for each resolution, after a vote has been taken, unless D. 2.2 Compliant 42 a poll is taken, to give at the meeting and then make available on its website details of the number of i shares in respect of which proxy appointments have been made: ii votes for and against the resolution: and iii shares regarding which votes were withheld.
The Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees will be available to answer D. 2.3 Compliant 42 questions at the 2008 AGM and all Directors will attend.
The Notice of Meeting for the 2008 AGM was sent to shareholders at least 20 working days before D. 2.4 Compliant 42 the meeting.
In the Companys report and accounts for the year ended 31 March 2007 the Company noted that the Association of British Insurers has published new Responsible Investment Disclosure Guidelines and that it would review the new guidelines for the reporting period ending 31 March 2008.
Environmental, social and governance risks are considered by the Board as part of the ongoing process of risk assessment.
The Group engages external risk advisers, Marsh, in the revalidation and updating of its detailed risk register.
The impact of risk is evaluated not only in financial terms but also according to their effects on employees, operational efficiency and stakeholder relations.
For further details regarding the steps which the Board takes through the risk management process in managing and mitigating risk, please see page 43.
Paragraphs 13 to 18 of the Operating and Financial Review outline the Companys approach to risk, corporate responsibility and sustainability.
For more detail concerning the opportunity for stakeholders, which the Board sees in sustainable growth through sound corporate responsibility, pleas refer to the Speedy Hire Corporate Responsibility Report which is published in July 2008.
This report refers to the KPI targets running through to 31 March 2010 which have been established for monitoring progress against the Groups environmental, community and workplace strategies, together with an evaluation of performance from previous financial years.
Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 49 15110 04 06 2008 Proof 5  13 6 08 10:33 Page 50 Remuneration report Remuneration Committee 51 Compliance with the best practice provisions 52 Remuneration policy 52 Basic salary 53 Ishbel Macpherson Annual bonus 53 Chairman of the Remuneration Long-Term Incentives 53 Committee Benefits in kind 54 Dear shareholder I am delighted to report to you for the first time as Chairman of the Total Shareholder Return 54 Remuneration Committee and would like to take this opportunity to thank my predecessor Frank Dee for his highly valued input during his tenure as Committee Chairman.
Service contracts 54 The Remuneration Committee is responsible for formulating the Companys remuneration policy as it applies to senior executives.
A Arrangements relating to John Brown 55 core aim of this policy is to ensure that pay practices at Speedy Hire remain appropriate for both the Company and its shareholders.
Arrangements relating to the Our current policy continues to be based upon our wish to attract appointment of Justin Read 55 and retain the best talent to deliver Speedy Hires strategy and to continue to drive shareholder value within a framework of good Non-Executive Directors 55 corporate governance.
The key principles of this policy are: Emoluments of the Directors 55 Aggregate emoluments audited 55 Between lower quartile and median salaries, but with the potential to earn upper quartile rewards for exceptional performance.
Payments to Executive Directors audited 56 Performance-related pay for all employees every employee Pensions 56 should be in some form of incentive scheme as soon as possible Individual emoluments of Non-Executive after joining the Group.
Former employees of Hewden Tools have already joined Speedy Hires incentive arrangements.
Directors audited 56 Encouraging share ownership.
Executive Directors have share ownership guidelines.
Every employee in the Group has the Directors interests in shares and options opportunity to become a shareholder in the Company, with approximately one-quarter of our workforce participating in an audited 56 SAYE Scheme.
The Co-Investment Plan CIP is offered to Interests in shares 56 around 80 executives and senior managers.
Directors interests in share options 56 During the year, the Remuneration Committee reviewed the senior executives remuneration packages and incentive arrangements.
SAYE Scheme 58 The Committee believes that it is incumbent upon it to ensure that the remuneration policy as it applies to these senior executives is effectively delivered in a manner that takes full account of the Long-Term Service Awards 58 Companys specific and developing circumstances.
As a result, and following this review, the changes summarised below are intended to be made to the policy: The annual bonus potential is to increase to a maximum of 120% of salary from 100%.
However, the new maximum bonus will only be paid following the delivery of outstanding performance against stretching targets.
Also, as is currently the case, any bonus earned over 50% of salary by Executive Directors must be deferred into shares under the CIP.
The CIP permits investment of the full amount of bonus.
An amendment is required to the CIP to reflect the increased bonus potential.
This will require shareholder approval and a specific resolution is being tabled at the 2008 AGM to this effect.
50 Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 15110 04 06 2008 Proof 5 15110  13 6 08 10:33 Page 51 As explained below, to reflect the increased CIP award potential in This report has been prepared by the Remuneration Committee 2009 and thereafter, more challenging Earnings Per Share EPS the Committee of Speedy Hire Plc and approved by the Board targets will be applied to awards made in 2009 onwards taking of Speedy Hire Plc.
The report complies with the UK Directors account of circumstances prevailing at the time.
Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 and, in compliance with For future awards under the Performance Plan, made this year such Regulations, a separate resolution approving this report is and in following financial years, it is intended that vesting of up to being put to shareholders at this years Annual General Meeting.
50% of such awards will be subject to EPS growth targets, with Shareholder approval is also being sought in relation to the 20% of this portion of awards vesting if EPS growth is at least proposed change to the CIP and the establishment of an Consumer Prices Index CPI plus 7.5% per annum, on a Irish SAYE Scheme.
compound basis, increasing to 100% of this portion of awards vesting if EPS growth is at least CPI plus 15% per annum, also on Information relating to the emoluments and pension contributions of a compound basis.
The balance will continue to vest subject to the Directors on pages 55 to 56 and Directors interests in the comparative Total Shareholder Return TSR performance Companys Performance Plan, CIP and UK SAYE Scheme on targets which previously applied to the entire award.
Given the pages 56 to 58 has been audited.
introduction of a specific EPS element to the Performance Plan, no EPS underpin will apply to the TSR element of future awards.
Remuneration Committee The Committee is responsible for recommending to the Board the These changes are considered entirely appropriate and very much in remuneration and the other terms and conditions of employment of the interests of shareholders for the following reasons: the Executive Directors and the Chairman.
It also provides advice to the Chief Executive on major policy issues affecting the remuneration The introduction of an EPS element to the Performance Plan, of executives at a senior level below the Board.
which will be viewed as a clear and transparent incentive, will make even more clear the line of sight between reward and The members of the Committee during the year were the performance.
Companys independent Non-Executive Directors, Frank Dee, David Galloway, Peter Atkinson and Ishbel Macpherson from July 2007.
The alignment of interests between executives and shareholders The Chairman of the Committee was Frank Dee until his retirement will be retained and enhanced through: on 31 March 2008.
Ishbel Macpherson was appointed Chairman of The continued use of TSR for a significant portion of the Committee on the same date.
The continued requirement for any bonus earned by Executive The Committee has appointed Hewitt New Bridge Street HNBS, Directors in excess of 50% of salary to be deferred into shares.
an external consultancy which has wide experience of executive The requirement that the additional long-term incentive remuneration in UK listed companies, to advise in developing its opportunity made available via the CIP is conditional on remuneration policy, particularly in relation to performance-related investment in shares.
pay, and in benchmarking the remuneration of senior executives.
The use of a sliding scale of challenging real EPS growth HNBS has no other connection with the Company.
targets which are materially more demanding in absolute terms than those applied by most other companies particularly the The Committee has also sought advice on a regular basis from the targets that will apply to Performance Plan awards made in this Companys solicitors, Pinsent Masons, in connection with the terms current financial year and CIP awards made in 2009 and of service contracts for Executive Directors and other members of thereafter.
senior management and in relation to the operation of the Performance Plan, CIP and SAYE Schemes described later in You will also be asked at the Companys AGM to approve an SAYE this report.
Scheme for employees in the Irish Republic.
In addition, input was received by the Committee during the year I hope you welcome these changes.
I am keen to encourage an from Steve Corcoran, Mike McGrath and the Company Secretary.
Accordingly, please feel free to However, no Director is present for discussions directly relating to his contact me, either by writing to me at the Companys head office or own remuneration.
com if you would like to discuss any matters arising from this report or remuneration issues In reference to the Association of British Insurers Guidelines on generally.
Responsible Investment Disclosure, there is no restriction on the Committee which prevents it from taking into account performance Ishbel Macpherson on environmental, social and governance issues.
The Committee Chairman of the Remuneration Committee notes with approval the effort being made by the Company in motivating responsible behaviour in relation to these issues by encouraging reduced energy consumption and providing incentives to choose more efficient Company vehicles.
The terms of reference of the Committee are included as part of the Companys Combined Code Compliance Statement, which can be viewed on the Companys website www.
Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 51 15110 04 06 2008 Proof 5  13 6 08 10:33 Page 52 Remuneration report When setting the Executive Directors pay, the Committee Compliance with the best practice provisions attempts to: Reflecting the Boards commitment to maintaining high standards of Corporate Governance, the Committee has complied during the Ensure that it encourages optimum performance by Directors and year with Schedule A of the Combined Code provisions on the fairly recognises the contribution of individual Directors to Speedy design of performance-related remuneration.
Hires success, whilst also encouraging a team approach which will work towards achieving the Companys long-term strategic Remuneration policy objectives.
When setting its policy on senior executive remuneration, the Link reward to individual Directors performance and Group Committees main aims are to attract, retain and motivate people of performance so that the interests of the Directors are fully aligned the highest calibre and experience needed to shape and execute with Speedy Hires shareholders.
the Companys strategy and to deliver shareholder value in the Ensure that it maintains a package of pay and benefits that is context of an ever more competitive employment market.
To competitive but not excessive when compared to packages support this, the policy of the Committee is for basic salaries of available within other similar companies operating in similar Executive Directors to be between the lower quartile and median markets.
but for overall remuneration, by virtue of awards made under the Be mindful of the link between the pay of Directors and others in incentive plans described later in this report, to have the potential the Group.
to be in the upper quartile for exceptional performance.
To meet these objectives, a significant proportion of the Executive When applying this policy, the Committee exercises its discretion Directors and senior executives pay is performance-linked, both in appropriately and consistently.
In recent years such discretion has relation to annual and long-term performance.
been used sparingly and, where used, has been explained fully to shareholders.
For example, and as set out in more detail later in this Executive Directors remuneration will, following the introduction of report, the Committee has exercised its discretion to permit Justin the intended changes to the Companys policy outlined above, Read to use shares independently acquired for the purposes of his consist of the following elements: first participation in the Companys CIP similar to the discretion used in relation to Mike McGrath in 2006.
Purpose Delivery Detailed policy Basic salary Reflect the value of the Cash Reviewed annually 1 April individual, his role, skills and Monthly Benchmarked against comparable experience Pensionable companies Annual bonus Incentivise delivery of specific Annual payment Payments based on Group Group, divisional and personal subject to performance performance and project-based KPIs annual goals Cash up to 50% of salary, Bonus potential of 120% of Deferred share element rest in shares but all can be salary going forwards provides retention and invested in shares Any bonus above 50% of salary alignment with shareholders Performance-related paid in shares Executive Non-pensionable Directors can choose to take all of bonus in shares see Co-Investment Plan Long-term incentives Encourage long-term value In shares Performance Plan creation Annual awards Maximum award 100% of salary Encourage co-investment Shares may be released For 2008 onwards, it is Aligns executives interests with after 3 years intended that vesting will those of shareholders Performance-related be based on comparative TSR Retention Non-pensionable performance and real EPS growth Co-Investment Plan Matching shares, based on investment of bonus, up to 2:1 Vesting based on real EPS growth Benefits To provide competitive Ongoing Car allowance, medical benefits insurance and life assurance Pension To provide competitive postOngoing 10%20% of basic salary retirement benefits Payable on retirement depending on length of service Retention Share ownership guidelines To align the interests of N A Must build a shareholding Executive Directors with of 100% of salary shareholders 52 Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 15110 04 06 2008 Proof 5 15110  13 6 08 10:33 Page 53 Basic salary Details of the bonuses awarded to Executive Directors in respect of Basic salaries are set annually by the Committee taking into account the 2007 08 financial year are set out on page 56, and reflect a number of factors including i that part of the Groups assets another year of strong performance by the Executive Directors.
In under the individuals control, ii past performance of the individual reporting the calculation of actual bonuses paid, the Committee is and iii comparative information from independent sources, mindful of the commercial sensitivity of the structure of the Groups including HNBS, on the rates of salary in selected groups of bonus arrangements and considers that more detailed disclosure is comparable companies.
In selecting comparator companies to inappropriate.
benchmark base salaries, the Committee reviews practice in both i companies which operate within the same broad business space as Non-Executive Directors do not receive a bonus.
Speedy Hire and with which Speedy Hire competes for key talent and ii companies of a similar size to Speedy Hire measured by Long-Term Incentives turnover, market capitalisation and geographic operations.
In line with the overall remuneration policy of the Committee, the objectives of the Companys share-based long-term incentive For the current year the basic salaries of the Executive Directors arrangements which were approved by shareholders in 2004 are: have been increased taking into account the current climate and the continued outstanding efforts of the management team in delivering To support the Companys strong performance culture and sustained growth in the Companys financial performance.
provide exceptional rewards for exceptional performance.
Accordingly, with effect from 1 April 2008, the basic salary of Steve To provide a competitive total compensation package.
Corcoran has been increased to 340,000 from 325,000, Mike To link rewards to Group performance so that the interests of McGrath to 220,000 from 210,000 and Claudio Veritiero to executives are fully aligned with Speedy Hires shareholders.
192,500 from 170,000, Justin Reads salary was set at To create an expectation of ownership on the part of executives in 250,000 upon his appointment.
accordance with shareholding guidelines established by the Committee requiring Executive Directors to hold shares in the Annual bonus Company of a value equivalent to not less than 100% of basic The Committee believes firmly in the effectiveness of performancesalary.
As a result, every employee in the Group is brought within some form of annual incentive scheme as soon as possible The two main share-based long-term incentive plans operated for after joining the Group.
senior executives are i the Performance Plan and ii the CoInvestment Plan.
For the Companys Group-wide annual bonus plan, at the start of each financial year, each subsidiary Company in the Group is set a a Performance Plan number of challenging financial targets relating to metrics such as The key features of the Performance Plan are as follows: profit performance, capital efficiency and debtor control.
Annual awards are made to executives that may vest at the end This years focus includes measures such as margin improvement of a three year performance period.
and ongoing employee and customer satisfaction, together with Maximum annual awards equal 100% of basic salary in each year.
To date, comparative TSR has been the primary performance measure using the FTSE 250 excluding investment trusts as the Bonuses paid to Executive Directors and senior management based comparator group.
The measure has been structured so that at head office are set on a similar basis to the subsidiaries.
For 20% of awards vest at median, with straight-line vesting to upper 2007 08, individual bonuses for Executive Directors and senior quartile performance, at which point awards vest in full.
In management were capped at 100% of basic annual salary and were addition, an underpin has been applied under which, for any linked to Group performance, the delivery of specific project-based award to vest, EPS growth must be at least equal to CPI plus 2% KPIs and the achievement of broker consensus forecast.
per annum calculated on a compound basis.
For 2008 09, the bonus for Executive Directors will be capped at 120% of salary.
Bonuses will be linked to Group financial For awards in 2008 and onwards, it is intended that at least 50% of performance including Earnings Before Tax and Amortisation the award will continue to be based on comparative TSR against the EBTA 35% of the total bonus opportunity, cash flow generation FTSE 250 excluding investment trusts as above, although the 10%, working capital management 20% and EPS 10% and underpin will no longer be applied.
It is also intended that the specific project-based KPIs 25% of the total bonus opportunity.
balance of the award that is not subject to TSR will be based on The new maximum bonus will only be paid following delivery of EPS growth targets.
It is intended that 20% of the EPS element of outstanding performance against these targets, which will be set the award will vest for the achievement of a threshold level of EPS taking due account of the increased annual bonus opportunity.
growth, being at least CPI plus 7.5% per annum, calculated on a compound basis, with the entire EPS element of the award vesting if Bonuses are non-pensionable.
EPS growth is at least CPI plus 15% per annum, also on a compound basis with straight-line vesting in between.
Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 53 15110 04 06 2008 Proof 5  13 6 08 10:33 Page 54 Remuneration report b Co-Investment Plan Total Shareholder Return The key features of the Co-Investment Plan are as follows: The accompanying graph shows Speedy Hires performance, measured by TSR, compared with the performance of the FTSE Executive Directors must defer any annual bonus over 50% of 250 Index excluding investment trusts, also measured by TSR.
The basic salary, and may defer the rest at the Executive Directors graph illustrates the movement of Speedy Hires TSR, assuming option, which is used to acquire Speedy Hire shares.
dividends are reinvested on the ex dividend date against that of the Deferral is for three years.
FTSE 250 Index excluding investment trusts for the five year Matching shares may be awarded by the Committee which vest period to 31 March 2008.
The FTSE 250 Index excluding at the end of the three year deferral period if pre-determined investment trusts has been used as it provides consistency with performance criteria are satisfied.
The maximum matching, which the performance measurement of the Groups executive share will only be awarded for exceptional performance, may be on a incentive plans.
Performance targets are based on EPS growth over the deferral Total shareholder return period.
To obtain maximum matching under previous awards, Total shareholder return EPS growth is required to be greater than CPI plus 12.5% per 500 annum, calculated on a compound basis.
No awards vest if EPS 450 growth is less than CPI plus 7.5% per annum, also calculated on a compound basis with straight-line vesting in between.
This will 400 apply to 2008 awards which relate to the old bonus cap of 100% of salary.
However, to reflect the increased CIP award potential in 350 2009 that will arise from the higher annual bonus opportunity that 300 will be available in 2008 9 onwards, more stretching EPS growth targets will be applied to CIP awards made in 2009, taking 250 account of circumstances prevailing at the time of grant.
The 200 targets will be no less stretching taking account of the circumstances prevailing at the time than the EPS targets that will 150 be applied to this years Performance Plan awards which have a 100 top end EPS growth target of CPI plus 15% per annum, calculated on a compound basis.
50 No re-testing is permitted 0 TSR and EPS are used for these plans as they are the most Mar Mar Mar Mar Mar Mar appropriate measures of Speedy Hires long-term performance.
2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 TSR improves shareholder alignment and is consistent with the Source: Thomson Financial Companys objectives of providing long-term returns to This graph shows the value, by 31 March 2008, of 100 invested in Speedy Hire Plc shareholders.
EPS, which it is intended will play a greater role in on 31 March 2003 compared with the value of 100 invested in the FTSE 250 these incentive plans going forward as described above, is an excluding investment trusts Index.
The other points are the values at intervening financial year-ends.
important measure of the Companys underlying financial performance and provides a good line of sight between Speedy Hire Plc FTSE 250 excluding investment trusts Index performance and reward for executives, particularly when they are choosing to invest their own bonus under the CIP.
The Committee Service contracts will ensure that appropriate independent verification is sought as to It is the Committees general policy that the service contracts of the extent to which these performance conditions are satisfied.
Executive Directors none of which are for a fixed term should provide for termination of employment by giving 12 months notice or by Awards made in 2005 under the Performance Plan have vested as making a payment of an amount equal to 12 months basic salary and to approximately 35% and under the Co-Investment Plan have pension contributions in lieu of notice together with any accrued bonus vested in full after the end of the financial year.
It is also the Committees general policy that no Executive Director should be entitled to a notice period or payment on termination Benefits under the Performance Plan and the CIP are nonof employment in excess of these levels.
payable on termination, the Committee also considers, where it is able to do so, appropriate adjustments to take into account accelerated Both the Performance Plan and the CIP are designed to be selfreceipt and the Executive Directors duty to mitigate his loss.
The service contracts of Steve Corcoran, Neil OBrien, Mike Benefits in kind McGrath, Claudio Veritiero and Justin Read contain express The Group operates a policy whereby Executive Directors and provisions relating to their duty to mitigate their loss and for senior management are offered a car or cash alternative, as accelerated receipt in the event of termination.
appropriate, health insurance and life cover and defined pension contributions further details of which are set out below.
Justin Read was appointed on 1 April 2008 and his service contract contains a temporary provision which states that, if his employment The Group does not operate a defined benefit pension scheme and is terminated by the Company following a change in control that has no plans to introduce such a scheme.
occurs within the first year of his employment i. e. up to 1 April 2009, he will be entitled to 24 months notice on a monthly descending basis.
Therefore, after 12 months employment, 54 Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 15110 04 06 2008 Proof 5 15110  13 6 08 10:33 Page 55 Justin Reads notice period will have reverted to the normal 12 The Joining Award will not be pensionable.
months which reflects the Companys general policy on such The Committee decided that Justin Read should be employed on matters.
similar terms to his fellow Speedy Hire Executive Directors.
It also wanted to incentivise Justin Read by linking his total remuneration Subject to the above, no Executive Director has the benefit of package to the future prosperity of Speedy Hire Plc shareholders.
provisions in his service contract for the payment of pre-determined It considered that the Joining Award would achieve both these compensation in the event of termination of employment.
The Joining Award was accepted by Justin Read on 7 March 2008 before he joined the Group on 1 April 2008.
The execution dates of the service contracts of the Executive Directors are set out below: This arrangement is similar to that employed in relation to the recruitment of Mike McGrath in 2006.
Contract date S J Corcoran 7 January 2002 Non-Executive Directors N C OBrien 15 January 2002 The remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors is set by the M A McGrath 10 March 2006 Executive Directors.
The policy of the Board is that the remuneration C Veritiero 16 July 2007 of the Non-Executive Directors should be consistent with the levels J Read 1 April 2008 of remuneration paid by companies of a similar size and has due regard to their expected time commitment and responsibility in Arrangements relating to John Brown performing their duties.
The levels of Non-Executive Director remuneration are the subject of a benchmarking exercise, carried Former Chief Executive John Brown played an integral part for 27 out with the assistance of HNBS, at least every two years.
Nonyears in the building of our business.
Executive Directors receive an annual fee and are reimbursed expenses incurred in attending meetings.
They do not receive any To ensure Speedy Hire retained access to Johns wealth of performance-related bonuses, pension contributions, share awards experience, and as reported in previous years, it was agreed to or other forms of benefit.
engage him for three years from 1 October 2005 as a consultant.
John has undertaken an ambassadorial role with both our major The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors do not have contracts of customers and suppliers, in relation to many of whom John forged service but their terms are set out in letters of appointment.
In the case the original relationship with Speedy Hire.
He also remains available of David Wallis and David Galloway, their appointments have been in an advisory capacity to the Executive Directors, supporting special renewed with a one year term to 31 March 2009.
Frank Dee stepped project work up to a maximum of 30 days per year.
down as a Non-Executive Director on 31 March 2008.
Peter Atkinson commences a second three year term in 1 June 2008.
Ishbel The Committee, after careful consideration of the value of these Macpherson and Michael Averill commenced their first three year arrangements in protecting and enhancing shareholder value, terms in July 2007 and May 2008 respectively.
Appointments are agreed at that time that John should receive a consultancy fee for subject to earlier termination by six months notice on either side in the the provision of such services of 30,000 per annum.
case of David Wallis and three months notice on either side in the case of each of David Galloway, Peter Atkinson, Ishbel Macpherson It is intended that this arrangement will terminate in October 2008. and Michael Averill.
The letters of appointment, copies of which are available for inspection at the Companys registered office during Arrangements relating to the appointment of Justin Read normal business hours, specify an anticipated time commitment of 50 Justin Read was appointed to the Board as Finance Director on days per annum in relation to David Wallis, 21 days per annum in the 1 April 2008. case of Ishbel Macpherson and David Galloway and 19 days per annum in the case of Peter Atkinson and Michael Averill.
2 2 of the Listing Rules, an arrangement was made to facilitate the recruitment and Emoluments of the Directors appointment of Justin Read as Finance Director the Joining The emoluments of the Directors of Speedy Hire were as follows: Award.
Under the terms of the Joining Award, which Justin Read was invited to accept on 5 March 2008, he was invited to deposit Aggregate emoluments audited share certificates for or other evidence of title to Speedy Hire Plc 2008 2007 shares which he purchased out of his own funds, with the trustee of 000 000 the Speedy Hire Employee Benefits Trust the Trustee the Deposited Shares.
The market value of the Deposited Shares, at Salaries and fees 1,075 913 the date of deposit with the Trustee may not exceed 100% of Justin Benefits 33 31 Reads net annual salary on joining Speedy Hire on 1 April 2008.
Annual performance-related bonuses 749 657 The Deposited Shares will be treated as if they were Bonus Award Pension contributions 130 96 Shares under the CIP and the Joining Award will replicate a Matching Share Award under the CIP.
For the purpose of Total 1,987 1,697 determining the maximum number of shares which Justin Read may be entitled to receive under the Joining Award, the market value of A payment of 18,000 was also made to the widow of a former the Deposited Shares on deposit will be grossed up for income Director 2007: 18,000. tax and employees national insurance contributions.
Justin Reads entitlement to receive the Joining Award Shares will be subject to the Benefits include a car allowance, medical insurance and life terms and conditions of Matching Share Awards under the CIP for assurance.
example, as to continued employment with the Speedy Hire Group and achievement of performance targets.
Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 55 15110 04 06 2008 Proof 5  13 6 08 10:33 Page 56 Remuneration report None of the Executive Directors serves as a Non-Executive Director elsewhere.
Payments to Executive Directors audited Pension Salaries and fees contributions Total Total Salary Benefits Bonus 2008 2007 2008 2007 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 S J Corcoran 325 10 303 638 592 65 45 N C OBrien 220 10 197 427 406 33 31 M A McGrath 210 10 195 415 390 23 20 C Veritiero 58 3 54 115 9 Former Executive Directors J E Brown 30 30 30 Total 843 33 749 1,625 1,418 130 96 Claudio Veritiero was appointed as an Executive Director of the Company on 28 November 2007.
The table shows the salary paid to him as an Executive Director of the Company and does not include remuneration earned in his previous role within the Group.
Received consultancy fees of 30,000 in 2007 08 year.
The terms of Neil OBriens termination were in accordance with the and Peter Atkinson 34,000 per annum.
With effect from 31 March rights and obligations set out in his service contract and in line with 2008, Ishbel Macpherson receives fees of 41,000 per annum the rules of the incentive arrangements in which he participated.
inclusive of fees being the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Pensions Directors interests in shares and options audited The Committee reviews the pension arrangements for the Executive Interests in shares Directors to ensure that the benefits provided are consistent with The interests of the Directors of Speedy Hire Plc in the issued share those provided by other similar companies and take account of capital of Speedy Hire Plc at the beginning and end of the year or changes in relevant legislation.
date of appointment where appropriate are shown below: Speedy Hire Plc The Company does not offer a defined benefit pension scheme.
Ordinary shares Instead, it makes contributions to an approved pension scheme of 31 March 1 April the Executive Directors choice.
2008 2007 Number Number Pensions contributions range between 10% and 20% of basic S J Corcoran 202,348 109,040 salary depending on length of service.
The amount of pension contributions made in respect of each Executive Director is set N C OBrien 150,601 90,378 M A McGrath 23,076 14,000 out above.
C Veritiero 5,464 5,464 D W Wallis 50,000 40,000 Save as set out above, there are no other pension arrangements for the Executive Directors.
F R Dee 30,000 30,000 D A Galloway 22,000 22,000 Individual emoluments of Non-Executive Directors audited P D Atkinson 4,280 4,280 I Macpherson 4,016 The fees of the Non-Executive Directors are set out below: Any ordinary shares required to satisfy awards under the 2008 2007 Performance Plan and CIP are provided by the Speedy Hire 000 000 Employee Benefits Trust EBT.
As a potential beneficiary under the D W Wallis 100 88 EBT, each Executive Director is deemed to be interested in all the shares held by the EBT which, at 31 March 2008, amounted to F R Dee resigned 31 March 2008 38 34 D A Galloway 38 32 383,366 Speedy Hire Plc ordinary shares 2007: 633,788.
P Atkinson 33 29 Ishbel Macpherson appointed 17 July 2007 23 There have been no changes in the interests of the Directors in the share capital of Speedy Hire Plc since 31 March 2008 save that, on Total 232 183 1 April 2008, Justin Read acquired 19,800 ordinary shares.
Ishbel Macpherson was appointed as a Non-Executive Director of Directors interests in share options the Company on 17 July 2007.
The table shows the fees paid to her The options were granted under the SAYE Scheme for nil as a Non-Executive Director during the financial year.
With effect from 1 April 2008, the Directors fees of David Wallis are The market price of Speedy Hire Plc ordinary shares at 31 March 105,000 per annum, David Galloway 41,000 per annum inclusive of 2008 was 761 pence and the range during the year was 699.5 fees being the Chairman of the Audit Committee and Michael Averill pence to 1319 pence per share.
