Scottish and Southern Energy Annual Report 2008 04 Remuneration Report 50 Dear Shareholder The following is the report of the Board of During the year, the Committee meetings Directors in compliance with the Directors covered the following topics: I am pleased to introduce the Remuneration Remuneration Report Regulations 2002.
The report sets out the companys policy k Executive Directors and Chairmans on Executive Directors remuneration for salary review: This is my first full year as Chairman of the the year ended 31 March 2008 and, so far k bonus target setting and awards: Remuneration Committee, and we have taken as is reasonable, for subsequent years.
k awards under the Performance the opportunity to review the approach to Any changes in policy for years after 2008 Share Plan: reporting.
So that it is easier to understand, will be described in future Remuneration k review of the Remuneration Report: and the report has a new layout which gives more Reports which will continue to be subject k review of overall remuneration policy, detail on the operation of the Committee and to shareholder approval.
including the operation of the the structure of the remuneration package.
Performance Share Plan and I hope you will find these changes helpful.
The Role of the Remuneration Committee its performance criteria.
The Remuneration Committees members Following the introduction of the new are Susan Rice, who chairs the Committee, The Board as a whole reviews the fees of the Performance Share Plan in 2006 and an Richard Gillingwater, Sir Robert Smith and non-Executive Directors, whilst ensuring that amendment last year, the Committee is Sir Kevin Smith.
Biographical details of the no Director is involved in decisions on their satisfied that the remuneration package current Committee members are given own pay.
for our Directors and senior Executives on pages 48 and 49.
Therefore no significant joined the Committee on 26 July 2007, The Remuneration Committees changes are proposed this year.
The and David Payne stepped down from the composition, responsibilities and operation Committee is aware of the need to keep Committee on that date on his retirement comply with Section B of the Corporate a watching brief on the market trends for from the Board.
The Committee met on Governance Code.
The Executive Directors are five occasions.
policy, the Committee has given full a strong team who have performed well, consideration to the best practice and potentially this could make them Under its Terms of Reference published in provisions set out in the Code.
Managing the Corporate Governance section of the SSE their reward structure effectively is an website at www.
co. uk The Principles of the Remuneration Policy important part of managing the companys the Committee is responsible for: The companys remuneration policy is to: assets and shareholders interests.
k setting the overall remuneration policy k retain and attract Executive Directors who This Remuneration Report like that of all on behalf of the Board: are able to run the company effectively other quoted companies will rightly attract k approving the detailed remuneration for the benefit of shareholders and a great deal of scrutiny.
To be balanced and terms of the Executive Directors customers: and objective, however, that scrutiny must take including their service contracts: k adopt a competitive and practical account of three key factors.
k approving the remuneration of the approach to overall remuneration which Chairman: meets the expectations of shareholders.
First, the remuneration of Executive Directors k approving the design and performance in quoted companies is effectively subject to targets of incentive schemes: and This has been achieved by providing shareholder approval by a resolution at the k granting awards under the companys remuneration consisting of basic salary Annual General Meeting.
There is, therefore, Long Term Incentive Plans.
and benefits, together with an Annual a transparency and accountability that is Bonus Scheme and a Performance Share absent in other types of company.
The Remuneration Committee regularly Plan both of which require the achievement consults the Chief Executive, Ian Marchant, of demanding performance targets against Second, the responsibilities of Executive who attends and assists the Committee in the companys core values of safety, service, Directors and other senior managers in SSE respect of those Directors reporting to him, efficiency, sustainability, excellence and are increasingly wide ranging and complex.
although he is not present when his own teamwork.
SSE has, and must retain, an excellent remuneration is under discussion.
leadership team which is fully capable of Given the nature of the companys discharging those responsibilities for the In addition, the Director of Human business, the Committee believes that benefit of shareholders and customers.
Resources, Graham Juggins, and SSEs around half of the total remuneration This is in keeping with the sound approach Senior Executive Remuneration Adviser, should be performance-related, with up to to talent management which SSE seeks Jane Williams, provided information and two-thirds where performance is exceptional.
to adopt throughout its operations.
advice on the Directors remuneration, The Committee is satisfied that the overall including comparative data drawn from remuneration structure is set at levels which Third, SSEs policy on remuneration is published remuneration and benefit are reasonable and appropriate to reward responsible: it is clearly related to the delivery surveys, and advice on appropriate performance sufficiently.
of a high standard of performance in critical awards of bonuses and long-term areas such as safety, the environment and incentives.
The Company Secretary, Other Senior Executives customer service.
Vincent Donnelly, provided information There are a number of Senior Executives to the Committee on developments in below Board level who have a significant As part of the Board evaluation process, the corporate governance guidelines as they influence on the performance of the Group.
effectiveness of the Remuneration Committee affect the Remuneration Committee.
The Committee remains fully aware of the was reviewed.
The results of this review During the year the Committee received need to ensure there is an appropriate indicate that the Committee continues advice and views from Towers Perrin relationship between Executive Director to operate effectively.
and from its brokers Merrill Lynch, remuneration, and the levels of remuneration as part of a general review of remuneration of other Senior Executives within the Group.
Both Towers Perrin and Merrill The Committee considers remuneration Chairman, Remuneration Committee Lynch were appointed by the company levels of Senior Executives when reviewing 28 May 2008 on behalf of the Committee.
remuneration of the Executive Directors Scottish and Southern Energy Annual Report 2008 51 and is satisfied that an appropriate the companys management team need nature, set against measurable and verifiable remuneration and benefits structure exists to be prudently recognised through the data either within the Group or more generally to recognise and retain its key executives.
However, some targets are set which require some subjective Outside Appointments In line with this, the Executive Directors assessment.
This is done by the Chief Executive Directors are entitled to accept salary increases with effect from 1 January Executive and reported by the Director a non-Executive appointment outside the 2008 was in the range 11%-14%.
The current of Human Resources to the Committee for company with the consent of the Board, as base salary levels for the Executive Directors consideration, except in the case of targets such appointments can enhance Directors are as follows: Ian Marchant 800,000: Gregor for the Chief Executive himself, where they experience and value to the company.
Any Alexander 460,000: Colin Hood 600,000: are assessed by the Committee, with fees received can be retained by the Director.
and Alistair Phillips-Davies 460,000. assistance from the Director of Human In 2007 08 Ian Marchant held a non-Executive Resources and the company Chairman.
Director position with John Wood Group plc, Current Incentive Arrangements and received 40,000 in fees.
Annual Bonus Scheme The bonus for 2007 08 was based on The maximum bonus level is 100% of base performance relative to measures and targets Share Ownership Policy salary and for 2007 08 comprised 60% for set at the beginning of the year, including Share ownership is encouraged throughout corporate financial performance, 20% for teamwork targets as described above.
In addition the Committee personal objectives and 20% for teamwork.
Of believes that the interests of the Executive the bonus awarded, 75% is paid in cash, and The corporate financial performance Directors and other Senior Executives the remainder is compulsorily deferred into of profit before tax outturned at just over should be closely aligned with those of shares which only vest, subject to continued 104% of budget, and the bonus paid for shareholders.
The Share Option schemes service, after three years.
The number of this element 44%.
The personal objectives and Incentive Plans provide considerable shares under an award is determined by and teamwork objectives were assessed alignment.
The company has also adopted dividing the relevant pre-tax amount of bonus by the Committee.
Whilst the majority a policy that the Executive Directors and by the share price shortly after announcement of individual targets were met, such as certain other Senior Executives should of results for the financial year to which the customer growth and complaint reduction acquire and maintain a level of shareholding bonus relates.
The share award is satisfied there was still scope for improvement in approximately equivalent to one years by a transfer of shares from the Employee areas such as renewable consents and lost salary, to be attained within a reasonable Share Ownership Trust together with shares time and reportable accidents.
Consent to sell shares under representing dividends during the period the of payments for the personal element was the companys Share Dealing Code is not shares have been held in trust.
therefore 14%-16%, against a maximum normally given unless in exceptional possible of 20%.
The teamwork element circumstances or to fund a connected tax The maximum corporate financial element of the bonus was 15% out of a maximum liability until this level of shareholding is payable if performance exceeds by 10% possible of 20%.
It is also expected that all or more the budgeted profit before tax target, non-Executive Directors should hold a but no corporate element is payable if For 2008 09, the bonus remains 60% for minimum of 2,000 shares in the company.
performance falls below 95% of this target.
corporate financial performance, 20% Table C on page 54 contains the current The personal objectives are based on a based on teamwork within the Executive shareholdings of the Directors.
wide range of specific business activities.
team including performance in Service and The specific standards of performance set are Safety, and 20% for individual objectives.
Current Salaries commercially confidential but they include The bonuses are non-pensionable.
In addition to individual performance, objectively measurable improvements in the Committee takes account of pay levels areas such as: Long Term Incentives in companies that are in related business Performance Share Plan PSP sectors, of similar size principally in the k Group safety performance: Under the PSP, the maximum value of share FT-SE100, some specific comparisons in k customer service: awards made to Executive Directors each the utilities sector, and also general survey k delivery of investment opportunities: year is 150% of base salary.
The Committee acknowledges that SSE k generation plant availability: released after three years to the extent that operates predominantly in the UK with a k innovation and sustainable development: performance conditions are met.
One-half growing portfolio of overseas renewable k achievement of customer growth targets: of the award is subject to total shareholder development opportunities which increased k financial and working capital return TSR performance relative to other in the current year with the acquisition management: and FT-SE100 companies.
For full vesting, the of Airtricity.
k development and delivery of new market companys TSR must be at or above the 75th opportunities.
percentile over the three-year performance The Committee decided that salaries should period.
25% of the award will vest if the increase for three key reasons.
First, in line The teamwork targets are designed to deliver companys TSR is at the median.
Awards will with the retention objective, it is important overall objectives for the Group in areas vest on a straight-line pro rata basis between to recognise consistent high achievement such as: median and 75th percentile.
Awards based over the past few years.
This, in turn, means on TSR will only vest if the Committee is considering what it would cost to attract k Group-wide performance on safety: satisfied with the underlying financial other Executive Directors of similar calibre.
k business development: performance of the company over the Second, while the remuneration of Executive k customer growth: and performance period.
The remaining one-half Directors of SSE should generally be below k effective leadership and commitment of the award will be subject to an adjusted the median for FT-SE100 companies, it to company values.
earnings per share EPS growth target.
should not be allowed to fall too far below For the three-year period commencing in that median.
Third, SSE has increased The companys performance in all these 2007 08, full vesting will occur if the annual significantly in scale, scope and complexity areas is described in the Chief Executives growth in adjusted EPS is equivalent to 9% in each of the past five years, including Statement and the Business Statement on above RPI per annum.
The growing demands on Executive pages 8 to 34 of this Annual Report.
The in adjusted EPS is equivalent to 3% above Directors and other senior members of majority of personal targets are operational in RPI per annum, 25% of the shares will vest Scottish and Southern Energy Annual Report 2008 04 Remuneration Report continued 52 with vesting on a straight-line basis between All-Employee Share Schemes managers, was designed to contribute to 3% and 9% above RPI.
There will be no Executive Directors are eligible to participate increasing shareholder return and motivation vesting of the appropriate portion of award in the companys all-employee share schemes of senior management over the longer-term.
if the TSR minimum target of median is not on the same terms as other employees.
It also facilitated the building of share achieved, or if the minimum real annual These schemes comprise: ownership in the company.
growth of EPS is not achieved.
a The Sharesave Scheme, a savingsIf a participant resigns voluntarily in the The Committee considers the use of these related share option scheme available three years following award, all outstanding two measures, in these proportions, to be to all employees.
This scheme operates awards lapse.
The shares under award can appropriate.
The relative TSR performance within specific tax legislation including normally vest after three years, but can vest measure is dependent on the companys a requirement to finance exercise of the earlier in certain exceptional circumstances relative long-term share price performance, option using the proceeds of a monthly such as retirement or redundancy.
and therefore brings a market perspective savings contract of up to 250 per to the PSP.
Further vesting of this element month, and, in common with all such The Deferred Bonus Scheme has been requires the Committee to be satisfied with schemes, exercise of the option is not superseded by the PSP which was approved the underlying financial performance of the subject to satisfaction of a performance at the Annual General Meeting in July 2006. company.
The TSR measure is balanced by a target.
The option price is set at a key internal measure, adjusted EPS growth, discount of 10% to market value.
Service Contracts which is critical to the companys long-term It is the companys policy that Executive success and ties in with the Groups strategic b The Share Incentive Plan SIP, also Directors should have service contracts goals.
The Committee considered that the available to all employees, under which with the company which are terminable on achievement of real annual adjusted EPS employees allocate part of their pre-tax 12 months notice given by either party.
The growth of 9% above RPI per annum was a salary to purchase shares up to a key aspects of each contract are as follows: suitably demanding target for maximum maximum of 125 per month.
The SIP vesting in light of the regulatory regime in operates within specific tax legislation.
k the Executive Directors are employed which the company operates and on the During the year, the company matched under service contracts with the company basis of independent advice.
The target the first five shares purchased by the each dated 11 March 2005: range was set in the light of consensus participating employees each month k they are eligible under the contracts to expectations and the companys own as part of a company-wide agreement.
participate in the companys Executive forecasts.
The Committee believed that for Directors bonus scheme, the companys 2007 08 this target range struck the right c The company is also offering 10 free Sharesave or other employee share balance between being stretching at the top shares to all eligible employees under schemes and incentive plans: end, and being achievable and motivational the SIP, with no performance conditions k they are each entitled to a company car at the lower end.
Different vesting levels may attached, in recognition of the overall or a cash allowance, membership of the be set in future years for the TSR or EPS staff contribution to the performance companys pension scheme including elements in order to ensure that the target of the Group in 2007 08. life assurance cover equal to four times remains sufficiently stretching.
There will salary, and private health insurance be no retesting of either the TSR or EPS d There is a long service award scheme which also covers dependants: and performance measures.
whereby 10, 20, 30, 40 or 50 shares are k the contracts are each for an indefinite purchased on behalf of an employee on term ending automatically on retirement For awards under the PSP granted in 2006, the occasion of the employee reaching date age 60, but may be terminated the maximum value of awards was 100% of 10, 20, 30, 40 or 50 years service by 12 months notice given by the salary, with full vesting after three years for respectively with the Group.
company or by 12 months notice EPS growth of RPI plus 8% and TSR at or given by the Director.
above 75th percentile, and 30% of the award Previous Long-Term Incentive Scheme vesting for median performance for TSR The Deferred Bonus Scheme, which applied to The company may at its discretion elect to and EPS growth of RPI plus 3%.
Executive Directors and a selection of senior terminate any Executive Directors contract TSR Performance Graph The graph to the left charts the cumulative Total Shareholder Return TSR of the company since 1 April 2003 compared to the FT-SE100 Index over the 300 same period.
The company is a member of the FT-SE100 index, and this was 250 considered to be the most relevant index 200 for comparative purposes.
150 100 50 0 Mar 03 Mar 04 Mar 05 Mar 06 Mar 07 Mar 08 SSE FT-SE100 Scottish and Southern Energy Annual Report 2008 53 by making a payment in lieu of notice equal common with all members of the pension Directors concerned not participating in this to the basic salary which would have been schemes who joined at the time the Directors process.
The fees are reviewed against received during the notice period excluding joined the schemes, in the case of retirement companies of similar size and complexity.
any bonus and any other emolument through ill-health an unreduced pension The non-Executive Directors do not have referable to the employment.
Payments based on service to expected retirement service contracts but instead have letters in lieu of notice will be made in staged is paid.
In the case of reorganisation or of appointment.
They are appointed for fixed payments, and such payments will either redundancy an unreduced accrued pension terms of three years, subject to retirement reduce or cease completely in circumstances is paid to a member who has reached the age by rotation and re-election at AGMs in terms where the departing Executive Director gains of 50 or above, with at least five years service, of the companys Articles of Association.
There is also a specific or for a member who has not yet reached They do not participate in the Bonus provision obliging the departing Executive to that age, it is payable with effect from 50.
Scheme, any of the share option schemes, mitigate his her loss in these circumstances.
or contribute to any Group pension scheme.
There are no special provisions applying in Following legislative changes, from April The standard fee during the year was 45,000. the event of change of control.
2006, existing HM Revenue & Customs The Chairman of the Audit Committee limits ceased to apply to benefits provided received an additional fee of 12,000, the Pensions by the pension schemes.
If a members Chairman of the Remuneration Committee All the Executive Directors are members accrued fund exceeds the new lifetime received an additional fee of 10,000, and of either the Southern Electric Pension allowance LTA, the benefits payable by the the Senior Independent Director received Scheme or the Scottish Hydro Electric scheme from that excess will be subject to an additional fee of 10,000.
Pension Scheme, which are funded final a higher rate of income tax.
The company salary pension schemes.
The Directors is maximising the use of the new allowance service contracts provide for a possible thereby providing Executive Directors with maximum pension of two-thirds final salary more of their existing benefits through at age 60.
In relation to Executive Directors registered schemes.
In the case of Colin who are subject to the scheme specific Hood, who was not subject to the previous salary cap which mirrors the provisions earnings cap but is now limited by the of the previous HM Revenue & Customs cap LTA, further accrual is via an unfunded arrangements the company provides top-up arrangement.
There are no arrangements unfunded arrangements which are designed to compensate members for any change to provide an equivalent pension on retirement in their personal tax liability.
at age 60 to that which they would have earned if they had not been subject to the Non-Executive Directors salary cap.
The Executive Directors have no The remuneration of non-Executive Directors, right to any special or preferential pension apart from the company Chairman, is agreed benefit terms upon leaving.
However, in by the Board annually, with the non-Executive Remuneration in Detail The Auditors are required to report on the information contained in tables A, B and D. Table A Directors Emoluments The emoluments of each of the Directors were as follows: Total Total Salary fee Bonuses Benefits 2008 2007 000 000 000 000 000 Executive Directors Ian Marchant 740 450 18 1,208 1,210 Gregor Alexander 419 255 15 689 656 Colin Hood 555 328 16 899 894 Alistair Phillips-Davies 419 253 15 687 659 Non-Executive Directors Nick Baldwin 45 45 24 Ren Mdori 57 57 47 1 Richard Gillingwater 38 38 0 2 David Payne 24 24 69 Susan Rice 62 62 42 Sir Kevin Smith 45 45 42 Sir Robert Smith Chairman 293 293 266 2,697 1,286 64 4,047 3,909 1 Appointed to the Board on 25 May 2007.
2 Retired from the Board 26 July 2007.
In addition to the annual cash bonus amount for this year, Ian Marchant, Gregor Alexander, Colin Hood and Alistair Phillips-Davies will be awarded 150k, 85k, 110k and 84k respectively in the form of deferred shares in respect of the bonus due to them for 2007 08.
These share awards will not be made until June 2008 and therefore the number of shares to which the Executive Directors will be entitled will not be known until that date.
These shares will, subject to continued employment, be released on the third anniversary of grant.
Scottish and Southern Energy Annual Report 2008 04 Remuneration Report continued 54 Table B Retirement Benefits Details of Directors retirement benefits are as follows: Accrued benefit Transfer value of accrued benefit Increase in year Increase in year Increase Increase in Years of At 31 March including excluding At 31 March At 31 March less Directors year excluding industry 2008 inflation inflation 2008 2007 contributions inflation service 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 Ian Marchant 16 273 39 30 3,503 3,356 130 446 Gregor Alexander 17 155 29 24 1,799 1,548 234 287 Colin Hood 30 271 34 25 5,181 3,999 1,165 401 Alistair Phillips-Davies 11 110 23 20 1,253 1,002 234 280 Members of the scheme have the option to pay additional voluntary contributions: neither the contributions nor the resulting benefits are included in the above table.
The retirement age of Executive Directors is 60.
The following is information relating to the pension of Gregor Alexander as a participant in the HM Revenue & Customs approved Scottish Hydro Electric Pension Scheme.
i Dependants pensions on death are half of members pension entitlements, together with a capital sum equal to four times pensionable pay.
On death in retirement, the Directors spouse will receive a pension equal to half of that payable to the Director.
In addition, on death within the first five years of retirement, a lump sum is payable equal to the balance outstanding of the first five years pension payments.
ii All benefit payments are guaranteed to increase annually by the same percentage as state pensions, which are currently linked to movements in the UK RPI.
The following is information relating to the Directors pensions of Colin Hood, Ian Marchant and Alistair Phillips-Davies, as participants in the HM Revenue & Customs approved Southern Electric Group of the Electricity Supply Pension Scheme.
i Dependants pensions on death are four-ninths of the members pensionable pay, together with a capital sum equal to four times pensionable pay.
If death occurs after attaining the age of 55 an additional lump sum between three to five times notional pension is payable dependent upon age and length of service.
On death in retirement, the Directors spouse will receive a pension equal to two-thirds of that payable to the Director.
ii Post retirement increases are expected to be in line with inflation guaranteed up to the level of 5% per annum and discretionary above that level.
All the Executive Directors have unfunded retirement benefits which are included in their pension benefits above with provision in respect of their accrued value included in the companys Balance Sheet.
Table C Directors Interests The interests of the Directors, all of which are beneficial, in the ordinary shares of the company on the dates shown were as follows: 31 March 2008 1 April 2007 Shares under Shares under Shares held option Shares held option Gregor Alexander 32,630 120,508 21,589 87,837 Nick Baldwin 2,024 0 2,000 0 Richard Gillingwater 2,000 0 00 Colin Hood 27,967 227,324 26,710 162,097 Ian Marchant 119,178 223,656 94,785 172,266 Ren Mdori 2,000 0 2,000 0 Alistair Phillips-Davies 31,353 136,026 31,116 87,074 Susan Rice 4,423 0 4,254 0 Sir Kevin Smith 2,000 0 2,000 0 Sir Robert Smith 22,600 0 15,800 0 From 31 March 2008 to 28 May 2008, the following changes to the interests of Directors took place: k Under the Share Incentive Plan, on 30 April 2008, Ian Marchant, Colin Hood, Gregor Alexander and Alistair Phillips-Davies each acquired 14 shares.
k Under a standing order for reinvestment of a PEP, Ian Marchant acquired one share on 2 April 2008.
Scottish and Southern Energy Annual Report 2008 55 A further analysis of the Directors shares under option as at 31 March 2008, and options granted and exercised during the year, is set out below.
The Register of Directors Interests which is open to shareholder inspection contains full details of Directors shareholdings and options to subscribe for shares.
No price was paid for the award of any option.
Shares exercised under the Deferred Bonus Scheme included the following arising from dividend reinvestment: Ian Marchant 4,658 shares, Gregor Alexander 2,139 shares.
The closing market price of the shares at 31 March 2008 was 1403.5p and range for the year was 1679.5p to 1378.5p.
The options granted during the year were granted under either the Deferred Bonus Scheme, the Savings-related Scheme, or the PSP.
The aggregate amount of gains made by Directors on the exercise of share options during the year was 838,837 2007 777,337.
Under the Deferred Bonus Scheme, the aggregate value of the shares placed in trust for Directors in the year to 31 March 2008 was 486,305 2007 1,433,053.
Under the PSP, the aggregate value of the shares placed in trust for Directors in the year to 31 March 2008 was 3,104,983 2007 1,844,969.
The aggregate amount of gains made by the highest-paid Director, Ian Marchant was 576,432 2007 408,876.
This report was approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by: Susan Rice Remuneration Committee Chairman 28 May 2008
