The Committee receives advice from independent consultants.
During Remuneration the year, the Committee received advice from the following consultants: report Consultant Advice provided to the Committee Hewitt New Bridge Street On the Groups mediumand long-term incentive arrangements Dear Shareholder I submit the Directors Remuneration report for the year ended Ernst & Young LLP On the operation of the Groups share 31 March 2008. schemes and the calculation of the Groups The Remuneration Committees aim is to establish a remuneration Total Shareholder Return framework which incentivises the senior team to outperform against Watson Wyatt Limited Benchmarking data in relation to the total challenging targets, selected to provide a clear link between the achievement reward packages of the Executive Directors of the Groups goals and their reward.
This approach, established in 2005, and the Executive Committee continues to contribute to the success of the SSL Group.
The performance graph on page 45 showing the Companys Total Shareholder Return performance as compared to the FTSE 350 index illustrates this.
With the exception of Hewitt New Bridge Street, these consultants also provide advice to the Company on the following matters.
Ernst & Young LLP To build on this success, this year the Group is setting accelerated growth targets, which are designed to build on the outstanding performance to date advises the Company on taxation matters relating to expatriate employees.
Watson Wyatt also provides insurance broking and benefits advisory and and be even more challenging than the targets set in the previous three years.
Therefore, to incentivise the Executive Directors to outperform against these administrative services in the UK.
The Committee is satisfied that the provision of advice to the Company does not result in a conflict of interests.
particularly stretching targets, it is proposed that annual and long-term incentives be enhanced.
The maximum annual bonus has been increased Activities of the Committee slightly and it is proposed that an exceptional grant be made under the The Committee, which meets at least four times a year, has a schedule Performance Share Plan PSP.
This is subject to a change to the rules of the of the principal items to be discussed each meeting.
The purpose of the PSP, which will require the approval of shareholders at the Annual General schedule is to ensure that all material matters are fully considered at the Meeting AGM.
Further detail is contained in this report and in the Notice appropriate time.
Such matters include: of Annual General Meeting.
A full explanation of the remuneration policy is given below.
A review of remuneration policy and framework: Consideration of benchmarking data in relation to Executives remuneration Peter Read Chairman, Remuneration Committee packages: and This report has been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act A review of performance measures for the Groups incentive schemes.
1985 as amended by the Directors Report Regulations 2002.
The report The Committee Chairman reports to the Board on the principal matters also explains how the Company has applied the Combined Code in relation discussed at the Committee.
Copies of all Committee minutes are available to Directors remuneration.
The Remuneration Committee the Committee The Committees terms of reference, which are reviewed annually, can be viewed on the Companys website, www.
Composition of the Committee: Remuneration policy Peter Read Committee Chairman and Senior Independent Director The main objective of the policy is to attract, retain and motivate those people of the highest calibre who have the skills needed to lead the Group to Gerald Corbett achieve its objectives year on year.
Group Chairman and Non-Executive Director The principles of the policy are: Richard Adam Providing a truly motivational incentive scheme which drives individuals to Non-Executive Director work to outperform against challenging targets: Anna Catalano Establishing that variable pay provides the material element to Executives Non-Executive Director total reward: Susan Murray Ensuring that there is an appropriate and increasing balance between Non-Executive Director short-term and long-term targets, with a significant proportion of the remuneration subject to carefully considered long-term performance All members of the Committee served throughout the year.
Susan Murray will stand down as a Non-Executive Director and from the Committee after conditions: the AGM.
The Board considers that all members of the Committee are Aligning the interests of Executives with those of shareholders: independent of the Group.
Effectively using the Companys equity for the purposes of reward Advisers to the Committee and retention: and The Chief Executive, Company Secretary and Group Human Resources Director, who are generally invited to attend Committee meetings, provide Encouraging Executives to build and maintain a meaningful shareholding in the Company.
advice and or services to the Committee.
No Executive participates in any discussion concerning his or her own remuneration.
39 The potential payment of the annual bonus for both the EVA and EPS Remuneration parts of the bonus will be as shown in the following table: report continued Performance vs target 97.5% 100 105% % of salary for Chief Executive 12.5 50 125 % of salary for Executive Directors 11.5 46 115 The structure of remuneration for Executives is illustrated in the chart below.
This shows the proportionate breakdown of the package at target and The threshold of 97.5 per cent of target represents an increase over the maximum remuneration showing the target levels of the annual bonus and actual 2007 08 EPS before one-off losses and an improvement in EVA over Performance Share Plan as a proportion of the maximum: the prior year.
No bonus would be payable on the achievement of results below 97.5 per cent of target.
A straight-line sliding scale of payment will operate Proportion of fixed vs performance-related remuneration % between the points in the target range.
The threshold is raised to 97.5 per cent Chief Executive from 95 per cent in the previous year.
Maximum bonus would be paid upon Target achievement of 105 per cent of target 2007: 115 per cent.
The Committee has changed the scale of performance versus target to Maximum reflect the tougher level of performance required to achieve target performance.
Achieving target 100 per cent will be a significant achievement for the Group Other Directors and in this regard the degree of stretch above budget is considered by the Target Committee to be suitably stretching.
Maximum The annual bonus scheme is designed to drive complementary behaviours across the senior executive population as well as aligning with 0 20 40 60 80 100 the Groups goals and with shareholders interests.
The table illustrates the Salary Pension Annual bonus Performance share plan cascade of targets for the year ended 31 March 2009 for the Business Driver Group currently approximately 35 employees.
Typically, individuals will be bonused on two to three of these targets: Base salary: salaries are reviewed annually and are determined by individual performance and by reference to market salary levels obtained Performance measure Employee level from independent sources.
This is the only element of remuneration which is 12 3 pensionable.
Base salary increases during the year ended 31 March 2008 for Earnings Per Share Executive Directors Executive Directors were between 5.7 per cent and 21.0 per cent.
The increase EPS including the Chief in Ian Adamsons salary reflects an extension of his responsibilities as he took Executive EVA Executive Directors Executive direct responsibility for the SSL Americas business and for Group Marketing.
including the Committee In determining base salary levels for Executive Directors, pay and conditions Chief Executive in the workforce generally are taken into account.
Strategic personal Executive Certain Group Annual bonus plan: This is a cash plan designed to drive complementary performance objectives Committee Management team roles behaviours within the wider executive population.
Group Brand Executive Group Management Contribution Committee team The maximum potential bonus payable to the Executive Directors for Group: Operating Group Management the 2008 09 financial year has increased to 125 per cent of base salary for the cash flow Management team Chief Executive and to 115 per cent of base salary for the Executive Directors Operating Profit previously 115 per cent and 100 per cent respectively.
The Committee is Regional Operating Regional Commercial satisfied that the restructured bonus will provide an appropriate incentive cash flow team to reward the Executives for continued outstanding annual operational Regional Brand Regional Commercial Contribution team performance and execution of Group strategy.
Each year the target setting Regional sales Regional Commercial approach will ensure that any bonus payable above market levels must be team subject to extremely challenging performance criteria.
No specific targets Customer service Manufacturing and are set for the Executive Directors relating to environmental, social and Logistics team governance ESG performance.
The Companys performance in regard Category Brand Manufacturing and to ESG matters is robustly monitored and the Committee would consider Contribution Logistics team Personal Executive Certain Group, any failure in these areas when determining any payment of a bonus.
Performance Committee commercial and The performance measures are unchanged from the previous year.
manufacturing roles One-third of the annual bonus will be based on Economic Value Added EVA targets, and two-thirds will be based on a range of challenging earnings per Overall, the Committee is satisfied that the annual bonus plan has share EPS targets.
created an excellent link between reward and company performance.
EVA which is calculated as normalised operating profit after tax less the Performance Share Plan PSP cost of all capital employed to produce those earnings captures the three basic generic strategies for creating value: Executive Directors and certain other Executives are entitled to participate in the PSP, which is the Groups only long-term incentive plan.
To increase economic return for capital employed: Under the PSP, conditional awards of shares are granted each year.
Other than in exceptional circumstances, the value of awards as at the To grow by investing in new products whose return more than compensates for the risk taken: and date of grant does not normally exceed 100 per cent of an Executives base salary.
Subject to the satisfaction of performance conditions, determined To curtail investment and divert capital from uneconomic activities.
annually by the Committee, awards vest on the third anniversary of grant.
Performance conditions are determined annually by the Committee.
EVA was introduced as a performance measure in the previous financial year.
The Committee is satisfied that EVA continues to be an effective link Details of awards granted since 2005 are given on page 45.
The Committee has considered carefully the award levels and between improved underlying business performance and appropriate reward to the Executive Directors.
performance conditions attached to the 2008 09 awards.
As set out in recent results presentations, Company performance has been outstanding and, with a number of strategic initiatives ongoing and being contemplated, the Committee considers that it is critical that this highly talented management 40 Governance Annual Report and Accounts 2008 team is retained and provided with a significant incentive opportunity at the Shares to satisfy awards may be purchased in the market via the present time.
Accordingly, it is proposed that in addition to the normal award, Companys Employee Benefit Trust or using newly issued shares within an exceptional award of 200 per cent of base salary be made to the Executive ABI guideline-compliant dilution limits.
Directors and to certain other key senior executives at lower multiples of Shareholding guidelines base salary.
The granting of the exceptional award is dependent upon a Executive Directors will be expected to retain at least 50 per cent of change to the rules of the PSP, which will require the approval of shareholders the shares net of tax which vest to them under the PSP until a shareholding at the AGM.
equivalent to 100 per cent of base salary is achieved.
In order for the exceptional award to vest, the Group must achieve very stretching EPS and EVA growth targets.
Accordingly, the expected value of Pension the exceptional award is considered to be significantly lower than for the The Company operates a number of retirement benefit programmes normal award.
Such benefits reflect local competitive conditions The vesting of these awards will be subject to the achievement of a and legal requirements.
combination of EPS one-third and EVA two-thirds targets.
The Committee In the UK the Company operates three defined benefit schemes and has concluded that the current policy of basing performance conditions on a contracted-in defined contribution scheme, the SSL UK Pension Scheme the Companys financial performance has created a very effective incentive.
the SSL Scheme for UK employees.
All UK defined benefit schemes are The Committee will continue to monitor performance targets to ensure closed to new entrants and future pension accrual.
that such targets remain sufficiently stretching and aligned to the interests Executive Directors who participate in the SSL Scheme contribute of shareholders.
5 per cent of their base salary.
Executive Directors receive 25 per cent of The vesting schedule for the normal and the proposed exceptional base salary in respect of retirement provision.
Any contributions that are not awards granted to Executive Directors is set out in the table below: made in respect of retirement provision are paid as a salary supplement.
Ian Adamson is also a member of one of the defined benefit schemes.
Garry Watts is not a member of the SSL Scheme but operates a personal EPS 1 3rd EVA 2 3rds Compound annual growth rate Aggregate generated over pension plan.
Garry Watts receives 25 per cent of base salary in respect of CAGR over the three financial the three financial years retirement provision.
Any contributions that are not made in respect of years ending March 2011 ending March 2011 retirement provision are paid as a salary supplement and are excluded from Normal Award Percentage of Performance Percentage of Performance 100% of salary salary vesting scale salary vesting scale the calculation of bonus entitlements and PSP awards.
Below Threshold Nil 17% Nil 130m Other benefits Threshold 5% 17% 10% 130m The Company provides other benefits to the Executive Directors and Maximum 33.3% 20% 66.7% 140m certain other executives, namely a company car or car allowance, life assurance, permanent health insurance and private medical insurance.
Exceptional Award Percentage of Performance Percentage of Performance 200% of salary salary vesting scale salary vesting scale Service contracts Below Threshold Nil 20% Nil 140m It is Company policy that the notice period in Executive Directors Threshold 10% 20% 20% 140m contracts should not exceed one year.
However, the Committee retains the Maximum 66.7% 23% 133.3% 150m discretion to offer a service contract to a new Executive Director that contains an initial notice period in excess of one year, in exceptional circumstances A sliding scale of payment will operate between the points in the where this is considered necessary.
The Executive Directors contracts have no fixed term but provide that Despite EPS and EVA also being used for the annual bonus plan, the either the Director or the Company may terminate the employment by giving Committee is also satisfied that there is, in reality, relatively little overlap one years notice.
Under the PSP, performance is measured over three years, compared to a single financial year for the bonus.
Director Date of contract EPS and EVA will be calculated by the Company and achievement of Garry Watts 5 February 2001 targets will be independently verified before the awards vest.
The Committee Ian Adamson 17 June 1996 is satisfied that the target range for both measures is sufficiently stretching Mark Moran 28 May 2004 and their achievement would result in significant shareholder value creation.
In particular, it is recognised that a relatively low by market standards There are no express provisions for compensation payable in the event proportion of the award vests at the initial vesting threshold.
of termination except that Garry Watts contract provides that, if the Company The normal award will be granted in late May or early June 2008.
The terminates Mr Watts appointment with immediate effect, in addition to his exceptional award will, subject to shareholder approval, be granted after the contractual notice period Mr Watts shall be entitled to a payment equivalent AGM, which is being held on 24 July 2008. to the average of any bonus paid within the three-year period prior to the date Payment of the total PSP award that vests i. e. the normal plus exceptional of termination.
The Committee is satisfied that the inclusion of an award in elements will be phased: normal awards maximum 100 per cent of salary will respect of average annual bonus paid is appropriate, as this incorporates a vest after three years in 2011, while the exceptional award will vest in two equal performance-related element to any compensation payment.
parts after four years in 2012 and after five years in 2013.
Stretching the vesting If the employment of an Executive Director is terminated, the Committees period for the exceptional award to four and five years will provide a stronger policy is to apply mitigation to compensation payments at a level determined by retention element and alignment with shareholders.
reference to the individual circumstances of the Executive Director.
Appropriate Awards will not confer shareholder rights until the awards have vested external and human resource advice would be obtained in each case.
and participants have received their shares.
Participants will be entitled to receive a payment in cash and or shares Non-Executive Directors on, or shortly following, the vesting of their awards, of an amount equivalent Save as disclosed below, none of the Non-Executive Directors has a to the dividends that would have been paid on those shares between the time service contract.
when the awards were granted and the time when they vest.
Gerald Corbett was appointed a Non-Executive Director and Chairman The Committee considers that this exceptional incentive will provide a of the Company on 1 August 2005 for a term of three years, terminable by focus for executives to deliver outstanding performance and improvement 12 months notice by either party.
Mr Corbett receives a fee of 180,000 p. a. in shareholder value over the next three-year period and beyond.
The PSP and is entitled to a company car.
rules as amended will allow a similar, more tactical, use of equity in the future, The basic fee for Non-Executive Directors is 40,000 p. a. increased provided that exceptionally stretching targets are set for awards in excess from 36,000 p. a. with effect from 1 April 2008.
An additional fee of of normal market levels.
Provision to make grants above market levels will, 10,000 p. a. increased from 5,000 p. a. with effect from 1 April 2008 is of course, be used sparingly.
In addition, the Senior Independent Director, Peter Read, receives a further 5,000 p. a.
41 Remuneration report continued Details of the appointments of the other Non-Executive Directors are shown below: Non-Executive Director Appointment letter Date of appointment Initial term Comments Peter Read 28 February 2002 21 March 2002 One year Renewed annually.
Currently expires on 21 March 2009 Richard Adam 21 October 2003 13 November 2003 Three years Renewed for a further three years on 27 March 2006 Anna Catalano 29 October 2004 11 November 2004 Three years Renewed for a further year.
Expires 11 November 2008 Susan Murray 10 November 2004 1 January 2005 Three years Susan will stand down as a Non-Executive Director after the AGM on 24 July 2008 External appointments Director Non-executive directorship Fee 000 The Company recognises that Executive Directors may be invited to Garry Watts Stagecoach Group plc 44 become Non-Executive Directors of other companies.
These appointments Protherics plc 38 can be beneficial to both the individual and the Company in providing further MHRA until May 2008 7 experience and knowledge, but the Companys consent is required before an Executive Director can accept such an appointment.
Fees are normally Mark Moran Brixton plc 46 retained by the individual Director.
Garry Watts and Mark Moran each hold such appointments.
The details are given in the table opposite.
During the year any contributions in respect of retirement provision that 1.
Remuneration shown above relates to the period for which each Director were not made were paid as a salary supplement.
The amounts paid in the served during the year.
All Directors served throughout the year.
year which are included in the above table under benefits were as follows: G. Watts 140,000 2.
For the 2007 08 financial year, the performance targets for the annual I. Adamson 51,400 bonus were: M. Moran nil Target Threshold Stretch Actual Payment to former Director: EPS 19.1p 18.08p 21.85p 20.6p M. Pilkington resigned as an Executive Director on 22 March 2007 and left EVA 28.9m 27.5m 33.2m 32.7m the Company on 30 June 2007.
In addition to the terms of his settlement Therefore, the cash bonus payments will be: agreement disclosed last year, M. Pilkington earned 81,250 as an employee G. Watts 598,489: I. Adamson 259,365: and M. Moran 233,429. for the period 1 April 2007 to 30 June 2007.
These cash bonuses will be paid in June 2008.
Benefits include all taxable benefits arising from employment with the Company.
42 Governance Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Directors pensions audited information The following Directors received contributions as detailed below: 2008 2007 Company Company contribution contribution 000 000 G. Watts 20 20 I. Adamson 32 29 M. Moran 67 62 I. Adamson As noted, Mr Adamson is a member of a defined benefit scheme.
Details are given below: I Adamson Accrued benefit at 1 April 2007 6,335 Accrued benefit at 31 March 2008 6,580 Increase in accrued benefits excluding inflation Nil Increase in accrued benefits including inflation 245 Transfer value of increase in accrued benefits excluding inflation Nil Transfer value of accrued benefits at 31 March 2007 61,822 Transfer value of accrued benefits at 31 March 2008 87,943 Increase in transfer value 26,121 Notes: 3.
During the year the Company contributed 10 per cent of any bonus Pension contributions were paid as follows: sacrificed into the Executive Directors pension plan.
The amounts paid in the year included in the above table were as follows: 1.
I. Adamson into the SSL UK Pension Scheme and a personal G. Watts 20,455 pension plan.
M. Moran into the SSL UK Pension Scheme.
Directors interests in shares audited information Shareholdings The following table shows the beneficial interests of the Directors who held office at the end of the year in the ordinary shares of the Company: Shareholdings Shareholdings as at as at 31 March 2008 31 March 2007 Directors as at 31 March 2008 R. Adam 1,506 1,500 I. Adamson 15,626 15,626 A. Catalano 1,500 1,500 G. Corbett 32,500 32,500 M. Moran 1,797 1,797 S. Murray P. Read 5,023 5,000 G. Watts 50,000 50,000 Notes: 1.
No director held a non-beneficial interest in any shares.
With the exception of the exercise of options under the SSL Sharesave Scheme described in note 7 on page 44, there have been no changes in the interests of serving Directors between 31 March 2008 and 19 May 2008.
Following the disposal of the Group's medical business and the resultant 1 Exercise is subject to growth in normalised earnings per share during the reduction in earnings, the Committee reviewed the performance performance period exceeding the retail price index RPI.
The targets for conditions attaching to options granted under the SSL 1996 Executive each grant are as follows: Share Option Scheme.
It was agreed that the performance criteria should be rebased to fairly compare historical earnings with those in the ongoing 1.1 Exercise is subject to growth in normalised earnings per share for not less business, but the rebased figures should be no less stretching than the than three years commencing on 1 April 2001 exceeding the growth in the previous targets.
Given the share price at the times of grants which was retail price index by at least an average 2 per cent p. a.
This condition has in excess of 480 pence, the Committee determined that only earnings been met.
since the financial year ended 31 March 2002 would be reviewed.
1.2 Exercise is subject to growth in normalised earnings per share for not less Consequently the earnings per share figures for the financial years ended than three years commencing on 1 April 2000 exceeding the growth in the 2002, 2003 and 2004 were rebased.
In light of the rise in the share price retail price index by at least an average 5 per cent p. a.
This condition has during the year, the Committee agreed that the earnings per share figures not been met.
for the financial year 2001 be rebased.
The calculations to determine the new figures have been independently checked by Ernst & Young LLP, 1.3 Exercise is subject to growth in normalised earnings per share for three although Ernst & Young LLP express no opinion on the accuracy of the years commencing on 1 April 2002 exceeding the growth in the retail price base data and the appropriateness of the underlying assumptions.
index by no less than 2 per cent p. a.
This condition has been met.
No options were exercised in the period or the previous period.
1.4 Exercise is subject to growth in normalised earnings per share for three years commencing on 1 April 2004 exceeding the growth in the retail price 4.
There are no performance criteria for exercise of options under the index by no less than 3 per cent p. a.
This conditon has been met.
1.5 Exercise is subject to performance conditions that must be satisfied 5.
The market price of the Companys shares was 453.5 pence on 31 March over initially a three-year period although this may be extended up to five 2008 and ranged from 395.0 pence to 569.5 pence during the year.
The exercise is subject to growth in normalised earnings per share 6.
No options were granted in the period.
exceeding the growth in the retail price index by at least an average of 3 per cent p. a. and TSR of the Company when compared to TSR of 7.
On 2 April 2008, Ian Adamson exercised options over 5,527 ordinary shares companies of the FTSE 250 reaching sixth decile for 50 per cent of the of 10 pence in the Company, granted at 208.0 pence per share.
On 17 April option to become exercisable, between sixth and eighth for a pro rata 2008, Garry Watts exercised options over 3,997 ordinary shares of 10 pence between 50 per cent and 100 per cent of the option to become in the Company, granted at 237.0 pence per share.
Both exercises were in exercisable and eighth decile and above for 100 per cent of the option respect of the SSL Sharesave Scheme an SAYE scheme.
The TSR condition has not been met.
The vesting of this award is subject to the following combination of 1.
The vesting of this award is subject to the following earnings per share earnings per share growth and economic value added over a period growth over a period of three years commencing on 1 April 2005: of three years commencing on 1 April 2007.
Average annual EPS growth: percentage of performance share award Earnings per share growth for one-third of the number of shares subject that vests to the award: RPI 15 per cent: None Average annual EPS growth: percentage of performance share award RPI 15 per cent i. e. 45 per cent over three years : 15 that vests RPI 30 per cent or more i. e. 90 per cent over three years : 100 Below RPI 7 per cent: None Between the above points: Pro rata between 15 and 100 RPI 7 per cent i. e. 21 per cent over three years : 5 This condition has been met in full.
RPI 12 per cent i. e. 36 per cent over three years: 16.7 The market price on date of award was 291.5 pence.
The award price RPI 17 per cent i. e. 51 per cent over three years : 33.3 was 290.90 pence being the average of the middle market quotations Between the above points: Pro rata between 5 and 33.3 for an SSL share derived from the Official List of the UKLA for the five Economic Value Added EVA for two-thirds of the number of shares consecutive dealing days immediately preceding the date of award.
subject to the award: Aggregate EVA: percentage of performance share award that vests 2.
The vesting of this award is subject to the following earnings per share Below 90 million: None growth over a period of three years commencing on 1 April 2006: 90 million: 10 Average annual EPS growth: percentage of performance share award 100 million: 33.3 that vests 110 million: 66.7 RPI 10 per cent: None Between the above points: Pro rata between 10 and 66.7 RPI 10 per cent i. e. 30 per cent over three years : 15 The market price on date of award was 427.25 pence.
The award price was RPI 20 per cent or more i. e. 60 per cent over three years : 100 428.7 pence being the average of the middle market quotations for an SSL Between the above points: Pro rata between 15 and 100 share derived from the Official List of the UKLA for the five consecutive The market price on date of award was 279.5 pence.
The award price was dealing days immediately preceding the date of award.
282.1 pence being the average of the middle market quotations for an SSL share derived from the Official List of the UKLA for the five consecutive dealing days immediately preceding the date of award.
Performance graph Total shareholder return FTSE 350 Index The graph shows the Companys Total Shareholder Return performance SSL International compared with that of the FTSE 350 Index.
This index was selected as an appropriate comparator index because it is a broad equity market index, of 350 which SSL is a constituent.
300 Peter Read 250 Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 19 May 2008 200 150 100 50 0 Mar 03 Mar 04 Mar 05 Mar 06 Mar 07 Mar 08 This graph looks at the value, by 31 March 2008, of 100 invested in SSL International on 31 March 2003 compared with the value of 100 invested in the FTSE 350 Index.
The other points plotted are the values at intervening financial year-ends.
