Directors remuneration report This report, which has been prepared in accordance with Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 the Act as supported by the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 and the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, outlines the membership and workings of the Remuneration Committee the Committee and provides an explanation of the components of the Groups remuneration policy together with details of Directors remuneration in respect of the year ended 31 December 2008.
As required by the Act, a resolution to approve this report will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The auditors are required to report to shareholders regarding Directors remuneration, descriptions of the Groups Long-Term Incentive Arrangements and Sharesave Scheme and the information contained in tables 1 and 2 in this report the auditable parts, and to state whether, in their opinion, these parts of the report have been properly prepared in accordance with the Act.
Membership of the Remuneration Committee The Committee is comprised solely of Non-Executive Directors and is chaired by John OReilly.
The other members of the Committee are John Hughes, Ian Nolan and Simon Batey.
John Hughes was appointed as a member of the Committee in accordance with the Combined Code which permits the Chairman of a Company, where he is deemed independent on appointment as Chairman, to be a member of the Remuneration Committee.
The Committee met five times during the year to consider the employment terms and remuneration of Executive Directors, to consider and approve the grant of share options in the Company, and to review remuneration matters of the Group generally.
The Committee is also responsible for reviewing the fee level of the Groups Chairman.
The fees of Non-Executive Directors are determined by the Board itself.
Whilst the Chief Executive Officer may at the invitation of the Committee Chairman attend Committee meetings, the other Executive Directors do not normally attend.
No Director has any involvement in decisions regarding his own remuneration.
Ernst & Young LLP provided independent external advice during the year to assist the Committee in remuneration matters including the formulation and implementation of the review of the Groups remuneration policy.
Ernst & Young LLP was appointed by the Committee in 2007 and only provides advice to the Group in respect of Directors remuneration.
Remuneration policy and 2008 Remuneration Review The key policy objective of the Committee is to secure and retain high-calibre Executive Directors with the skills, experience and motivation necessary to direct and manage the affairs of the Group so as to maximise shareholder value on a sustainable basis.
The Committee aims to align its remuneration policies with the Groups medium and long-term strategy.
This is achieved by a combination of: b a ba sic salary package, including benefits in kind, which recognises the responsibilities of individual Directors: b the A nnual Bonus Scheme, which provides rewards which reflect the performance of the Group and the contribution of individual Directors in a particular year: b long-term in centives which incentivise Executives to deliver sustained improvement in financial performance and shareholder returns over a period of years: and b a pe nsion contribution, which funds retirement benefits.
In determining the components of total remuneration for 2008 following the IPO of the Company in October 2007, the Committee put in place a remuneration policy for Executive Directors that was a partial transition away from the remuneration structure that existed before the IPO, which involved a traditional private equity approach highly weighted in favour of share-based remuneration.
Nonetheless, salary levels and annual bonus potentials for the Executives remained well below the median-level for a business of this size and complexity, and the caps on salary multiples for grants under the Telecity Group plc Performance Share Plan were accordingly set at relatively high levels.
The intention was that, in absolute terms, Executive Directors be entitled to a median-level total remuneration package comprising a below-median salary and an above-median long-term incentive package.
As indicated in the last Annual Report of the Company, a review of executive remuneration was to take place, and this was completed during the year.
Ernst & Young LLP, the Companys independent advisors on executive remuneration, assisted the Committee in this review.
The Committee also carried out a consultation exercise with certain of the Companys institutional shareholders and corporate governance organisations.
The two main reasons for the review were as follows: b whilst it is the intention that performance-related pay should continue to make up a significant proportion of the remuneration package, it was recognised that the remuneration approach typical of a private equity owned company was neither appropriate nor desirable, given the additional responsibilities for risk management and stewardship of companies on a public market.
The remuneration structure required further change to complete the transition to a more conventional listed company remuneration package: and b the c urrent challenging market conditions make it particularly important that remuneration remains market competitive, in particular in retaining the key talent vital to the future success of the Company.
The Company believes that the next 18 months to two years will be very important strategically, in terms of maximising the clear market opportunity that exists.
32 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2008 3 TCY ar08 back.
indd 9 26 02 2009 10:38:33 business and financial review corporate governance accounts The aim of the review was to set total remuneration at or around the market median overall, but with a rebalancing of the package to reflect normal practice in listed companies.
In calculating the market benchmark, the Committee used a conventional approach of referring to the group of 60 companies in the FTSE 350 ranked by capitalisation in which the Company is at the median.
Details of the numbers of shares held by the Executive Directors are shown on page 25.
It is considered that these shareholdings significantly align the interests of the Executive Directors with those of shareholders.
Details of the minimum shareholding requirements of the Executive Directors are given under Terms of Employment on page 34.
The key conclusions of the remuneration review and consultation exercise and actions taken as a result were as follows: b Basic salar y At the time of the Companys IPO, the salary levels of the Executive Directors were set significantly below the market median-level for a business of the Groups size and complexity.
This was part of the legacy arrangements from its period of private ownership.
The Remuneration Committee has now aligned the basic salaries of the Executive Directors with the market median.
The annual basic salaries of Michael Tobin and Brian McArthur-Muscroft for 2009 are 420,000 and 255,000 respectively.
Because of the low salary paid in previous years this reflects a high increase, but this represents a one-off correction and will not be repeated.
This change has been coupled with a significant reduction in the awards under the Companys Long-Term Incentive Arrangements, as detailed further below.
b Annual bonus In 2008, each Executive Director was entitled to an annual bonus of up to a maximum of 50% of annual basic salary.
In the remuneration review, it was recognised that this was significantly below market competitive levels and might not therefore provide sufficient incentive to drive business performance in the short and medium term.
Therefore, the potential annual bonus for each of the Executive Directors was increased to 110% of annual base salary.
The bonus is only payable to the extent that stretching corporate performance targets set by the Remuneration Committee are achieved or exceeded.
Of the total bonus that becomes payable for 2009, up to the first 30% will be satisfied wholly in cash and any amount of bonus payable above this will be satisfied 40% in cash and 60% in restricted shares.
It will not normally be possible to sell these shares until at least two years after the bonus becomes payable and then providing the Executive Director continues in employment with the Group.
It is considered that this approach both augments shareholder alignment and provides the Directors with a meaningful incentive to meet challenging short-term targets for the business.
b T elecity Group Performance Share Plan PSP The PSP is the Companys main Long-Term Incentive Arrangement.
It permits the grant of two different sorts of incentive: performance-related awards of shares at nil cost performance shares and performance-related grants at fair market value of options to acquire shares share options.
Further details of the PSP are given on page 35.
Two changes are to take place in the operation of the PSP during 2009: b first, the Company intends to grant performance shares, rather than share options although the facility to grant options remains, if the Committee considers these to be more appropriate.
It is considered that this better aligns the Company with market practice.
b secondly, awards will be substantially reduced this year to bring the remuneration package in line with normal market practice, within a limit of 100% of annual salary for grants of performance shares or 150% of annual salary in the event that share options are granted.
Relative total shareholder return TSR will continue to be used in 2009 as the performance measure for PSP awards.
The Remuneration Committee considers it to be the best measure to support business strategy and deliver value to shareholders over the medium to long-term.
Vesting of awards will continue to be after three years from the date of award.
The Remuneration Committee considers that this approach gives Executives the potential to earn rewards that are both fair and capable of incentivising them to increase shareholder value.
b P ensions, benefits, and contractual terms Company contributions to the Executives pension schemes have been increased to 14% of basic salary and the Executives receive a car allowance equivalent to 3% of salary, again to be in line with market practice.
The pre-existing entitlements to life assurance, medical insurance and permanent health insurance remain.
The service contracts of the Executives have been amended as part of the remuneration review to bring them more into line with market best practice.
This included removal of any payment for unearned bonus on early termination, and the introduction of minimum shareholding requirements and a requirement to repay certain performance related remuneration in the event of subsequent restatement of the Groups published accounts.
In order to capitalise on the market opportunities before the Group, the Remuneration Committee believes it is essential to retain and motivate the Executive Directors and the new remuneration structure is designed to achieve this.
33 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2008 3 TCY ar08 back.
indd 10 26 02 2009 10:38:33 Directors remuneration report ContInueD terms of employment Each Executive Directors employment is terminable on six months notice by the Executive Director and 12 months notice by the Company.
The Company may elect to terminate the employment of an Executive Director by making a payment equal to 12 months basic salary, Company pension contributions, and contractual benefits.
No payment is due to be made in these circumstances for any element of bonus not then earned by the executive director.
Details of the Directors service contracts are set out below: Date of contract Effective date Michael Tobin 5 October 2007 5 October 2007 Brian McArthur-Muscroft 5 October 2007 5 October 2007 Executive Directors are permitted to accept external appointments with the prior approval of the Board and where there is no impact on their role within the Group.
Any fees arising from such appointments may be retained by the Executive Director where the appointment is unrelated to the Groups business.
Fees from external appointments are disclosed in this report.
Executive Directors are required to hold shares in the Company with an aggregate value of at least their annual salary at that time based on the Companys share price on the London Stock Exchange.
If the published accounts of the Group are restated for any reason after they have first been published, and if such restated accounts would have resulted in an Executive Director receiving a lesser amount in terms of annual bonus, awards of shares or options over shares or other remuneration, then the Executive Director is required to immediately repay the balance to the Company.
Annual bonus scheme Annual bonus payments are based on the extent to which the corporate or individual performance targets set by the Remuneration Committee each year are achieved or exceeded in the relevant year.
For 2008, each Executive Director was entitled to an annual bonus of 40% of annual basic salary for on-target performance and, where performance exceeded this level, a bonus up to a total of 50% of annual basic salary could be paid.
The targets for payment of the 2008 annual bonus were based on: Proportion of total potential % of target Performance target bonus Target Actual achieved Adjusted EBITDA 50% 36.4m 40.4m 111% Adjusted earnings per share 30% 4.4p 7.8p 180% 1 Adjusted net debt 20% 40.2m 29.3m 127% 1 Calculated as year end net debt adjusted for timing differences to the approved 2008 capital expenditure budget.
The above performance results in total bonuses payable equivalent to 50% of basic salary.
The bonus is not pensionable.
For 2009, each Executive Director will be entitled to an annual bonus of up to 110% of base salary based on the level achieved or exceeded for three separate targets on a sliding scale from 30% of the relevant proportion for achievement of 90% of the relevant target to 110% of the relevant proportion for achievement of 110% of target with zero for achievement of below 90% of target.
Proportion of total potential Performance target bonus Adjusted EBITDA 35% Adjusted earnings per share 35% 1 Adjusted net debt 30% 1 Calculated as year end net debt adjusted for approved incremental capital expenditure in the year.
Any payments in respect of annual bonus payable for 2009 will be satisfied by the payment of cash and issue of shares as detailed under the Annual Bonus section of Remuneration Policy and 2008 Remuneration Review on page 33.
34 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2008 3 TCY ar08 back.
indd 11 26 02 2009 10:38:33 business and financial review corporate governance accounts Long-term Incentive Arrangements Telecity Group Performance Share Plan PSP The PSP permits the grant of two different types of incentive, performance related awards of ordinary shares and performance-related grants of options to acquire ordinary shares at fair market value at the date of grant.
The Remuneration Committee will not both award performance shares and grant share options under the PSP in the same year to any one individual.
The first award of options was made following the preliminary announcement of the Companys results for the year ended 31 December 2007.
It is anticipated that awards will generally be made on an annual basis in future with the next award following the preliminary announcement of the Companys results for the year ended 31 December 2008.
Executive Directors and employees of the Company and its subsidiaries are eligible to participate in the PSP.
Participation is at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee.
The Committee will decide whether to grant share options or performance shares, and the level of share options and performance shares to be granted.
It also sets the policy for the operation of the PSP, for example by agreeing performance targets and individual grant levels.
Under the PSP, eligible employees may be granted performance related awards entitling them, at the end of a specified period the Vesting Date, to a number of ordinary shares determined by reference to performance over that period.
Following the remuneration review, the intention is to grant performance shares in 2009 and the maximum number of performance shares to be awarded to an eligible Executive Director in any financial year calculated by reference to the market value of those ordinary shares at the date of the award is not to exceed 100% of annual basic salary save in exceptional circumstances where the Remuneration Committee determines in its discretion that it is necessary and appropriate to exceed this limit.
In relation to awards of options, each Executive Directors participation will be limited so that the aggregate price payable on the exercise of all options granted to him or her in any year under the PSP will not exceed 150% of the participants annual basic salary at the date of grant, save in exceptional circumstances where the Remuneration Committee determines in its discretion that it is necessary and appropriate to exceed this limit.
Prior to the granting of awards on any occasion, the Remuneration Committee will determine a performance target for awards which it considers to be appropriately demanding and which will be described to shareholders in the Directors Remuneration Report for the relevant year.
For 2008, the performance target was Total Shareholder Return as compared with other FTSE 250 companies, excluding investment trusts, and it is intended that this again be the performance target for 2009.
The reasons for use of this as the performance target are commented upon further in the section of this report relating to Remuneration Policy.
Vesting is based on a sliding scale ranging from median to upper quartile performance and is over a period of three years from the date of grant.
To the extent that new ordinary shares are to be issued to satisfy share awards under the PSP, or Sharesave Scheme described below, no awards may be granted if it would cause the aggregate number of ordinary shares capable of being awarded under those schemes together with any new schemes in the future during the preceding ten years to exceed 10% of the Companys share capital at the proposed date of grant.
The Telecity Group IPO Share Option Plan the SOP The SOP enabled the Company to grant options to acquire ordinary shares at the offer price at the time of the IPO of the Company in October 2007 to eligible key employees.
The purpose of the SOP was to provide an incentive to key employees which will vest at appropriate dates in the period prior to the vesting of the first awards under the Performance Share Plan, in March 2011.
Further details of the SOP were given in the Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2007.
This is the only grant of options to be made under the SOP and no further grants will be made under it in the future.
Options granted under the SOP will be satisfied using ordinary shares issued for this purpose to the Groups Employee Benefit Trust at admission to the Official List of the London Stock Exchange.
Sharesave Scheme Under the Sharesave Scheme, which has been approved by HM Revenue & Customs, employees may be granted an option to acquire ordinary shares at a fixed exercise price.
Subject to certain conditions, all employees are eligible to participate.
Participating employees are required to save each month into a savings account for a period of either three or four years, the proceeds of which they may use to exercise the option.
The employee will have a right to acquire the number of ordinary shares which he or she can acquire at the exercise price using the savings in his or her savings account.
A tax-free bonus is payable on the savings in the savings account on completion of the relevant savings contract.
At the end of the savings period the employee may either exercise the option within six months of the end of the savings period using the savings contributions and bonus which he or she has accumulated or have the savings and bonus repaid to him or her.
The maximum amount that an employee may save each month over the three year or four year period is 250.
The option exercise price may be set at a discount of up to 20% to the market value of the ordinary shares at the time of grant.
No discount was applied in 2007 when details of outstanding share options in respect of the scheme were first introduced.
35 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2008 3 TCY ar08 back.
indd 12 26 02 2009 10:38:33 Directors remuneration report ContInueD non-executive Directors Fees payable to Non-Executive Directors are determined by the Board and will be reviewed periodically within the limits set by the Articles of Association.
Fees of Independent Non-Executive Directors are intended to reflect the time commitment and responsibilities of individual Non-Executive Directors roles and are set at broadly market median-levels to ensure individuals of the necessary calibre and experience are recruited and retained.
The Non-Executive Directors do not accrue any other benefits in addition to their annual fee and do not participate in the Groups pension schemes.
No fees are payable to the Non-Independent Non-Executive Directors, Robert Morse, Ian Nolan and Sergei Riabtsov.
During the year, the fees payable to Independent Non-Executive Directors were reviewed by the Board with reference to market data on Non-Executive Directors in comparable companies from Ernst & Young LLP, the Companys Remuneration advisors, and another leading executive remuneration consultancy, and with reference to the time commitment from the relevant Directors.
Following this review and having taken account of that market data, the Board amended the fees payable to the Independent Non-Executive Directors to the following structure and amounts with effect from 1 January 2009.
000 Base fee 37.5 Fee for chairing a Main Board Committee 5.0 Fee for acting as Senior Independent Director 7.5 The Group has letters of appointment with each of the Non-Executive Directors which set out, amongst other things, their duties and expected time commitment.
The appointment letters of the Non-Executive Directors other than the Chairman are for an initial period of three years but may be terminated at any time by either party on one months written notice.
The Companys Chairman, John Hughes, has an appointment letter dated 5 October 2007.
His appointment is terminable by the Company on 12 months notice within the first two years of the term and six months notice thereafter.
The Chairman may terminate the appointment at any time on six months notice.
During the year, the fees payable to Mr Hughes were reviewed by the Remuneration Committee with reference to market data on Remuneration of Chairmen in comparable companies from Ernst & Young LLP, the Companys Remuneration advisors, and another leading executive remuneration consultancy.
Following this review and having taken account of that market data, the Remuneration Committee increased the fees payable to Mr Hughes to 120,000 with effect from 1 January 2009. table 1 Remuneration audited Directors remuneration in respect of the year ended 31 December 2008 was as follows: Basic Annual Benefits 2008 2007 salary fees bonus in kind Pension total total 000 000 000 000 000 000 Executives 1 Michael Tobin 300 150 4 21 475 225 1 Brian McArthur-Muscroft 200 100 2 10 312 143 Non-Executives 2 John Hughes 100 100 24 3 Simon Batey 44 44 9 2 John OReilly 40 40 10 Robert Morse Ian Nolan Sergei Riabtsov Total 684 250 6 31 971 411 1 Appointed 1 July 2007.
The annual basic salaries and fees of the Directors with effect from 1 January 2009 are as follows: 000 John Hughes 120.0 Michael Tobin 420.0 Brian McArthur-Muscroft 255.0 Simon Batey 50.0 John OReilly 42.5 Robert Morse Nil Ian Nolan Nil Sergei Riabtsov Nil Total 889.0 36 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2008 3 TCY ar08 back.
These options are not subject to performance conditions, other than continued employment, for the reasons set out in the explanation of that plan.
2 Granted under the Telecity Group Performance Share Plan.
The performance conditions attaching to these options and those under the approved appendix referred to below are set out in the description of that plan.
3 Granted under the approved appendix to the Telecity Group Performance Share Plan.
The highest, lowest and year end prices for the Companys shares for 2008 were 3.015, 1.323 and 1.760 respectively.
total shareholder return The graph below shows the total shareholder return for the Company compared with the FTSE 250 excluding investment trusts and the FTSE All Share since IPO.
The Company is a member of these indices, which are therefore considered to be the most appropriate comparators.
60% 40% 20% 0% -20% -40% Telecity FTSE 250 FTSE All Share -60% Fees from external appointments Michael Tobin received and retained fees in the year ended 31 December 2008 in respect of his non-executive directorships of two companies unconnected with the Groups business totalling 13,000 2007: 40,000.
On behalf of the Board John oReilly Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 30 January 2009 37 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2008 3 TCY ar08 back.
