212584 TESCO REP P25 38 N 1 5 08 19:35 Page 25 Directors remuneration report year ended 23 February 2008 This is the report of the Remuneration Committee on behalf of the Board.
The remuneration strategy for Executive Directors and other key executives is tailored to emphasise the delivery of strong year-on-year earnings Remuneration Committee growth as well as sustained performance in the longer term.
Long-term The Remuneration Committee the Committee is governed by formal performance is rewarded through delivery of shares and short-term Terms of Reference.
They are reviewed annually and are available performance through a combination of cash and an element of compulsory from the Company Secretary upon request or can be viewed at deferred shares.
This ensures continued emphasis on strong annual www.
performance combined with long-term executive share ownership, providing a strong link between the incentives received and shareholder Composition of the Committee value delivered.
A diagram illustrating the balance between fixed and The Committee consists entirely of independent Non-executive Directors.
variable reward is shown later in this report on page 26.
The members of the Committee are Mr C L Allen Chairman of the Committee, Mr R F Chase, Mrs K Cook, Mr E M Davies and Dr H Einsmann.
Tesco operates in a highly competitive and rapidly changing retail No member of the Remuneration Committee has any personal financial environment.
Business success depends on the talents of the key team, interest in the matters being decided, other than as a shareholder, nor any but outstanding business performance comes from teamwork.
Tesco has day-to-day involvement in running the business of Tesco.
Mr J M Lloyd, a stable and successful management team and building and retaining that the Company Secretary, is Secretary to the Committee.
Mr D E Reid, team at senior levels within Tesco is important to our continued success.
Non-executive Chairman, and Sir Terry Leahy, Chief Executive of the Group, We believe our incentives should support the continued progress within both attend meetings at the invitation of the Committee.
They are not the existing business, the strengthening of our returns from the International present when their own remuneration is being discussed.
The Committee business and the creation of significant new businesses, such as the is supported by the Group Personnel and Finance functions and has US venture.
continued to use the services of Deloitte & Touche LLP whom it appointed as an external, independent advisor.
Deloitte & Touche LLP also provided In the past year the Committee reviewed the Groups existing remuneration advisory services in respect of corporate tax planning, share schemes, arrangements in light of these requirements and concluded that a international taxation, corporate finance and treasury to the Group during rebalancing of incentives was required, which resulted in the introduction the year.
Members attendance at Committee meetings is listed in the of several new elements to the Executive remuneration structure: Corporate Governance section on page 21 of the Annual Report and the establishment of a Group New Business Incentive Plan which focuses Financial Statements 2008. on long-term business development four to seven years into the future : the introduction of an additional element into our current three-year The role of the Committee Performance Share Plan which targets the performance of our existing The Committees purpose is to: international business: and determine and recommend to the Board the remuneration policy for the adoption of a new US Long-Term Incentive Plan for our US Executive the Chairman and Executive Directors: team to ensure that we can attract great talent to build our US business.
ensure the level and structure of remuneration is designed to attract, retain, and motivate the Executive Directors needed to run the Company: The Group New Business Incentive Plan and the US Long-Term Incentive and Plan were both approved by shareholders at last years AGM.
monitor the level and structure of remuneration for senior management.
Participation in the various elements is governed by the Remuneration The Committee also ensures that the remuneration relationship between Committee and individual Executives are awarded incentives under the the Executive Directors and senior executives of the Company below this elements which are most relevant to their sphere of responsibility.
In particular, the Committee is advised of any exceptional remuneration arrangements for senior executives.
The Group CEO, Sir Terry Leahy, has responsibility for delivering the continued success of our core business, developing our international Activities of the Committee business and also laying the foundations of major new businesses.
The Committee normally meets at least four times a year and circulates His incentives therefore reflect these three responsibilities: the core minutes of its meetings to the Board.
During the financial year ending reward: an award under the Performance Share Plan focused on improving 23 February 2008 the Committee met seven times.
The rolling schedule international ROCE: a one-off award under the new Group New Business for the Committee includes: a review of overall remuneration arrangements: Incentive Plan: and participation in a New Business short-term bonus for an overview of best practice: Executive salary and total remuneration the next three years of 50% of salary based on achievement of financial benchmarking: the review of Chairmans remuneration: consideration of the and strategic milestones for new business development.
The one-off award relationship of reward between Executive Directors and senior managers: under the Group New Business Incentive Plan will only pay out in full if both determining the level of awards and grants to be made under the Group challenging new business performance targets over the period 2010 11 incentive plans: agreeing targets for the forthcoming year: considering to 2013 14 are met and stretching Group and international ROCE targets feedback from shareholders: and an annual review of its own effectiveness.
are also met over the periods 2007 8 to 2011 12.
Executive Directors remuneration policy The US venture is currently the most developed new business initiative with Tesco has a long-standing policy of rewarding talent and experience.
significant opportunity to generate long-term shareholder value.
Sir Terry We also seek to provide incentives for delivering high growth and high Leahy is the architect of the concept and format of the new US business, returns for shareholders.
The Committee believes that a significant and his continued leadership and drive are critical to the success of this proportion of total remuneration should be performance-related and start-up business.
Payment of his award under the Group New Business delivered largely in shares to closely align the interests of shareholders Incentive Plan will therefore initially be focused on the new US business: and Executive Directors.
In determining the balance between the fixed however, the Remuneration Committee will have flexibility to consider and and variable elements of the Executive Directors remuneration packages, include other new business development opportunities within the proposed the Committee has regard to both policy and market practice.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008 25 212584 TESCO REP P25 38 N 1 5 08 19:35 Page 26 Directors remuneration report continued Mr T J R Mason, the US CEO, is responsible for delivering the successful Executive Directors are also eligible to participate in the Companys allroll-out of the US business.
He has therefore been made a one-off award employee savings related share option scheme SAYE, Shares in Success under the new US Long-Term Incentive Plan.
He is also participating in and Buy As You Earn scheme on the same terms as all other UK employees.
a US short-term annual bonus plan, under which payouts, in the start-up phase, will be subject to performance against strategic and financial The diagram below shows the targeted balance of fixed and performance milestones.
Payouts under the US Long-Term Incentive Plan will be based related elements for different levels of performance.
on the delivery of a strong profitable US business for Tesco shareholders and that success will be measured by a combination of EBIT and ROCE When setting the remuneration of Executive Directors, the Committee targets.
Awards will be earned over the four years 2010 11 to 2013 14 has discretion to consider the Groups performance on environmental, and will be in the form of Tesco PLC shares.
social and governance ESG matters.
Specific ESG performance targets are applied to certain elements of the remuneration structure, in order Members of the US senior management team will also participate in the to reinforce positive and responsible behaviour by senior management.
Basic pay The other Executive Directors have responsibility both for delivering Basic pay is designed to attract and retain talented individuals.
It needs continued success of our core business and developing our international to reflect individual capability and any changes in responsibilities as businesses.
They therefore receive an incremental award under the the Company faces new opportunities and challenges.
As the Company Performance Share Plan which is focused on improving international ROCE.
continues to diversify into new product areas and services, as well as expanding internationally, it seeks to reflect this in the benchmarking that Total remuneration is used.
We aim to reflect salary levels at the top performing retailers, the The total remuneration levels of Executive Directors are reviewed annually leading FTSE companies and ensure consideration is given to international by the Committee.
The Committee considers external independent competitors in order to attract the best people and maintain excellent remuneration surveys to ensure it has proper regard to competitive market performance.
We also take into account pay conditions throughout the practice.
We are conscious of the risks involved in paying unjustified Company in deciding annual salary increases.
Basic salaries are typically amounts and therefore monitor carefully the basic salary and total increased with effect from 1 July each year.
With effect from 1 July 2007 remuneration that each Director receives.
The Executive Directors total Sir Terry Leahys base salary was 1,320,600, the base salary for the other remuneration package comprises, in varying degrees, the following elements: Executive Directors other than Miss L Neville-Rolfe was 753,900 and Miss Neville-Rolfes base salary was 495,000. base salaries determined by the responsibilities, skills and experience of the individual against a benchmark determined by reference to other Annual cash bonus and deferred annual bonus large retailers, major FTSE 100 companies and international comparator The Company operates an annual bonus scheme which is delivered part companies: in cash and part in shares.
The Remuneration Committee has typically annual bonuses paid part in cash and part in shares with a compulsory made awards of up to 100% of salary paid in cash at the end of the year deferral of the share element for three years: and a maximum of 100% of salary paid in shares with compulsory deferral for three years.
The cash element is earned through achievement of EPS the Performance Share Plan with payout conditional on the achievement growth targets and specific corporate objectives.
In addition to these of stretching Group and International ROCE targets: targets, the share element is also based on an assessment of shareholder for the US CEO, the US Long-Term Incentive Plan, with payout returns TSR.
The Committee sets performance targets annually and conditional on the achievement of stretching targets based on confirms achievement of performance and awards to be made.
US EBIT and ROCE: We are not able to disclose future targets for reasons of commercial for the Group CEO, the Group New Business Incentive Plan with payout sensitivity.
By way of illustration of the approach to target-setting, the conditional on the achievement of stretching targets based on both corporate objectives are based on our balanced scorecard, the Steering US EBIT and ROCE and Group and International ROCE: Wheel.
Corporate objectives for the awards made in the financial year performance-related share option awards via the Discretionary Share 2007 8 included increasing sales from new space: specific profit targets Option Plan open to all senior managers: for international businesses and for retailing services: like-for-like sales growth and the development of the non-food business: focus on benefits which comprise car benefits, life assurance, disability and health developing trading models internationally and in non-food: enhancing insurance and staff discount : and talent management and capability: and embedding the new Community pensions.
Plan and implementing international community-related strategies.
Fixed element Performance-related elements Short-term Long-term performance performance Base salary Performance Group New Deferred Share Share Plan Business Cash bonus US LTIP share bonus Group & options Incentive International Plan c. 12%-33% depending on individual incentive arrangements c. 67%-88% depending on individual incentive arrangements and performance and performance Tesco PLC Annual Report and www.
com annualreport08 26 Financial Statements 2008 212584 TESCO REP P25 38 N 1 5 08 19:35 Page 27 The Committee considers TSR performance against the FTSE 100 and a The remaining 25% of the award will vest for superior Return on Capital comparator group of international retailers that includes Ahold, Carrefour, performance.
The Committee has agreed that it is appropriate to exercise J Sainsbury, Metro, Morrisons, Safeway Inc, Target and Walmart.
judgement on whether vesting should occur to encourage Executives to make investment decisions in the long-term interests of the business In order to motivate short-term performance and delivery of success in without being unduly influenced by the impact on the ROCE target.
When the start-up phase of the US business, the Committee agreed last year determining whether some, or all, of the remaining 25% of the award will to increase the potential short-term bonus opportunity for the US CEO, vest, the Committee will take into account a number of factors including: Mr Mason, from 100% to 150% of salary in cash and an equal amount the level of ROCE achieved: in deferred shares.
Mr Masons total short-term opportunity is subject to the expected ROCE for additional and existing capital investment: a combination of Group and US-specific performance conditions.
In order to incentivise and reward early stage success against financial and strategic whether capital spend is in line with strategic objectives and balances milestones for new business ventures, the potential opportunity under the short-term and long-term investment needs: share element of the short-term bonus for the Group CEO, Sir Terry Leahy, sales growth and underlying profit growth: and was also increased last year from 100% to 150% of salary with his potential cash bonus opportunity remaining at 100%.
The additional awards to whether this reflects other developments in the marketplace.
Mr Mason and Sir Terry Leahy are subject to performance conditions which measure the successful progress of the US business including leadership If the Committee exercises its judgement to allow some, or all, of the and delivery of financial and strategic objectives and factors such as site remaining 25% of the PSP awards to vest, we will describe in the Directors acquisitions, store openings, agreed capital expenditure, infrastructure, Remuneration Report those factors taken into account in determining the early turnover and financial milestones for returns from store openings.
level of the award which would vest.
Share awards will continue to be deferred for three years before release.
There is no re-testing of performance in respect of any targets.
Following the Remuneration Committees consideration of the extent to which the various performance measures in respect of the 2007 8 award Shareholder approval was obtained at last years AGM for the removal have been achieved, the Executive Directors have been awarded 90% of the requirement for any vested shares to be retained for a further of the cash element and 83% of the deferred shares element of that part 12 months.
of their annual bonus which is measured by reference to Group targets.
In addition, Mr Mason has been awarded 90% of the cash and deferred Following the completion of the three-year performance period for the shares elements of that part of his annual bonus which is measured by 2005 6 PSP award, the Committee considered the level of performance reference to US-specific targets, and Sir Terry Leahy has been awarded against the target for the first 75% of the PSP award of achieving post-tax 90% of the deferred shares element of that part of his annual bonus Group ROCE of 11.7% by the end of FY 2007 8.
Post-tax ROCE at the which is measured by reference to US-specific targets.
end of FY 2007 8 was 12.9%, so full vesting will occur in respect of the first 75% of the award.
The Committee also exercised its judgement as Performance Share Plan to the extent to which the remaining 25% of the PSP award should vest The Performance Share Plan PSP provides the opportunity to earn as a result of superior ROCE performance, taking into account factors rewards for achieving superior long-term performance.
By ensuring a focus including the level of ROCE achieved, the expected ROCE for additional on longer-term business success and encouraging the Executive Directors and existing capital investment, whether capital spend was in line with to build up a shareholding in the Company, the Plan further aligns the strategic objectives and balanced short-term and long-term investment interests of shareholders and Executive Directors.
needs, the level of sales and underlying profit growth and whether this reflected other developments in the marketplace.
Having considered these The rules of the PSP allow awards to be made over shares up to 150% factors in detail the Committee concluded that the whole of the remaining of salary.
In the year ended 23 February 2008, awards were made to all 25% of the award should vest.
the Executive Directors except Mr Mason over Tesco PLC shares equal to 150% of salary.
An award was made to Mr Mason over Tesco PLC shares US Long-Term Incentive Plan equal to 100% of salary.
The Group is seeking to build a substantial presence in the US which in time has the potential to become a significant driver of value for our For all the Executive Directors, awards over up to 100% of salary will vest shareholders.
Integral to the success of this strategy will be recruiting together with reinvested dividends subject to the achievement of Group and retaining high quality management to run this significant business.
The awards over the equivalent of a further 50% of salary The Tesco PLC US Long-Term Incentive Plan 2007 the US LTIP has been made to the Executive Directors other than Mr Mason will vest together designed to deliver reward only if the US business delivers significant value with reinvested dividends subject to the achievement of targets based for shareholders.
on International ROCE to incentivise and reward delivery of higher returns from invested capital outside the UK but excluding the US.
The US CEO and other senior members of the US management team have been made awards under the US LTIP.
No other Executive Directors The first 75% of the awards will vest on a straight-line basis at the end will participate in the Plan.
The maximum number of shares which may of the three-year performance period, with 25% vesting for baseline be awarded under the US LTIP is 2 million shares to the US CEO and performance and the full 75% vesting for maximum performance against 1.5 million shares to any other participant.
An award of 2 million shares target.
The target in respect of the first 75% of the 2007 8 PSP award is was made to Mr Mason, US CEO, in November 2007.
Awards may be achievement of 14.2% Group ROCE and 8.1% International ROCE based adjusted to take account of any dividends paid or that are payable in on profit before interest less tax at the end of the three-year performance respect of the number of shares earned.
The extent to which awards will vest under the US LTIP will be conditional on the financial performance of the Companys US business, based on the achievement of stretching earnings before interest and tax EBIT and return on capital employed ROCE targets set by reference to the US long-term business plan.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008 27 212584 TESCO REP P25 38 N 1 5 08 19:35 Page 28 Directors remuneration report continued A percentage of the EBIT of the US business for the relevant years may be If less than threshold performance is achieved for each of these PSP awards allocated to an EBIT pool the profit pool.
The profit pool will be capped then no portion of the Group Plan award will become capable of vesting.
at 10% in any one year and is expected to be approximately 5% of If maximum Group and International performance is achieved for each of cumulative EBIT over the four measurement years 2010 11 to 2013 14. these PSP awards i. e. the 2007 2009 PSP awards vest in full in 2010 2012, then the whole of the Group Plan award will become eligible for The portion of an award which may vest will be determined by reference vesting, subject to achievement of the appropriate new business performance to the value of the EBIT pool as well as performance against the ROCE targets referred to below.
If Group and International performance for any hurdles for the relevant year, as outlined in the table headed Summary of these PSP awards is between threshold and maximum levels then the of US business performance conditions below.
Group award will become eligible for vesting on a pro rata basis, subject always to the achievement of the appropriate new business targets To the extent that the ROCE hurdles for any one year are met either in referred to below.
full or in part, but there is insufficient value in the profit pool to fund the vesting of awards, then the actual vesting in that year will be scaled back Once performance against the Group and International targets has been so that the profit pool is not exceeded.
That portion of the award that has determined, the extent to which the award made to the Group CEO not paid out in that year due to the profit pool being restricted may vest under this Plan is capable of vesting will be conditional on the financial in future years, provided that the profit pool in any later year permits this.
performance of the specified new business ventures, as determined by the Committee.
As the Companys US venture is currently the most developed The targets for the US LTIP have been based on the business plan in new business initiative, the award made to the Group CEO under the Group respect of the initial phase of the US business.
The Remuneration Plan will initially be focused on the performance of the US venture, based Committee has the responsibility to review these targets in light of the on the performance targets set out in the section headed US Long-Term scale and scope of the US business in order to ensure that they remain Plan above, although the Committee will have the flexibility to consider appropriate and challenging.
In particular, the Remuneration Committee and include other new business development opportunities within the will seek the input of the Audit Committee and the new Governance proposed award.
In addition, the Committee will consider the findings Oversight Committee described below in order to ensure that financial of the Governance Oversight Committee described below and opinions performance against the targets is indicative of strong and robust of the Audit Committee as to whether the level of ROCE achieved reflects business performance.
the underlying financial performance of the Company when considering if, and the extent to which, the award made to the Group CEO will vest.
Any material adjustments made in respect of the targets will be reviewed and approved by the Audit Committee and will be disclosed in the Awards made to other participants will vest based on the financial Companys Remuneration Report.
performance of new business ventures, as determined by the Committee at the time of any award.
Group New Business Incentive Plan A key part of the Groups long term strategy is to consider new business Governance Oversight Committee ventures which have the potential for significant long term value creation In light of the introduction of, and the potential future payouts under, the for our shareholders.
It is important to incentivise executives to encourage new long term incentive arrangements, it has been decided to establish entrepreneurialism where this is in the best long term interests of a Governance Oversight Committee the GOC to review and report at shareholders, and the Group New Business Incentive Plan Group Plan the end of each financial year on the allocation of capital and other Group supports this initiative.
Initially only the Group CEO will participate in the resources.
The GOC will comprise the Senior Independent Director of the Group Plan.
However, awards may be made to other employees at the Company who will chair the GOC, the Chairman of the Audit Committee discretion of the Committee in the future where this is appropriate to of the Company and the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee of do so in order to support the Groups new business ventures.
The Company Chairman will attend the GOC and the Company Secretary will serve as its secretary.
The maximum number of shares which may be awarded under the rules of the Group Plan is 2.5 million shares to the Group CEO and 2 million shares The GOC will report its findings to the Remuneration Committee each year.
An award of 2.5 million shares was made to the The Remuneration Committee will take these into account along with the Group CEO in November 2007.
Awards may be adjusted to take account view of the Audit Committee to ensure that financial performance against of any dividends paid or that are payable in respect of the number of targets is indicative of strong and robust business performance.
vesting under the plans may be adjusted by the Remuneration Committee in respect of Executive Directors or the Board in respect of all other The vesting of the award made to the Group CEO under this Plan will be employees who are participants.
In accordance with the Combined Code, conditional upon achievement against Group and International performance any such adjustments to vesting for Executive Directors will be reported conditions.
The performance conditions under this award will be aligned to shareholders in the Remuneration Report at the relevant time.
with the targets set for awards made under the PSP in each of the years 2007 to 2009, which will become capable of vesting between 2010 and 2012.
The targets set for awards made under the PSP are referred to in the section above headed Performance Share Plan.
Summary of US business performance conditions 1 ROCE hurdle 2010 11 2011 12 2012 13 2013 14 Maximum performance 6% ROCE 9% ROCE 11% ROCE 12% ROCE Target performance 4% ROCE 6% ROCE 8% ROCE 10% ROCE Vesting percentage % of maximum award Vesting levels at maximum performance Up to 25% Up to 50% Up to 75% Up to 100% Vesting level at target performance Up to 6.25% Up to 10% Up to 12.5% Up to 18.75% 1 ROCE targets have been calculated on the basis of an assumed tax rate of 30%.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and www.
com annualreport08 28 Financial Statements 2008 212584 TESCO REP P25 38 N 1 5 08 19:35 Page 29 Share options Funding of awards Options over shares with a value of 200% of salary are granted to the Executive incentive arrangements are funded by a mix of newly issued Executive Directors on an annual basis.
Options are granted with an shares and shares purchased in the market.
Where shares are newly exercise price equal to the market value at the date of grant and any gain issued the company complies with ABI dilution guidelines on their issue.
is therefore dependent on increasing the share price between the date of grant and exercise.
Vesting of the options is conditional on the achievement Share ownership guidelines of earnings per share performance conditions, with the first 100% subject Executive Directors are normally expected to build and maintain a to the achievement of EPS growth of at least RPI plus 9% over three years shareholding with a value at least equal to their basic salary.
New appointees and the balance vesting for achieving EPS growth of at least RPI plus 15%.
will typically be allowed around three years to establish this shareholding.
There is no re-testing of performance.
Full participation in the PSP is conditional upon this.
All Executive Directors currently satisfy this requirement.
Following the Remuneration Committees consideration of the extent to which the earnings per share performance conditions for the options Summary of remuneration elements granted to the Executive Directors in 2005 6 have been achieved, these All awards made to Executive Directors under the Annual Bonus, PSP, options will vest in full.
US LTIP and Group New Business Incentive Plan, and all options granted under the Discretionary Share Option Plan are subject to the satisfaction Share options are an important part of the incentive framework for of performance conditions.
If performance is lower than the maximum hundreds of senior managers within Tesco.
The Committee recognises targets, the short-term bonus and long-term incentives will reduce accordingly.
that some companies are moving away from share options and The Committee has reviewed the performance conditions for each of the has again considered the appropriateness of retaining this scheme.
incentive arrangements against the Groups business strategy, its growing The Committee remains highly confident that the share option plans global leadership, its position as one of the rising companies at the top of remain in the best interests of shareholders as they provide a clear, the FTSE 100 and increasing competition from private equity in the sector simple incentive arrangement for a large group of senior management, and has concluded that they provide a set of comprehensive and robust including Executive Directors, and they reward increases in absolute measures of managements effort and success in creating shareholder value.
A summary of the elements of the package and the applicable performance measures is set out in the table below.
Element of remuneration Performance measure Purpose Base salary Individual contribution to the business success To attract and retain talented people Annual cash bonus For all Executives, earnings per share and specified Motivates year-on-year earnings growth and Up to 100% of salary corporate objectives deliveryof strategic business priorities Additional potential of up to For the US CEO, objectives relating to early-stage progress Incentivises entrepreneurial spirit and early 50% of salary for US CEO in establishing the US operations stage progress of US business Annual deferred share element For all Executives, total shareholder return, EPS and Generates focus on medium-term targets and, Up to 100% of salary specified corporate objectives by incentivising share price and dividend growth, ensures alignment with shareholder interests.
Additional potential of up to Objectives relating to early-stage progress in establishing Incentivises entrepreneurial spirit and early 50% of salary for Group CEO new business ventures for the Group CEO, and relating stage progress of US business and US CEO to the successful start-up of the US operations for the US CEO Performance Share Plan Group performance: Group ROCE Assures a focus on long-term business success Up to 150% of salary: International performance: International ROCE and shareholder returns 100% for Group performance: and 50% for International performance The Committee will also take account of sales growth and US CEO not eligible for the 50% underlying profit growth in determining levels of vesting relating to International performance US Long-Term Incentive Plan US performance: US EBIT and ROCE Incentivises establishment of a successful One-off award to US CEO US business over the long term of 2 million shares, pays out in four tranches 2010 to 2014 Group New Business Incentive Plan New Business Performance: initially just US EBIT ROCE, Incentivises establishment of a successful new One-off award to Group CEO of but no payout unless Group and International ROCE businesses over the long term, but ensures 2.5 million shares, pays out in targets are also achieved continued focus on the Group as a whole four tranches 2010 to 2014 Share options EPS relative to retail price index Incentivises earnings growth and Executive Director shareholding Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008 29 212584 TESCO REP P25 38 N 1 5 08 19:35 Page 30 Directors remuneration report continued Other elements Performance graph Shares In Success The Group operates a profit-sharing scheme Shares The graph below highlights the Groups total shareholder return in Success for the benefit of UK employees including Executive Directors.
performance over the last five financial years, relative to the FTSE 100 index The scheme is available to employees with at least one years service of companies.
This index has been selected to provide an established and at the Groups year end and is recognised as a powerful incentive and broad-based comparator group of retail and non-retail companies of similar retention tool for all employees.
Shares in the company are allocated scale to Tesco.
to participants in the scheme on a pro rata basis to base salary earned up to HMRC approved limits currently 3,000 per annum.
The amount 300 of profit allocated to the scheme is determined by the Board, taking account of Company performance.
Tesco 250 Save as You Earn Since 1981, the Group has operated a HMRC approved savings-related share option scheme SAYE for the benefit of 200 employees including Executive Directors.
Under this scheme, employees FTSE 100 save up to a limit of 250 on a four-weekly basis via a bank building 150 society with an option to buy shares in Tesco PLC at the end of a three- 100 year or five-year period at a discount of up to 20% of the market value.
There are no performance conditions attached to SAYE options.
Feb 03 Feb 04 Feb 05 Feb 06 Feb 07 Feb 08 Buy as You Earn Since January 2002, the Group has operated the Total shareholder return TSR 1 March 2003 to 28 February 2008 partnership shares element of a HMRC approved share investment plan TSR is the notional return from a share or index based on share price for the benefit of employees including Executive Directors.
Under this movements and declared dividends.
scheme, employees save up to a limit of 110 on a four-weekly basis to buy shares at market value in Tesco PLC.
Service agreements The Executive Directors all have rolling service agreements with no fixed Pensions expiry date.
These contracts are terminated on notice of 12 months by the The retention of key management is critical to the future success of the Company and six months notice by the Executive.
business and to the growth of shareholder value.
Pension provision is central to our ability to foster loyalty and retain experience which is why If an Executive Directors employment is terminated other than pursuant Tesco wants to ensure that the Tesco PLC Pension Scheme is a highly to the notice provisions in the service agreement or by reason of resignation valued benefit.
or unacceptable performance or conduct the Company will pay a sum calculated on the basis of basic salary and the average annual bonus All Executive Directors are members of the Tesco PLC Pension Scheme paid for the last two years.
No account will be taken of pension.
which provides a pension of up to two-thirds of base salary on retirement, normally at age 60, dependent on service.
The Final Salary Scheme is now Termination payments will be subject to mitigation.
This means that closed to new entrants but has been replaced throughout the organisation amounts will be paid in instalments to permit mitigation.
If the termination by a different defined-benefit pension scheme which accumulates each occurs within one year of retirement, the termination payment will be year and is based on career average earnings.
Since April 2006, following implementation of the regulations contained To reflect his length of service with Tesco and the early age of his within the Finance Act 2004, Executive Directors have been eligible to appointment as CEO, Sir Terry Leahys service agreement provides for receive the maximum pension that can be provided from the registered his full pension entitlement to become available on retirement on or pension scheme.
The balance of any pension entitlement is delivered after his 57th birthday.
through a secured unapproved retirement benefits scheme SURBS.
Except for Mr Mason, the SURBS is secured by using a fixed charge over The Committee has agreed that new appointments of Executive Directors a cash deposit in a designated account.
This provides no greater security will normally be on a notice period of 12 months.
The Committee reserves than under the registered scheme.
In particular, in the unlikely event that the right to vary this period to 24 months for the initial period of the registered scheme were to be wound up with a deficit, members would appointment and for the notice period to then revert to 12 months.
be no better off under the SURBS arrangements than those paid out of the The service agreements are available to shareholders to view on request registered scheme.
Under these circumstances, to ensure parity, members from the Company Secretary.
of the SURBS would receive the same proportion of their total entitlement as those in the registered scheme.
Outside appointments Tesco recognises that its Executive Directors may be invited to become Over the last few years pension contributions by our Executive Directors Non-executive Directors of other companies.
Such non-executive duties have been increasing progressively.
In 2007 8 the level of contribution was can broaden experience and knowledge which can benefit Tesco.
Subject 7% of salary which is in line with senior managements contribution levels.
to approval by the Board, Executive Directors are allowed to accept non-executive appointments and retain the fees received, provided that Further details of the pension benefits earned by the Directors can be these appointments are not likely to lead to conflicts of interest.
Directors biographies can be found in the Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2008 on page 27 and fees retained for any non-executive directorships are set out below.
Company in which Fee retained by non-executive Director in Director directorship held 2007 8 000 Mr P A Clarke Whitbread Group PLC 55 Mr A T Higginson BSkyB 60 Tesco PLC Annual Report and www.
com annualreport08 30 Financial Statements 2008 212584 TESCO REP P25 38 N 1 5 08 19:35 Page 31 Non-executive Directors The Remuneration Committee determines the Chairmans remuneration, Non-executive Directors have letters of appointment setting out their duties having regard to time commitment and packages awarded to Chairmen and the time commitment expected.
The letters are available to shareholders of other companies of a similar size and complexity.
Mr D E Reid, to view from the Company Secretary upon request.
The Chairman meets Non-executive Chairman, received an annual fee of 585,000 this year with each Non-executive Director separately to review individual performance.
and has the benefit of a company car and chauffeur.
All Non-executive Directors are subject to re-election by shareholders every three years at the Annual General Meeting and their appointment can Compliance be terminated by either party without notice.
Mr Allen and Dr Einsmann, In carrying out its duties, the Committee gives full consideration to best each having served over nine years, will going forward submit themselves practice.
The Committee was constituted and operated throughout the for re-election every year subject to the Chairman having reviewed their period in accordance with the principles outlined in the Listing Rules performance and concluded that they continue to add value.
of the Financial Services Authority derived from Schedule A and B of the Combined Code Principles of Corporate Governance and Code of Best The remuneration of the Non-executive Directors is determined by the Practice.
The auditors report, set out on page 41, covers the disclosures Chairman and the Executive Committee after considering external market referred to in this report that are specified for audit by the Financial Services research and individual contribution.
This report also complies with disclosures required by the Director basic fee of 55,000 per annum.
The Chairs of the Audit and Remuneration Remuneration Report Regulations 2002.
Details of Directors emoluments Committees receive 30,000 in addition to their basic non-executive fee and interests, including Executive and savings-related share options, are set and Non-executive Directors who are members of these Committees receive out on pages 31 to 38.
The Senior Independent Non-executive Director, Mr R F Chase, who is also the Deputy Chairman, receives a fee Charles Allen of 118,000 per annum.
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Tables 1-11 are audited information.
Allowances are made up of compensation payments for additional tax due on equity awards made prior to Mr Masons move to the US.
Mr Masons benefits are made up of car, travel, medical and tax-related costs and services.
2 Miss Neville-Rolfe was appointed on 14 December 2006.
The 2006 7 figure in Table 1 is calculated from the date of her appointment.
3 With the exception of Mr Mason, benefits are made up of car benefits, chauffeurs, disability and health insurance, staff discount and gym leisure club membership.
4 The Long-term bonus figures shown in Table 1 relate to the additional 12.5% enhancements allocated in May 2007 on short-term and long-term awards under the old bonus scheme.
The long-term bonuses awarded on 14 November 2007 under the Performance Share Plan were awarded in the form of nil cost options with the exception of Mr Mason who received an unfunded promise to deliver shares.
Details of these awards are shown in Table 6.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008 31 212584 TESCO REP P25 38 N 1 5 08 19:35 Page 32 Directors remuneration report continued Table 2 Pension details of the Directors Executive Directors are members of the Tesco PLC Pension Scheme which provides a pension of up to two-thirds of base salary on retirement, normally at the age of 60, dependent upon service.
The Scheme also provides for dependants pensions and lump sums on death in service.
The Scheme is a defined-benefit pension scheme, which is approved by HMRC.
a Increase in Transfer Transfer accrued Transfer value value Total Increase pension value of a of total of total Increase accrued in accrued during at 23 February accrued accrued in transfer pension at pension the year 2008 less pension at pension at value less Age at Years of 23 February during net of Directors 24 February 23 February Directors 1, 2 23 February Company 2008 the year inflation contributions 2007 2008 contributions 2008 service 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 Mr R Brasher 46 21 293 52 43 408 2,559 2,767 208 Mr P A Clarke 47 33 331 36 24 244 3,364 3,343 21 Mr A T Higginson 50 10 252 40 32 370 2,711 2,882 171 3 Sir Terry Leahy 51 29 705 78 53 1,006 9,350 10,141 791 Mr T J R Mason 50 26 361 39 26 294 4,132 4,123 9 Miss L Neville-Rolfe 55 10 166 41 37 543 1,885 2,444 559 Mr D T Potts 50 35 364 38 26 305 4,281 4,285 4 1 The accrued pension is that which would be paid annually on retirement at 60 based on service to 23 February 2008.
2 Some of the Executive Directors benefits are payable from an unapproved pension arrangement, some of which are secured by a fixed and floating charge on a cash deposit.
3 Sir Terry Leahy is entitled to retire at the age of 57 to 60 inclusive with an immediate pension of two-thirds of base salary.
All transfer values have been calculated in accordance with Actuarial Guidance Note GN11.
Table 3 Gains made on share options 1 Value realisable Numberof Option Market Date Date Date of options price price at 2007 8 2006 7 of grant exercisable exercise exercised pence exercise Total 000 000 Mr R Brasher 465 Mr P A Clarke 30.04.2004 30.04.2007 08.05.2007 434,353 253.25 468.500 434,353 935 1,026 Mr A T Higginson 2,266 SirTerryLeahy Mr T J R Mason 1,023 Miss L Neville-Rolfe 30.04.2004 30.04.2007 08.05.2007 128,350 253.25 466.875 128,350 274 Mr D T Potts 30.04.2004 30.04.2007 08.05.2007 434,353 253.25 473.250 434,353 956 820 Total 997,056 997,056 2,165 5,600 1 The value realisable from shares acquired on exercise is the difference between the market value at exercise and the exercise price of the option, although the shares may have been retained.
The share price at 23 February 2008 was 400.25p.
The share price during the 52 weeks to 23 February 2008 ranged from 386.75p to 492.00p.
2 Gains made on Save As You Earn share options are not included above.
These are detailed in Table 5.
3 Gains made on nil cost options awarded under the Performance Share Plan are not included above.
These are detailed in Table 6.
EPS growth for the period 03 4 to 06 7 exceeded RPI by 26.6%, therefore share options awarded on 30 April 2004 vested in full on 30 April 2007.
Executives have until the tenth anniversary of the date of grant to exercise their options.
2 No options lapsed in the year.
3 The market price at exercise is shown in Table 3.
Options are not subject to performance conditions.
All options are exercisable from 1 February in the year which is six years from the year of grant.
All options expire six months from their exercise date i. e. on 1 August of the relevant year.
All directors exercised options on 1 February 2008 when the market price was 416.75p.
No options lapsed in the year.
Following approval by the Remuneration Committee Mr Mason part exercised his 2004 award on 23 August 2007 at a share price of 405.00p in order to fund a US tax liability.
2 Miss L Neville Rolfes 2006 awards were made in the form of restricted shares under the senior management performance share plan.
3 The Performance Share Plan replaced the Long-Term Executive Incentive Scheme.
The first award under the new Plan was made in 2004.
All awards except those described in notes 1 and 2 above have been made in the form of nil cost options.
4 The awards are subject to performance conditions based on Return on Capital Employed ROCE targets.
The Group ROCE for 2006 7 was 12.6%, therefore targets for PSP awards granted on 28 July 2004 were met in full and these awards vested.
Executives are required to retain these vested awards for a further 12 months with the exception of Mr Mason see note 1.
5 The awards are increased to reflect dividends equivalents as each dividend is paid with the exception of the 2004 award on which no dividends accrue.
6 No options lapsed in the year under this Plan.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008 35 212584 TESCO REP P25 38 N 1 5 08 19:35 Page 36 Directors remuneration report continued Table 7 Group New Business Incentive Plan Share price on As at Options Options As at Date from Date of award date 24 February granted exercised 23 February which Expiry grant pence 2007 in year in year 2008 exercisable date Sir Terry Leahy 14.11.2007 482.00 2,500,000 2,500,000 Four 14.11.2017 tranches 2011-2014 Total 2,500,000 2,500,000 1 The Group New Business Incentive Plan 2007 was approved by shareholders on 29 June 2007.
The awards made under this plan will normally vest in four tranches: four, five, six and seven years after the date of award for nil consideration.
Vesting will normally be conditional on the achievement of specified performance targets related to the return on capital employed over the seven-year plan.
The award is in the form of nil cost options.
Table 8 US Long-Term Incentive Plan Share price on As at Shares Shares As at Date of award date 24 February awarded released 23 February Date of award pence 2007 in year in year 2008 release Mr T J R Mason 14.11.2007 482.00 2,000,000 2,000,000 Four tranches 2011-2014 Total 2,000,000 2,000,000 1 The US Long-Term Incentive Plan 2007 was approved by shareholders on 29 June 2007.
The awards made under this Plan will normally vest in four tranches: four, five, six and seven years after the date of award for nil consideration.
Vesting will normally be conditional on the achievement of specified performance targets related to the return on capital employed in the US business over the seven-year Plan.
The first award under the new Plan was made in 2005.
2 The awards are subject to performance conditions based on TSR, earnings per share and corporate objectives.
3 Mr Masons 2007 award was made in the form of an unfunded promise.
His 2005 award was made in the form of nil cost options.
4 The awards are increased to reflect dividends equivalents as each dividend is paid.
5 No options lapsed in the year under the Executive Incentive Plan.
These shares cannot be retained for an additional three-year period and enhanced.
2 This Plan has been replaced by the Performance Share Plan and Executive Incentive Plan.
The last awards under this Plan were made in May 2004.
3 Long-term awards from 2002 are classed as four-year cycles and short-term awards from 2004 are classed as two-year cycles as no election for enhancement is possible yet.
Long-term awards can be enhanced from the fourth year, extending the cycle to seven years.
Short-term awards can be enhanced from the second year, extending the cycle to five years.
Between 23 February 2008 and 28 April 2008, 378 shares were purchased by Executive Directors as part of the Buy As You Earn scheme.
2 Options to acquire ordinary shares shown above comprise options held under the Executive Share Option schemes and Discretionary Share Option Plan shown in Table 4, Save As You Earn scheme shown in Table 5, and nil cost options held under the Performance Share Plan, Group New Business Incentive Plan and Executive Incentive Plan shown in Tables 6, 7 and 9 respectively.
