Remuneration Report The directors present their report on directors remuneration for the year ended 31 December 2008.
Compliance The constitution and operation of the Remuneration Committee is in compliance with the principles of Section 1 of the Code.
UNAUDITED REMUNERATION INFORMATION Members of the Remuneration Committee The members of the Remuneration Committee are Messrs. Ariko, McMonigall and Perle.
The chairman of the committee is Mr. Ariko.
Governing Principles The Remuneration Committee is responsible for reviewing and approving general compensation policies and setting compensation levels for executive officers.
The committee also administers incentive compensation plans.
Consistent with the policies of the Code, the companys policy for directors' remuneration for 2008 and subsequent financial years is that packages are intended to attract, motivate and retain directors of the calibre needed to achieve the companys growth program but not detract from the goals of good corporate governance.
Remuneration elsewhere within the company is taken into account when determining executive compensation.
The companys highest paid employee earns a base salary approximately five times the base salary of the average employee.
The main elements of executive pay packages historically and for the expected future are: Base salary and benefits.
Each senior executive's basic salary is determined by the Committee, taking into account the performance of the individual and the companys strategies.
Employment related benefits principally the provision of a company car are also provided where appropriate.
Executive directors base salaries are low relative to similarly situated companies, with performance-based incentive compensation forming the most important factor in overall compensation.
Pensions are based on base salary only.
In accordance with common practice amongst the companys peers, the company has performance related bonus plans for certain executive directors, discussed below.
Bonuses are paid based on achievement of pre-agreed targets.
The Board believes that share ownership by directors and staff aligns their personal interests with those of shareholders.
Options form the core element of the companys performance program, and are granted in small amounts from time-to-time after achievement of stretching performance targets and significant continuing contribution to value creation.
These share option awards are then subject to vesting periods, with initial vesting generally after 6 or 12 months with the remainder vesting over a total of 2.5 to 3.5 years.
The requirement for individuals to perform prior to granting options has been very effective in motivating performance, achieving targets and most importantly minimizing reward unconnected to an individuals performance.
It enables the company to specifically tailor grants to an individuals role in an efficient manner, thus avoiding the risks faced by companies in a high growth sector of unjust reward associated with simple, broad targets attached only to option exercises.
For example, a programmer might be awarded a small grant for completion of a project ahead of schedule, or a local operations manager might be awarded a small grant for effective integration of an acquired company.
This method also keeps individuals continuously incentivized as a grantee must remain employed to achieve full vesting of the options.
This method is also designed to ensure that individuals are not unjustly rewarded, which the Board believes is much more likely if large option grants are made with broad performance targets.
Under that method, an individual who was personally underperforming would undoubtedly be enriched if the company met its own broader performance targets, without making any material contribution.
During 2008 conditions for exercise of performance options were approved as follows: 30% of the grant will vest for exercise at the end of three years if the groups EPS growth exceeds the increase in the RPI over that period by 15%, and 100% of the grant will vest for exercise at the end of three years if the groups EPS growth exceeds the increase in the RPI over that period by 27%, with a straight-line increase between the two targets.
These targets are equal to the most stretching targets used by any peer company, and were deemed appropriate given the companys growth profile and targets.
The Board sets reasonable individual grant limits.
As a result, at 31 December 2008, the Board collectively held options over 0.32% of outstanding equity, and options granted to the Board during 2008 totalled 0.09%, of the companys outstanding shares at 31 December 2008.
The total number of options granted to Board members totalled less than 10% of all share options outstanding at 31 December 2008.
Share options are always issued at market value.
The maximum number of share options the company is permitted to grant is up to 10% of the outstanding shares.
There has been no departure from this policy during 2008.
Advice The committee has access to professional advice from outside advisors should it require assistance.
During 2008 the directors relied on information contained in generally available reports but did not engage any firm.
Directors' remuneration is considered to be highly incentive-based given the executive directors' significant equity holdings in the company and the performance-based bonus plans.
Considerations The committee is able to consider corporate performance on environmental, social and governance issues when setting remuneration of executive directors, and to date has had no reason to believe that the incentive structure for senior management raises risks related to such matters by inadvertently motivating irresponsible behaviour.
Autonomy Corporation plc 16 Remuneration Report Service Contracts The companys policies prohibit long-fixed contracts and contractual termination payments.
The company requires mutual notice periods for directors, but never in excess of 12 months.
All executive directors have service contracts and all non-executive directors have appointment letters.
All agreements provide for notice of 12 months or less, although do not have a specified fixed term, and all permit garden leave up to the length of the notice period.
No other amounts are payable on termination.
All terms of appointment are subject to the provisions of the Companies Act 1985 and the requirement to retire by rotation on the third anniversary of the previous election.
Details of directors service contracts are available on the companys website.
No director is entitled to any automatic payment by virtue of early termination of their contract or a change in control of the company.
Directors remuneration is not linked to share price performance.
Details of executive directors service contracts as at todays date are follows: Mutual Executive Directors Contracts Date Annual Salary Bonus Notice Period Dr Michael Lynch, Chief Executive Officer.................................... 9 July 1998 300,000 see below 6 months Sushovan Hussain, Chief Financial Officer................................... 27 June 2001 270,000 see below 12 months In 2008 executive directors were eligible for bonuses of 50% of base salary for achieving i revenue growth of at least 33% and ii adjusted earnings per share growth of at least 32%, with eligibility for an additional 25% of base salary for revenue growth of more than 38% and an additional 25% of base salary for adjusted earnings per share growth of more than 48%.
The targets were selected as objective, challenging growth targets designed to meet the growth objectives of the company.
In selecting the targets and levels of compensation the committee reviewed the plans of similarly situated technology companies and analyst consensus forecasts.
For 2008 each of the upper-end targets were achieved Each executive director is entitled to current benefits generally made available to all employees and any fees or remuneration he is entitled to as a director of Autonomy.
Payment of salary in lieu of notice is permitted on termination.
For a fixed period following the termination of employment, each of Dr. Lynch and Mr. Hussain are prohibited from soliciting the companys clients, customers and employees and from competing with us in a similar geographic area.
Messrs. Ariko, McMonigall and Perle serve as directors under appointment letters dated 7 January 2000, 2 July 1998 and 23 February 2000, respectively.
Under these letters as updated, Messrs. Ariko and Perle are each entitled to an annual fee of $70,000, Mr. McMonigall is entitled to an annual fee of 35,000.
Either party to each of these letters may terminate the appointment upon three months notice or payment of salary in lieu of notice.
Mr. Gaunt serves as a director under an appointment letter dated 9 July 1998.
Under this letter, as updated, Mr Gaunt is entitled to an annual fee of 18,000.
Either party may terminate the appointment upon six months notice or payment of salary in lieu of notice.
Performance Graph The accompanying graph sets forth the total shareholder return for the last five years of a holding of the companys shares against the corresponding change in a hypothetical holding of shares in the FTSE100 and FTSE250 Indexes.
These indexes represent broad equity market indexes in which the company, and similar companies, are constituent members.
Directors do not have pension, retirement or similar entitlements other than contributions to a money purchase pension scheme.
2 Messrs. Ariko and Perles remuneration of $70,000 from 1 April 2008 has been translated into sterling.
2008 salaries for the CEO and CFO were approved by the Board in early 2008 based on performance during 2007, which included record profits up 60% from the prior year, and the fact that executive director compensation was amongst the lowest of similarly sized companies despite extraordinary performance.
The remainder of the increase in remuneration was the result of significant over-performance against performance targets.
CEO and CFO salaries in 2008 remained approximately 50% below the median base salaries of similarly sized companies, despite the companys record performance significantly outpacing the market.
In 2008 each of Dr Lynch and Mr Hussains base salary and total remuneration remained significantly below the salaries and total remuneration of officers of similarly sized companies, according to salary surveys by Deloitte.
Non-executive directors are entitled to be reimbursed for their reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred in attending Board meetings and committees thereof.
No directors are entitled to reimbursement of non-business expenses, and all directors are subject to the companys global expense policies.
No director has a deferred bonus.
In connection with his services as a non-executive director of the BBC and blinkx Plc, during the year ended 31 December 2008 Dr. Lynch received total remuneration of 35,000 and 35,000 2007: 35,000 and 22,555 from the BBC and blinkx, respectively.
Dr Lynch performs these services independently of his duties to the company and thus is entitled to receive such compensation.
Autonomy Corporation plc 18 Remuneration Report At year end Dr. Lynch had a non-beneficial interest in shares, as noted above.
No other director had any non-beneficial interests in the shares of the company at the end of the year.
Aggregate emoluments disclosed above do not include any amounts for the value of options to acquire ordinary shares in the company granted to or held by the directors.
Long-Term Incentive Plans The group does not maintain any long term incentive plans.
Share Options Details of share options granted to executive directors, all granted based on performance, are set out below.
No executive directors' share options were cancelled or lapsed, or changed, during the year.
Vesting and exercise of options is subject to continued employment.
The principles underlying option grants are set forth on page 16.
cliff 08 02 09 07 08 15 489,000 105,000 210,000 384,000 Michael R. Lynch At At Exercise Market Price Vesting First 1 2 1 Jan 2008 Granted Exercised 31 Dec 2008 Price at Exercise Schedule Exercise Expiry Date 50,000 50,000 3.05 3 year, 6 mon.
cliff 08 02 09 07 08 15 204,000 95,000 299,000 1 Vesting schedule is either subject to performance vesting, or over a period of three or four years with the first instalment exercisable after a cliff of either six months or one year.
After the initial tranche vesting, additional tranches vest in equal quarterly instalments over the remainder of the vesting period.
2 First Exercise represents the date of the vesting of the initial tranche when a small portion of the options become available for exercise.
3 Granted as a bonus following achievement of pre-determined acquisition integration targets.
As of the date of this report, no non-executive directors held share options.
The Board does not intend to grant options to non-executive directors.
Options are granted to all employees in the company on the same terms and at an exercise price equal to the fair market value on the date of grant.
The fair market value of the companys ordinary shares as quoted on the London Stock Exchange on 31 December 2008 the last trading day of the year was 9.51 per ordinary share, and the range during the year ended 31 December 2008 was from 7.30 to 11.78.
Pension entitlements During 2006 the company established a matching pension scheme available to all U. K. employees with more than three years service.
The scheme provides for the company to make a matching contribution to an individual employees pension, up to 3% of the individuals base salary only per annum.
Other than this generally available benefit, the directors do not have pension, retirement or similar entitlements.
Dr. Lynch and Mr. Hussain participated in the matching pension scheme during 2008 on the same terms available to all U. K. employees, and matching contributions of 8,726 and 7,854 2007: 7,500 and 6,750 respectively were paid by the company.
19 Autonomy Corporation plc Remuneration Report Former Directors No payments or awards were made to former directors during the year.
By order of the Board, Andrew M. Kanter Company Secretary 27 February 2009 Autonomy Corporation plc 20
