Directors report: Corporate governance Directors remuneration report Year ended 31 December 2008 Dear Shareholder Introduction As you may recall, last year we made some fairly substantial This report has been prepared in accordance with the changes to the remuneration packages offered to our requirements of the Directors Remuneration Report Executive Directors, in particular an increase in annual Regulations 2002, which set out requirements for the bonus opportunity and maximum award levels under the disclosure of Directors remuneration and also in Groups Performance Share Plan.
Both were accompanied accordance with the requirements of the Listing Rules by the introduction of a greater stretch in the targets of the Financial Services Authority.
The Regulations require the auditors to report to the We believe it good practice to review regularly the structure Companys members on the auditable part of the of, and quantum available under, the Executive Directors Directors remuneration report and to state whether, remuneration packages.
Arguably, the current economic in their opinion, the part of the report that has been subject climate makes such an approach even more appropriate.
to audit has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 as amended by the Directors The main conclusion of our most recent review was that Remuneration Report Regulations 2002.
The report is no material changes should be made to the pay of our therefore divided into separate sections to disclose the highly regarded senior executive team.
We believe that an audited and unaudited information.
appropriate balance is currently struck between fixed and variable performance-related pay.
Base salaries are set below Unaudited information the median of comparative benchmarks, with significant reward opportunities available under the Groups short-term Remuneration Committee and long-term incentive plans.
While this ensures that due The members of the Remuneration Committee are Clare focus is placed on performance-related pay, the Committee Spottiswoode Chairman, David Bamford, Steven is entirely comfortable that this policy does not encourage McTiernan, Pat Plunkett, David Williams and Ann Grant who inappropriate risk-taking which may be to the long-term was appointed on joining the Board on 15 May 2008.
Indeed, the Committee believes Committee met six times during the year.
that the Executive Directors interests are very closely aligned with the long-term interests of investors through i the The main responsibilities of the Committee include: significant compulsory share deferral feature in the annual Determining and agreeing with the Board the bonus plan, ii the regular annual grant of awards of share remuneration policy for the Chief Executive Officer, incentives, iii the imposition of share ownership guidelines Chairman, Executive Directors and senior executives: and iv the use of Total Shareholder Return targets in both Approving the design of, and determining targets for, shortand long-term incentives albeit in both cases an annual performance-related pay scheme for the underpinned by a Remuneration Committee discretion to Executive Directors and senior executives: reduce payouts if other factors make it appropriate to do so.
Reviewing the design of share incentive plans for However, one minor change is being made to the operation approval by the Board and shareholders and determining of the annual bonus which, in part, has been implemented the annual award policy to Executive Directors and senior to reflect the wishes of some of our major shareholders.
executives under existing plans: and In 2009, an increased weighting will be placed on the Within the terms of the agreed policy, determining the achievement of a blend of corporate key performance remainder of the remuneration packages principally indicators, so that 50% of the total bonus opportunity comprising salary and pension for each Executive will relate to performance against these targets up from Director and senior executive.
The balancing 50% of the bonus opportunity will The full terms of reference for the Committee are available continue to be payable by reference to performance against on the Companys website.
relative and absolute TSR targets.
Should any shareholder wish to contact me in connection Committees advisers with the Groups senior executive remuneration policy, The Committee invites individuals to attend meetings please email me at: remunerationchair@tullowoil.
to provide advice in order to enable it to make informed decisions.
These individuals include Aidan Heavey, Yours sincerely Chief Executive Officer and Gordon Headley, Chief HR Officer.
No Director takes part in any decision directly affecting his own remuneration.
The Company Chairman, Pat Plunkett, also absents himself during discussion relating to his own fees.
The Committee has appointed Hewitt New Bridge Street Clare Spottiswoode HNBS as its independent remuneration advisers.
They also Chairman of the Remuneration Committee provide technical advice to the Group in connection with the 10 March 2009 operation of its share incentive arrangements.
A statement outlining the business relationship with HNBS can be viewed on the Investor Relations section of the Groups website.
The Committee also consults with the Companys major investors and investor representative groups as appropriate.
66 Tullow Oil plc 2008 Annual Report and Accounts Group overview Directors report: Business review Directors report: Corporate governance Financial statements Remuneration policy Annual bonus The Groups policy is to maintain levels of remuneration so as Each Executive Director is entitled to participate in the to attract, motivate and retain Executive Directors and senior Executive Annual Bonus Scheme in respect of each financial executives of the highest calibre who can contribute their year of the Company.
experience to the Groups operations.
The elements of the Executive Annual Bonus Scheme remuneration package for Executive Directors and senior The key features of the Annual Bonus Scheme for the management are base salary, annual bonus, taxable benefits, Executive Directors are as follows: pension payments and participation in the Groups share incentive arrangements.
A significant element of the potential The maximum annual bonus potential for the Executive remuneration package is, therefore, performance-linked.
Directors, for the achievement of outstanding performance, is 150% of salary: When determining the total remuneration of the Executive For meeting target performance, a bonus of 60% of Directors and senior management, the Committee salary is payable i. e. 40% of the maximum : predominately takes into account the remuneration Any bonus earned in excess of 75% of salary is paid in practices adopted by UK listed companies of a similar shares and deferred for three years under the Deferred market capitalisation and overseas complexity to Tullow.
Share Bonus Plan DSBP : Practice within other oil and gas companies is also In 2008, all the Executive Directors were subject to the considered although the availability of relevant data is same performance targets, which were as follows: limited due to there being few other UK listed companies in One third was based on TSR relative to the same the sector of a comparable size to Tullow.
Finally, in setting Oil & Gas group as is used to measure performance for the remuneration policy for the Executive Directors, regard the PSP awards made in 2008 see below no bonus is also given to pay practices elsewhere in the Group.
will be paid unless median performance is delivered, The key elements of the remuneration package for the with the full bonus for upper quartile performance: Executive Directors, are set out below.
One third was based on growth in absolute TSR, calculated by comparing Tullows average net return Executive Directors remuneration index for January 2008 with that of January 2009, with Base salary a full bonus payable if Tullows TSR grows by 15% over Base salaries are reviewed annually with effect from the year: and 1 January, and are set primarily by reference to external One third was based on certain corporate key benchmarking data for other UK listed companies of similar performance indicators KPIs designed to reflect market capitalisation and overseas complexity.
major strategic and financial targets specific to the Group.
In line with the Groups policy that there is a significant The Committee also has broad discretion before weighting attached to the performance-related elements finalising any award level on the above parameters, to of pay, the salaries of the Executive Directors are set below take into account such other factors and circumstances the median against this peer group.
reflecting the general financial condition and the Following the most recent review, the base salary of each performance of the Group as it considers appropriate.
Executive Director with effect from January 2009 is: The Committee believes that these represented a set of % increase challenging, clear and transparent targets for the year to Director 2009 salary since 2008 31 December 2008, which are closely aligned with the 666,100 4.0% Aidan Heavey interests of shareholders.
Graham Martin 376,700 4.0% Performance under the Annual Bonus Scheme in 2008 Paul McDade 376,700 4.0% The Committees assessment of performance under each Angus McCoss 376,700 4.0% of the bonus elements for 2008 was as follows: 400,000 10.4% Ian Springett Relative TSR: 100% of maximum achievement: In setting the above salaries, the Committees general policy Absolute TSR: 100% of maximum achievement: and was to keep percentage increases broadly in line with those Corporate KPIs: 72% of maximum achievement.
across the rest of the Group and to continue to ensure that Based upon the above performance the bonus awards for a significant proportion of executive remuneration is linked to performance.
However, Ian Springett was appointed in all the Executive Directors in 2008 are 135% of salary, reflecting another excellent year of performance against September 2008 on a salary of 362,250 in line with the other Executive Directors other than the CEO, with a view very challenging market conditions.
that this would be formally reviewed in January 2009.
His increase reflects this first formal review since his appointment.
Following this review, the Committee determined that his base salary should be increased to 400,000 to reflect his specific responsibilities.
This increased base salary, in line with Remuneration Committee policy, is still below the median of comparable benchmarks.
Tullow Oil plc 2008 Annual Report and Accounts 67 Directors report: Corporate governance Directors remuneration report continued 2009 Annual Bonus Scheme For the awards made in 2008, half are subject to performance For 2009, the bonus will operate as set out above, with the against the constituents of the FTSE 100 Index as at the start exception that the weighting of the targets will be amended of the performance period of which Tullow is a member and as follows: the other half are subject to performance against the following comparator group of international Oil & Gas One quarter will be based on relative TSR compared companies: to the same Oil & Gas comparator group as is used for the PSP award to be made in 2009: Addax Petroleum Niko Resources One quarter will be based on growth in absolute TSR Anadarko Noble Energy Inc. Apache Corporation Pioneer Natural Resources with the same growth range as for 2008: and Cairn Energy Premier Oil Half will be based on corporate KPIs, comprising Health, Dana Petroleum Santos Safety & Environment, Operational & Financial and Forest Oil Corporation SOCO International Project-specific targets.
Lundin Petroleum AB Talisman Energy Inc.
The objective of increasing the weighting on corporate KPIs Nexen Inc. Venture Production is to encourage Executive Directors to be even more focused In line with best practice, a common currency approach on executing the corporate strategy and achieving key is adopted for calculating TSR in respect of the above strategic milestones linked to its ongoing projects.
The international group of companies.
continued weighting on TSR in both the annual bonus and the PSP ensures that full incentive awards are only For each portion of the award, vesting is as follows: delivered for both the execution of the corporate strategy Companys ranking and generating substantial returns to shareholders.
in comparator group Vesting percentage Pension and other benefits Below median 0% The Executive Directors do not participate in the Groups Median 30% Upper quintile top 20% 100% pension plans.
Each Executive Director is entitled to receive Intermediate performance Pro rata between 30% and 100% a payment of 10% of his base salary into his private pension scheme which increases to 15% at age 50.
Each Executive In addition, no award will vest unless the Committee Director is also entitled to 30 days annual leave, permanent considers that both the Groups underlying financial health insurance, private medical insurance and life performance and its performance against other key factors assurance benefits.
The Group also reimburses the e. g. health and safety over the relevant period is satisfactory.
Executive Directors in respect of all expenses reasonably The Committee continues to believe that a TSR performance incurred by them in the proper performance of their duties.
condition is appropriate as it encourages the Executive Directors to generate returns to shareholders in excess Share incentive arrangements of both the market generally and a group of sector peers, and Performance Share Plan PSP is a robust reflection of managements success in achieving Under the PSP, senior executives are eligible to be granted the strategic targets required to ensure the Groups continued conditional awards of rights over whole shares worth up to growth.
The performance condition applying to the 200% of salary each year 300% in exceptional circumstances, forthcoming 2009 awards will remain unchanged.
such as to facilitate the recruitment of a new Executive Director.
Currently, it is the policy to grant the Executive The performance conditions applying to outstanding awards Directors 200% of salary each year, although the Committee made prior to 2008 are shown in the table on page 73. may elect to vary the allocation taking into account the Share Ownership Guidelines circumstances which prevail at the time but always subject From 2008, to further align their interests with shareholders, to the plan maximum.
the Executive Directors are required to retain at least 50% of Awards vest under the PSP subject to a TSR-based the shares that vest under the PSP and DSBP after selling performance condition under which the Companys TSR sufficient shares to pay tax liabilities until they have built up a performance is measured over a fixed three-year period shareholding worth at least 200% of base salary with existing commencing on 1 January in the financial year in which holdings taken into account.
This has been increased from the award is granted i. e. with no opportunity to re-test.
the 2007 level of 100% to reflect the increased rewards which will now be available in shares if performance targets are met.
68 Tullow Oil plc 2008 Annual Report and Accounts Group overview Directors report: Business review Directors report: Corporate governance Financial statements Share Option Scheme Non-executive Directors do not participate in any share Before the introduction of the PSP in 2005, Executive Directors scheme or annual bonus scheme and are not eligible to were eligible for grants of options under the 2000 Executive join the Groups Pension Schemes.
Share Option Scheme the 2000 Scheme.
The Committee The Remuneration Committee, with the Chairman absenting does not intend to grant further options to Executive Directors himself from discussions, sets the remuneration of the under the 2000 Scheme.
During the year, options were Chairman, whose annual fee is currently 180,000. granted to substantially all employees of the Group under the 2000 Scheme, other than those senior executives who Performance graph were granted awards under the PSP.
The graph below shows Tullows TSR against both the FTSE All-employee Share Incentive Plans 100 and FTSE 250 excluding Investment Trusts over the Executive Directors may also participate, on the same terms five-year period from 1 January 2004 to 31 December 2008, as other employees, in the Tullow Oil UK and Irish Share over which period Tullow outperformed the FTSE 100 by Incentive Plans.
These are all-employee plans that have been 697% and the FTSE 250 excluding Investment Trusts by set up in both the UK and Ireland which enable employees to 690%.
The relevant indices are set to 100 at the beginning make contributions out of salary up to prescribed limits each of the period.
These indices have both been shown because month, which each quarter are used by the Plan trustees to the FTSE 250 is the comparator Index for awards made acquire Tullow Oil shares Partnership shares.
The Group under the PSP in March 2007 before Tullow moved to the makes a matching contribution to the trustees to acquire FTSE 100 in September 2007. a matching number of shares Matching shares on a 800 one-for-one basis.
700 Sourcing of shares and dilution 600 Awards under all the Group share schemes may be satisfied 500 using either newly issued shares or shares purchased in the 400 300 market and held in the Tullow Oil Employee Trust.
Awards 200 under the Groups discretionary schemes which may be 100 satisfied by new issue shares must not exceed 5% of the 0 Companys issued share capital in any rolling 10-year period, 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 and the total of all awards satisfied via new issue shares Tullow Oil plc FTSE 250 Index excluding Investment Trusts FTSE 100 under all plans must not exceed 10% of the Companys issued Source: Datastream.
share capital in any rolling 10-year period.
This graph shows the value, by the end of 2008, of 100 The Groups current intention is to satisfy awards under the invested in Tullow Oil on 31 December 2003 compared with 2000 Scheme via new issue shares, and awards under the the value of 100 invested in the FTSE 100 and FTSE 250 PSP, DSBP and all-employee Share Incentive Plans via Indices excluding Investment Trusts.
The other points market purchase shares.
plotted are the values at intervening financial year ends.
As at 31 December 2008, the headroom under the Companys 5% and 10% limits was 3.7 million and Service contracts and letters of appointment 40.3 million shares respectively, out of an issued share Each Executive Director has entered into a service capital of 732.9 million shares.
agreement with Tullow Group Services Limited dated 2 September 2002 in the case of Aidan Heavey and Graham As at 31 December 2008, the Tullow Oil Employee Trust Martin, dated 29 March 2006 in the case of Paul McDade, held 1.72 million shares.
dated 18 April 2006 in the case of Angus McCoss and dated 1 September 2008 in the case of Ian Springett.
Aidan Heavey Non-executive Directors fees has also entered into a service agreement with Tullow Oil A Committee of the Board comprising the Chairman and International Limited on 16 September 2002 on similar terms.
Executive Directors sets the remuneration of non-executive Tom Hickey and Matthew ODonoghue who left the Board Directors.
The fees paid are set at a level to attract individuals during the year each had a service agreement with Tullow with the necessary experience and ability to make a significant Group Services Limited dated 2 September 2002.
Matthew contribution to the Groups activities, while also reflecting the ODonoghue had also entered into a service agreement with time commitment and responsibility of the role.
Each nonTullow Oil International Limited on 16 September 2002 on executive Director currently receives an annual fee of 56,000. similar terms.
Steven McTiernan currently receives an additional annual fee of 11,000 to reflect his additional responsibilities as Senior The terms of each of these service contracts is not fixed, Independent Director and Clare Spottiswoode and David although each Executive Director is required under his service Williams each receive an additional annual fee of 11,000 agreement to retire from service upon attaining the age of 65. to reflect their additional responsibilities as Chairman of Each agreement is terminable by the Director on six months the Remuneration and Audit Committees respectively.
Each notice and by the relevant employing company on 12 months non-executive Director is also entitled to reimbursement notice.
There are no specific provisions under which any of necessary travel and other expenses.
Executive Director is entitled to receive compensation upon Tullow Oil plc 2008 Annual Report and Accounts 69 Directors report: Corporate governance Directors remuneration report continued the early termination of his service agreement other than Under the terms of his consultancy agreement, under in accordance with these notice periods.
which Mr ODonoghue carries out significant and important services and which the Group believes is very much in the Each service agreement sets out restrictions on the ability interests of shareholders, he receives 24,500 per month.
of the Director to participate in businesses competing with those of the Group or to entice or solicit away from the Non-executive Director Terms of Appointment Group any senior employees of the Group in the six-month Each of the non-executive Directors is engaged by the period after the cessation of his employment.
Company under the terms of a letter of appointment dated The above reflects the Committees policy that service 9 December 2008 in the case of Pat Plunkett: dated 29 June contracts should be structured to reflect the interests of the 2007 in the case of David Bamford: dated 1 March 2008 in the Group and the individuals concerned, while also taking due case of Clare Spottiswoode and Steven McTiernan: dated account of market and best practice.
Furthermore, it is the 31 May 2006 in the case of David Williams and in the case Committees policy that, in the event of early termination of of Ann Grant dated 14 May 2008.
Subject to retirement, for a Directors service contract, the Committee will take example, under the Articles of Association, the appointments account of the departing Directors duty to mitigate his loss are for the period to 31 December 2009 in respect of when determining the amount of any compensation that is Pat Plunkett, to 30 June 2010 in the case of David Bamford, paid.
to 28 February 2011 in the case of Clare Spottiswoode and Steven McTiernan, to 31 May 2009 in the case of David Details of remuneration of Executive Directors ceasing Williams and to 14 May 2011 in the case of Ann Grant.
In each to serve in the year case, the appointment is renewable thereafter if agreed by the Matthew ODonoghue ceased to be an Executive Director Director and the Board.
The appointments for each of the on 31 March 2008, but continues to provide important non-executive Directors may be terminated by either party on consultancy services to the Group for 12 months from three months notice.
There are no arrangements under 1 April 2008. which any non-executive Director is entitled to receive compensation upon the early termination of his or her Tom Hickey ceased to be an Executive Director on 1 September appointment.
2008, although he remained an employee of the Group until 30 September 2008.
Material contracts Messrs ODonoghue and Hickey are treated as good leavers There have been no other contracts or arrangements during under the Groups share incentive plans, reflecting their the financial year in which a Director of the Company was outstanding performance over the lengthy periods which they materially interested and or which were significant in served and their crucial contributions to the Groups success.
relation to the Groups business.
Their remuneration arrangements on cessation of External appointments employment are as follows: The Board has not introduced a formal policy in relation They were paid no ex-gratia amounts on termination: to the number of external directorships that an Executive Their salaries were paid up to the date of cessation with Director may hold.
Currently, the only Executive Director no additional amounts in lieu of notice: who holds an external directorship is Aidan Heavey who is Matthew ODonoghue was not entitled to participate in a director of Traidlinks, a charity promoting enterprise in the 2008 Annual Bonus Scheme.
Tom Hickey was entitled the developed world, especially Africa.
He receives no fee to participate on the same terms as the other Executive for this position.
Directors, although with his bonus pro-rated to reflect his reduced period of service: The Remuneration Committee exercised its discretion to allow both to exercise their outstanding options under the 1998 and 2000 share option schemes for a period of 12 months from leaving: Their outstanding PSP awards will vest on their normal vesting dates, subject to performance conditions, with a pro-rata reduction for the reduced period of service in Mr ODonoghues case, being the date to which he ceases to provide consultancy services : and DSBP awards will vest in full on their normal vesting dates.
70 Tullow Oil plc 2008 Annual Report and Accounts
