40 Directors remuneration report This report on directors remuneration includes the following: During 2008 the Committee was advised by Kepler Associates, and from September 2008 by  LLP PwC, both of whom Information regarding the constitution and duties of the Remuneration were appointed by the Committee.
Kepler Associates provide no other Committee the Committee : services to the Company: PwC also advise the Group in relation to taxation A description of UBMs policy on executive remuneration for 2009 and and HR matters.
Ernst & Young LLP, who are the Groups auditors, reviewed subsequent years: and confirmed the measurement of performance conditions under the Groups long term incentive plans.
The Committee was also advised by the A summary of the terms of executive directors contracts and non-executive Company Secretary, Anne Siddell, who is secretary to the Committee, and by directors letters of appointment: Jennifer Duvalier, group people and culture director.
Details of each directors remuneration earned in 2008 and awards under The Committee has written terms of reference which may be viewed on the long term incentive plans: Groups website.
Copies may be obtained from the Company Secretary.
Directors interests in UBM shares: As part of the Board effectiveness review carried out during 2008 the Committees performance was reviewed and considered to be satisfactory.
Graph illustrating UBMs total shareholder return TSR performance.
While it is not a requirement of Jersey law to prepare a report on directors Remuneration policy remuneration, the Board consider that as a matter of good governance it is UBM recognises the need to attract, retain and incentivise executives with the appropriate to do so, and to invite shareholders to approve it.
Accordingly, appropriate skills and talent to manage and develop the Groups businesses a resolution to approve this report will be put to shareholders at the Annual in such a way as to drive the Groups strategy and deliver shareholder value.
General Meeting to be held on 7 May 2009.
The main principles of UBMs executive remuneration policy are: To achieve total remuneration packages that are competitive in the sector Remuneration Committee within which the Group operates and with the market in general: The Committee is responsible for formulating and recommending policy on executive remuneration.
It sets the individual remuneration packages of the To provide an appropriate balance between fixed and variable remuneration executive directors and chairman and also reviews the general remuneration which rewards high levels of performance.
Base salary levels are designed to framework for senior executives of the Group.
This includes overseeing be at median while variable remuneration is linked to key measures of both the design and operation of the Groups long term incentive plans and corporate and personal performance and rewards significant determining the basis on which awards are made under these plans.
outperformance of targets: and Non-executive remuneration is considered and approved by the Board To incentivise and retain management and to align their interests with those as a whole.
The Committee is chaired by Alan Gillespie, and its other members are The policy aims to ensure that executives are rewarded for a combination Pradeep Kar and Jonathan Newcomb, both of whom served on the of absolute and relative performance and share-based incentive plans are Committee throughout 2008.
Sandy Leitch previously chaired the Committee an important element of variable remuneration, linking reward to share until May 2008, and Adair Turner also served on the Committee during the price performance.
All members of the Committee are and were throughout 2008 independent non-executive directors.
2008 In 2008, following shareholder consultation, the Committee altered the mix The chairman, John Botts, and CEO, David Levin, usually attend meetings of long-term incentive awards to executive directors and senior executives to by invitation, but are not present when matters relating to their own include an award of market priced EPS-based share options.
Awards made remuneration are discussed.
The Committee met formally on four occasions under the TSR-based Performance Share Plan were at a reduced level from during 2008: details of attendance by Committee members are shown in previous years, in order that the fair value of all awards made in 2008 should the Corporate Governance Statement on page 47. be no greater than that of previous years.
The principal activities carried out by the Committee during 2008 were: 2009 Reviewing executive directors performance during 2007 and determining Given the tough economic conditions there will be a strong focus on cost awards under the 2007 bonus plan: control and profitability during 2009.
Base salaries for executive directors and staff have been frozen at 2008 levels to reflect the challenging environment.
Setting maximum bonus award levels and targets for executive directors for 2008: The Committee believes that in light of the difficult trading conditions in the sector it is important to ensure that management are rewarded for Reviewing and confirming achievement of performance conditions for competitive outperformance as well as absolute growth.
As such, incentives share option and other awards vesting in 2008: will be weighted towards the Performance Share Plan and no share options Consulting with major shareholders regarding proposed changes to: will be awarded to executive directors in 2009, thereby increasing the focus the structure of long term incentive awards so as to review the mix of on TSR.
Bonus Investment Plan awards will be linked to earnings per share performance shares and market priced share options annually: TSR performance.
Notwithstanding the current economic climate, the EPS growth performance measure calibration: the level of matching awards under targets for the Bonus Investment Plan for 2009 have not been changed from the Bonus Investment Plan: and a share award and revised bonus target those prevailing in 2008. for Nigel Wilson: During 2009 the Committee will undertake a full review of executive Reviewing and setting performance targets for long term incentive awards, directors remuneration for 2010 and beyond to ensure that it continues and making such awards: to be aligned with the Groups strategic objectives and the changing market conditions.
Reviewing the composition of the TSR comparator group: Considering the impact on the Groups employee share plans of the scheme of arrangement which introduced a new parent company to the Group: amending employee share plans accordingly and approving new employee share plans.
Outstanding awards under the existing plans were exchanged for awards over the same number of shares in the new parent company: no awards were exercised as a result of the scheme of arrangement.
41 Long term incentive awards Remuneration components In 2008 executive directors received awards under the Performance The various elements of executive directors remuneration packages are Share Plan, Executive Share Option Scheme and Bonus Investment Plan.
The Committee retains the discretion to use an appropriate mix of awards Base salary under these plans in determining the overall incentive arrangements for In determining base salaries, the Committee customarily benchmarks salary executive directors.
In 2009, the Committee proposes to make awards levels for comparable roles at companies within UBMs TSR peer group as under the Performance Share Plan and Bonus Investment Plan only.
well as other companies of similar size to UBM, and considers matters such Performance Share Plan as inflation, the individuals responsibilities, the Companys performance The Performance Share Plan PSP requires UBMs TSR to outperform, and the salary policy throughout the Group as a whole.
Salary levels are over a three-year period, that of a peer group of companies selected by the reviewed annually.
Following a benchmarking review, David Levins salary Committee.
For awards made prior to 2008, none of the award vests if UBMs was increased by 10% in 2008: Nigel Wilsons salary was increased by 3% TSR is less than the median of that group.
25% of the award vests if UBMs in line with Group policy.
Car allowances previously paid as cash benefits TSR is ranked at median position subject to a maximum value of 25% of base were rolled into base salary.
salary, and 100% vests if UBMs TSR is ranked in the top decile.
In between In light of the current global economic conditions, UBM has adopted a these positions, the award vests on a straight-line basis.
general pay freeze for all staff in 2009: accordingly, no salary increases have In 2008 the Committee reviewed the TSR measurement process and, been awarded to executive directors in 2009. following shareholder consultation, determined that with effect from Bonuses 2008 awards made under the PSP will be calibrated using a percentage Executive directors are eligible for an annual bonus dependent on the outperformance rather than a ranking.
Threshold vesting will occur achievement of targets which take account of corporate performance as if UBMs TSR is equal to median TSR performance of the peer group.
These targets are reviewed annually and new Maximum vesting will occur if UBMs TSR outperforms the median of the objectives set by the Committee for each director at the start of the financial peer group by 10% per annum.
This is broadly equivalent to between year.
A substantial element of the bonus is usually paid in the form of deferred upper quintile and upper decile performance relative to the peer group shares under the Bonus Investment Plan, which is described in more detail on an historical basis.
The Committee considers TSR to provide an objective measure of It was communicated to shareholders last year that in February 2008, Nigel performance and the selection of a tailored group of companies to enable Wilson was appointed as Deputy Chief Executive in addition to his role as measurement of UBMs performance against comparable businesses.
Following shareholder consultation, his maximum The comparator group for awards made during 2008 comprised the bonus award for 2008 was increased from 120% to 170% of salary, in line following 18 companies, which were selected for their mix of business with David Levins existing maximum.
A bonus of up to 120% of salary is and geographic representation: achievable based on financial measures principally performance against Aegis Group McGraw-Hill budgeted earnings per share and underlying revenue growth, with a WebMD DMGT further 50% of salary dependent on the achievement of personal objectives.
Euromoney Wolters Kluwer The executive directors achieved the following bonus targets for performance Johnston Press Axel Springer in 2008: Pearson Lagardere Reed Elsevier APN News & Media David Levin achieved 83.5% of his maximum target which was equivalent Informa Global Sources to 142% of salary of which 100% related to financial objectives and 42% Trinity Mirror Thomson personal objectives Tech Target WPP Nigel Wilson achieved 82.3% of his maximum target which was equivalent The Committee reviews the peer group at least once a year, to confirm that it to 140% of salary of which 100% related to financial objectives and 40% continues to represent an appropriate benchmark.
For awards made in 2009 personal objectives the same group will apply with the exception that Trinity Mirror and Johnston Press will be removed and IHS included.
The Committee believes that for future cycles IHS is a more relevant comparator and that the comparator group as a whole represents an appropriate benchmark for UBMs performance.
The Committee must also satisfy itself that the reported TSR is a genuine reflection of the Companys underlying financial performance over the three-year performance period before releasing any awards.
The maximum award allowed under the PSP in any financial year is 2 times salary, although awards normally do not exceed 1.5 times base salary in any financial year.
Awards made to executive directors in 2008 were 0.75 times salary.
Details of awards held by directors under the PSP are set out on page 45.
In 2009 the Committee proposes to make awards to executive directors of 2 times salary: it considers this appropriate to rebalance remuneration in 2009 towards TSR and relative performance against the comparative set of companies.
42 Directors remuneration report continued The Companys TSR performance was ranked fourth in its peer group over the For 2009 BIP awards: three-year performance period from 20052007, and accordingly 89.1% of At UBMs 2008 Annual General Meeting shareholders approved proposals the award maturing in 2008 vested.
Performance over the period 20062008 to increase the potential matching share awards to three shares for every achieved fifth place and accordingly 71.9% of the award maturing in 2009 bonus share held, and to give the Committee discretion to allow participants will vest.
to invest part of their base salary in the plan where little or no bonus has Interim valuations for PSP awards maturing in 2010 and 2011 indicated as been awarded.
However, given current difficult economic conditions, for at 31 December 2008 that 48.4% and 100% respectively of these awards 2009 awards the Committee has decided to limit the maximum matching would vest.
share awards to two shares for every bonus share held.
Shares that vest under the PSP accrue dividends.
25% of any annual bonus awarded is automatically deferred into UBM shares to be held for three years, at a price which is fixed at the start of the Executive Share Option Scheme period over which the bonus is earned: for awards to be made in 2009 The Company operates a shareholder approved Executive Share Option in respect of bonuses earned for 2008 performance, the relevant price Scheme the ESOS under which options are awarded to senior employees, is 616.66p.
including executive directors, to reward past performance and to incentivise future performance.
Options are granted at market value.
The Committee The participant may also elect to defer up to a further 25% of the bonus determines the appropriate level of each grant having regard to corporate award into shares for the same period.
At the end of three years the objectives, market forces and individual circumstances.
The maximum face participant could receive up to two additional shares for every share held value of options awarded will generally not exceed 3.5 times base salary in if the Companys earnings per share have grown in accordance with any financial year.
Awards made to executive directors in 2008 had a face predetermined targets.
The target required to achieve the maximum number of matching shares for Options are subject to a performance condition which requires growth in awards made in 2009 will be EPS growth of at least 8% per annum above earnings per share to exceed the increase in the UK Retail Price Index RPI UK inflation over the three-year period.
A lower ratio of matching shares may by an average of at least 3% per annum over the period of three years from be earned if earnings per share have grown by more than 3% per annum the date of grant.
For options granted up to and including 2006, options above UK inflation.
with a face value equal to 0.75 times salary vest at this level.
In order for the Shares that vest under the BIP accrue dividends.
whole award to vest, growth in earnings per share must exceed the increase in UK inflation by an average of at least 5% per annum over the measurement Participation in the BIP is at the discretion of the Committee which may, from period.
A sliding scale applies between these two figures.
time to time, choose to make alternative incentive awards which it considers are of an equivalent nature.
For awards made in 2008 the EPS growth target was increased and must exceed the increase in RPI by an average of at least 8% per annum over the Executive Retention Plan performance period for the whole award to vest.
25% of the award will vest The Company grants restricted share awards in special circumstances to at growth of 3% per annum above RPI.
individuals, as a recruitment or retention tool.
Following consultation with its major shareholders and as reported in the 2007 Remuneration Report, No retesting is permitted of options granted under the ESOS.
in March 2008 the Company awarded restricted shares with a value of No awards will be made to executive directors under the ESOS in 2009.
220,000 to the Deputy CEO and Chief Financial Officer, Nigel Wilson, to aid retention in the face of strong competition for his talent.
The award will vest Bonus Investment Plan in March 2010 provided that at the vesting date Mr Wilson is still employed The Bonus Investment Plan BIP enables part of participants annual bonus by the Group and the Committee is satisfied as to the Groups underlying to be deferred into UBM shares, which must be held for three years, and financial performance.
It is not subject to any other performance conditions.
provides the opportunity to earn further shares based on performance against stretching targets.
Other long term incentive plans Nigel Wilson previously participated in the Medium Term Incentive Plan For 2008 BIP awards: and Senior Executive Equity Participation Plan.
A description of these plans, 25% of annual bonus awarded is automatically deferred into UBM shares and details of his outstanding awards under them, appears on page 46. to be held for three years, at a price which is fixed at the start of the period Sharesave over which the bonus is earned: for awards in 2008, the relevant price was Executive directors are also entitled to participate in the sharesave scheme, 696.18p per share.
under which all eligible employees around the Group may acquire options The participant may also elect to defer up to a further 25% of the bonus over ordinary shares of the Company at a discount of up to 20% of their award into shares for the same period.
At the end of three years the market price, using the proceeds of a related SAYE contract.
participant could receive up to two additional shares for every share held Pensions if the Companys earnings per share have grown in accordance with All UBMs defined benefit schemes are closed to new employees joining the predetermined targets.
For new recruits including executive directors it is UBMs policy to The target required to achieve the maximum number of matching shares for offer defined contribution pension provision.
The executive directors are awards made in 2008 was EPS growth of at least 8% per annum above UK both members of the defined contribution section of the United Group inflation over the three-year period.
A lower ratio of matching shares may Pension Scheme.
be earned if earnings per share have grown by more than 3% per annum above UK inflation.
The Committee considers that a performance condition based on long term growth in earnings per share reflects the Groups financial targets and complements the TSR measure of the PSP.
The targeted growth levels were reviewed during the year to ensure that they remain appropriately stretching.
Details of awards held by directors under the BIP are set out on page 45.
43 From his appointment as Chairman in December 2007, John Botts received Performance conditions a fee of 250,000 per annum of which 150,000 was paid in cash and the In 2005, UBM started reporting its results in line with International balance of 100,000 in UBM shares.
In order to achieve consistency of measurement, the Committee has retained UK GAAP as the basis for Following the introduction of a new Irish-resident parent company of the measuring performance conditions for awards maturing since 2005, up to Group in July 2008, the fees for the Chairman and non-executive directors and including 2009.
This position will be reviewed for future years, as IFRS were redenominated and paid in euros at the annual rates shown below: has become established.
Cash Euros Shares Euros Chairman 190,380 126,920 Dilution limits Nonexecutive director 38,076 19,038 The use of newly issued or treasury shares to satisfy awards under the Groups Additional fee for Remuneration Committee Chairman long term incentive plans is limited to 10% of UBMs issued share capital.
and Senior Independent Director 25,384 Awards made under the Performance Share Plan and Bonus Investment Additional fee for Audit Committee Chairman 12,692 Plan are expected to be satisfied with market-purchased shares held by an employee benefit trust.
Outstanding options under UBMs other long term Non-executive directors contracts incentive plans which could require shares to be issued currently account for Upon his appointment as Chairman in December 2007, John Botts entered approximately 2.6% of UBMs issued share capital.
into a three-year contract which is terminable by either party on not less than 12 months notice.
Executive directors service contracts Other non-executive directors do not have a service contract with the It is the Companys policy that all executive directors should have service Company but are engaged under a letter of appointment which provides for contracts that are terminable on no more than one years notice and that a notice period of three months.
None of the non-executive directors terms contracts should not have a fixed term.
Any payments on early termination of appointment contain any provision for payment of compensation on early by the Company would be by reference to the unexpired period of notice, termination.
No compensation was paid to any non-executive director who subject to a duty to mitigate.
Executive directors contracts provide for automatic termination at age 65.
Non-executive directors are not entitled to participate in the Companys share incentive plans or pension schemes.
The dates on which each executive directors current service contract commenced are as follows: Each directors appointment including that of the Chairman is reviewed every three years.
Set out below are the dates on which each non-executive David Levin 5 April 2005 director was first appointed to the Board and the year in which he or she was Nigel Wilson 6 July 2001 last re-elected by shareholders.
John Botts 8 July 1997 2007 Policy on external appointments Alan Gillespie 13 April 2008 2008 The Company considers that by permitting executive directors to hold Pradeep Kar 1 August 2006 2007 office as a non-executive director of another company, they will increase Jonathan Newcomb 27 September 2001 2008 their knowledge and experience, thereby benefiting UBM.
The policy Karen Thomson 1 August 2006 2007 allows executive directors to accept not more than one outside corporate directorship, subject to board approval.
Directors are entitled to retain the The graph below shows UBMs total shareholder return performance over the fees earned.
last five years since 31 December 2003 as compared to the FTSE Media Index, David Levin is a member of the finance committee of the Oxford University which has been chosen as UBM is a constituent of that index.
Press, a department of Oxford University, and received fees of 14,000 from the University in 2008.
Nigel Wilson was paid 63,750 in respect of his non-executive directorship of Halfords Group plc.
Non-executive directors Policy on non-executive directors remuneration The Boards policy on non-executive directors remuneration is to pay fees which reflect their responsibilities, are competitive with those of other FTSE 250 companies, and which align directors interests with those of shareholders.
The Board as a whole considers and approves the fees of the non-executive directors, with the exception of the Chairman whose fees are approved by the Committee.
Since 2004 non-executive directors have received an annual fee of 45,000, of which 30,000 is paid in cash, and the balance of 15,000 per annum after deduction of tax is paid in UBM shares.
These shares are reflected in the table of directors interests in shares on page 46.
No additional fee is paid in respect of membership of Board Committees, nor in respect of undertaking foreign travel to meetings.
An additional payment of 10,000 per annum is made to the Chairmen of the Remuneration and Audit Committees and to the Senior Independent Director.
44 Directors remuneration report continued Directors remuneration The following information in this report has been audited by Ernst & Young LLP.
Non-executive directors fees include an element which is paid in the form of ordinary shares as described on page 43.
Since July 2008 their fees have been denominated and paid in euros: the table reflects the sterling equivalent of those fees.
The bonus column reflects the cash value of bonuses earned in respect of 2008.
25% of the total bonus earned will be converted into ordinary shares based on a share price of 616.66 pence which was the average share price in December 2007 and executive directors will be awarded nil cost options over these shares in 2009.
Before its award, David Levin and Nigel Wilson each sacrificed part of their cash bonus entitlement.
Pension contributions equal to the amounts given up were made into pension plans for the benefit of their dependents.
The amount shown in the bonus column reflects the full bonus earned.
John Botts became Chairman on 13 December 2007 and the comparative figure above reflects the reduced level of fees that he received as a non-executive director prior to that date.
The total comparative figure for 2007 does not include remuneration totalling 674,558 for Geoff Unwin and Charles Gregson, who ceased to be directors during 2007.
Directors pension provision The table below provides relevant disclosure in respect of contributions payable by the Company to defined contribution schemes for David Levin and Nigel Wilson.
Company pension Company pension contribution in respect contribution in respect of 2008 of 2007 Name Normal retirement age Pension contribution 000 000 David Levin 65 20% of basic salary 121 107 Nigel Wilson 65 20% of basic salary 87 82 45 Awards under long term incentive plans The tables below show details of outstanding awards held by and awards granted to executive directors in 2008 under the Groups long term incentive plans.
Directors interests in Performance Share Plan Options held Exercised Lapsed Options held Exercise Exercise at 1.1.
Awards will vest in whole or in part on the third anniversary of the date of grant, provided the director remains in the Groups employment, and subject to the performance conditions being met, as described on page 41.
Awards may also vest in part, subject to the performance conditions being met, if employment ceases due to redundancy, disability, injury, death, retirement or in other circumstances at the discretion of the Committee.
No awards held by directors under the PSP were exercised in 2008 2007: nil.
Directors interests in share options Options held Exercised Lapsed Options held Exercise Exercise Exercise price Date of grant at 1.1.
Awards will vest in whole or in part on the third anniversary of the date of grant, provided the director remains in the Groups employment, and subject to the performance conditions being met, as described on page 42.
Awards may also vest, subject to the performance conditions being met, if employment ceases due to redundancy, disability, injury, death, retirement or in other circumstances at the discretion of the Committee.
No options held by directors were exercised during 2008.
The aggregate amount of gains made by directors on the exercise of options in 2007 was 196,229.
Directors interests in Bonus Investment Plan Bonus Matching options options exercised exercised Bonus Matching lapsed lapsed Bonus Matching options held options held during during options held options held Exercise Exercise at 1.1.
Awards made under the BIP are in the form of nil cost options over the Companys shares, the number of shares in respect of the mandatory element to be calculated using the average share price for the month preceding the start of the relevant financial year.
Participants may also elect to receive up to a further 25% of their bonus in the form of shares, the number of shares to be calculated by reference to the market value as at the date such award is made.
Awards will vest on the third anniversary of the date of grant, provided the director remains in the Groups employment.
Vesting of the matching shares is dependent on the performance targets being met, as described on page 42.
Awards may also vest in part, subject to the performance conditions being met, if employment ceases due to redundancy, disability, injury, death, retirement or in other circumstances at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee.
The cash value of the bonus option shares, calculated in accordance with the rules of the BIP, was included in the directors remuneration table in respect of the year in which they were earned.
No awards held by directors under the BIP were exercised in 2008 2007: nil.
46 Directors remuneration report continued Directors interests in Executive Retention Plan Exercised lapsed Market price Options held during Options held Exercise Exercise at date of Date of grant at 1.1.
08 2008 at 31.12.08 period from period to award p Nigel Wilson 20.03.08 43,492 20.03.10 20.03.11 505.83 The award made to Nigel Wilson under the Executive Retention Plan is described on page 42.
Directors interests in MTIP Exercised Market price lapsed at date of Options held during Options held Exercise Exercise exercise Total gain on Date of grant at 1.1.
Awards made under the MTIP are in the form of nil cost options over the Companys shares, the number of shares to be calculated using the average share price for the month preceding the start of the relevant financial year.
Only purchased shares may be used to fulfil awards under the MTIP.
Executive directors are no longer eligible to participate in the MTIP.
Directors interests in the Senior Executive Equity Participation Plan The SEEPP, which has now been replaced by the Bonus Investment Plan, offered selected senior executives including executive directors the opportunity to waive part or all of their annual bonus and receive an interest in shares in the Company bonus shares to the equivalent value.
The executive was also granted a right to acquire further shares matching shares in the Company equal in value to the gross amount of the bonus foregone.
Matching share awards will vest after four years but only to the extent that the associated bonus shares are still held on that date.
Matching share awards are also subject to a performance condition which is measured over the four-year vesting period.
One-third of the award may only be exercised if growth in earnings per share during that period exceeds inflation by an average of 3% per annum: a further one-third requires such growth to exceed inflation by an average of 5% per annum: the remaining one-third requires no performance condition.
No re-testing of performance conditions is permitted.
These conditions are in accordance with the Committees policy as outlined above.
Following the introduction of the Bonus Investment Plan in 2005, no further awards will be made under the SEEPP.
Directors interests in SEEPP Options Market price exercised Options at date of Options at or lapsed held at Exercisable Expiry exercise Gain on Date of grant 01.01.08 in 2008 31.12.08 from date p exercise Nigel Wilson 24.03.04 66,248 66,248 24.03.08 24.03.14 569.28 377,139 31.03.05 69,270 69,270 31.03.09 31.03.15 n a The aggregate amount of gains made by directors on the exercise of SEEPP options in 2008 was 377,139 2007: 479,294.
Directors interests in shares The interests of the directors in ordinary shares all of which are beneficial are shown as at 1 January 2008 or date of joining if later and at 31 December 2008 or date of leaving if earlier.
The following information constitutes part of the unaudited section of the remuneration report.
SEEPP and SEEPP and Ordinary Ordinary BIP Bonus BIP Bonus shares at shares at shares at shares at Director 01.01.08 31.12.08 01.01.08 31.12.08 David Levin 43,132 28,932 73,166 131,493 Nigel Wilson 14,381 14,381 134,596 138,540 John Botts 11,258 20,949 Alan Gillespie 912 Christopher Hyman 5,923 6,694 Pradeep Kar 1,344 3,004 Sandy Leitch 4,397 5,168 Jonathan Newcomb 12,874 14,617 Karen Thomson 1,344 3,087 Adair Turner 9,672 10,443 The opening balance of shares in the table above includes 14,200 shares which were conditionally awarded to David Levin when he joined UBM in April 2005.
He became entitled to receive these shares in April 2008 and sold them at a price of 557.80p per share.
The total gain on sale was 79,208.
The SEEPP and BIP Bonus shares represent interests in shares acquired by directors through surrender of cash bonuses.
These interests are also shown under the SEEPP table above and the BIP table on page 45.
As at 31 December 2008 the Trustees of the United Business Media ESOP Trust held 2,212,815 ordinary shares 2007: 2,724,794.
Changes in directors interests since 31 December 2008 There have been no changes to the interests of directors in UBM shares nor in options over UBM shares between 31 December 2008 and 3 March 2009.
The minimum price of ordinary shares during the year was 382.75p and the maximum price was 639.50p.
Approved by the Board and signed on its behalf.
