Corporate governance continued Going concern Ultras banking facilities amount to 200m in total, plus a 10m overdraft.
These facilities provided more than 100m of borrowing headroom over the gross balance that had been drawn down at the end of 2008.
They were established in two tranches.
The first was set up in 2005 and is provided by a small syndicate of banks, led by The Royal Bank of Scotland.
This element comprises 120m of revolving credit, denominated in Sterling, US dollars and Canadian dollars, which is due to expire in November 2010.
A 10m bank overdraft facility is also available for short-term working capital funding.
The second tranche provides a further 80m of revolving credit.
It was put in place in September 2008 with the support of the existing banking syndicate in order to fund the eight acquisitions that the Group made during the year and to provide headroom for further acquisitions going forward.
This additional facility is due to expire in September 2011.
As well as funding acquisitions, the banking facilities are used for other balance sheet and operational needs, including the funding of day-to-day working capital requirements.
Details of how Ultra manages its liquidity risk can be found in Note 23 Financial instruments and financial risk management.
The US and Canadian dollar borrowings also represent natural hedges against assets denominated in these currencies.
The Groups banking covenants have all been met during the past year with a comfortable margin and the expectation is that this will continue.
Ultra will open negotiations with its banking partners in due course regarding the renewal of the first tranche in 2010.
Whilst the current volatility in financial markets has created general uncertainty in respect of the current economic outlook, the long-term nature of Ultras business taken together with the Groups forward order book provide a satisfactory level of confidence in respect of trading in the year to come.
At the beginning of 2009 Ultra had firm orders in place for over 60% of its consensus forecast sales in the year.
Hence, after making appropriate enquiries, the Boards view is that Ultra has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future and that the business outlook remains strong.
The Board therefore believes that the Group is well placed to avoid any material adverse consequences of the current economic conditions.
Accordingly, the Group continues to adopt a going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
Statement of responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the associated financial statements.
They are required to prepare financial statements for the Group in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS but have chosen to prepare Company financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice UK GAAP.
In the case of UK GAAP company financial statements, the Directors are required to prepare financial statements for each financial year that give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the company and of the profit or loss of the company for that year.
In preparing these financial statements, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed: and prepare the statements on a going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the company will continue in business.
In the case of IFRS financial statements, International Accounting Standard 1 requires that financial statements present fairly for each financial year the Groups financial position, financial performance and cash flows.
This requires the faithful representation of the effects of transactions, other events and conditions in accordance with the definitions and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set out in the International Accounting Standards Boards Framework for the Preparation and Presentation of Financial Statements.
In virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation will be achieved by compliance with all applicable International Financial Reporting Standards.
Directors are also required to: select and apply appropriate accounting policies: present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements of International Financial Reporting Standards is insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance: and prepare the accounts on a going concern basis unless, having assessed the ability of the company to continue as a going concern, management intends either to liquidate the entity or to cease trading, or has no realistic alternative but to do so.
38 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Corporate governance continued Statement of responsibilities continued The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company, for safeguarding the assets, for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities and for the preparation of a Directors report and Directors remuneration report which comply with the requirements of the Companies Acts 1985 and 2006 and article 4 of the IAS regulation.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 39 Corporate governance Remuneration report UNAUDITED INFORMATION Composition and role of the Remuneration Committee the Committee The Company complies with the relevant conditions of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance relating to Directors remuneration and the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002.
Andrew Walker is the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and the other members are Christopher Bailey and Ian Griffiths.
All three members are independent non-executive Directors.
David Jeffcoat is secretary to the Committee.
Julian Blogh and Douglas Caster also normally attend Committee meetings except where matters directly relating to their own remuneration are discussed, although they are formally not Committee members.
Andrew Walker has announced that he will resign from the Board at the AGM.
Chris Bailey will succeed Andrew as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, whilst Sir Robert Walmsley, who joined the Board as an independent non-executive Director in January 2009, will also join the Remuneration Committee.
The remit of the Committee is to make recommendations to the Board on the framework of senior executive remuneration and to determine annually the individual salaries, annual bonuses payable if any, share based incentive awards and other terms and conditions of employment of the executive Directors.
The full terms of reference of the Committee are available on the Companys website.
Wholly independent advice on executive remuneration and share schemes is received from Hewitt New Bridge Street HNBS, part of Hewitt Associates.
They are appointed by the Committee and provided no other services to the Company during the year, save for ongoing advice in connection with the operation of the Companys share schemes.
In addition, the Committee consults Douglas Caster, Chief Executive, with regard to the remuneration and benefits packages offered to executive Directors and senior executives during the year, except in relation to his own remuneration and benefits package.
This is determined by the Committee, which meets without him for this purpose.
Remuneration policy The Companys remuneration policy is to reward senior management competitively, enabling the Company to recruit, motivate and retain executives of high calibre, whilst avoiding making excessive remuneration payments.
Further details of the remuneration policy applied by the Committee are set out below.
The remuneration practices adopted by a group of equivalent companies that, in the opinion of the Committee, face similar remuneration issues to the Company are considered with guidance from HNBS.
The size and nature of each key element of the remuneration package of the executive Directors is determined following this assessment.
It is the aim of the remuneration policy to encourage and reward high performance.
The Committee believes that shareholders interests are best served by setting a moderate level of fixed pay, while providing competitive potential levels of total remuneration through short and longer term incentive arrangements that require the satisfaction of challenging performance conditions.
Therefore, a significant proportion of the executive Directors remuneration is performance-linked.
When setting base salaries and the other elements of remuneration for the executive Directors, regard is given to remuneration practices across the Group as a whole in order to ensure that a coherent structure applies.
Salaries The executive Directors salaries are reviewed annually by the Committee and take effect from 1 January.
In addition to the analysis presented by HNBS, the Committee uses published salary surveys and information available in the annual reports of similar companies as sources of salary information.
Specific factors taken into account by the Committee when determining each executive Directors base salary are: the median level of base salary for a similar position within a like group of companies chosen on the basis of size and similarity of operations: the individual Directors performance: and his responsibilities.
The Chairmans remuneration is set by the Committee which meets without him for this purpose.
The remaining non-executive Directors fees are set by a committee comprising the executive Directors.
In all cases, the fee levels are based upon published salary surveys, taking account of individual responsibilities.
Andrew Walker was Chairman of the Audit and Remuneration Committees during 2008 and received additional fees as a result.
40 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Remuneration report continued Annual bonus scheme Bonus payments in 2008 were based upon the achievement of operating profit and cash flow targets.
The maximum bonus for executive Directors was 75% of base salary.
In 2008, a maximum of 15% of salary could have been paid subject to the achievement of a 66.6m profit before tax and loss on fair value movements on derivatives and amortisation of intangibles arising on acquisition and a maximum of 60% of salary subject to achieving an operating cash flow of 74.0m after capitalised development costs, capital expenditure and purchase of Long-Term Incentive Plan shares.
The actual results for the year led to an aggregate bonus pay-out of 70%, of which 15% of salary was due to the profit before tax target being met in full and the balance was linked to achievement against the cash flow target.
The pay-out was below the maximum because the cash performance did not reach the maximum level when adjusted for certain balance sheet parameters at the end of the year.
The Committee has recently commissioned a review of the executive Directors remuneration packages, assisted by HNBS.
Particular regard was paid to the extent to which the executive Directors remuneration packages were linked to Ultras performance compared with those of similar quoted companies in the UK when measured by turnover and market capitalisation.
A main finding of the review was that the percentage of basic salary that is payable under the Ultra bonus scheme is generally lower than elsewhere.
The Committee has therefore revised the parameters for the 2009 Executive Bonus scheme.
Under the new scheme, the maximum bonus payable will increase to 100% of basic salary.
25% could be earned for the achievement of the target level of profit before tax, the loss on fair value movements on derivatives and amortisation of intangibles and 75% could be payable for the achievement of a challenging target for operating cash flow after capitalised development costs, capital expenditure and purchase of long-term incentive plan shares.
It should be emphasised that the Committee is determined that the performance targets for the executive Directors should continue to call for growth in profitability and cash generation.
If achieved they should therefore provide the prospect of enhanced value for the Groups shareholders.
Directors Long-Term Incentive Plan and Employee Share Option Plans The Company operates the following three live discretionary share incentive plans which were all approved in 2007: the 2007 Long-Term Incentive Plan 2007 LTIP : the 2007 Company Share Option Plan 2007 CSOP : and the 2007 Executive Share Option Scheme 2007 ESOS.
2007 LTIP The sole form of equity-based long-term incentive for executive Directors is the 2007 LTIP.
They do not receive awards under the 2007 CSOP or 2007 ESOS schemes, which provide incentives for less senior employees.
Under the 2007 LTIP, conditional awards of shares are made annually to executive Directors and selected other senior executives.
These awards normally vest three years after grant, subject to continued employment and the extent to which a performance condition has been met.
It is the Committees normal policy to grant annual LTIP awards to executive Directors in the form of shares worth 100% of salary.
However, in certain exceptional circumstances the Committee may make awards of up to 150% of salary.
It is the opinion of the Committee that the LTIP scheme has helped to motivate senior executives to drive sustained above-market long-term growth in Ultras profits and to generate excellent returns for shareholders as a result.
At the 2008 Annual General Meeting shareholders approved a change to the methodology for all awards made under the 2007 LTIP, together with a retrospective change to the awards still outstanding under the previous LTIP scheme the 2002 LTIP.
As explained last year, this change was made for technical reasons due to the problems with measuring relative EPS performance in the transition to IFRS, permitting the Company to replace its relative EPS target with a relative Total Shareholder Return TSR condition.
Relative TSR will now apply to all new awards made under the 2007 LTIP going forward, as well as to the 2007 awards made under the 2007 LTIP, together with the remaining 2006 award made under the 2002 LTIP.
It also applied to the 2005 award which vested in 2008.
The Committee believes that the use of relative TSR has a number of advantages.
These include: aligning the performance objectives of the executive Directors more closely with the interests of the shareholders: being an entirely objective measure of relative performance: reflecting the practice most commonly used by other quoted companies: and reducing the complexity and cost of calculating the vesting result.
Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 41 Corporate governance Remuneration report continued Detailed structure of TSR performance condition Under the TSR performance condition, TSR is based upon a comparison of the Companys average share price plus reinvested dividends during the quarter immediately prior to the start of the measurement period and its average share price plus reinvested dividends during the last quarter of the three year measurement period.
The resulting TSR will be compared with that achieved by a representative comparator group of companies.
The vesting rules under the 2007 LTIP are as follows: Ultras rank within the comparator group Percentage of award that vests Below median 0% Median 20% Upper quartile 100% Between median and upper quartile Pro-rata between 20% and 100% The comparator group for measuring relative TSR for the awards made in 2007 and 2008 is: Alba plc Renishaw plc Amstrad plc Rolls-Royce plc BAE Systems plc Rotork plc Charter plc Senior plc Chemring Group plc Smiths Group plc Chloride Group plc Spectris plc Cobham plc Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Dialight plc Telent plc Domino Printing Sciences plc TT Electronics plc Filtronic plc UMECO plc Halma plc Vitec Group plc Hampson Industries plc Volex Group plc Laird Group plc VT Group plc Meggitt plc Whatman plc Oxford Instruments plc Zetex plc Psion plc In 2007 group but not 2008 group since delisted before 2008 awards granted The Committee will review the comparator group annually and make such adjustments as it sees fit for example, to take account of companies which delist during the year.
For the 2009 award, it is proposed that Qinetiq is added and Amstrad, Telent, Whatman and Zetex, all of whom have now delisted, are excluded.
In addition to the main TSR condition, an underpin will apply to these awards requiring average annual growth in headline EPS growth of 7% over the relevant performance period.
In the event that this underpin is not met over a specific three-year LTIP measurement period, then the level of vesting will automatically fall to zero.
Headline EPS will be defined as earnings per share after adjustments to exclude gains or losses on financial instruments and the amortisation of intangibles arising on acquisition.
The extent to which awards vest will be verified independently by a third party.
All-Employee Share Plans The executive Directors are also eligible to participate in the Companys Inland Revenue approved All-Employee Share Ownership Plan AESOP and the Savings Related Share Option Scheme on the same terms as other employees.
Under the AESOP, employees in the UK are offered the opportunity to buy shares up to the value of 1,500 per annum from pre-tax salary.
Shares are then held in trust on behalf of employees until the maturity date or until they leave the Company.
Under the Savings Related Share Option Scheme, reintroduced during 2007, employees are entitled to save up to 1,200 per annum from net pay towards the purchase of options to buy Ultra shares after a period of either three or five years, depending upon the employees choice.
Senior Executive Share Ownership Guidelines To increase the alignment of interests between senior executives and shareholders, the Committee has introduced a share ownership guideline under which all executive Directors will be encouraged to retain at least 50% of the post-tax shares they acquire on the vesting of LTIP awards until a holding equivalent to 100% of base salary is achieved.
Pre-existing shareholdings will be taken into account.
At this time, all executive Directors are in compliance with this guideline.
42 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Remuneration report continued Total Shareholder Return performance graph The graph below shows the Total Shareholder Return TSR performance of the Company in comparison with the FTSE 250 Index over the past five years.
The graph shows the value at the end of 2008 of 100 invested at the start of the evaluation period, in the Company and in the Index.
The Committee considers the FTSE 250 a relevant index for the TSR comparison as the Company is a member of the index and because together the index members represent a broad range of UK quoted Companies.
Total shareholder return compared to FTSE 250 Index Source: Datastream 350 300 250 200 150 100 50 31 December 03 31 December 04 31 December 05 31 December 06 31 December 07 31 December 08 Ultra Electronics FTSE Mid 250 Index Directors service contracts The executive Directors service contracts have a notice period of one year, which the Committee considers appropriately reflects both current market practice and the balance between the interests of the Company and each executive Director.
In the event of early termination, it is the Committees policy that the amount of compensation paid to executive Directors will be considered in the light of all the relevant circumstances, subject to the overriding conditions that: the Committees aim will be to avoid rewarding poor performance: the duty of the relevant executive Director to mitigate his loss will be taken into account: and no compensation payment can normally exceed one years salary and benefits.
The following table provides more information on each Directors service contract: Name Date of contract Notice period C. Bailey 28 January 2008 Nil J. Blogh 25 April 2008 Nil D. Caster 25 September 1996 12 months I. Griffiths 25 April 2008 Nil A. Hamment 1 July 2000 12 months D. Jeffcoat 10 July 2000 12 months A. Walker 17 December 2008 Nil Sir R. Walmsley 22 January 2009 Nil No executive Directors have provisions in their contracts for compensation on early termination other than for the notice period.
With the exception of Andrew Walker, whose contract ends at the conclusion of the AGM, the non-executive Directors have fixed twelve-month contracts with no notice period.
There are no provisions in their contracts for compensation on early termination.
Directors pension entitlements The Company operates a defined benefit pension scheme for current executive Directors.
A pension equal to two-thirds of salary at retirement is provided at the normal retirement age of 63 years.
Where pensionable service is less than 20 years, the pension is calculated at one-thirtieth of the retirement salary for each year of service.
With the Companys consent, executive Directors may retire from age 50.
After age 58, Company consent to early retirement is not required.
Pensions are reduced in the event of early retirement.
Death-in-service cover is a lump sum of four times pensionable earnings.
In addition, a spouses pension of 33% of pensionable earnings is payable, together with an allowance for dependent children up to a maximum of 33% of pensionable earnings where relevant.
On the death of a retired Director, a spouses pension of 50% of the Directors pension is payable.
Once the pension is in payment, the part of the Directors pension above the Guaranteed Minimum Pension will be increased each year in line with the increase in the retail price index, capped at 7.5%, above which increases are at the Trustees discretion.
Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 43 Value Corporate governance
