Directors Report Continued The Group remains committed to improving the skills, knowledge and competence of all employees and appropriate training is provided in a number of areas.
The development needs of all employees are reviewed as part of the annual appraisal process and development activity is a key part of this process.
The Group acknowledges the importance of its workforce and its aim is to attract, retain and motivate high calibre employees.
Full and sympathetic consideration is given to the employment, training, career development and promotion of disabled employees.
As far as employees who become disabled during their employment are concerned, each case is judged on its own specific circumstances.
The Group is opposed to all forms of discrimination and offers equal access to employment, promotion and development regardless of gender, race, ethnic origin, religion, sexual orientation, age and disability.
Forward Looking Statements Certain statements in this Annual Report are forward looking statements that reflect the Companys current expectations regarding future events.
Forward looking statements inherently involve risks and uncertainties.
Actual events could differ materially from those expected and depend on a number of factors including the general economic outlook, commodity prices and successful production.
Although the Directors believe that the expectations reflected in these forward looking statements are reasonable, it can give no assurance that these expectations will prove to have been correct.
The Company undertakes no obligation to update any forward looking statements whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Going Concern The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Business and Finance Review on pages 11 to 33 and the Corporate Governance Report on pages 41 to 47.
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in the Finance Review on pages 31 and 32.
In addition, Note 22 to the accounts includes the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital, its financial risk management objectives, details of its financial instruments and hedging activities, and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Group has considerable financial resources together with the cash inflows generated from its existing producing oil and gas fields, of which a proportion benefits from protection from price fluctuations via the use of commodity futures and option contracts, as set out in Note 22 to the accounts.
As a consequence, the Directors believe that the Group is well placed to manage its business risks successfully despite the current uncertain economic outlook.
After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Annual Report and Accounts.
Statement of Directors Responsibilities Company law requires the Directors to prepare accounts for each financial year, which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and of the profit or loss for that year.
In preparing these accounts, the Directors are required to: Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently.
Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent.
State whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the accounts.
Prepare the accounts on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and Company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy, at any time, the financial position of the Group and Company, for ensuring that the accounts comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group and Company and hence for taking reasonable steps to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Companys website, www.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of Financial Statements may differ from other jurisdictions.
Auditors and Disclosure of Information to Auditors So far as the Directors are aware, there is no relevant information of which the Companys auditors are unaware, and each Director has taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as a Director in order to be aware of any relevant audit information, and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
The Directors will place a resolution before the AGM to re-appoint  LLP as auditors of the Group, to hold office until the conclusion at the next general meeting at which the accounts are laid before the Company.
By Order of the Board Simon N Waite Company Secretary 16 March 2009 40 Venture Production plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Governance Corporate Governance Report Introduction The Board seeks to maintain the highest standards of corporate governance throughout the Group and this report sets out its approach to, and compliance with, the principles contained in the Combined Code on Corporate Governance Combined Code published by the Financial Reporting Council.
It sets out and explains the two areas of non-compliance with the Code in 2008, one of which has been addressed during the year.
Compliance with the Combined Code The Company complied with the provisions of the Combined Code during 2008, except in the following areas: Combined Code Position Company Position Explanation A.
3.2 at least half the Board, excluding the Less than half the Board are independent NonIn order to be fully compliant with this provision Chairman, should comprise Non-Executive Executive Directors.
Excluding the Chairman, of the Combined Code, the Board would Directors determined by the Board to be the Board comprises 12 members, of which need to comprise at least 15 members.
four are Executive Directors, three are nonThe Board wishes to avoid becoming unwieldy independent Non-Executive Directors and due to its size, as this may impact upon its five are independent Non-Executive Directors.
It remains satisfied that the existing independent NonExecutive Directors are capable of safeguarding shareholders interests.
During 2008, a new independent Non-Executive Director has been recruited but there is no current intention of further increasing the size of the Board.
4.1 a majority of the members of the At the beginning of the year the Nomination The Committee now comprises a majority Nomination Committee should be independent Committee comprised two independent of independent Non-Executive Directors.
Non-Executive Directors, the Chairman and Chief Executive.
On 18 August an additional independent Non-Executive Director was appointed to the Committee.
The Board, its Structure and Directors The Board formulates its strategy and monitors the operating and financial performance of the Company, whilst recognising its key role as the link in the chain of authority between the shareholders and the Chief Executive and its responsibility to represent and promote the interests of shareholders.
The Board is accountable to all shareholders for the performance of the Company and has a written schedule of matters reserved for its decision, which are reviewed on an annual basis.
These include the approval of the annual and half year financial statements: long term objectives and strategy: the annual business plan: operating and capital expenditure budgets: policy on hydrocarbon and currency hedging: risk management policy: reserves reporting: and all other corporate governance arrangements.
All other matters, including implementing the Boards decisions on reserved matters, are delegated to the Chief Executive.
The Chief Executive is responsible in turn for establishing a clear system of delegation and accountability for all aspects of corporate performance.
Where the Board approves policy, it both sets the standards to be observed by the whole Company and provides a clear framework for delegation.
The schedule of matters reserved for the Board is available at www.
As at 31 December 2008, the Board comprised the Chairman, four Executive Directors, five independent Non-Executive Directors and three nonindependent Non-Executive Directors.
Details of changes during the year are set out in the Directors Report on pages 38 to 40.
The Non-Executive Directors bring a wide range of business, financial and international experience to the Board.
Biographical details of each Director are set out on pages 36 and 37.
Chairman and Chief Executive The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive are separate and clearly defined and have been set out in writing and approved by the Board.
No individual has unfettered powers of decision making.
The Chairman is responsible for the leadership and governance of the Board, and the Chief Executive for the management of the Company and the implementation of the Board strategy and policy on its behalf.
The Chief Executive is supported by the Executive Committee and Executive team which are comprised of the senior management from throughout the business.
Senior Independent Director Mark Nicholls, the Deputy Chairman, has been appointed as the Senior Independent Director SID and he is available to speak to shareholders if they have concerns which contact through the normal channels of Chairman, Chief Executive or Finance Director has failed to resolve or for which such contact is inappropriate.
No such meetings were requested during the year.
Re-Election of Directors The Companys Memorandum and Articles of Association require that one third of the Directors must submit themselves for re-election each year by rotation.
Additionally, newly appointed Directors will submit themselves for election at the AGM following their appointment.
The Board has decided that all Directors should submit themselves for re-election at each AGM.
This is consistent with the annual review process for individual Board members, which includes the review of appointment terms and conditions and confirmation of expected time commitments for Non-Executive Directors.
Venture Production plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 41 Corporate Governance Report Continued Independence of Directors The composition of the Board has changed during the year following the appointment of an additional independent Non-Executive Director, Andrew Carr-Locke.
The Board has three Non-Executive Directors who are not considered to be independent: Larry Kinch is a founding member of the Company and remains a major shareholder.
Graeme Sword and Robb Turner were appointed during 2007, as representatives of 3i Group plc and ArcLight Capital Partners, LLC respectively, following a strategic investment in the Company.
None of these Directors are members of any of the Board Committees.
Meetings Attendance Directors attendance at Board and Committee meetings between 1 January and 31 December 2008: Board Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee Date of Appointment Attended Possible Attended Possible Attended Possible Attended Possible AGM Rod Begbie 19 June 2007 6 6 Tom Blades 16 March 2006 5 6 3 3 Andrew Carr-Locke 3 March 2008 6 6 3 3 1 1 Tom Ehret 16 March 2006 5 6 4 4 Alan Jones 28 April 2005 6 6 4 4 3 3 1 1 Larry Kinch 1 November 1996 4 6 John Morgan 7 September 1998 6 6 3 3 1 1 Jon Murphy 16 August 1999 6 6 Mark Nicholls 15 January 2004 6 6 4 4 3 3 1 1 Graeme Sword 24 October 2007 5 6 Peter Turner 6 December 2007 6 6 Robb Turner 12 September 2007 6 6 Mike Wagstaff 26 October 1999 6 6 1 1 During the year, the Company also held a number of additional Board and Committee meetings by minuted conference calls.
These were often called at short notice between the scheduled meetings.
Board and Committee agendas and supporting papers are distributed seven days in advance of each meeting and in the instances where a Director has not been able to attend Board or Committee meetings, any comments he may have are relayed in advance, whenever possible, to the Chairman of the meeting.
All Directors have access to the Company Secretary and, if required, also to independent professional advice at the Companys expense.
Induction and Development of the Non-Executive Directors New Directors are given a tailored induction programme covering the overall position of Venture: the role of the Board and the matters reserved for Board decision: the function and terms of reference of Board Committees: the Companys corporate governance practices: key policy areas: and the latest financial and operational information concerning the Company.
They also meet all the Executive Directors and the Company Secretary and key members of the management team and are briefed on their legal and other duties and obligations as a Director of a listed company.
As part of the annual appraisal process, Directors are invited to identify any areas in which they would benefit from training and the Company will seek to identify appropriate programmes to meet their needs.
This is supplemented by routine briefings on major developments.
For example, during the year, amongst other briefings, the Directors were updated on the implications of the new Companies Act 2006 the Act and in particular the changes relating to conflicts of interest.
Role of the Non-Executive Directors The roles and responsibilities of the Non-Executive Directors are set out in their appointment letters, and their key responsibilities, which are mainly supervisory, are to recommend, advise and monitor matters relating to: the strategy and performance of the Company: present and future availability and use of resources: standards of conduct, compliance and control on the Board and in the Company generally: and the appointment of key employees and officers.
A copy of the standard letter of appointment for a Non-Executive Director is available on the Companys website.
The Non-Executive Directors meet periodically, often just before a Board meeting, without the Executive Directors present.
During 2008 they met twice as a group.
Conflicts of Interest Under the Companies Act 2006 the duties owed to a company by its directors have been codified.
Directors have a duty to avoid conflicts of interest and the Act brought in a process from 1 October 2008 whereby the Board can authorise actual or potential conflicts of interest.
Shareholders approved a change to the Companys Articles of Association in May 2008 to allow for such authorisation.
A procedure was adopted by the Board in August whereby each Director submitted a statement showing all actual or potential conflicts at that time and, at each Board meeting, Directors are asked whether there are any additional actual or potential conflicts to be disclosed.
It was agreed that any subsequent disclosures received between meetings would be considered by the Nomination Committee and the Board would then formally decide whether the authorisations should be granted.
All conflicts will be reviewed annually at the Board meeting prior to the AGM and a register of authorisations has been established and is maintained by the Company Secretary.
42 Venture Production plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Governance Board Committees The Board has established a number of Committees in order to assist it in fulfilling its role and responsibilities.
The terms of reference of each of the Board Committees are reviewed on a regular basis and are available to view at www.
Nomination Committee A Nomination Committee has been established and comprises John Morgan, its Chairman, Mark Nicholls, Alan Jones, Andrew Carr-Locke and Mike Wagstaff.
The terms of reference of the Committee set out its key objectives, which include the regular review of the Board structure, size and composition, and any recommendations are then submitted to the Board for consideration.
The Committee is also responsible for identifying and nominating candidates for the approval of the Board, to fill Board vacancies, as and when they arise.
In the early part of the year, the Committee, in conjunction with Egon Zhender, was responsible for recommending the recruitment of Andrew Carr-Locke as an additional independent Non-Executive Director.
The Committee includes Mike Wagstaff as a member because the Board believes that it is important that the Chief Executive should be formally involved in the nomination process for new Board members.
The Committee formally met once during the year, however, it also held a number of informal calls in exercise of its duties.
Audit Committee The Audit Committee is authorised to investigate any activity within its terms of reference, which are available on the Companys website, and are reviewed on an annual basis.
The Committee reviews the Annual and Half Year Accounts, internal controls and the results of the audit with the external auditor, maintaining an effective relationship with them.
The Committee also reviews the scope of the audit and other non-audit services and recommends the remuneration of the external auditor to the Board.
For details on fees paid to the external auditor, see Note 3 to the Accounts on page 70.
The Committee reports on its activities and makes recommendations to the Board.
It has access to the external auditor, who in turn have unrestricted access to the Committee.
If required and at the Companys expense, the Committee can obtain outside legal and or other independent professional advice.
No such advice was obtained during the year.
The Committee makes recommendations on the appointment, re-appointment or removal of the Companys external auditor and during the year the Board accepted the Audit Committees recommendation to re-appoint  LLP as the Companys external auditor.
Deloitte & Touche LLP have been appointed as tax advisers to the Company to ensure that the provision of such services does not impair the independence or objectivity of the external auditor.
Committee Composition At the start of the year the Committee comprised Mark Nicholls Chairman, Alan Jones and Tom Ehret: details of their attendance at Committee meetings are shown opposite.
Representatives from the external auditor attended three meetings and, in addition, have unrestricted access to the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee has the discretion to decide who, other than its members, shall attend the meetings and during the year the Finance Director attended each meeting.
With effect from 3 March 2008, Andrew Carr-Locke was appointed to the Committee to further strengthen its composition.
Andrew was formerly Finance Director of George Wimpey PLC and possesses recent and relevant financial experience which, when combined with the other Committee members wide range of experience in the financial and oil and gas sectors in the UK and internationally, provides for a strong and influential Committee membership.
Overview of Activities During the year under review, the Audit Committee followed a programme structured around the annual reporting cycle and reports from both management and the external auditor.
Principal activities included: Review of the Preliminary Announcement, the Annual Report and Accounts and the Half Year Report.
On all occasions, the Committee receives reports from the external auditor identifying any accounting or judgemental issues requiring its attention.
Review of papers prepared and presented by the external auditor in relation to the 2007 final audit, the 2008 Half Year review and the audit plans and strategy for the 2008 final audit.
Review of the results and effectiveness of the final audit including reporting by the external auditor and review of the independence and objectivity of the external auditor.
Review and approval of the fee proposals for the final audit and the Half Year review.
Private discussions with the external auditor with no executive management present.
Review of the risk identification process and its management and control.
Review of the systems of internal control.
Review of the commercial audit process.
Completion of a performance evaluation of its own performance.
Review of the Committees terms of reference.
Review of the Groups whistle blowing policy.
Consideration of the risk of fraud.
In addition to the principal activities outlined above, the Committee also received a number of reports and presentations throughout the year, including a regular update report from the Finance Director.
These included presentations on changes made to the Companys finance systems, annual tax review and a review of treasury funding.
KPMG, who have acted as the Companys internal auditor since 2006, also presented to the Committee during the year on progress with the implementation of improved internal financial controls, together with preliminary proposals for proposed areas of internal focus in 2009.
The Committee continued to provide an appropriate sounding board for the management on its full range of activities.
Venture Production plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 43 Corporate Governance Report Continued Internal Audit Function and the Provision of Non-Audit Services In accordance with provision C. 3.5 of the Combined Code, the Committee continued to monitor the need for the establishment of an internal audit function, bearing in mind the growth in size and complexity of the Company.
Venture currently obtains independent confirmation on the operation of internal controls from a variety of sources.
During the year, KPMG continued to provide an external review of the financial controls within the Group, having particular regard to the efficiency of key financial processes and the implementation of best practice and reported upon the progress made in implementing improved controls.
The Committee is considering expanding KPMGs role during 2009 to areas outside of its original remit, which concentrated on financial controls.
As an operator, Venture is subject to audits by the non-operating joint venture parties.
These audits cover all charges made to the joint account and compliance with the administration of the joint operating agreement.
In its own right, Venture undertakes audits on significant third party contracts, utilising the services of specialist independent auditor.
During the year, the Audit Committee received a presentation from the specialist independent auditor in order to gain a better understanding of the audit process and the range of issues addressed.
During the year, in accordance with agreed procedures, the Committee approved the engagement of  LLP for non-statutory audit services relating to the audit of the Companys overhead cost allocation process to obviate the need for each joint venture partner requesting to carry out a separate audit.
The review covered calendar years 2006 and 2007 and the Committee felt it was appropriate that the auditor provide these services as they had previously carried out a review of 2000 to 2005 and had detailed knowledge of the Companys systems and procedures and the requirements of the joint venture partners.
Where Venture has a concern over a particular area, a specific review will be instigated using either internal or external resources as required under the direction of the Audit Committee.
This approach of utilising the diverse skills set within the Company, supplemented by external individuals, enables Venture to cover the full range of business risks that it faces without having to employ full-time resources focused on internal control reviews.
The results of all audit reviews are reported to the Audit Committee.
Following input from the Audit Committee, the Board has again decided against establishing a formal in-house internal audit function.
This decision is partly a function of scale, but more importantly, it is believed that an alternative approach to identifying and dealing with risk areas is a better fit for the Company.
This involves examining the overall risk review, including the specific areas of financial management and control, and, together with the external auditor, identifying areas that require further analysis or benchmarking.
This work will then be undertaken by the appropriate internal or external resources.
An annual review will continue to be carried out to assess the requirement for an internal audit function.
External Auditor Limitation of Liability The Companies Act 2006 removed the UKs 80 year prohibition on auditors and their clients reaching contractual limitations for the auditors liability, subject to the receipt of prior shareholder approval.
The Companys external auditor recommended a move to a system of proportionate liability, under which the responsibility of the auditor and the Company for any losses in which audit failure played a part, would be assessed and apportioned by an independent third party.
It was argued that proportional liability does not protect auditors against the consequences of their own actions, but does prevent them being held liable for the consequences of the actions of others.
However, after due consideration of the matter and in the light of current market practice, the Board, following a recommendation of the Audit Committee, agreed that it would not at this time enter into an agreement to limit the external auditors liability.
Committee Evaluation At its meeting in February 2009, the Committee carried out an internal evaluation of its own performance during 2008.
It was concluded that the Committees performance remained effective and had appropriate terms of reference which had been complied with during the year.
The Committee members are provided with appropriate training opportunities to ensure that they remain informed of all material developments in best practice and regulations.
An evaluation of the effectiveness of the performance of the external auditor during the year was carried out by completion of a questionnaire by each member of the Committee as well as regular attendees.
Feedback was provided to the Audit Partner by the Committees Chairman.
Remuneration Committee The Directors Remuneration Report is set out on pages 48 to 55 and provides detailed information on the Companys remuneration policies and practices, together with details of the Remuneration Committees membership.
Executive Committee Composition of the Executive Committee was unchanged during the year and comprised Mike Wagstaff Chairman, Jon Murphy, Peter Turner and Rod Begbie.
Meetings are held on a regular basis, within clearly defined delegated powers concerning operational matters.
A copy of its terms of reference is available on the Companys website.
Board Assessment In March 2009, the Board carried out a review of its performance during 2008 and discussed opportunities for improvement.
A list of issues and topics was compiled by the Chairman and circulated ahead of the discussion, with a clear opportunity to raise additional issues.
Board members were free to submit views confidentially in writing, but in practice none did so and all participated in the discussion.
44 Venture Production plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Governance During the evaluation the Directors highlighted a number of development areas which would assist in continuing the appropriate level of Board debate, some of which are: to assess the form and content of technical presentations, particularly relating to capital expenditure requests: to continue to regularly review the Companys strategy, particularly in times of volatile market conditions: to regularly refresh the top-down process for the identification of key risks: to obtain independent external advice in certain key business areas: and to refresh the Directors induction training programme.
The Board unanimously agreed that the process for Board, Committee and Director assessments was appropriate to the size and structure of the Company.
Individual Director assessments are based on a self-assessment process which is followed up by a conversation with the Chairman, who consults with his colleagues as necessary.
This process ties in with the annual review process for Non-Executive Directors.
Mark Nicholls, the SID, led an assessment of the Chairmans performance during 2008, at which the Chairman was not present.
A range of tasks were reviewed and the Board unanimously reaffirmed its view that he remained fully independent in both character and judgement and continued to allocate sufficient time to fulfil his duties as the Chairman of a FTSE 250 company.
Risk Management and Internal Control The Board has conducted a review of the effectiveness of the Companys systems of internal controls and is responsible for the controls including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management.
In accordance with the provisions of the Turnbull Report, the Board is also responsible for reviewing the effectiveness of those controls.
Such a control system can only provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss and is designed not to eliminate risk, but to enable the Company to achieve its corporate objectives within a managed risk portfolio.
The Board receives regular reports from the Executive management that enables it to assess the nature of business risks and allows it to review the effectiveness of the controls in place to manage them.
As Venture has increased significantly in scale over the last few years, the risk process has also grown in breadth and complexity to support it.
The Board has fully reviewed the changes in process during the course of the year and will continue to do so going forward.
Recognising and managing risk is a process that occurs at all levels within the business and is an inherent part of the management culture.
At the operational level, managers are responsible for ensuring that their staff and contractors carry out risk assessments of all projects and activities to identify potential hazards.
The assessment process recognises not only the threats but also opportunities that might otherwise be missed.
In an environment that is itself subject to increasing market, legislative and environmental changes, the dynamic and cultural nature of this risk process is essential to maintain its currency.
In a sector where many of the risk areas do not essentially change year to year and are simply inherent in the business, it is seen as particularly important, particularly during changing times to keep the process live.
Where appropriate, independent third parties with additional specialist skills contribute to these risk assessments.
When risks cannot be removed, controls are identified and implemented and their effectiveness monitored throughout the life cycle of the project or activity.
At the corporate level, the Directors formally review all significant risks to the business.
The results of the processes described above and, in particular, of the annual risk assessment review, are brought to the Board in a summarised form.
This identifies the key risks, the likelihood of occurrence, the potential impact on the business, the existing mitigation measures and any actions identified that would further control or mitigate the risks.
The Board reviews this assessment, brings its own top-down contribution and judgement to bear with particular reference to risks of a strategic nature and authorises any further actions.
The resultant findings are fed back down the organisation through the management line to ensure a common understanding and the implementation of necessary actions.
The Board formally reviewed risk as a separate topic twice during 2008 with the objective of providing assurance that changing circumstances are being monitored, that the process is robust and that necessary actions are being implemented.
The Directors acknowledge their responsibility, under the Combined Code, to establish and maintain the Companys system of internal control that safeguards its assets and to ensure the reliability of financial information for both internal use and external publication.
Internal control systems reflect the particular scale of operations, business risks, cost effectiveness and overall needs of the Company.
Controls are designed to identify and manage risk rather than eliminate all risks to which the Company is exposed.
As a result, any system of internal control can only provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The attention to internal control continued during 2008 and has been externally validated by KPMG, demonstrating an increase in controls and documented processes.
Venture Production plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 45 Corporate Governance Report Continued Key Business Risks The key business risks are set out in the Business and Finance Review on pages 23 and 24.
Risk Identification, Evaluation and Management The process of identifying, evaluating and managing the risks faced by the Company is continuous.
The key procedures the Board have established with a view to providing effective internal control are as follows: Management Structure There is a formal schedule of matters reserved for decision by the Board.
Each Executive Director has a defined sphere of overall responsibility and can also act as part of the Executive of the Board on certain defined issues.
The Executive team, made up of the Executive Directors and senior managers, meet formally on a bi-weekly basis to review current business matters, take decisions and identify any areas of concern.
This group is supported by a broader group of department managers.
Financial Authorities The management structure is supported by a Financial Authorities schedule, which clearly specifies authority by role and type of expenditure across the organisation.
This document is maintained on the Business Management System, together with supporting processes, and is owned by the Finance Director.
Quality and Integrity of Personnel High quality personnel are essential to the control environment.
The integrity and competence of personnel is ensured through high recruitment standards and the encouragement of personnel to identify and take responsibility for their own competence and continuing development.
Identification of Business Risks The Board is ultimately responsible for identifying the major business risks faced by the Group and for determining the appropriate course of action to manage those risks.
However, each employee has an active role in identifying and communicating business risks within the Group.
This involvement in identification and management of risk is encouraged through the annual risk review process.
The Board also engages independent professional advice on risk assessment matters as required.
Budget and Business Plan Each year the Board approves a budget, by month, plus a business plan for the next four years.
This details the proposed work programme, production and financial performance indicators and incorporates sensitivity for factors such as commodity prices and exchange rates.
Performance is reported to the Board monthly with significant variances explained, emerging risks identified and forecasts updated.
Executive management has a quarterly performance review meeting at which the business to date is reviewed and the plan going forward is assessed, with particular emphasis on delivery of that plan.
Investment Appraisal Capital expenditure commitment is controlled by reference to the approved budget and authorisation levels.
Capital or non-routine operating expenditure above specified levels requires standard documented proposals and evaluations to be submitted to the appropriate financial authority holder.
Venture utilises its in-house expertise to implement rigorous review of all investment proposals at both peer and management levels.
Increasingly this will be supplemented by the use of external expertise where this is appropriate.
Performance is reported to the Board monthly with significant variances explained, key risks identified and forecasts updated.
Complete technical, commercial, financial and legal due diligence work is carried out on potential asset and corporate acquisitions.
Monitoring of the Internal Control Systems An annual risk review identifies the key risks, the likelihood of occurrence, the potential impact on the business, the existing mitigation measures and any actions identified that would further control or mitigate the risks.
The assessment of risk is monitored throughout the year and formally reviewed mid year by the Executive team.
To supplement this annual risk review, Venture has instituted an annual review of fraud material error across the business.
This review covers all business areas and provides assurance to the Board that no instances of fraud are known to have occurred during the year and that areas at risk of fraud material error are assessed and mitigating actions put in place.
No material items for 2008 have been notified.
There is also a formal whistle blowing policy that encourages anyone associated with Venture to bring forward any concerns in relation to its operation or reporting.
The policy is widely communicated and provides a route of discussion direct to the Non-Executive Chairman of the Audit Committee.
No items for 2008 have been notified.
The Board considers that, having undertaken the procedures outlined, it has monitored the effectiveness of the Groups internal controls and that no significant failings or weaknesses were identified.
Communication with Shareholders The Company maintains a regular dialogue with all its stakeholders through the formal channels of results presentations, regulatory Stock Market announcements, Annual Report and Accounts, the Half Year Report and at the AGM.
The Company also issues operational and trading updates prior to entering into close periods and seeks to provide timely market guidance on production levels and trading, as appropriate throughout the year.
The Company conducts investor roadshows, during which senior management meet with institutional shareholders, immediately after each results announcement.
In addition, ad hoc shareholder meetings are held during the year, organised either through the Companys joint brokers or in response to direct requests from institutional fund managers.
46 Venture Production plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Governance Investor interest in Venture continues to grow as the scale of our operations increases.
This increased interest is being successfully addressed by an active investor relations programme, fronted mainly by the Companys Executive Directors, and continued development of a wider range of communication channels.
The Directors are kept up to date on the views of the Companys major shareholders and analysts on a regular basis with feedback reports prepared by third parties after each results roadshow, Analyst Day presentation and equity analyst research notes.
During the year, the Chairman John Morgan, and Alan Jones, Chairman of the Remuneration Committee also met with some of the Companys shareholders to discuss the introduction of the LTIP 2008.
Following these meetings, changes were made to the performance conditions attached to the plan and it was subsequently approved by members at the AGM in May 2008.
The Company also maintains a less formal dialogue with shareholders through regular two-way communications with a growing number of equity research analysts, fund managers and private client stockbrokers.
Private investors continue to be encouraged to communicate directly with the Company, and the corporate website has been designed to provide detailed information on Ventures assets, as well as including a dedicated investor relations section.
Shareholders and other interested parties can subscribe to receive Company specific news updates by email by registering online on the website, and contact details are also provided on the website whereby specific queries can be emailed directly to the Company.
It is intended that during 2009 a new improved corporate website will be launched.
During 2008, the Company held an Analyst Day in January and a Capital Markets Day in November at which a presentation of the Companys gas business was provided.
Equity research analysts and major institutional shareholders were invited to attend and the full Venture senior management team were available for questions.
A copy of the presentation materials has been made available to all stakeholders via the website.
The Companys communication programme, aimed specifically at private client stockbrokers, regional pension funds and smaller financial institutions, has proved successful and will be maintained.
Amongst larger institutions, Venture has also seen increased international interest, particularly from North America and Europe, and efforts to target these institutions have increased.
During 2008, management made trips to the United States, Canada, Sweden, Germany and France to meet with investors and it is intended that this will become a regular feature in the annual investor relations programme going forward.
In addition, management schedule a conference call for US and European institutions as part of each results roadshow.
Investors are encouraged to attend and participate in the AGM at which, in addition to the formal business of the meeting, the Chief Executive provides a review of the most recent results and commentary on current business development and activity.
The Chairmen of each of the Board Committees are available at the AGM to answer any shareholder questions.
The Senior Independent Director is also specifically available to meet with shareholders to discuss any concerns either at the AGM or through other channels, and at other times, if deemed more appropriate.
When possible, the full Board of Directors attends the AGM.
Simon N Waite Company Secretary 16 March 2009 Venture Production plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 47
