Governance Remuneration Report Remuneration Policy Information not subject to audit Xstratas remuneration policy is designed to attract, retain and motivate the highly talented individuals needed to deliver its business strategy and to maximise shareholder wealth creation.
Remuneration Committee The policy for 2009 and, so far as practicable, for subsequent The Remuneration Committee is chaired by Willy Strothotte and its years, will be framed around the following principles for the other members are David Rough and Paul Hazen, all of whom are Executive Committee: non-executive directors.
The Board recognises that Willy Strothotte is not an independent non-executive director as dened by the remuneration arrangements will be designed to support Xstratas Code, but regards his membership as critical to the workings of business strategy and to align it with the interests of Xstratas the Committee due to his extensive knowledge and experience shareholders: of the global mining resources sector.
total reward levels will be set at appropriate levels to reect the The Remuneration Committee reviews the structure of remuneration competitive global market in which Xstrata operates, with the for executive directors on an ongoing basis and has responsibility intention of positioning such levels within the top quartile for for the determination, within agreed terms of reference, of specic outstanding performance when measured against a peer group remuneration packages for executive directors and other members of of global mining companies and the FTSE100: the Executive Committee, including salaries, pension rights, bonuses, a high proportion of the remuneration should be at risk, with long-term incentives, benets-in-kind and any compensation payments.
performance-related remuneration making up at least 50% of the The Committee is also aware of the level and structure of remuneration total potential remuneration for Executive Committee members: and for senior management and advises on any major changes in employee remuneration and benefit structures throughout the Group, including performance-related payments will be subject to the satisfaction of the continuous review of incentive schemes to ensure that they remain demanding and stretching performance targets over the short and appropriate for the Group.
The Remuneration Committee commits to long term.
These performance targets will be set in the context of the bringing independent thought and scrutiny to the development and prospects of the Group, the prevailing economic environment in which review process of the Group with regards to remuneration.
it operates, and the relative performance of comparator companies.
The Committee met three times during 2008.
The Chairman will The Remuneration Committee considers that a successful remuneration continue to ensure that the Group maintains contact, as necessary, policy needs to be sufciently exible to take account of future with its principal shareholders about remuneration.
The purpose changes in the business environment and in remuneration practices.
and function of the Committee in the future will not differ materially Consequently, the remuneration policy and the Remuneration from this year and its terms of reference can be found on the Groups Committees terms of reference for subsequent years will be website www.
reviewed annually in the light of matters such as changes to corporate governance best practice or changes to accounting, legislation or The remuneration of non-executive directors, other than the Chairman, business practices among peer group mining companies.
This will will be considered by the Chairman and the Chief Executive and will help to ensure that the policy continues to provide Xstrata with a not be considered by the Remuneration Committee.
The Chairmans competitive reward strategy.
In doing so, the Committee will take remuneration will be determined by the Remuneration Committee into account the UK Listing Rules, the provisions of the Code and while the Chairman is absent.
associated guidance attached to it, as well as the guidance provided The Chief Executive attends the Remuneration Committee meetings by by a number of institutional investor representative bodies on the invitation and assists the Remuneration Committee in its considerations, design of performance-related remuneration.
Policies will be sensitive except when issues relating to his own remuneration are discussed.
The to pay and employment conditions elsewhere in the Group.
Remuneration Committee is provided with national and international The Remuneration Committee is satisfied that Xstratas pay and pay data collected from external survey providers.
employment conditions for non-Board employees around the world are During the year, Hay Group provided independent advice to the appropriate to the various markets in which Xstrata operates.
The Remuneration Committee on executive remuneration.
The Group Remuneration Committee does not consider a ratio comparison between also uses the Hay Group method for determining salaries for positions executive directors and non-Board employees to be a useful way of below Executive Committee level.
The Hay Group provided no other assessing the fairness and equitability of Xstratas remuneration practices.
services to the Group during 2008.
The vastly different costs of living in the countries where Xstrata has operations and uctuations in exchange rates mean any such trend analysis or comparisons with competitors would be meaningless.
98 98 Xstrata Xstrata plc plc Annual Annual Report Report 2008 2008 The payment of any bonus under the Bonus Plan is subject to a hurdle Elements of remuneration rate for the financial years ending 31 December 2008 and 2009 it will The total remuneration package for executive directors comprises be set such that the Groups return on equity will be at least equal to the following principal elements: the Groups average cost of borrowing.
If this hurdle is not reached, the bonus pool will be zero.
The Remuneration Committee has the base salary: discretion to vary the basis of calculation and the performance targets annual bonus plan including deferred element: for subsequent years.
participation in long-term incentive arrangements: The amount of the bonus pool that is distributed in any one year, and the relative proportions payable to each participant or, at the subsisting rights under the Xstrata AG share scheme in relation discretion of the Remuneration Committee, to a trust for his her to individual arrangements as detailed below : benefit will be at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee.
pension: and Individual performance criteria have been agreed with each participant, other benets including housing allowance where essential for which will be evaluated by the Remuneration Committee in determining the performance of duties, permanent health, life and private individual allocations from the bonus pool.
The maximum bonus payable under the Bonus Plan for executive directors is 300% of salary.
The highest level of bonus will only be Base salary available for truly outstanding performance.
Bonuses will be payable The base salary of the executive directors is subject to annual review by in up to three tranches, as follows: the Remuneration Committee.
The Remuneration Committee reviews external pay data to ensure that the levels of remuneration remain the maximum bonus which any one participant is eligible to receive competitive and appropriate in the light of the Groups policy.
The in cash will be limited to 100% of the individuals base salary: Remuneration Committee is also responsible for ensuring that the any additional bonus up to a further 100% of base salary will be positioning of the Groups remuneration relative to its peers does not deferred for a period of one year: and result in increases in remuneration without a corresponding increase in performance or responsibilities.
When setting base salaries, the any remaining bonus will be deferred for a period of two years.
Committee also considers the impact on pension contributions and The deferred elements take the form of conditional awards of Xstrata associated costs.
During 2008 with effect from 1 January 2008, base shares which vest subject to the participant remaining in employment salary increases for Mick Davis, Trevor Reid and Santiago Zaldumbide throughout the deferral period.
The number of shares awarded will be were 14%, 22% and 6% respectively.
Respective base salaries determined by reference to the market value of the shares at the date effective from 1 January 2009 will be GBP1,310,000, GBP660,000 concurrent awards under the LTIP are made.
and EUR970,000, representing increases of 4.80%, 5.60% and 4.08% respectively on salaries paid during 2008.
There is no intention to use newly issued ordinary shares for the Bonus Plan and any shares required for the satisfaction of deferred bonuses Santiago Zaldumbide provides his services to the Group under a will be acquired by market purchase.
professional services agreement entered into between him and Asturiana on 23 July 2007 to act as Chairman and Chief Executive Other benets officer of Xstrata Zinc.
This agreement replaced a similar agreement In 2008, following termination of discussions with Vale, and in light with Asturiana dated 29 January 1998, which was terminated by of unprecedented approaches from executive recruitment rms, a agreement on 23 July 2007.
The current agreement is in force from its small group of senior executives whose particular skills and services date of signature 23 July 2007 and continues indefinitely thereafter the Company was seeking to retain, were awarded a one-off retention unless terminated by one of the parties giving the other written notice bonus payable in May 2009 conditional upon, amongst other things, of no less than six months.
The annual gross fee payable to Santiago their remaining in employment to and including 30 April 2009.
Zaldumbide for the year ended 31 December 2008 was EUR932,000 including an amount in lieu of any pension-related payment.
This In order to facilitate travel to the Groups operations, many of which annual fee is subject to review in line with the other executive directors.
are located in remote locations not served by commercial ight routes, Xstrata leases a private aircraft to be used from time to time for Santiago Zaldumbides appointment as a director of Xstrata is subject business travel by Group executive management.
During the year, to the existence of the above-referenced agreement between Santiago the Remuneration Committee approved the private use of leased Zaldumbide and Asturiana.
Santiago Zaldumbide receives no additional aircraft for Mick Davis, subject to any private usage not conicting remuneration for his position as director of Xstrata plc but is eligible with company requirements, for a limited number of hours per to participate in the Bonus Plan and the Long Term Incentive Plan.
annum, not all of which were utilised in 2008.
Bonus Plan Long Term Incentive Arrangements Executive directors and the other members of the Executive Committee are eligible to participate in the Executive Committee Bonus Plan the All equity-based awards are subject to an overall limitation on the Bonus Plan.
The Bonus Plan focuses on the achievement of annual number of shares issued, transferred from treasury, or that remain objectives, which align the short-term financial performance of the issuable pursuant to awards of 10% within any ten-year period after Group with the creation of shareholder value.
The bonus is based on Xstratas operational performance as measured Added Value Incentive Plan by return on equity and net profit.
Specic targets for return on equity The Added Value Incentive Plan the AVP is designed to incentivise and the proportion of net profits that make up the bonus pool are the Chief Executive by providing a share of the long-term value he determined each year by the Remuneration Committee.
Before the creates for shareholders over and above the value created by Xstratas pool is nalised the Remuneration Committee actively considers peer companies and to create alignment with shareholders by means whether the pool is appropriate in light of the other key financial of share ownership.
The Remuneration Committee believes that the and non-financial drivers of future shareholder value.
Chief Executive has a unique role in delivering value to shareholders Xstrata plc Annual Report 2008 99 Governance Remuneration Report continued through the efficient utilisation of Xstratas assets and by making made for lower levels of absolute performance, by applying a multiplier value-enhancing acquisitions and divestments.
For this reason, to the indexed Base Rewards to calculate the Final Rewards.
For the membership of the AVP is restricted to the current Chief Executive 2008 Plan Cycle and future plan cycles, for absolute TSR of 25% and and any future successor in that role.
above a multiplier of 1 will be applied, for absolute TSR of -25% or below a multiplier of 0.5 will be applied.
For the 2005, 2006 and 2007 The Chief Executives participation in the AVP is contingent on his Plan Cycle, the multiplier for absolute TSR of -25% is 0.
Between -25% building up and maintaining a holding of at least 350,000 ordinary and 25% straight-line interpolation will apply.
Provided Xstratas TSR Xstrata shares.
is at least equal to the TSR index, the Phase 1 Final Reward under each The Chief Executive will not be eligible for awards under the Xstrata Plan Cycle will be at least $1 million.
The multiplier was adjusted for plc Long Term Incentive Plan the LTIP in any year when an AVP the 2008 Plan Cycle and for future Plan Cycles as the Remuneration cycle commences.
Committee considered it was necessary in order to ensure that the AVP continues to offer an adequate incentive and reward for Payments under the scheme will be based upon the growth in mitigating shareholder losses in a falling market.
the Companys total shareholder return TSR over the relevant performance period relative to an index of global mining companies, 50% of the Final Reward for a Phase of a Plan Cycle shall be payable in cash or in shares, as determined by the Remuneration Committee, which form the Xstrata TSR Index.
Performance will be assessed over as soon as practicable following determination of the Final Reward periods of both three years Phase 1 and five years Phase 2 from for that Phase by the Remuneration Committee.
Of the remaining date of award.
50% of a Phase 1 Final Reward, 25% shall be deferred for a period At the end of a Phase 1 performance period Xstrata TSR will be of one year and 25% shall be deferred for a period of two years.
calculated and compared to the Xstrata TSR Index, and the Added The remaining 50% of a Phase 2 Final Reward shall be deferred Value created over the performance period will be calculated.
If this gure is positive, it will be multiplied by a participation The Xstrata TSR and Share Price Indices will be weighted by market percentage which is 0.5% of the Added Value for the 2005 Plan capitalisation.
The comparator group for each plan cycle comprises Cycle, 0.3% for the 2006 and 2007 Plan Cycles and 0.5% for the relevant global mining rms.
2008 Plan Cycle to calculate the Phase 1 Base Reward.
The maximum In the event of one or more constituents undergoing a take-over, aggregate participation percentage for Plan Cycles commencing in any merger, dissolution, variation in capital or any other event that will three-year period cannot exceed 1.1%.
No payments will be made if materially affect calculation of an Index, the Remuneration Committee Xstrata underperforms the Xstrata TSR Index.
shall determine how this should be reected in the Index calculation.
There is a cap which applies to the calculation at the end of the Phase 1 The Remuneration Committee may add other relevant competitors performance period.
If the cap has been applied then the Chief to the Index if required.
Executive will become eligible for Phase 2 of a Plan Cycle.
At the end In the event of a change of control, all open Plan Cycles will vest of the Phase 2 performance period the calculation will be carried out immediately.
The Final Reward under each open Plan Cycle will be in the same way as at the end of Phase 1, but only to the extent that calculated as if the performance period terminated on the date of the performance exceeds the applicable cap.
transaction save that the Committee has discretion to disapply the The Remuneration Committee recognises that the absolute value cap that would otherwise apply in the calculation of Phase 1 Excess received by shareholders is higher when outperforming a rising market Return.
In the event of the Chief Executive ceasing to be an Xstrata than outperforming a market which is static or falling, therefore, two employee as a result of death, ill health or disability, all open Plan modiers are applied.
Firstly, the Phase 1 and Phase 2 Base Rewards Cycles will vest immediately.
The Final Reward under each open Plan will be increased or decreased in line with the Xstrata share price index Cycle will be calculated as if the performance period terminated measured against the comparator group.
Secondly, a reduction will be on the date of cessation of employment.
In the event of the Chief Comparator group for the TSR and Share Price Indices 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 Alcoa Inc As for 2005 As for 2006 As for 2007 As for 2008 Alcan Inc but excluding: but excluding: but excluding: but excluding: Anglo American plc Elkem ASA Inco Limited Alcan Inc Coal & Allied Industries Ltd Arch Coal Inc Falconbridge Limited Lonmin plc BHP Billiton plc Phelps Dodge Corp Umicore SA Coal & Allied Industries Ltd And including: Elkem ASA Companhia Vale Eramet SA do Rio Doce Vale Grupo Mexico SA fide CV Vedanta Resources plc Inco Ltd Freeport McMoRan Korea Zinc Inc Copper & Gold Inc Lonmin plc MMC Norilsk Nickel Falconbridge Ltd Impala Platinum Holdings Ltd Norddeutsche Afnerie AG Peabody Energy Corp Phelps Dodge Corp Rio Tinto plc Teck Cominco Ltd Umicore SA 100 Xstrata plc Annual Report 2008 Executive ceasing to be an Xstrata employee other than in the conditions.
The option element will only provide a benefit to circumstances described above, all Plan Cycles will lapse and no participants when shareholders also benefit from future share payments will be made unless the Remuneration Committee in its price growth.
The options will be subject to stretching performance absolute discretion determines otherwise.
In the event of a variation targets to ensure that windfall growth in the share price as a result in the capital of Xstrata, the Participation Percentages may be adjusted of external factors does not deliver rewards which are not justied by in such a way as the Remuneration Committee determines.
the performance of the Group, relative to its peer group.
The policy regarding performance targets is discussed in more detail below.
The Added Value Incentive plan will terminate on 9 May 2010, after which no further awards will be granted.
The number of ordinary shares over which options will be granted will be calculated using a binomial valuation of the option or a similar 2005 AVP cycle approach which the Remuneration Committee considers represents Phase 1 of the 2005 cycle vested on 9 May 2008 when the increase both the cost to Xstrata of providing the benefit and the value of of Xstratas TSR was 404.26%, the growth of the Xstrata TSR Index the option itself as a component of the total remuneration package.
was 238.16% and the growth of the Xstrata Price Index was 220.65%.
The option value at grant will be subject to a lower and upper limit This performance represents an outperformance of 166.10%.
As a as determined by the Remuneration Committee from time to time.
result, the cap was applied to the Phase 1 Added Value and Phase 2 In determining the value of Free Share Awards, the value of the was triggered.
As at 31 December 2008, it is not expected any payment underlying shares will be used.
will be made under Phase 2 of the 2005 Plan Cycle, however, the determination of final reward will be made at the end of the Phase 2 Using the method above, the value ratio of Free Share Awards to performance period on 9 May 2010.
For further information please share options for awards made during 2008 was in general 1:1, based see page 106. on the value at the time of grant.
The Remuneration Committee may change the ratio for future awards if it is thought appropriate.
2006 AVP cycle As at 31 December 2008, the decrease of Xstratas TSR was 62.29%, The Remuneration Committee has determined that annual awards will the decrease of the Xstrata TSR index was 32.62%, and the decrease be made under the LTIP to minimise the impact of share price volatility of the Xstrata Share Price Index was 36.31%, as calculated under the and to reect existing best practice.
The rules of the LTIP provide that the AVP for the 2006 Plan Cycle.
This performance represents an underaggregate value of options and Free Share Awards made to an individual performance of 29.67%.
If this is the outcome at the end of the in any one year may not exceed an amount equal to two times base three-year period no payment will be made under the plan.
salary in normal circumstances although, in exceptional circumstances, the limit may be up to, but may not exceed, four times base salary.
2007 AVP cycle As at 31 December 2008, the decrease of Xstratas TSR was 79.35%, Summary of performance conditions During 2006, 2007 and 2008, executive directors were granted the decrease of the Xstrata TSR index was 47.92%, and the decrease market value options and Free Share Awards under the LTIP.
The of the Xstrata Share Price Index was 49.90%, as calculated under the vesting of both the options and Free Share Awards is subject to the AVP for the 2007 Plan Cycle.
This performance represents an undersatisfaction of stretching performance conditions over a three-year performance of 31.43%.
If this is the outcome at the end of the performance period.
Half of the options and Free Share Awards are three-year period no payment will be made under the plan.
conditional on TSR relative to a peer group and half are conditional 2008 AVP cycle on the Groups real cost savings relative to targets set on a stretching As at 31 December 2008, the decrease of Xstratas TSR was 87.23%, scale over the three-year period, as follows: the decrease of the Xstrata TSR index was 66.51%, and the decrease For the awards conditional on TSR, 25% of the combined award will of the Xstrata Share Price Index was 67.21%, as calculated under the vest if TSR growth is at the median of the specified peer group, the AVP for the 2008 Plan Cycle.
This performance represents an underfull 50% of the combined award will vest for performance at or above performance of 20.72%.
If this is the outcome at the end of the the second decile with straight-line vesting between these points.
three-year period no payment will be made under the plan.
No vesting will occur for TSR growth below median performance.
Long Term Incentive Plan For the remaining award, vesting is conditional on the Groups real Executive directors are eligible to participate in the Long Term cost savings relative to targets set on a stretching scale: 5% of the Incentive Plan the LTIP.
The LTIP aims to focus managements combined award will vest for 1% cost savings, 35% for 2% cost attention on continuous and sustainable improvements in the savings and 50% for 3% or more cost savings, with straight-line underlying financial performance of the Group and on the delivery vesting between these points.
No vesting will occur for cost savings of superior long-term returns to Xstratas shareholders by providing that are less than 1%.
Real cost savings will be measured in relation executives with the opportunity to earn superior levels of reward to operating costs after adjusting for the effects of ination, excluding for outstanding performance.
In addition, the LTIP further aligns the depreciation, commodity price-linked costs, effects of currencies on interests of shareholders and management by encouraging executives translation of local currency costs and planned life of mine adjustments.
to build a shareholding in the Group.
Since the Groups share price and those of its peers are signicantly The LTIP provides for the grant of both contingent awards of free inuenced by the cycle in commodity prices, the Remuneration shares Free Share Awards and share options on the same occasion Committee considers TSR relative to a peer group to be an appropriate to the same individual.
The two elements are complementary and performance measure as it rewards relative success in growing ensure that the cyclical nature of the industry does not have an shareholder value through the development and execution of the excessively adverse effect on employee remuneration in circumstances corporate strategy.
The Remuneration Committee is also satisfied that where the performance of the Group has otherwise been good, TSR will be a genuine reection of the Groups underlying financial relative to that of competitors.
The use of the second measure, Group real cost savings The Free Share Awards will ensure that where the Group has relative to targets, reects the Groups strategic initiative to add performed well over the specified performance period, participants shareholder value through productivity and cost efficiencies.
Furthermore, will be rewarded even if there is no substantial share price growth due the use of a financial performance measure alongside a relative TSR to external factors, such as commodity prices or general economic measure is aligned with current corporate governance best practice.
Xstrata plc Annual Report 2008 101 Governance Remuneration Report continued The performance targets are not capable of being retested at the end of Subsisting rights under Xstrata AG share schemes the performance period, so that any proportion of a Free Share Award Subsisting options held by Mick Davis pursuant to terms on which they were recruited are held on terms which reect the provisions of or option which does not vest after three years will lapse, although the Management and Employee Share Incentive Scheme previously vested options will remain exercisable for a maximum of seven years operated by Xstrata AG, except as expressly provided otherwise.
These or such shorter period as the Remuneration Committee may specify options were converted into equivalent options over ordinary shares in after which they will lapse.
the Group at the time of the listing of the Groups shares on the London In the event of a change of control, all Free Share Awards and options Stock Exchange the Listing but otherwise continue to be subject to will vest in full or in certain circumstances may be exchanged for the terms and conditions as modied of the original Xstrata AG share equivalent options or LTIP awards over shares in the acquiring company.
It is intended that the options will as far as possible be satisfied by the transfer of ordinary shares in the Group held by the trustees of The peer group of global mining companies used to determine the the Xstrata Employee Share Ownership Trust and the Xstrata Employee vesting of the options and Free Share Awards conditional on TSR under and Directors Share Ownership Trust.
Whilst subsisting options continue the LTIP, comprises the same comparator group used to form the Xstrata to exist under this scheme, no future grants will be made.
Subsisting Share Indices for the CEOs Added Value Incentive Plan for the relevant options are not subject to performance conditions because they were year detailed above.
The Remuneration Committee may, at its absolute originally granted under arrangements which did not provide for discretion, vary, add, remove or alter the companies making up the peer awards to be subject to performance which related to Xstrata AG group where events happen which cause the Remuneration Committee prior to the Group becoming a UK listed company.
to consider that such a change is appropriate to ensure that the performance condition continues to represent a fair measure of Performance Graph performance.
This is provided that the Remuneration Committee reasonably considers such a varied or amended performance condition GBP is not materially easier or more difficult to satisfy.
600 In calculating the TSR, the common currency of US dollars will be used 500 FTSE 100 Xstrata and the share price of a notional parcel of shares of the Group and the companies in the specified peer group will be averaged over a period 400 preceding both the start and end of the relevant performance period.
300 The Remuneration Committee has resolved that averaging over a threemonth period eliminates the volatility in spot share prices that could 200 otherwise distort the assessment of whether the target has been met.
100 The TSR of the Group and each member of the peer group over any performance period is calculated by taking the growth between 0 the closing value and the base value of 100 shares expressed as a 04 05 06 07 08 percentage of the base value, on the assumption that any net dividend per share paid by any company during the relevant performance The performance graph set out above shows the TSR for a holding period is reinvested in shares on the last day of the month during of shares of the Group for the five years ended 31 December 2008 which the relevant shares go ex-dividend.
This calculation is subject to compared with the TSR for a hypothetical holding of shares of the same such adjustments to closing value and base value as the Remuneration kinds and number as those by reference to which the FTSE 100 index is Committee considers appropriate to reect any variation of share calculated.
The Board considers that the FTSE 100 currently represents capital or any merger, takeover, reconstruction, demerger or change the most appropriate of the published indices for these purposes.
in listing status by any member of the peer group or upon any other TSR has been calculated assuming that an equivalent sum was events which the Remuneration Committee considers may materially distort the calculation.
invested in shares of the Group and in the FTSE 100 index.
2006 LTIP Award Dividends are invested in additional shares and benets receivable At 31 December 2008, the Group was ranked 15th out of the peer in the form of shares are also added to the relevant holding.
group of 19 companies including Xstrata in terms of TSR for the 2006 Pensions award.
If this is the outcome at the end of the three-year performance period then 0% of each executive directors 2006 award linked to TSR Mick Davis and Trevor Reid have participated in money purchase will vest.
retirement plans from their respective dates of joining the Group.
The plans are designed having regard to the taxation and employment 2007 LTIP Award status of each executive.
At 31 December 2008, the Group was ranked 14th out of the peer group of 16 companies including Xstrata in terms of TSR for the 2007 Group contributions are reassessed at regular intervals and are based award.
If this is the outcome at the end of the three-year performance on actuarial advice with the objective of accumulating sufficient funds period then 0% of each executive directors 2007 award linked to TSR over the working lifetime of each executive to provide an overall will vest.
target pension which is currently intended to be equivalent to approximately 60% of final salary at normal retirement age for 2008 LTIP Award executives who begin participating in the plans at the age of 40.
Prior At 31 December 2008, the Group was ranked 15th out of the peer to 6 April 2006, these contributions were paid to a combination of an group of 15 companies including Xstrata in terms of TSR for the 2008 approved money purchase pension plan and a Funded Unapproved award.
If this is the outcome at the end of the three-year performance Retirement Benets Scheme FURBS.
From 6 April 2006, contributions period then 0% of each executive directors 2008 award linked to TSR have been made through a combination of payments to a registered will vest.
pension plan and cash sums to each executive, having regard to the It should be noted that these amounts are based on the Groups tax limits on contributions and benets from registered UK pension plans results at this provisional stage and do not necessarily reect the with only cash payments being made after 2007.
The actual benets eventual outcome.
payable from the pension plans will be based on the amount which has 102 Xstrata plc Annual Report 2008 accumulated in that members money purchase accounts.
No employee bonus is awarded for a financial year, or if the Remuneration contributions are currently payable by Mick Davis and Trevor Reid.
Committee in its discretion so resolves, a proportion of the annual bonus pool may still be awarded subject to the normal discretion As noted above, Santiago Zaldumbide receives no pension benets of the Remuneration Committee.
under the terms of his professional services agreement.
Executive directors are entitled to any outstanding LTIP awards External appointments on cessation of employment by reason of death, injury, ill health Executive directors are not permitted to hold external directorships or disability in which case they are payable immediately in full or or ofces without the approval of the Board.
Santiago Zaldumbide, retirement in which case they are payable on the normal vesting having gained the approval of the Board, held a directorship with date to the extent they vest for performance at that time.
He was also a member of the Supervisory Board On termination of the professional services agreement dated 23 July of Air Products and Chemicals, Inc.
In total, the remuneration received 2007, other than on his voluntary termination or termination for gross by Santiago Zaldumbide, in relation to his positions in these companies, negligence, Santiago Zaldumbide is entitled to be paid a sum equal amounted to EUR49,943.
to 100% of his annual salary and other benets and his previous years bonus plus any accrued basic salary and expenses.
Santiago Non-executive directors Zaldumbide is engaged as a director of Xstrata plc on the terms of a The level of fees for non-executive directors is set at the level considered letter of appointment dated 18 March 2002.
Santiago Zaldumbide will necessary to obtain the services of individuals with the relevant skills and receive no additional remuneration for his position as director of Xstrata experience to bring added depth and breadth to the composition of plc and is not entitled to any compensation in respect of the termination the Board.
of his ofce as a director of Xstrata plc.
Non-executive directors fees are reviewed annually by the Chairman Non-executive directors and the Chief Executive in the light of fees payable to non-executive Willy Strothotte is engaged by the Group as a non-executive directors of comparable companies and the importance attached to director and Chairman on the terms of a letter of appointment.
the retention and attraction of high calibre individuals as nonThe appointment was for an initial xed term of 36 months which executive directors.
commenced on 25 February 2002 and is now terminable by six Non-executive directors are eligible to forgo all or part of their Directors months notice by Willy Strothotte.
fees to acquire shares in the Group, after deduction of applicable The Group may terminate Willy Strothottes appointment at any time income tax and social security contributions.
and on such termination Willy Strothotte will not be entitled to any The non-executive directors do not, and will not in the future, compensation for loss of ofce.
The term may be renewed by the Board.
participate in the Bonus Plan or LTIP or any other performance-related David Rough is engaged by the Group as the senior independent nonincentive arrangements which may be introduced from time to time.
executive director and deputy Chairman on the terms of a letter of Entitlements under service contracts appointment.
The appointment was for an initial xed term of 36 months which commenced on 1 April 2002 and is now terminable Executive directors by six months notice by David Rough.
Mick Davis and Trevor Reid have employment agreements with Xstrata Services UK Limited XSL effective from 1 February 2002 which are The Group may terminate David Roughs appointment at any time for xed terms of one year.
However, their services as Chief Executive and on such termination David Rough will not be entitled to any and Chief Financial officer respectively are provided to the Group compensation for loss of ofce.
under a secondment agreement entered into between the Group Ivan Glasenberg, Paul Hazen, Robert MacDonnell and Sir Steve Robson and XSL on 19 March 2002.
Each of Mick Davis and Trevor Reid is are each engaged by the Group as a non-executive director on the seconded to the Group for a xed term of two years thereafter terms of a letter of appointment.
Each appointment was for an initial renewable by either party for further periods of two years.
xed term of 36 months which commenced on 25 February 2002 and The employment of Mick Davis and Trevor Reid may be terminated is now terminable by six months notice by the non-executive director.
by not less than 12 months notice by XSL or the director concerned or Ian Strachan is engaged by the Group as a non-executive director on by a payment in lieu of notice by XSL.
On termination of employment the terms of a letter of appointment.
The appointment was for an by XSL in breach, including on a change of control, or if Mick Davis or initial xed term of 36 months which commenced on 8 May 2003 Trevor Reid resigns in circumstances where they cannot in good faith and is now terminable by six months notice by Ian Strachan.
be expected to continue in employment, each director is entitled to be paid a sum equal to 100% of his annual salary plus pension and other Claude Lamoureux is engaged by the Group as a non-executive benets and his previous years bonus plus any accrued basic salary director on the terms of a letter of appointment commencing on and expenses and to have all entitlements under his retirement 6 May 2008.
The appointment is terminable by six months notice benefit plans paid in accordance with the plan rules.
As both Mick by Claude Lamoureux.
Davis and Trevor Reid participate in dened contribution arrangements The Group may terminate each non-executive directors appointment it is not expected that any significant additional liability would arise in at any time and on such termination the non-executive director will respect of retirement plan entitlements beyond that already accrued not be entitled to any compensation for loss of ofce.
Each term may in the accounts.
For the purposes of calculating termination payments, be renewed by the Board.
annual bonus will be capped at 300% of annual salary.
There is no arrangement under which a director has agreed to waive In addition, each of the executive directors is eligible to participate in the future emoluments nor have there been any such waivers during the Bonus Plan which provides that deferred amounts up to an aggregate ceiling of 200% of salary remain payable in the event of cessation of financial year.
employment by reason of death, injury, ill health or disability in which There are no outstanding loans or guarantees granted or provided by case they are payable immediately or retirement in which case they are any member of the Group to or for the benefit of any of the directors.
payable on the normal vesting date.
No deferred amounts are payable in the event of cessation by dismissal for cause.
In the case of termination No significant awards have been made in the financial year to any by reason of death, injury, ill health or disability before the date the past director.
Salary and fees includes non-executive directors fees which may be paid in shares.
In 2008, Mick Daviss and Trevor Reids salaries were set and paid in UK pounds sterling.
The salary gures above have been converted to US dollars based on the average pound dollar exchange rate for the year of 1.852 2007: 2.002 and therefore reect the impact of the exchange rate uctuations during the year.
In 2008, Santiago Zaldumbides basic salary and benets were set and paid in Euros.
The gures above have been converted to US dollars based on the average euro dollar exchange rate for the year of 1.471 2007: 1.371 and therefore reect the impact of the exchange rate uctuations during the year.
All non-executive director fees except those for Ian Strachan, Claude Lamoureux and Steve Robson were set in UK pounds sterling.
Ian Strachans fees were set in UK pounds sterling, and paid in US dollars.
Steve Robsons fees were set in UK pounds sterling and paid in Euros except for the 2nd quarter fees which were paid in UK pounds sterling.
Claude Lamoureuxs fees were set in UK pounds sterling and paid in Canadian dollars.
The gures above have been converted to US dollars based on the average pound dollar exchange rate for the year of 1.852 2007: 2.002 and therefore reect the impact of the exchange rate uctuations during the year.
Entitlement to participate in Xstratas Executive Bonus Plan is dependent on a bonus pool determined by the achievement of annual objectives measured by return on equity and net profit.
While these financial measures were highly creditable in 2008, the Remuneration Committee has decided that bonus levels normally awarded based on the 2008 pool would not be appropriate given the current economic situation.
Bonus amounts have therefore been substantially reduced from the amounts that would normally be payable based on the Groups performance in 2008.
Further, management has recommended to the Remuneration Committee that no cash payments be made in respect of the 2008 executive bonuses and the total award be deferred in shares for one year.
These bonuses are those awarded in March 2009 in relation to the 2008 performance year.
Bonuses were awarded in UK pounds sterling and converted at a rate of 1.411, the exchange rate prevailing at the on the date of the award.
These amounts also include $56,093 and $26,258 in respect of dividend equivalents awarded during the year in respect of prior years deferred bonus awards which vest on the date of the underlying award for Mick Davis and Trevor Reid respectively.
This bonus relates to that awarded in March 2009 in relation to the 2008 performance year.
The bonus was awarded in Euros and converted at a rate of 1.262, the exchange rate prevailing on the date of the award.
The amount also includes $32,805 in respect of dividend equivalents awarded during the year in respect of prior years deferred bonus awards which vest on the date of the underlying award for Santiago Zaldumbide.
In 2008, Mick Daviss housing allowance was awarded and paid in US dollars.
In 2008, Trevor Reids housing allowance was awarded in US dollars and paid in UK pounds sterling.
In 2008, Mick Daviss benets were set and paid in UK pounds sterling.
The benets been converted to US dollars based on the average pound dollar exchange rate for the year of 1.852 2007: 2.002 and therefore reects the impact of the exchange rate uctuations during the year.
This includes an amount for life insurance of GBP89,958.
In 2008, Trevor Reids benets were set and paid in UK pounds sterling.
The benets have been converted to US dollars based on the average pound dollar exchange rate for the year of 1.852 2007: 2.002 and therefore reects the impact of the exchange rate uctuations during the year.
This includes an amount for life insurance of GBP10,796.
In order to facilitate travel to the Groups operations, many of which are located in remote locations not served by commercial ight routes, Xstrata leases private aircraft to be used from time to time for business travel by Xstrata executives.
During the year, the Remuneration Committee approved the private use of leased aircraft for Mick Davis, subject to any private usage not coinciding with company requirements, for a limited number of hours per annum, not all of which were utilised in 2008.
The benefit shown above has been calculated based on marginal ight costs for the hours used and converted to US dollars at the average pound dollar exchange rate.
No consideration has been paid to or is receivable by third parties for making available the qualifying services of any directors during the year or in connection with the management affairs of Xstrata.
Deferred Bonuses Deferred bonus payable in shares and deferred for one year.
The number of shares awarded pursuant to deferred bonuses payable in shares is determined by reference to the market value of the shares at the date concurrent awards under the LTIP are made.
The amount also includes $56,093, $26,258 and $32,805 in respect of dividend equivalents accrued during the year in respect of prior years deferred bonus awards which will vest on the date of the underlying award for Mick Davis, Trevor Reid and Santiago Zaldumbide respectively.
No options, other than the LTIP options, are subject to performance conditions as explained above.
Details of the LTIP performance conditions are described above.
Mick Daviss and Trevor Reids LTIP options may be settled in cash at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee.
The highest and lowest prices of the Companys shares during the year were GBP44.20 and GBP5.75 respectively 2007: GBP37.38 and GBP22.43.
The price at the year end was GBP6.40 2007: GBP35.50.
On 9 June 2008, Trevor Reid exercised his option over 148,498 shares.
The market value of an Xstrata share on the date of exercise was GBP41.57, and a gain of GBP5,329,593 was realised.
On 9 June 2008, Trevor Reid exercised his option over 51,502 shares.
The market value of an Xstrata share on the date of exercise was GBP41.57, and a gain of GBP1,802,055 was realised.
On 10 June 2008, Trevor Reid exercised his option over 100,000 shares.
The market value of an Xstrata share on the date of exercise was GBP42.02, and a gain of GBP3,544,000 was realised.
On 23 April 2008, Santiago Zaldumbide exercised his option over 100,000 shares.
The market value of an Xstrata share on the date of exercise was GBP40.73, and a gain of GBP3,124,000 was realised.
On 16 May 2008, Santiago Zaldumbide exercised his option over 147,112 shares.
The market value of an Xstrata share on the date of exercise was GBP43.43, and a gain of GBP4,992,981 was realised.
Details of performance conditions are described above.
The market value of a share on the date of award under the LTIP and the Deferred Bonus on 4 April 2008 was GBP35.36.
These shares were awarded on 23 February 2006 when the closing market price was GBP15.44.
The closing market price on the date of vesting was GBP35.22.
These shares were awarded on 26 February 2007 when the closing market price was GBP26.56.
These shares were awarded on 11 March 2005 when the closing market price was GBP9.38.
2005-2008 Added Value Plan Deferred elements of the Xstrata AVP may be settled in cash or shares on vesting.
For the performance period from 9 May 2005 to 9 May 2008, Xstratas total shareholder return TSR was 404.26%, representing outperformance of 166.1% over TSR performance of 238.16% for Xstrata TSR Index of global mining companies.
On 9 May 2008, an award was made in respect of the cash settlement of Phase 1 of the Xstrata AVP 2005 Plan Cycle of GBP53,489,537.
For the AVP 2005 cycle the participation percentage was 0.5% and the market capitalisation on date of award was GBP6,026,084,544.
Subsequent periods For the AVP 2006 cycle the participation percentage was 0.3% and the market capitalisation on date of award was GBP10,692,600,350.
For the AVP 2007 cycle, the participation percentage was 0.3% and the market capitalisation on date of award was GBP23,442,174,802.
For the AVP 2008 cycle, the participation percentage was 0.5% and the market capitalisation on the date of award was GBP38,029,287,854.
106 Xstrata plc Annual Report 2008 Pensions Mick Davis and Trevor Reid have participated in dened contribution retirement benefit plans.
During the year, pension related payments of pension plan, FURBS, and non-pensionable salary supplement payments were made as follows: 2008 2007 2008 2007 2008 2007 Mick Davis Mick Davis Trevor Reid Trevor Reid Total Total US$ US$ US$ US$ US$ US$ Pension-related payments 3,976,157 3,294,113 2,644,608 1,442,173 6,620,765 4,736,286 Notes 1.
Further details of the pension arrangements are explained above.
Santiago Zaldumbide received no pension benets under the terms of his xed cost remuneration arrangement which is detailed above.
Based on the average UK pound US dollar exchange rate for the year of 1.852 2007: 2.002.
Payments to Mick Davis and Trevor Reid in both years were made in UK pounds sterling.
Approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by Willy Strothotte Chairman 2 March 2009 Xstrata plc Annual Report 2008 107 108 Xstrata plc Annual Report 2008 5 Financial statements 110 Group Financial Statements 110 Statement of Directors Responsibilities 111 Independent Auditors Report 112 Consolidated Income Statement 113 Consolidated Balance Sheet 115 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 116 Consolidated Statement of Recognised Income and Expense 117 Notes to the Financial Statements 199 Parent Company Financial Statements and Related Information 199 Statement of Directors Responsibilities 200 Independent Auditors Report 201 Balance Sheet 202 Notes to the Financial Statements 208 Shareholder Information IBC Cautionary Note Zinc balls produced at San Juan fide Nieva in Spain, which operates in the first quartile of the industry cost curve and is the worlds largest zinc smelter Xstrata plc Annual Report 2008 109
