Remuneration report From the Remuneration Committee Chairman Remuneration policy I, Joe Eberhardt, am pleased to be able to present the We believe that a robust incentive and reward framework is Remuneration Committees yearly report.
The report covers: essential to support the business objectives and future success of the Company.
Our remuneration policy continues to be 1.
The Remuneration Committee: its members, the based on the following key principles: remuneration policy, a graph of Yell Group plcs performance and Yells general remuneration structure.
Simplicity and coherence Fairness of reward 2.
The Executive Directors: individual elements of their Alignment with shareholder interests remuneration including fixed and variable remuneration, Supporting the creation of shareholder value minimum shareholding requirements, any external Variable reward based on appropriate performance targets directorships and details of their service contracts.
Encouraging share ownership Incentivising exceptional performance with the potential for 3.
The Non-Executive Directors: their letters of appointment exceptional rewards and the individual elements of their remuneration.
We continue to recognise that the executive directors, John I confirm that this Remuneration Report has been prepared Condron and John Davis, together with all Yell people are key in accordance with the requirements of The Directors to our success and our growth as a leading international Remuneration Report Regulations 2002. directories business.
The Remuneration Committee John Condrons and John Davis remuneration packages continue to be aligned with business requirements and remain Members in keeping with the remuneration principles outlined above.
The members of the Committee for the year ended 31 March Whilst no formal overall review of their remuneration took 2008 were Tim Bunting, Lyndon Lea, Bob Scott and me place during the reporting period, we continue to monitor Joachim Eberhardt, as Chairman.
Tim, Lyndon and I are the effectiveness of the executive remuneration structure and independent, non-executive directors of the Company.
incentive plans for the executive directors and for our other Bob, the Chairman of the Company, was independent on his employees.
Tim and Bob were appointed members of the Remuneration Committee from 18 May 2007 and 19 July 2007 John Condrons and John Davis remuneration is carefully respectively.
considered in the context of other employees and we adopt a holistic approach to remuneration across the different John Condron is invited to attend Remuneration Committee employee populations within Yell.
meetings but is not present when his remuneration is discussed.
Performance graph The graph below shows our performance relative to the FTSE The Remuneration Committee is responsible for Yells policy 100 index.
We consider this to be an appropriate comparison of remuneration for its executive directors.
Agreed terms by as Yell Group plc was a constituent of the index for the majority which we operate are available on the Yell Group plc website of the reporting year.
com or from Howard Rubenstein, the 250 Company Secretary.
200 We met on six occasions during the year and received advice from: 150 The Chief Executive Officer 100 The Head of Human Resources The Head of Reward 50 The Company Secretary Sep Mar Mar Mar Mar Mar Deloitte & Touche, LLP Deloitte 03 04 05 06 07 08 Yell Group Deloitte were appointed by us to provide advice on FTSE100 remuneration and also provided tax and risk management services to the Company during the year.
We have prepared the performance graph in accordance with the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002.
The performance graph is not an indication of the likely vesting of awards granted under any incentive plans.
44 Yell Group plc Annual Report 2008 Reports Remuneration structure 2007 2008 Salaries are reviewed annually using benchmark data for The broad basis of our remuneration structure has not companies of a similar size to Yell Group plc, taking account changed from previous years and is illustrated by the of market capitalisation and enterprise value.
diagram below: In line with our normal salary review cycle, the base salaries of John Condron and John Davis were reviewed and a marketExecutive Directors LTIP competitive increase was approved with effect from 1 April 2008.
Their base salaries from 1 April 2008 are shown in the Executive Directors and Executive table on page 49.
Senior Executive Group Options Pension Management Capital John Condron and John Davis participate in the Yell Pension Group Accumulation Plan Plan which is a plan approved by HM Revenue & Customs HMRC.
Under the applicable terms of the Yell Pension Plan, All employees UK ShareSave and they will receive retirement benefits on a defined benefit basis.
US Stock Purchase Plan John Condron All employees Annual Bonus Plan John Condron is a member of Section 2 of the Yell Pension Plan and prior to 5 April 2006 he accrued an annual pension of For our executive directors the annual bonus continues to 180th of his Final Pensionable Earnings for each year of operate with an element of deferral.
This is described in Pensionable Service.
In addition, he accrued a one-off cash detail below.
sum of 380ths of his Final Pensionable Earnings for each year of Pensionable Service.
He was not subject to the HMRCs All of the Companys share plans incorporate dilution limits Earnings Cap for pension purposes due to his prior that are consistent with ABI guidelines.
membership of the BT Pension Scheme and was entitled to an enhancement of his Pensionable Service under the Yell Pension 2.
The executive directors Plan by reference to the BT Pension Scheme, which was intended to continue until 13 November 2009.
Under the terms Individual elements of their remuneration of this enhancement, since 1 July 1996, he has been granted an The individual elements of John Condrons and John Davis additional 71 days of Pensionable Service for each actual year remuneration comprise the following elements of fixed and of Pensionable Service in the BT Pension Scheme or the Yell variable remuneration: Pension Plan.
The effect of the enhancement is that if he had continued accrual in the Yell Pension Plan until his normal Fixed remuneration retirement date, John Condrons forecasted total Pensionable Salary Service at age 60 would have been 40 years.
Pension Benefits As a result of changes in taxation of pensions after 5 April 2006, John Condron chose to cease accruals in the Yell Pension Variable remuneration Plan after that date, although his pension and one-off cash Annual and deferred bonus sum remain linked to his Final Pensionable Earnings at leaving, Share options retirement or death.
Since 5 April 2006, he has received cash Performance shares under the LTIP payments of 27% of Basic Salary per annum: a rate calculated to be broadly equivalent to Yells cost of his future benefits had The variable elements of remuneration are subject to he continued accrual in the Yell Pension Plan.
The result is, the achievement of predetermined performance targets.
therefore, cost-neutral to the Company.
We believe that there is an appropriate balance between fixed and variable remuneration.
Excluding pensions and John Davis benefits, for on-target performance variable pay makes up John Davis is a member of Section 3 of the Yell Pension Plan.
approximately 60% of the total remuneration package.
This Until 5 April 2006, he was also a member of Section 1.
Under increases to approximately 80% for maximum performance.
each of those Sections he accrued an annual pension of 160th of his Final Pensionable Earnings up to the HMRCs Earnings Base salary Cap for each year of Pensionable Service, giving a total accrual Base salaries are set taking account of the individuals: of 130th each year.
He was contractually entitled to a pension based on uncapped pensionable salary for each year of Role and responsibility service under the Yell Pension Plan.
As he was subject to the Experience Earnings Cap, the excess over the approved benefit conferred Long-term contribution under John Davis contractual arrangement was provided on Market positioning an unfunded, unapproved basis.
45 Yell Group plc Annual Report 2008 As a result of changes in the taxation of pensions after 5 April Share options 2006, John Davis chose to move his unapproved and Section 1 Yell Group plc grants share options to John Condron and John benefits into Section 3 of the Yell Pension Plan and then cease Davis under the Yell Group plc Executive Share Option Scheme.
accruals in the Yell Pension Plan after that date, although his pension remains linked to his Pension Scheme Salary at Under the plan, options are granted to acquire Yell Group plc leaving, retirement or death.
Since 5 April 2006, he has shares.
The exercise price of the options is equal to the market received cash payments of 48% of Basic Salary per annum.
We value of the underlying Yell Group plc shares on the date the have carefully considered the position and are satisfied that options are granted.
this rate is broadly equivalent to the cost to Yell of his future benefits had he continued accrual in the Yell Pension Plan.
In November 2007, John Condron and John Davis received The result is, therefore, cost-neutral for the Company.
option grants with a market value equivalent to 250% of base salary.
The performance condition is as follows: Further details of John Condrons and John Davis pension benefits can be found on page 49.
Performance condition Options become exercisable if the growth in the Companys Annual bonus EPS over the three year performance period exceeds the The annual bonus arrangements are based on financial and increase in RPI by: non-financial performance measures.
% of award vesting 3% per annum or more 40% The Remuneration Committee believe that the structure of the 4.5% per annum or more 40% annual bonus provides a focus both on annual objectives and 6% per annum or more 20% on the creation of sustained, long-term shareholder value.
Options lapse at the end of the three year performance period For the financial year ended 31 March 2008 the executive to the extent that the performance conditions are not directors can earn a maximum annual bonus of 180% of base satisfied.
Some of their annual bonus is paid in deferred shares at all levels of performance.
The proportion of deferred shares We consider these conditions to be stretching for the executive increases as the level of bonus earned increases.
Deferred directors in light of the current business environment.
We will shares must be retained for a period of three years.
continue to review and, if appropriate, amend the performance conditions for options granted in future years.
The table below summarises the proportion of cash and deferred shares that will be earned for increasing levels of Further details of the options granted to John Condron and performance: John Davis are shown on pages 50 and 51.
Deferred Cash shares Total In November 2007 options granted to the executive directors as a % of as a % of as a % of salary salary salary in November 2004 became available for vesting, subject to achievement of the performance condition.
The performance Target performance 65% 20% 85% condition EPS growth of the company exceeding the growth Maximum 100% 80% 180% in RPI by 3% per annum was measured over the three year performance period and was met in full.
Accordingly, 100% of Stretching performance requirements continue to reflect the options vested.
a combination of corporate and personal measures.
The corporate targets are based on EBITDA, revenue and cash flow.
Long-term Incentive Plan John Condron and John Davis also received awards in For the year ended 31 March 2008, the Board accepted the November 2007 under the Long-term Incentive Plan LTIP, Committees recommendation that bonuses of 110% of salary to the value of 150% of base salary.
should be paid to our executive directors.
In reaching its decision the Committee considered the Groups financial The 2007 award is split into two sections.
The first section, performance in the year ended 31 March 2008 and, in representing 50% of the total award is subject to a relative particular, the achievement of planned EBITDA which was set TSR performance condition, measured against FTSE 100 at a challenging level.
The Committee also took into account companies excluding financial services companies and a number of non financial achievements including the investment trusts.
The second section representing the significant increases in usage of Yells online products during remaining 50% of the award is subject to an EPS the year and excellent customer service and employee performance condition.
The Committee also noted the Groups continuing recognition in highly regarded sustainability indices.
Under the Rules of Yells Deferred Bonus Plan, 71% of this bonus is paid in cash and the remaining 29% is paid in deferred shares.
46 Yell Group plc Annual Report 2008 Reports Performance condition Section 1 Other remuneration The amount of the award that vests is dependant on where The other elements of remuneration that our executive Yell Group plc is positioned within its comparator group.
directors receive are as follows: Yell Group plcs performance % vesting Participation in the ShareSave Plan Below median 0% Life assurance Median 30% Private health cover Upper quartile 100% Long term disability insurance Provision of a car If Yell Group plc is ranked between median and upper quartile Telecommunications services within the comparator group, the percentage of the award Health club membership that vests will be determined on a straight-line basis.
Allowance for personal tax and financial advice To calculate the TSR performance, we use an average share price from the 6 month period prior to the start of the Our executive directors also receive reimbursement from the measurement period and an average share price based Company for reasonable expenses incurred in the carrying out on the 6 month period which ends on the last day of the of their duties.
The measurement period runs for three years from 1st April 2007.
Minimum shareholding requirement The executive directors are subject to a minimum shareholding Performance condition Section 2 requirement for executive directors.
The minimum holding is The amount of the award that vests is dependant on the equivalent to 200% of base salary and new directors will have growth of the Companys EPS above RPI over the three-year a five-year period in which to build up such a holding.
Based performance period: on the average closing share price for the year, both John Condron and John Davis met this requirement.
Yell Group plcs performance % vesting Less than growth of RPI plus 3% 0% External directorships Exceeds growth of RPI plus 3% 30% John Davis remained a non-executive director of Informa plc.
Exceeds growth of RPI plus 7% 100% He does not hold any other external directorships.
During their financial year ending 31 December 2007, he received 42,000 If growth in EPS exceeds growth in RPI by between 3% per in fees from Informa plc.
He continues to hold 10,000 shares in annum and 7% per annum, the percentage of the award that Informa plc which were purchased at market value.
will vest will be determined on a straight-line basis.
No awards will vest if EPS growth does not exceed the growth in RPI by at Service contracts least 3% per annum.
Both John Condron and John Davis have a rolling 12 month service contract.
The key terms of their service contracts are We consider these conditions are most suitable for John shown in the following table: Condron and John Davis as they provide a balance of focus between financial measures and the creation of Aspect Policy shareholder value.
Notice period on 12 calendar months termination by the In November 2007 awards made to John Condron and John Company or the director Davis under the LTIP vested.
These awards were granted in November 2004 and had a three year performance period.
Termination payments if Payment if the notice period The awards were subject to a performance condition based on contract is terminated is served: TSR against the FTSE100.
Full vesting would occur to the extent without cause Pro-rated bonus paid on the that Yell was ranked at least at the upper quartile level against greater of on target performance the comparator group.
To the extent that Yell was ranked and projected performance below median, no award would vest.
Awards would vest on a determined by the Board straight line basis between median and upper quartile.
At the end of the performance period, the analysis showed that Yell Payment if employment is terminated was ranked at the 27th position against the comparator by the Company without notice: group, just below upper quartile.
Therefore, in accordance 95% of annual salary, benefits, with the vesting schedule, we approved the vesting of 99% of pension contributions and onthe award.
target bonus plus all conditional awards of shares and share options Further details of the awards made to John Condron and John vest immediately on termination Davis are shown on pages 50 and 51.
47 Yell Group plc Annual Report 2008 3.
The non-executive directors Letters of Appointment Non-executive directors each have a letter of appointment setting out the details of their appointment.
Each has a notice period of 12 months.
The date of appointment of each of the non-executive directors is shown below: Director Date of appointment Bob Scott 1 July 2003 Tim Bunting 18 May 2007 John Coghlan 1 July 2003 Joachim Eberhardt 1 July 2003 Richard Hooper 13 March 2006 Lyndon Lea 1 July 2003 Lord Powell of Bayswater 1 July 2003 Individual elements of their remuneration The Company aims to pay non-executive directors a market competitive rate.
In the year ended 31 March 2008 non-executive directors fees were as follows: Bob Scott as non-executive director and Chairman, 150,000 per annum.
All other non-executive directors, 50,000 per annum.
A further fee of 10,000 per annum was paid to each non-executive director who chaired a committee and 5,000 per annum was paid for ordinary membership of committees.
Non-executive directors are not eligible to participate in the Companys share plans and the Company does not make any benefits available to them under any other employment benefit arrangements or make any contributions to their personal pension plans.
48 Yell Group plc Annual Report 2008
