Quintain Estates Annual Report and Development PLC and Accounts 2008 66 Remuneration policy Remuneration report The Committees policy is to set remuneration at levels which attract, retain and motivate individuals of the high calibre required by the business, while taking account of pay and conditions in the Group as a whole.
A significant proportion of Directors remuneration is related to the performance of the Group and consists of a base salary, pension, the bonus scheme, share rights Introduction and options and a long term incentive plan.
The The focus of this report is on the Companys remuneration Committee takes full account of the interests of the policy as it applies to Directors and senior managers.
shareholders and the remuneration practices of other It sets out the Groups remuneration policy and also gives relevant companies when determining the size and details of the salaries, incentives, shares and pensions structure of executive pay.
received by all the Directors for the year ended The Group is committed to ensuring that linkage 31 March 2008. between performance and executive remuneration is This report has been prepared in accordance maintained.
The Committees intention is that base with the requirements of the Companies Act 1985 salaries would be subject to periodic reviews to ensure as amended, the Directors Remuneration Report market competitiveness and reflect the performance of Regulations 2002 and associated legislation, together with each Director.
In order to link executive performance with the Listing Rules.
Under the provisions of Part III Schedule shareholder returns, increasing emphasis has been and 7A Companies Act 1985, KPMG Audit Plc has audited the will continue to be placed on performance related pay.
Directors emoluments, pensions, share option and long Whilst the Committee strives to harmonise term incentive scheme sections of this report.
remuneration throughout the Group, it recognises that this is not always appropriate and the basis of bonus The Remuneration Committee payments differs across the Group so that arrangements Details of the Remuneration Committees role are set out and targets are tailored to a particular sector.
Details of the in the Corporate Governance Report on pages 76 to 79 and head office bonus arrangements, which the Executive its membership on pages 60 and 61.
The Committee met Directors participate in, is given in the section headed three times during the year.
Discretionary bonus scheme on page 67.
The Committee is directly responsible to No Executive Director plays any part in the shareholders and, as in previous years, its Chairman will determination of his her own remuneration package and be present at the AGM to answer any questions from the fees of the Non-Executive Directors are set by the shareholders.
Martin Meech will be offering himself for Executive Directors to reflect the time commitment and re-election as Chairman of the Committee by shareholders levels of responsibility expected of them.
Deloitte & Touche are currently assisting the The Committees Terms of Reference are available Committee to conduct a review of executive remuneration on the Company website or on request from the and incentive arrangements.
Based on the outcome of this Companys registered office.
They are consistent with the review and to the extent that shareholder approval is recommendations of the Combined Code on Corporate required, proposals will be presented to shareholders at Governance.
A circular outlining any proposals, In remuneration matters, the Committee has the and the Notice of Meeting, will be despatched separately authority and funding to obtain independent advice.
to shareholders in time for the Annual General Meeting on During the year, it received advice from Nabarro on the 3 September 2008. implementation of the Share Incentive Plan who also gave advice to the Group in respect of corporate matters and Other directorships its property activities.
Additional information on The Companys policy is that Executive Directors may remuneration issues was also obtained by the Committee accept outside appointments provided they do not from the Investment Property Databank IPD, being the prejudice their ability to carry out their responsibilities at only property industry-wide benchmark, from Income Quintain.
Whether an Executive Director is entitled to Data Services, various other salary and benefit surveys retain any related fees will be considered on a case-byand industry comparisons.
The Group also held informal case basis.
discussions with comparator companies in related sectors.
During the year, no Executive Director held any nonDuring the year and since the year end, advice has been Group related directorships, except for Tonianne Dwyer sought from Deloitte & Touche LLP, who were appointed who is a director of two flat management companies and by the Committee and who also provide taxation advice receives no remuneration for this.
Quintain Estates Annual Report and Development PLC and Accounts 2008 67 Payments in respect of former Directors MR Meech During the year, the Company continued with the Dated 4 July 2000 renewed in July 2006 for a further consultancy arrangements in place with James Hamilton three years.
Stubber, a former Director of the Company.
The DG Pangbourne arrangement provided for him to continue to introduce Dated 24 August 2001 renewed in September 2007 new business opportunities to the Group and to review for a further three years.
and advise on existing and new projects.
During the year under review, fees totalling 50,000 were paid in respect of Remuneration of Directors and senior staff Mr Hamilton Stubbers services.
As at the date of this The Directors remuneration and that of senior staff report, no further similar arrangements were in place.
defined in the Committees Terms of Reference as During the year, the Company identified that PAYE employees whose annual salary is 125,000 pa or above had not been correctly deducted in respect of the release and the terms of their employment are reviewed at least of shares under the Deferred Bonus Scheme in 2002. annually in relation to best practice and benchmarked Nicholas Shattock, Rebecca Worthington and Adrian against relevant comparator industry data where available.
Wyatt, all current Directors of the Company, paid the In considering remuneration levels, the Committee amounts due on request.
However, the Company paid makes reference to the contribution each individual has 8,729 to HMRC in respect of the liabilities due by a made to the Group and also to its performance as a whole, former Director, Mr Edward Dugdale.
The Company is measured in terms of the increase in net asset value per seeking to recover this amount.
share, both in absolute terms and relative to the property sector.
Service contracts Base salaries are normally reviewed annually with None of the Executive Directors service contracts has a any changes taking effect from the commencement of the notice period in excess of six months or contain liquidated accounting period.
The audited base salaries and benefits damages provisions or provision for compensation for loss for each Director are set out on page 68. of office on early termination or change of control.
Any contract terminated at short notice, resulting in a right to Discretionary bonus scheme compensation, would not be subject to mitigation.
The Group operates a discretionary bonus scheme which Details of the Executive Directors service contracts is designed to be a performance-related incentive scheme all rolling contracts are subject to six months notice : to reward Executive Directors and all staff and provide AR Wyatt motivation and identification with the success of Dated 15 July 1996. the Group.
In relation to head office, for the Committee to NSK Shattock exercise its discretion and recommend the payment of a Dated 12 July 1995. bonus, the guidelines currently adopted by it are that the T Dwyer Group must not only outperform the average of the IPD Dated 21 October 2003. index but also achieve a real rate of return year on year in excess of 10%, calculated by reference to the increase in RJ Worthington shareholders funds as adjusted for any capital variations Dated 24 July 2001. and the annual dividend.
Details of the Non-Executive Directors letters of In normal circumstances, under this scheme appointment: Executive Directors are usually able to receive up to 100% of base salary in cash.
WJT Plender In general, any award above this level is deferred Dated 22 July 2002 renewed in July 2005 for further three as shares under the Companys Deferred Bonus Plan for years.
Appointed Non-Executive Chairman with effect three years.
The Committee also has the discretion to from 1 April 2007. recommend the payment of an additional bonus to a Lady Judge Director or other member of staff or to vary the terms of the Dated 9 February 2000 renewed in January 2006 for a arrangements outlined above for exceptional performance further three years.
over and above the already high standard required.
Bonus payments are based on the results of the S Laffin previous financial year, in which shareholders funds Dated 1 February 2008. adjusted for dividends paid rose by 29.9%.
This resulted in J MacNaughton CB bonus payments reaching maximum cash awards with Dated 22 December 2003 renewed in December 2006 for additional amounts being triggered under the Deferred a further three years.
Quintain Estates Annual Report Remuneration report and Development PLC and Accounts 2008 68 Following confirmation from the Remuneration Committee during the year regarding the conditional nature of the deferred bonus share awards, the shares held beneficially for the Executive Directors under the Deferred Bonus Plan are as follows.
Shares are released, at nil cost to the participants, on the third anniversary of the award, conditional upon continued employment.
Dividends are re-invested in shares of the Company during the period that the shares are held in trust.
The highest and lowest share prices were 964.5p and 410.0p on 23 July 2007 and 11 January 2008 respectively.
The Deferred Bonus Plan commenced in 1999 for a fixed period of 10 years.
The Committee believes that this plan continues to serve the interests of the Company by encouraging executives to build-up and maintain a shareholding in the Company and provide an additional retention lock-in.
On the expiry of this plan the Company therefore intends to implement a replacement Deferred Bonus Scheme which shall mirror the terms of the original scheme, subject to any amendments approved by the Committee in the light of current market and best practice.
2 Discretionary bonuses are based on the results of the previous year.
Following clarification of the treatment of bonus shares during the year, amounts relating to the deferred bonus shares are not included above but are disclosed separately.
3 Fees include payments of 56,000 2007: 56,000 made to BT Consulting Limited on behalf of Lady Judge and 8,000 2007: nil to Simon Laffin Business Services Ltd on behalf of Simon Laffin.
4 Nick Shattocks pension figure for 2007 included an amount from his bonus which he elected to have paid direct into his pension.
5 Tonianne Dwyer was appointed as a director during the year ended 31 March 2007.
Quintain Estates Annual Report and Development PLC and Accounts 2008 69 Pensions The Group makes payments into personal pension plans arranged on behalf of the Executive Directors at the rate of 15% of base salary, except for the Chief Executive, Adrian Wyatt, who received a cash payment of 16.9% less an amount equivalent to employers national insurance in lieu of payments into a pension plan.
For other head office staff, the rate of contribution into personal pension plans is 12.5%.
For staff employed by other Group companies, the schemes in place provide for employers contributions ranging from 3% to 8% of base salary.
All Executive Directors and head office staff have access to the advice of an Independent Financial Adviser in relation to their pensions, which is offered at the Groups expense.
Executive Directors performance share plan audited Adopted at the 2003 Annual General Meeting, the Plan is intended to secure the long term services of key directors, with the award of shares being conditional upon the achievement of challenging corporate performance targets and subject to lock-in arrangements for participants current and future shareholdings.
The exercise of share awards under this Plan is subject to the Director continuing to be employed at vesting, the Company achieving an increase in net asset value plus dividends paid of at least 10% pa above the retail price index and to the Company outperforming the average IPD return over the same period.
Details of awards granted under the Plan are set out below.
No amount is payable on the exercise of these rights and no rights vested during the year.
During the year, rights over 125,000 shares under the Plan were awarded to Tonianne Dwyer to reflect her exceptional contribution and the need to retain her.
These awards are based on five tranches of 25,000 shares, on similar terms to the previous awards in respect of the length of the vesting periods and performance conditions.
Aggregate awards under the Plan are limited to 2.5% of the Companys issued share capital, with individual participants being limited to maximum awards of 1% of the Companys issued share capital.
The Committee remains of the view that the net asset value based performance conditions applied to awards under this Plan are appropriate, given that net asset value growth is a fundamental indicator of the success of a company in the property sector.
However, the Committee will keep this policy under regular review.
As noted above, the Company is currently undertaking a wider review of executive remuneration arrangements which is expected to influence the continuing operation of this Plan.
To the extent necessary, full details of any proposed changes will be set out in the Notice of Meeting.
Quintain Estates Annual Report Remuneration report and Development PLC and Accounts 2008 72 Share options and share rights audited Share incentive plan During the year, the Company continued to operate the At the AGM in 2002, shareholders approved the terms of 1996 Unapproved Share Option Scheme albeit with no a Share Incentive Plan SIP and approval for the SIP was further grants being made and the 2004 Unapproved given by HMRC during the year under review.
The first Share Plan and the Quintain Estates and Development plc shares were purchased on behalf of staff during Company Share Option Plan the CSOP, an HMRC February 2008. approved option scheme.
The Committee has continued to follow its policy Total shareholder return that, for it to exercise its discretion to grant any share The following graph charts the total cumulative options or rights under the 2004 Unapproved Share Plan shareholder return growth in share value assuming and CSOP, the Groups performance over the previous reinvestment of dividends of the Company for the period three years must exceed the average of the rolling IPD from 31 March 2003 to 31 March 2008 and then extended index.
Approved options granted during the year at to 4 June 2008, compared with total shareholder return market price are subject to a performance condition relating to the FTSE 350 Index and the FTSE All-Share whereby the growth in share price must exceed 10% Real Estate Index chosen for this purpose as the net of inflation over the three years following grant of Company is a constituent of these indices : the option.
Share rights granted under the 2004 Unapproved 5 year Total Shareholder Return Plan are granted at par value and are subject to a 31 March 2003 to 31 March 2008 performance condition whereby the Companys real 500 growth in net asset value plus dividends must match or 400 exceed by an average of 10% pa plus the increase in the retail price index.
Option and rights awards are subject to 300 a minimum three year vesting period and, on exercise, 200 Directors are encouraged to hold shares for a further period after vesting, subject to the need to finance the costs of 100 acquisition and any tax liability.
During the financial 0 year, a total of 38,627 options and 268,227 share rights 31 Mar 31 Mar 31 Mar 31 Mar 31 Mar 31 Mar 4 Jun were granted.
37,379 options and share rights lapsed and 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2008 103,372 options and 672 rights were exercised at option Quintain prices of between 155p and 460p, and rights at 25.0p.
FTSE All-Share Real Estate Details of options and rights granted to, and exercised by, FTSE 350 the Executive Directors are shown above.
Source: Datastream The continued operation of these Plans is currently being considered as part of the wider remuneration review being undertaken by the Committee.
Note: Non-Executive Directors do not participate in any This graph shows the value, by 31 March 2008 and then share option or rights schemes.
extended to 4 June 2008, of 100 invested in Quintain In its annual review of Executive Director and senior Estates and Development PLC on 31 March 2003 staff remuneration policy and packages, the Committee compared with the value of 100 invested in the FTSE 350 considers various guidelines on executive remuneration.
Index and the FTSE All-Share Real Estate Index.
The In relation to the grant of options and awards and the other points plotted are the values at intervening design of share-based incentive schemes, the Committee financial year ends.
ensures the setting of suitably stretching performance criteria and the recommended dilution limit for all Group schemes including all employee schemes of 10% over a rolling ten year period.
Quintain Estates Annual Report and Development PLC and Accounts 2008 73 Share price as at 31 March 1 April 1 April 1 April 2008 2007 2005 2003 pence pence pence pence Quintain Estates and Development PLC 450.75 895.50 530.00 227.50 Change since 1 April 1 April 1 April 2007 2005 2003 %%% Quintain Estates and Development PLC share price 49.66 14.95 98.13 Quintain Estates and Development PLC total return 48.92 10.90 116.66 FTSE 350 Index total return 7.23 31.39 95.05 FTSE All-Share Real Estate total return 33.27 21.09 149.34 Source: Thompson Financial By order of the Board Martin Meech Chairman of Remuneration Committee 5 June 2008
