26 The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Report & Financial Statements 2008 Directors Remuneration Report Introduction a contract of service or a contract for services and a director The Directors Remuneration Report the Report is prepared may resign by notice in writing to the Board at any time: there in accordance with Schedule 7A of the Companies Act 1985 are no set notice periods.
The Companys policy is for the the Act in respect of the year ended 31 October 2008.
An directors to be remunerated in the form of fees, payable ordinary resolution to approve the Report will be put to the quarterly in arrears, to the director personally or to a third Annual General Meeting on 26 February 2009.
The Act party specified by him.
There are no long-term incentive requires the auditors to report to the Companys members on schemes provided by the Company and the fees are not certain parts of the Report and to state whether in their specifically related to the directors performance, either opinion those parts of the Report have been properly individually or collectively.
prepared in accordance with the Act.
Therefore the Report has The Companys policy is that the fees payable to the directors been divided into separate sections for audited and unaudited should reflect the time spent by the Board on the Companys information.
affairs and the responsibilities borne by the directors and should be sufficient to enable candidates of high calibre to be UNAUDITED INFORMATION recruited.
The policy is for the Chairman of the Board, the Consideration by the Directors of Matters Relating to Senior Independent Director and the Chairman of the Audit Directors Remuneration Committee to be paid a higher fee than the other directors in The Board as a whole considers the directors remuneration.
recognition of their more onerous roles.
The Board has not appointed a committee to consider matters relating to the directors remuneration.
The Board has not The Companys articles of association limit the fees payable to been provided with advice or services by any person in respect the directors in aggregate to 150,000 per annum.
In the year of its consideration of the directors remuneration although under review the directors fees were paid at the following the directors regularly review the fees paid to the boards of annual rates, the previous rate is shown in brackets: directors of other investment trust companies.
The Chairman 30,000 30,000 : the Chairman of the Audit Statement of the Companys Policy on Directors Committee and Senior Independent Director 21,000 Remuneration 21,000 and the other directors 19,000 19,000 each.
The Board consists entirely of six non-executive directors who meet at least eight times a year to deal with the important The policy is to review these rates annually, although such aspects of the Companys affairs.
New directors are appointed review will not necessarily result in any change to the rates.
with the expectation that they will serve for a period of three Directors and officers liability insurance cover is held by the years and receive a letter of appointment.
Directors Company in respect of the directors.
appointments are reviewed formally every three years thereafter by the Board as a whole.
None of the directors has The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Report & Financial Statements 2008 27 Directors Remuneration Report continued Performance Graph AUDITED INFORMATION Directors Fees A line graph as required by the Regulations showing the The fees payable in respect of each of the directors who Companys share price total return compared to the composite served during the year, and during 2007, were as follows: index is shown below.
Mr J Morley retired as a director on 27 February 2008. the investment of 1,000 on 31 October 2003 and the reinvestment of all dividends excluding dealing expenses.
By order of the Board 50 50 FTSE All-Share Index and FTSE World ex UK Index assuming the notional investment of 1,000 into the benchmark on 31 October 2003 and the reinvestment of all income excluding dealing expenses.
W J King, FCIS The composite index is selected because it was the Companys For and on behalf of Henderson Secretarial Services Limited, Secretary performance benchmark throughout the period covered by the graph.
