Baring Emerging Europe PLC DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT for the year ended 30 September 2008 This report is presented in accordance with Schedule 7a of the Companies Act 1985.
As the Board of Directors is comprised solely of non-executive Directors, it is exempt under the Listing Rules from appointing a Remuneration Committee.
The determination of the level of fees paid to Directors, which are reviewed on a periodic basis, is dealt with by the whole Board.
The Companys Articles of Association limits the aggregate fees payable to the Board of Directors to a total of 175,000.
Subject to this overall limit, it is the Companys policy to determine the level of Directors fees having regard to fees payable to non-executive Directors in the industry generally, the role that individual Directors fulfil, and the time committed to the Companys affairs.
No Director has a service contract with the Company.
During the year ended 30 September 2008 the Chairman received a fee of 30,000 per annum, the Chairman of the Audit Committee received a fee of 25,000 per annum and other Directors 22,500 per annum.
The Company does not provide pension benefits, share options or long-term incentive schemes for Directors.
Directors Emoluments for the Year Audited The Directors who served during the year received the following emoluments in the form of fees: 2008 2007 000 000 Iain Saunders 30 25 Steven Bates 23 20 John Cousins 23 20 Josephine Dixon 25 23 Saul Estrin 23 20 Jonathan Woollett appointed as a Director on 23 July 2008 3 Total 127 108 28 Baring Emerging Europe PLC DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT continued Share Price Performance The following graph compares the share price and net asset value performance against the benchmark : 5 Y ear Performance V ersus Benchmark 400 350 300 250 200 NAV Total Return Source: AIC Share Price Total Return Source: AIC 150 Benchmark Source: Barings 100 0 30 9 03 30 9 04 30 9 05 30 9 06 30 9 07 30 9 08 Until 31 March 2007 the benchmark was the FTSE Custom All World Emerging Europe Index.
From 1 April 2007 the benchmark is the MSCI EM Europe 10 40 Index.
Approval A resolution for the approval of the Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 30 September 2008 will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
By order of the Board M. J. Nokes Secretary 3 December 2008 29 Baring Emerging Europe PLC STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES IN RESPECT OF THE ANNUAL REPORT AND THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The Directors are responsible for preparing the annual report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law, the Directors have elected to prepare the financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law.
The financial statements are required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss of the Company for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
The Directors confirm that they comply with these requirements.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible for preparing a Directors Report, Directors Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement that complies with that law and those regulations.
The financial statements are published on the www.
com website, which is maintained by the Companys Manager, Baring Asset Management Limited.
The maintenance and integrity of the website maintained by Baring Asset Management Limited is, so far as it relates to the Company, the responsibility of Baring Asset Management Limited.
The work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of the maintenance and integrity of this website and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
The financial statements are prepared in accordance with UK legislation, which may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
STATEMENT UNDER THE DISCLOSURE & TRANSPARENCY RULES 4.1.
12 The Directors each confirm to the best of their knowledge that: a the financial statements, prepared in accordance with applicable accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company: and b this Annual Report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
For and on behalf of the Board.
