Directors report Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2008 53 Directors remuneration report This report has been prepared to comply with the Directors In order further to align the interests of the executive directors with those Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 the Regulations.
The tables of shareholders, the Remuneration Committee has adopted guidelines included in the statements below on directors remuneration, pensions, for minimum shareholdings which executive directors will be expected to share options and deferred share awards have been audited.
attain over a reasonable period of time.
For these purposes, shareholdings include the value to executive directors, net of associated income tax and National Insurance, of options granted under the companys executive The Remuneration Committee share option schemes, for which the performance targets have been The Remuneration Committee is a standing committee of the board met, and bonuses deferred into shares, both compulsorily and voluntarily, whose members throughout the year were Mr Davies chairman, under the companys deferred bonus plan.
For the Chief Executive, the Mr Allen-Jones and Mr Loudon.
minimum guideline shareholding has been set at 200% of basic salary The Committee, whose written terms of reference are published on the and for all other executive directors 150% of basic salary.
The current companys website, has been established for the following purposes: shareholdings of all of the executive directors meet these guidelines.
To determine and agree with the board the framework and broad In determining executive directors remuneration, consideration is policy for the remuneration of the executive directors and such other given to matters specific to the company, such as the performance of its members of the executive management as it is requested by the board undiluted net asset value NAV per share, both in absolute terms and to consider and to review the on-going appropriateness and relevance as measured against the FTSE All-Share index, to the experience and of the remuneration policy.
performance of individual directors and their areas of responsibility, to comparable external market remuneration data and to levels of To approve the design of, and determine targets for, any performance remuneration elsewhere in the company.
related pay schemes operated by the company and to approve the total It is currently intended that the policy statement set out in this annual payments made under such schemes.
report will apply for the year to 31 March 2009 and for subsequent years.
To review the design of all share incentive plans for approval by the However, the Remuneration Committee considers that an effective board and shareholders and, for any such plans, to determine each year remuneration policy needs to be sufficiently flexible and kept under whether awards will be made and, if so, the overall amount of such review in order to take account of future changes in the companys awards, the individual awards to executive directors and other senior business environment and in remuneration practice.
Accordingly, the executives and the performance targets to be used.
policy may be further amended in future years.
Any changes in policy for financial years after 31 March 2009 will be described in future Within the terms of the agreed policy, to determine the total individual directors remuneration reports, which will continue to be subject to remuneration packages of each executive director and, if requested by an advisory vote of shareholders.
All statements in this report in relation the board, other senior executives including, where appropriate, to remuneration policy for years after 31 March 2009 should be read in bonuses, incentive payments, share options and other awards.
To determine the policy for, and scope of, pension arrangements, service agreements, termination payments and compensation Policy on individual components of executive directors remuneration commitments for executive directors and, if requested by the board, Basic salary and benefits other senior executives.
Basic salary is determined by the Remuneration Committee by reference To review and assess annually the remuneration trends across the to the experience and responsibilities of the director concerned and company.
taking into account external market research.
The companys policy is to pay salaries and other benefits which are competitive, but not excessive, References to executive directors also include the Chairman.
in relation to the marketplace.
The company provides a range of benefits, During the year, the Remuneration Committee received advice such as cash allowances in lieu of company cars, life insurance, permanent from Towers Perrin, independent remuneration consultants appointed health insurance and private medical cover.
by the Committee, who assessed the comparability of senior executive Bonus remuneration packages with the market place for the purpose of setting The company operates a discretionary annual bonus scheme for executive directors salaries for the year commencing 1 April 2008.
In executive directors, which takes into account both the performance of addition, the Remuneration Committee received advice from Freshfields individual directors and the performance of the company over the short Bruckhaus Deringer LLP in relation to the companys executive share and medium term.
At the determination of the Remuneration option schemes and deferred bonus plan.
Towers Perrin only advised in Committee, and subject to the compulsory deferral provisions of the relation to the remuneration of executive directors and senior companys deferred bonus plan, bonuses may either be paid in cash or as management and Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP are the companys an employer contribution to registered pension schemes.
The Remuneration Committee also consulted with The maximum potential bonus that may currently be awarded is 100% the Chairman, Mr Buckley, and the Chief Executive, Mr Ingram, in relation of basic salary, of which a maximum of 50% of basic salary is determined by to the remuneration of all of the executive directors, other than their own.
reference to the companys performance and 50% by reference to individual Internal support was provided to the Remuneration Committee by the performance.
The company performance related element of bonus is Company Secretary.
determined by reference to the performance of the companys undiluted NAV per share compared with that of the FTSE All-Share index over the Remuneration policy for executive directors financial year.
Bonus payments commence if the performance of the The Remuneration Committee has adopted a remuneration policy with companys NAV per share matches that of the FTSE All-Share index, the following objectives: increasing incrementally to the maximum entitlement payable if NAV per Performance related remuneration should seek to align the interests of share outperforms the FTSE All-Share index by 6% or more.
The individual the executive directors with those of the shareholders.
performance element is measured by reference to performance objectives set at the start of the financial year.
The Remuneration Committee however A significant portion of the executive directors remuneration packages retains the discretion to reduce the amount of bonus payable if NAV should be linked to the performance of the company.
per share growth in the financial year is negative and or NAV per share Remuneration packages for the executive directors should be outperformance over the relevant financial year is greater than that of the competitive, but not excessive, in terms of market practice, in order to previous three financial years and, therefore, represents recovery from attract, retain and motivate executive directors of the quality needed previous underperformance.
The payment of any such bonus is subject to manage and grow the company successfully.
to the overriding discretion of the Remuneration Committee.
54 Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2008 Directors report Directors remuneration report The Remuneration Committee may also award bonuses outside the Share options terms of the companys annual bonus scheme.
No bonus payments A key objective of the companys remuneration policy is to motivate are pensionable.
executive directors to deliver long term shareholder value.
The Remuneration Committee believes that this is best achieved through the Deferred bonus plan grant of share options, exercisable only if demanding performance The companys bonus arrangements are also designed to align the conditions are met.
The grant of options is considered to be a key element interests of directors with those of shareholders and to encourage of the remuneration package, alongside annual salary, annual bonus and retention by requiring, in the Remuneration Committees absolute the deferred bonus plan.
discretion, that a proportion of any bonus paid to a director is The maximum value of options that may be granted in any year compulsorily invested in shares under the companys deferred bonus to a director is 150% of basic salary.
The Remuneration Committee may plan.
The Remuneration Committees current policy is that any annual exceed this limit for individual directors where it considers it necessary bonus paid, the amount of which is above 50% of a directors basic to do so to secure their appointment, provided that the maximum value salary for the financial year to which the bonus relates, must be so that may be granted in such circumstances shall not exceed 250% of compulsorily invested.
In addition, the deferred bonus plan entitles directors to convert No options are granted at a discount.
voluntarily a proportion of any remaining cash bonus to an entitlement to shares.
The Remuneration Committees current policy is that up to Policy on executive directors service contracts half of any bonus not subject to compulsory deferral may be voluntarily It is the policy of the company that no executive director should be converted into shares.
The shares so invested are eligible for matching, offered a service contract that cannot be terminated within one year or on a one for one basis, subject to the satisfaction of performance which contains provision for predetermined compensation in excess of conditions over a period of three years.
All existing directors service contracts For bonuses payable in respect of the year ended 31 March 2008 comply with this policy.
The Remuneration Committee has regard to and subsequent years, the Remuneration Committee proposes that compensation commitments and believes that these are best addressed shares derived from the compulsory deferral of bonus should also be by restricting the term of the contract.
In the event of a termination, the eligible for matching.
Again, matching would be on a one for one Remuneration Committee would consider all the relevant factors and basis, and vesting would be subject to the satisfaction of performance circumstances and seek a just solution.
conditions over a period of three years.
The implementation of this proposal is subject to shareholder approval of an amendment to the Policy on external non-executive directorships held rules of the deferred bonus plan, which will be considered at the annual by executive directors general meeting to be held on 29 July 2008.
If the resolution to amend It is the companys policy to allow executive directors to hold external the deferred bonus plan is duly passed, the Remuneration Committee non-executive directorships unrelated to the companys business, intends to make a grant of matching shares after the annual general provided that the time commitment required is not material.
Normally meeting over a number of shares equal to that awarded in respect of the company will retain any fees arising from such non-executive the compulsory deferral of bonus for the year ended 31 March 2008. directorships, but may permit the executive director to retain fees in Awards under the deferred bonus plan are not pensionable.
Details of any such fees retained by executive Pensions directors are disclosed in the statement on directors emoluments below.
The companys policy on pension provision is to provide a means whereby executive directors either receive a pension at retirement age Policy on non-executive directors remuneration from the company, or are funded to operate their own money purchase and terms of appointment pension plans or other arrangements.
Messrs Buckley and Cartwright and It is the companys policy that non-executive directors should be The Hon C W Cayzer are members of the Caledonia Pension Scheme, appointed for fixed periods of no more than three years from the next which is a defined benefits scheme and is contributory for employees general meeting following their initial appointment in the case of new who joined the company after 1 April 1988, but which is now closed to non-executive directors and that re-appointment at the end of such new members.
The scheme provides a pension of up to two-thirds of final periods should not be automatic.
Non-executive directors are paid an pensionable salary on retirement dependent on length of service and age annual fee determined by the board within the overall limit contained in and also provides for dependants pensions.
All of the executive directors the articles of association, but do not receive any other benefits from the participating in the scheme, other than Mr Cartwright, transferred into company for their services as non-executive directors.
For the year ended the scheme from The Union-Castle Line Superannuation Scheme which 31 March 2008, the basic fee for non-executive directors was 31,000 was non-contributory, and this status has been preserved.
Additionally, fees of 3,500 2007 3,000 were Ingram, May or Wyatt participate in a company pension scheme but paid to the chairmen of the Audit and Remuneration Committees and instead a fixed percentage of basic salary is paid into personal pension 1,500 and 1,000 respectively 2007 nil to the other members arrangements or, in the case of Messrs Ingram and May, may be paid as a of those Committees.
A further 3,500 2007 3,000 was paid to cash supplement, which is reduced by such amount as is necessary to Mr Allen-Jones for his role as Senior Independent Non-Executive Director cover the companys National Insurance costs.
The percentage of basic and chairman of the Governance Committee.
Non-executive directors salary for the year ended 31 March 2008 was 25% for Mr Ingram and may also be paid additional fees agreed by the board where they have 12.5% for Messrs May and Wyatt.
Mr Cayzer-Colvin participates in the performed services that, in the opinion of the board, are over and above Caledonia Group Personal Pension Plan GPPP, a defined contribution their normal duties.
scheme into which employer contributions of 12.5% of basic salary were The company is entitled to terminate a non-executive directors made on his behalf.
It is the companys policy that any future executive appointment at any time without compensation.
directors recruited from outside the company will be funded to operate their own pension arrangements or offered participation in a company sponsored defined contribution scheme and that the company will not offer participation in any defined benefits arrangements.
Directors report Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2008 55 Performance graph In addition to the amounts shown in the table above, Messrs Ingram and The graph below shows the companys total shareholder return TSR May respectively were paid amounts of 106,383 and 35,460 before tax against that of the FTSE All-Share Total Return index for the five financial 2007 nil and 25,931 respectively in lieu of contributions to their periods ending on 31 March 2008 and has been prepared in accordance personal money purchase pension arrangements as described in the with the Regulations.
TSR has been calculated assuming that all dividends statement on directors pensions below.
are reinvested on their ex-dividend date.
The FTSE All-Share Total Return Certain executive directors held external non-executive index has been chosen as it is the benchmark by which the company directorships during the year unrelated to the companys business, measures its delivery of shareholder value over the longer term.
where it had been agreed that they may retain the fees arising therefrom.
Mr Ingram was a non-executive director of Sage Group, for which he received fees of 60,742 2007 48,000.
Mr Ingram was appointed to Total shareholder return TSR the board of Sage Group before he joined Caledonia.
Until his resignation Caledonia TSR FTSE All-Share Total Return as a director on 31 March 2008, Mr May received a fee from Catapult Venture Managers amounting to 18,309 2007 18,125.
This fee 400 was paid to a private company owned by Mr May and his wife and the directorship was held prior to his joining Caledonia.
300 Directors deferred share awards The deferred bonus column in the table above shows the amount of bonus to be compulsorily and voluntarily deferred into shares under the 200 companys deferred bonus plan.
The number of shares awarded for both the compulsory and voluntary deferral of bonus is determined by reference to the market value of a share at the time the award is made, 100 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 which occurs shortly after the announcement of the companys results Source: Caledonia and FTSE Datastream for the financial year to which the bonus relates or following the occurrence of exceptional circumstances justifying the making of Statement on directors remuneration audited awards.
In both cases, the number of shares is set on a pre-tax basis as Total emoluments of the directors were as follows: the shares will be subject to income tax and National Insurance on 2008 2007 release.
The number of matching shares is equal to the number of shares 000 000 awarded in respect of the voluntary deferral of bonus.
Emoluments 3,983 3,472 If the resolution to amend the deferred bonus plan is duly passed at Gains on exercise of share options 116 377 the 2008 annual general meeting, the Remuneration Committee will be 4,099 3,849 authorised to make grants of matching shares in respect of compulsory deferrals of bonus for the year ended 31 March 2008 and future years, Statement on directors emoluments audited over a number of shares equal to that awarded in respect of the The emoluments of individual directors were as follows: compulsory deferral of bonus for the relevant year.
Fees and Cash Deferred Total Total 1 2 Compulsory deferred share awards salaries Benefits bonus bonus 2008 2007 000 000 000 000 000 000 The shares comprised in a compulsory deferral will normally only vest Executive together with an amount equal to the dividends that would have P N Buckley 250 19 62 163 494 511 accrued on those shares if the director remains an employee of the Caledonia group for a three year period commencing on the first day of T C W Ingram 480 20 120 324 944 754 the financial year in which the award is made.
The vesting of these shares J H Cartwright 275 19 69 137 500 458 is not subject to a further performance condition.
The Hon C W Cayzer 230 18 115 46 409 395 J M B Cayzer-Colvin 220 18 110 49 397 323 Voluntary deferred share awards J M May 320 19 80 208 627 546 The shares comprised in a voluntary deferral are not subject to a W P Wyatt 220 17 94 110 441 331 performance condition and will vest together with an amount equal to Non-executive the dividends that would have accrued on those shares at the earlier of J R H Loudon 33 33 29 three years from the first day of the financial year in which the award is C M Allen-Jones 39 39 35 made or the date the director ceases to be an employee of the Caledonia group for any reason.
M E T Davies 35 35 32 R Goblet dAlviella 31 31 29 Matching share awards D G F Thompson 33 33 29 The vesting of the matching shares is dependent on the companys 2,166 130 650 1,037 3,983 3,472 performance over a three year period, by reference to two separate 1.
Benefits mainly comprised cash alternatives in lieu of company cars and private medical insurance.
Both performance conditions relate to the 2.
Deferred bonus comprised the amounts compulsorily and voluntarily deferred under the companys deferred bonus plan and will be satisfied by conditional share awards shortly after the announcement performance of Caledonias NAV per share over the three financial years of the companys preliminary results for the year, as described below.
starting with the year in which the award is made the Prescribed Period.
This performance of NAV per share will be compared against Notwithstanding that the companys NAV per share outperformed the different indices as follows: FTSE All-Share index by more than 6% over the year, thereby triggering 50% of the matching shares will only vest if NAV per share over the the maximum entitlement of 50% of basic salary for the bonus year under Prescribed Period outperforms the Retail Prices Index by at least 9%.
the company performance related element of the annual bonus scheme, the Remuneration Committee decided to exercise its discretion to reduce The remaining 50% of the matching shares will only vest if NAV per the amount of this payment to 45% of basic salary in view of the fact share over the Prescribed Period outperforms the FTSE All-Share index that NAV per share declined over the year.
There will be no retesting of either performance condition.
56 Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2008 Directors report Directors remuneration report The Remuneration Committee may amend the performance target if Deferred share awards held by directors as at 31 March 2008 are shown in events occur that would make the amended target a fairer measure of the following table.
There have been no changes in directors deferred performance and provided that any amended target is no more difficult share awards up to the date of this report.
The Remuneration Committee will also have the ability to impose different performance targets in the future, provided that any targets that are imposed are no less demanding than those described above.
Any such amended or different performance targets will be described in the directors remuneration report for the relevant year.
The transfer value shown in row d represents the value of the increase in accrued pension during the Statement on directors pensions audited year, as set out in row c, minus director contributions.
Pension benefits accrued by directors during the year under the 4.
In previous years, parts of Mr Buckleys bonus awards have been paid by the company as a contribution into the scheme in order to enhance his cash lump sum benefit on retirement.
The total value of such companys defined benefits scheme were as follows: contributions, with interest, was 281,550 at 31 March 2008 and 265,670 at 31 March 2007.
The The Hon amounts in rows a to d do not include allowance for these contributions.
The transfer values set Row P N Buckley J H Cartwright C W Cayzer out in rows e and f do, however, include the respective values of these contributions.
The change in transfer value over the year shown in row g calculated as row e less row f and any director contributions reflects the impact on transfer values of factors beyond the control of the Accrued pension at 31 March 2008 a 323,176 126,000 113,905 company and the directors, such as movements in stock markets.
These can cause transfer values Increase in accrued pension at different points in time to fluctuate significantly.
Disclosed changes in value may therefore be subject to a large degree of volatility and may even be negative.
The transfer values have been calculated in accordance with the guidance note GN11 published Increase in accrued pension by the Institute of Actuaries and Faculty of Actuaries.
during the year, net of inflation c 23,089 7,390 10,105 Transfer value of increase in accrued During the year, as described above and in accordance with their service pension over the year, contracts, Messrs Ingram and May elected to receive their pension net of director contributions d 389,055 68,542 107,996 entitlements by way of cash payments in lieu of pension contributions Transfer value of accrued pension of 106,383 and 35,460 before tax respectively 2007 Mr Ingram: at 31 March 2008 e 5,727,143 1,452,488 1,279,059 pension contributions of 105,000 and Mr May: cash payment in lieu of Transfer value of accrued pension pension of 25,931.
Mr Cayzer-Colvin is a member of the GPPP, a defined at 31 March 2007 f 5,217,271 1,525,559 1,363,858 contribution scheme into which employer contributions of 27,504 Change in transfer value over the 2007 17,000 were paid during the year on his behalf.
Mr Wyatt year, net of director contributions g 509,872 84,071 84,799 has established his own money purchase pension arrangements, 1.
Except for Mr Buckley, the accrued pensions are the amounts which would be paid at normal retirement age, ignoring any revaluation, if the director had left service at 31 March 2008.
Mr Buckley reached into which the company made employer contributions of 27,504 normal retirement age on 23 September 2004 but has continued in employment.
The amount shown 2007 17,000. in row a for Mr Buckley represents the accrued pension that would have been paid at 31 March 2008.
The increase in accrued pension, net of inflation, in row c is calculated by subtracting the pension accrued to 31 March 2007 multiplied by the increase in the Retail Prices Index for the year to Statement on directors share options audited 31 March 2008, from the accrued pension to 31 March 2008.
In the case of Mr Buckley, who has not yet drawn any retirement benefits and remains a deferred pensioner within the scheme, the increase in Options to acquire ordinary shares in the company held by the directors accrued pension over the year is made up entirely of increases due to the late payment of his pension.
during the year ended 31 March 2008 and gains on the exercise of share options were as shown in the table below.
adjusted NAV per share to outperform either the Retail Prices Index by 3% The company currently has two executive share option schemes per annum, or the FTSE All-Share index, over any consecutive three a 1998 scheme under which option grants were made from September financial years prior to expiry.
1998 to May 2004, and a 2005 scheme under which option grants For options granted in 2004, the performance target is such that commenced in August 2005.
50% of the shares comprised in an option will vest if the companys NAV Under the terms of both schemes, options may be exercised per share outperforms the Retail Prices Index by at least 9% over the between three and ten years after the date of grant, although only onerelevant measurement period, with the other 50% vesting if the third of the shares comprised in an option may be exercised after three companys NAV per share outperforms the FTSE All-Share index over the years from grant, with the remaining two-thirds becoming exercisable relevant measurement period.
The performance measure has to be six years after grant.
Options may only be exercised if performance achieved either over the first three years, or over the first four years, after targets are met.
If the performance measure is not achieved four years For options granted from 1998 to 2001 under the 1998 scheme, after the date of grant, the options will lapse.
the target requires the companys adjusted NAV per share to outperform The performance target for the 2005 scheme requires that 50% of either the Retail Prices Index by 3% per annum, or the average of the the shares comprised in an option will vest if Caledonias NAV per share increases in the FTSE 250 and the FT Investment Companies indices, over outperforms the Retail Prices Index by at least 9% over the measurement any consecutive three financial years prior to expiry.
The other 50% of the shares comprised in the option will vest if Directors report Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2008 59 NAV per share outperforms the FTSE All-Share index by at least 3% over Statement on directors service contracts and non-executive directors letters of appointment the measurement period.
The measurement period for these purposes Executive directors have service contracts with Caledonia Group will be the period of three financial years measured at the end of the third Services Ltd, a wholly owned subsidiary of the company, details of which financial year following the date of grant of the options.
There is no are summarised below: retesting of the performance targets.
To the extent that the performance targets are not met over this three year period, the options will lapse.
Name Date of contract Notice period Unexpired term The performance targets have been met for all options granted up P N Buckley 11.06.02 12 months Rolling 12 months to 2005.
The Remuneration Committee selected the targets referred to T C W Ingram 11.06.02 12 months Rolling 12 months above because it believed they provided an appropriate benchmark of the J H Cartwright 11.06.02 12 months Rolling 12 months companys longer term performance.
The Hon C W Cayzer 11.06.02 12 months Rolling 12 months The special options shown in the table above for Mr Ingram relate to J M B Cayzer-Colvin 19.04.05 12 months Rolling 12 months options over 83,000 shares originally granted to Mr Ingram on 5 July 2002 J M May 01.09.03 12 months Rolling 12 months outside the 1998 scheme and subject to special performance-related W P Wyatt 02.06.05 12 months Rolling 12 months terms.
As in the case of options granted under the 1998 scheme, only one-third of the shares under these special options were exercisable Directors service contracts contain provisions whereby the company three years after grant, with the remaining two-thirds becoming may in its discretion terminate the contract without notice and make a exercisable six years after grant.
The special options are subject to payment in lieu of notice to the director and whereby a liquidated sum is a stretching performance condition requiring the companys total payable by the company in the event of termination within one year shareholder return TSR to outperform the FTSE All-Share Total Return following a change of control.
Any such payment in lieu of notice or index Index over the measurement period, which commenced on the liquidated sum would be equivalent to no more than one years total date of grant.
Tranches vest in full if TSR exceeds that of the Index by an emoluments.
average of at least 2% per annum over the relevant measurement period.
The service contracts of Mr Cartwright and The Hon C W Cayzer are If TSR equals that of the Index, none of that tranche will be exercisable and also subject to provisions whereby, in the event of a payment in lieu of there will be proportionate vesting of a tranche if TSR exceeds that of the notice or payment of a liquidated sum on termination, the director Index by an average of between zero and 2% per annum.
For the one-third concerned would also be entitled to an increase in his pensionable service tranche, the performance measure was to be first applied three years equivalent to the unexpired period of notice under his contract.
after grant, with two re-test opportunities four and five years after grant.
Non-executive directors do not have service contracts, but are The performance target for the one-third tranche was tested on 5 July appointed under letters of appointment which provide for termination 2005 and met in full, since when Mr Ingram has exercised all of the without notice or compensation.
one-third tranche 27,666 shares in full.
For the remaining two-thirds Executive directors service contracts and non-executive directors tranche, being the options over 55,334 shares shown in the table above, appointment letters are available for inspection at the registered office of the performance measure was to be first applied five years after grant, the company.
with two re-test opportunities six and seven years after grant.
The The directors remuneration report was approved by the board performance target for the two-thirds tranche was tested on 5 July 2007 on 29 May 2008 and signed on its behalf by: and met in full.
If Mr Ingram remains in service until his retirement age of 62, the options will remain exercisable until ten years from grant.
M E T Davies Otherwise, Mr Ingram must normally be in employment to be able to Chairman of the Remuneration Committee exercise the options.
The shares required to satisfy Mr Ingrams special options either have been or will be transferred from the Caledonia Investments plc Employee Share Trust.
The remaining terms of the special options are based on the rules of the 1998 scheme, and include provisions that any benefits obtained from the special options will not be pensionable and that the terms of the special options will not normally be capable of amendment to the advantage of the option holder without the prior approval of shareholders in general meeting.
Included in Mr Mays options granted on 20 November 2003 are options over 28,000 shares also granted outside the 1998 scheme.
The performance conditions and other terms of these options are the same as those set out above for Mr Ingram and the performance target in respect of the one-third tranche 9,333 shares has now been met.
As at 31 March 2008, the market price of the companys shares was 2050p 2007 2066p and the range during the year was 1893p to 2189p.
