BP Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Directors remuneration report Constitution and operation Part 3 Non-executive directors Each member of the remuneration committee is subject to annual re-election as a director of the company.
The board considers all remuneration committee members to be independent see page 70.
They have no personal financial interest, other than as Policy shareholders, in the committees decisions.
Remuneration of the chairman and the non-executive directors continues The committee met six times in the period under to be set by the board.
The process by which the board determines that review.
Mr Sutherland, as chairman of the board, attended all remuneration was reviewed during the year with the result that: the committee meetings.
The quantum and structure of the chairmans remuneration would The committee is accountable to shareholders through its be reviewed by the remuneration committee.
The remuneration annual report on executive directors remuneration.
It will consider the committee would then make a recommendation to the board but outcome of the vote at the AGM on the directors remuneration report the chairman would not vote on his own remuneration: and and take into account the views of shareholders in its future decisions.
The quantum and structure of non-executive director remuneration The committee values its dialogue with major shareholders on would be reviewed by the chairman, with support and analysis remuneration matters.
provided by the company secretary.
The chairman would then make a recommendation to the board but non-executive directors would Advice not vote on their own remuneration.
Advice is provided to the committee by the company secretarys office, The above changes came into effect for the 2008 review of remuneration.
which is independent of executive management and reports to the The other elements of BPs non-executive director remuneration chairman of the board.
Mr Aronson, an independent consultant, is the policy remain unchanged: committees secretary and independent adviser.
Advice was alsoWithin the limits set by the shareholders from time to time, received from Mr Jackson, the company secretary.
remuneration should be sufficient to attract, motivate and retain The committee also appoints external advisers to provide world-class non-executive talent.
specialist advice and services on particular remuneration matters.
Remuneration of non-executive directors is set by the board and The independence of the advice is subject to annual review.
should be proportional to their contribution towards the interests of In 2008, the committee continued to engage Towers Perrin as its the company.
Towers Perrin also provided limited ad hocRemuneration practice should be consistent with recognized bestremuneration and benefits advice to parts of the group, principally practice standards for non-executive directors remuneration.
changes in employee share plans and some market information on Remuneration should be in the form of cash fees, payable monthly.
Non-executive directors should not receive share options from the Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP provided legal advice on company.
specific matters to the committee, as well as providing some legal adviceNon-executive directors should be encouraged to establish a holding to the group.
in BP shares broadly related to one years base fee, to be held directly Ernst & Young reviewed the calculations on the financial-based or indirectly in a manner compatible with their personal investment targets that form the basis of the performance-related pay for executive activities, and any applicable legal and regulatory requirements.
directors, that is, the annual bonus and share element awards described on page 79, to ensure they met an independent, objective standard.
They Fee structure also provided audit, audit-related and taxation services for the group.
The table below shows the current fee structure for non-executive directors: thousand Fee level a Chairman 600 b Deputy chairman 120 Board member 75 c Audit committee and SEEAC chairmanship fees 30 c Remuneration committee chairmanship fee 20 Transatlantic attendance allowance 5 d Committee membership fee 5 a The chairman remains ineligible for committee chairmanship and membership fees or transatlantic attendance allowance, but has the use of a fully maintained office for company business, a chauffeured car and security advice.
b The role of deputy chairman is combined with that of senior independent director.
The deputy chairman is still eligible for committee chairmanship fees and transatlantic attendance allowance plus any committee membership fees.
c Committee chairmen do not receive an additional membership fee for the committee they chair.
d For members of the audit, SEEAC and remuneration committees.
86 BP Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Directors remuneration report a Remuneration of non-executive directors in 2008 Non-executive directors of Amoco Corporation thousand Non-executive directors who were formerly non-executive directors of 2007 2008 Amoco Corporation have residual entitlements under the Amoco NonEmployee Directors Restricted Stock Plan.
Directors were allocated A Burgmans 86 90 restricted stock in remuneration for their service on the board of Amoco Sir William Castell 87 108 Corporation prior to its merger with BP in 1998.
On merger, interests in C B Carroll 43 93 b Amoco shares in the plan were converted into interests in BP ADSs.
The G David n a 100 restricted stock will vest on the retirement of the non-executive director E B Davis, Jr 107 105 at the age of 70 or earlier at the discretion of the board.
Since the D J Flint 86 90 merger, no further entitlements have accrued to any director under the Dr D S Julius 106 110 plan.
The residual interests, as interests in a long-term incentive scheme, Sir Tom McKillop 87 95 are set out in the table below, in accordance with the Directors Sir Ian Prosser 137 170 Remuneration Report Regulations 2002.
P D Sutherland 517 600 Director leaving the board in 2008 Interest in BP ADSs Date on c Dr W E Massey 133 90 at 1 Jan 2008 and which director a b 31 Dec 2008 reaches age 70 a This information has been subject to audit.
E B Davis, Jr 4,490 5 Aug 2014 b Appointed on 11 February 2008. c Director leaving the board in 2008 Also received a superannuation gratuity of 23,000. c Dr W E Massey 3,346 5 April 2008 No share or share option awards were made to any non-executive a No awards were granted and no awards lapsed during the year.
The awards were granted over director in respect of service on the board during 2008.
Amoco stock prior to the merger but their notional weighted average market value at the date of Non-executive directors have letters of appointment, which grant applying the subsequent merger ratio of 0.66167 of a BP ADS for every Amoco share was recognize that, subject to the Articles of Association, their service is at the $27.87 per BP ADS.
All directors stand for re-election at each AGM.
b For the purposes of the regulations, the date on which the director retires from the board at or after the age of 70 is the end of the qualifying period.
If the director retires prior to this date, the Review of chairman and non-executive director remuneration board may waive the restrictions.
c Dr Massey retired from the board on 17 April 2008.
He had received awards of Amoco shares The new process for the determination of non-executive remuneration, under the plan between 22 June 1993 and 28 April 1998 prior to the merger.
These interests had as described earlier, was operated during the year and recommendations been converted into BP ADSs at the time of the merger.
In accordance with the terms of the were made.
However, the chairman and the non-executive directors plan, the board exercised its discretion over this award on 16 May 2008 and the shares vested on informed the board that, in the current economic circumstances, they that date when the BP ADS market price was $74.57 without payment by him.
did not wish to receive any increase in remuneration for the coming year 2009.
Past directors The board, therefore, decided after review to maintain fees for Mr Miles who was a non-executive director of BP until April 2006 was 2009 at the 2008 level set out in the fee structure table, save that the appointed as a director and non-executive chairman of BP Pension committee membership fee would no longer be paid to members of Trustees Limited in October 2006 for a term of three years.
he received 150,000 for this role.
Dr Walter Massey who retired as a non-executive director of BP Superannuation gratuities in April 2008 remained a member of the nomination committee during Until 2002, BP maintained a long-standing practice whereby nonthe year to assist in the search for a successor to BPs chairman.
executive directors who retired from the board after at least six years Dr Massey received a total fee of 15,000 for this role in 2008. service were eligible for consideration for a superannuation gratuity.
Dr Massey was also appointed to the BP America board in April 2008 for The board was, and continues to be, authorized to make such payments a term of two years.
During 2008, he received US$93,500 for this role.
under the companys Articles of Association and the amount of the payment is determined at the boards discretion, having regard to the directors period of service as a director and other relevant factors.
In 2002, the board revised its policy with respect to This directors remuneration report was approved by the board and superannuation gratuities so that: signed on its behalf by David J Jackson, company secretary, on Non-executive directors appointed to the board after 1 July 2002 24 February 2009. would not be eligible for consideration for such a payment.
While non-executive directors in service at 1 July 2002 would remain eligible for consideration for a payment, service after that date would not be taken into account by the board in considering the amount of any such payment.
The board made a superannuation gratuity of 23,000 during the year to Dr Walter Massey, who retired in April 2008.
This payment was in line with the policy arrangements agreed in 2002 and outlined above.
