BP Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Directors remuneration report The committee concluded that the TSR result, by itself, was not a fair Part 2 Executive directors remuneration reflection of BPs relative underlying performance over the period.
After thorough consideration, the committee determined that 15% of the 2008 remuneration shares under the 2006-08 award should vest this being a fair reflection Salary increases of the overall results achieved and consistent with its approach to the As part of our normal cycle, salaries were reviewed mid-year and were clustering of results, as anticipated in the EDIP rules approved by increased to reflect market competitiveness and personal performance.
Dr Haywards salary was increased 10% to 1,045,000, and the other In accordance with its powers under the EDIP rules, the executive directors by 6% to the following: Mr Conn 690,000, Dr Grote committee also determined that, as there was clear evidence of a $1,380,000 and Mr Inglis 690,000. progressive turnaround of performance over the final 18 months of the performance period, individual vesting levels should only occur to the Annual bonus result extent that eligible individuals contributed to the turnaround.
The resulting Performance measures and targets were set at the beginning of the year final vesting for all eligible participants is shown in the table on page 83. based on the annual plan.
The target level bonus of 120% of base salary Mr Ingliss award was made prior to his appointment as an placed 50% on group financial and operating results including earnings executive director under the MTPP medium term performance plan that before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization EBITDA, cash is the comparable plan to the EDIP.
Vesting conditions were the same as costs, cash flow, return on average capital employed ROACE and capital for the EDIP for Mr Inglis but, unlike the EDIP, the MTPP does not have a expenditure.
The remaining portion was weighted 25% on safety, 25% three-year retention period.
on people and 20% on individual performance, principally operating Lord Browne also held an award under the 2006-08 share element results and leadership.
related to long-term leadership measures.
These focused on sustaining Overall performance for 2008 was very strong and is more fully BPs financial, strategic and organizational health.
Performance relative to set out in other parts of this report.
Financial results exceeded targets for the award was assessed by the chairmans committee and, based on this EBITDA, free cash flow and returns on average capital employed, even assessment, no shares were vested.
after adjusting for the high oil prices for part of the year.
Cash costs were managed below target, and capital expenditure within expected levels.
Remuneration policy Operationally, the upstream business had an excellent year, Our remuneration policy for executive directors aims to ensure there is a replacing a high proportion of proved reserves, exceeding its production clear link between the companys purpose, its business plans and target and successfully starting up the important Thunder Horse executive reward, with pay varying with performance.
In order to achieve development in the Gulf of Mexico.
The downstream business this, the policy is based on these key principles: successfully and safely completed the full re-commissioning of the Texas The majority of executive remuneration will be linked to the City and Whiting refineries and improved overall performance.
Alternative achievement of demanding performance targets, independently set Energy exceeded its targets for wind and met its solar sales target.
to support the creation of long-term shareholder value.
Safe and reliable operations remained at the top of the agenda The structure will reflect a fair system of reward for all the participants.
and performance, both in terms of safety metrics and progress on OMS The remuneration committee will determine the overall amount of implementation, was assessed as satisfactory by the safety, ethics and each component of remuneration, taking into account the success of environment assurance committee SEEAC.
On the people front, BP and the competitive environment.
significant progress was made in reducing complexity and embedding a There will be a quantitative and qualitative assessment of performance culture throughout the group.
performance, with the remuneration committee making an informed Annual bonus results for 2008 reflect this overall strong judgement within a framework approved by shareholders.
performance and committed leadership and are set out in the table on Remuneration policy and practice will be as transparent as possible.
Executives will develop a significant personal shareholding in order to align their interests with those of shareholders.
2006-2008 share element result Pay and employment conditions elsewhere in the group will be taken Performance for the share element is assessed relative to the TSR of the into account, especially in setting annual salary increases.
company compared with the other oil majors ExxonMobil, Shell, Total and The remuneration policy for executive directors will be reviewed Chevron.
Recognizing the inherent imperfections in a TSR ranking, the EDIP regularly, independently of executive management, and will set the rules give the committee power to adjust upwards or downwards the tone for the remuneration of other senior executives.
vesting level derived from the TSR ranking if it considers that the ranking The remuneration committee will actively seek to understand does not fairly reflect BPs underlying business performance relative to the shareholder preferences.
This is designed to enable a more comprehensive review of Executive directors total remuneration consists of salary, annual BPs long-term performance, with the aims of tempering anomalies created bonus, long-term incentives, pensions and other benefits.
The by relying solely on a formula-based approach.
remuneration committee reviews this structure regularly to ensure it is For the 2006-2008 plan, BP was fifth relative to the other majors in achieving its aims.
In 2008, over three-quarters of executive directors terms of TSR when calculated on a common currency US dollar basis as total potential remuneration was performance related.
The same will be originally anticipated.
However, unusually large currency movements at true for total potential remuneration in 2009. the end of this period were an extraneous influence on this result.
On a local currency basis, the TSRs of BP, Shell and Total were tightly bunched together.
The committee also reviewed BPs underlying business performance relative to the comparator companies over the full three-year period.
This review included financial measures earning per share growth, ROACE, free cash flow, net income, operating measures production, reserves replacement and Refining and Marketing profitability, and nonfinancial measures health, safety and environmental and reputation.
Again, the performance of the European comparators was quite similar: BP led the group on some measures notably free cash flow and reserves replacement but lagged on Refining and Marketing profitability.
80 BP Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Directors remuneration report Salary Policy for performance share awards The remuneration committee normally reviews salaries annually, taking The remuneration committee can award shares to executive directors into account other large Europe-based global companies and companies that will only vest to the extent that demanding performance conditions in the US oil and gas sector.
These groups are each defined and analyzed are satisfied at the end of a three-year period.
The maximum number of by the committees independent remuneration advisers.
For 2009, the these performance shares that can be awarded to an executive director committee has agreed with the group chief executives view that salaries in any year is at the discretion of the remuneration committee, but will should be frozen at their current level.
not normally exceed 5.5 times base salary.
In exceptional circumstances, the committee also has an Annual bonus overriding discretion to reduce the number of shares that vest or to All executive directors are eligible to take part in an annual performancedecide that no shares vest.
The remuneration committee sets bonus targets The compulsory retention period will also be decided by the and levels of eligibility each year.
committee and will not normally be less than three years.
Together with The target level for 2009 is 120% of base salary.
In normal the performance period, this gives executive directors a six-year incentive circumstances, the maximum payment for substantially exceeding structure, as shown in the timeline below, which is designed to ensure performance targets will continue to be 150% of base salary.
their interests are aligned with those of shareholders.
The group chief executives and group chief financial officers bonus will be determined on group results as follows: 70% on group performance compared with key metrics and Timeline for 2009-2011 EDIP share element milestones from the annual plan including: Performance period Retention period Cash costs and organic capex.
Underlying replacement cost profit and operating cash flow.
Award Vesting Release Refining availability and earnings barrel.
2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 15% on safety performance, including satisfactory and improving key metrics as well as progress on OMS implementation.
15% on people, including behaviour, culture and values.
Where shares vest, the executive director will receive additional shares For the chief executive of Exploration and Production, and the chief representing the value of the reinvested dividends.
executive of Refining and Marketing, 50% of their bonus will be based on The committees policy continues to be that each executive the above group results and 50% on the results of their respective director build a significant personal shareholding, with a target of businesses as measured by key metrics and milestones set out in the shares equivalent in value to five times his or her base salary within annual plan.
For Exploration and Production, these include production a reasonable timeframe from appointment as an executive director.
costs and reserves replacement as well as safety and new opportunities.
This policy is reflected in the terms of the performance shares under the For Refining and Marketing, they include refining availability, earnings and EDIP, as shares vested will normally only be released at the end of the cash costs, as well as safety and work simplification.
three-year retention period, described above, if these minimum The remuneration committee will also review carefully the shareholding guidelines are met.
underlying performance of the group in light of company business plans and will look at competitors results, analysts reports and Performance conditions the views of the chairmen of other BP board committees when Performance conditions for the 2009-11 share element will be somewhat assessing results.
First, the peer group of oil majors against In exceptional circumstances, the remuneration committee can which we compare will be increased to include ConocoPhillips as well as decide to award bonuses moderately above the maximum level.
The ExxonMobil, Shell, Total and Chevron as previously.
This change reflects committee can also decide to reduce bonuses where this is warranted ConocoPhillips significant growth over the last few years, providing it and, in exceptional circumstances, bonuses could be reduced to zero.
with similar scale and global reach to the other oil majors.
We have a duty to shareholders to use our discretion in a reasonable and Second, vesting of the shares will be based 50% on total informed manner, acting to promote the success of the company, and shareholder return TSR versus the competitor group and 50% on a also to be accountable and transparent in our decisions.
Any significant balanced scorecard of underlying performance versus the same exercise of discretion will be explained in the subsequent directors competitors.
The underlying performance will be assessed on three remuneration report.
measures reflecting key priorities in BPs strategy in Exploration and Production, hydrocarbon production growth, in Refining and Marketing, Long-term incentives improvement in earnings per barrel, and group increase in underlying Each executive director participates in the EDIP.
It has three elements: net income.
Both Exploration and Production production growth and shares, share options and cash.
The remuneration committee does not Refining and Marketing earnings improvement are key strategic intend to use either the share option or cash elements in 2009, nor to objectives for the group and this inclusion aligns key measures with grant any retention awards which are also permitted under the EDIP.
both executive director priorities as well as key drivers of value for We intend that executive directors will continue to receive performance shareholders.
Group increase in underlying net income acts as a holistic shares under the EDIP, barring unforeseen circumstances, until it expires measure of success reflecting revenues, costs and complexity as well or is renewed in 2010. as safe and reliable operations.
81 Directors remuneration report BP Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Directors remuneration report All the above measures will be compared with the five other oil majors to Pension benefits in excess of the individual lifetime allowance set by determine the overall vesting result.
The methodology used will rank each legislation are paid via an unapproved, unfunded pension arrangement of the five other majors on each of the measures.
BPs performance will provided directly by the company.
then be compared on an interpolated basis relative to the performance of Although Mr Inglis is, like other UK directors, a member of the the other five.
For performance between second and third or first and BP Pension Scheme, he is currently based in Houston, US.
His second, the result will be interpolated based on BPs performance participation in the BP Pension Scheme gives rise to a US tax liability.
relative to the company ranked directly above and below it.
As in previous During 2008, the committee approved the discharge of this US tax liability years, performance shares will vest at 100%, 70% and 35% for under a tax equalization arrangement in respect of the period since performance equivalent to first, second and third rank respectively and Mr Inglis became a director in February 2007, amounting to $553,175.
none for fourth or fifth place.
The three underlying measures will be averaged to form the balanced scorecard component.
US directors The committee considers that this combination of measures Dr Grote participates in the US BP Retirement Accumulation Plan provides a good balance of external as well as internal metrics reflecting US plan, which features a cash balance formula.
Pension benefits are both shareholder value and operating priorities.
As in previous years, the provided through a combination of tax-qualified and non-qualified benefit committee will exercise its discretion, in a reasonable and informed restoration plans, consistent with US tax regulations as applicable.
manner to adjust vesting levels upwards or downwards if it concludes the The Supplemental Executive Retirement Benefit supplemental above quantitative approach does not reflect the true underlying health plan is a non-qualified top-up arrangement that became effective on and performance of BPs business relative to its peers.
It will explain any 1 January 2002 for US employees above a specified salary level.
The adjustments in the next directors remuneration report following the benefit formula is 1.3% of final average earnings, which comprise base vesting, in line with its commitment to transparency.
salary and bonus in accordance with standard US practice and as specified under the qualified arrangement, multiplied by years of service.
Pensions There is an offset for benefits payable under all other BP qualified and Executive directors are eligible to participate in the appropriate pension non-qualified pension arrangements.
This benefit is unfunded and schemes applying in their home countries.
Additional details are given therefore paid from corporate assets.
Dr Grote is eligible to participate under the supplemental plan.
His pension accrual for 2008, shown in the table below, includes the UK directors total amount that could become payable under all plans.
UK directors are members of the regular BP Pension Scheme.
The core benefits under this scheme are non-contributory.
They include a pension Other benefits accrual of 1 60th of basic salary for each year of service, up to a Executive directors are eligible to participate in regular employee benefit maximum of two-thirds of final basic salary and a dependants benefit of plans and in all-employee share saving schemes and savings plans two-thirds of the members pension.
The scheme pension is not applying in their home countries.
Benefits in kind are not pensionable.
integrated with state pension benefits.
Expatriates may receive a resettlement allowance for a limited period.
The rules of the BP Pension Scheme were amended in 2006 such As Mr Inglis is currently based in Houston, US, BP provides that the normal retirement age is 65.
Prior to 1 December 2006, scheme accommodation in London.
members could retire on or after age 60 without reduction.
Special early retirement terms apply to pre-1 December 2006 service for members with long service as at 1 December 2006. a Pensions thousand Additional pension Accrued pension earned during the Transfer value of Transfer value of Amount of B-A less c c Service at entitlement year ended accrued benefit accrued benefit contributions made by b 31 Dec 2008 at 31 Dec 2008 31 Dec 2008 at 31 Dec 2007 A at 31 Dec 2008 B the director in 2008 Dr A B Hayward UK 27 years 561 72 7,986 8,045 9 I C Conn UK 23 years 264 26 3,375 3,161 214 Dr B E Grote US 29 years $868 $45 $7,901 $11,220 $2,860 A G Inglis UK 28 years 326 30 4,613 4,399 214 Directors leaving the board in 2008 d Dr D C Allen UK n a 260 12 4,256 5,580 1,324 a This information has been subject to audit.
b Additional pension earned during the year includes an inflation increase of 4.0% for UK directors and 5.8% for US directors.
c Transfer values have been calculated in accordance with version 8.1 of guidance note GN11 issued by the actuarial profession.
d Dr D C Allen retired on 31 March 2008 and commuted part of his pension for a lump sum.
The figures above make no allowance for the payment of this lump sum.
If allowance is made in line with the strict requirements of the regulations, and the transfer value at the end of the year is based on the pension in payment at that time, then the transfer value at 31 December 2008 would be 4.55 million and the change in value over the year would be 0.29 million.
Includes equivalent plans in which the individual participated prior to joining the board.
b BPs performance is measured against the oil sector.
For the 2005-2007 and subsequent awards, the performance condition is TSR measured against ExxonMobil, Shell, Total and Chevron.
Each performance period ends on 31 December of the third year.
c Represents awards of shares made at the end of the relevant performance period based on performance achieved under rules of the plan and includes reinvested dividends on the shares awarded.
d Restricted award under share element of EDIP.
As reported in the 2007 directors remuneration report in February 2008, the committee awarded both Mr Inglis and Mr Conn restricted shares, as set out above.
These one-off awards will vest on the third and fifth anniversary of the award, dependent on the remuneration committee being satisfied as to their personal performance at the date of vesting.
Any unvested tranche will lapse in the event of cessation of employment with the company.
e Dr Grote receives awards in the form of ADSs.
The above numbers reflect calculated equivalents in ordinary shares.
During 2008, the highest market prices were 6.50 and $76.12 respectively and the lowest market prices were 3.76 and $39.56 respectively.
BPA BP Amoco share option plan, which applied to US executive directors prior to the adoption of the EDIP.
EDIP Executive Directors Incentive Plan adopted by shareholders in April 2005 as described on page 80.
EXEC Executive Share Option Scheme.
These options were granted to the relevant individuals prior to their appointments as directors and are not subject to performance conditions.
SAYE Save As You Earn employee share scheme.
a This information has been subject to audit.
b Closing market price for information.
Shares were retained when exercised.
c Numbers shown are ADSs under option.
One ADS is equivalent to six ordinary shares.
d Options exercised on 21 January 2009 and the shares were retained by Mr Inglis.
Closing market price for information on that date was 4.86. e On leaving the board on 31 March 2008.
84 BP Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Directors remuneration report During the year, the fees received by executive directors for external Service contracts appointments were as follows: Director Contract Salary as at date 31 Dec 2008 Executive director Additional postion Dr A B Hayward 29 Jan 2003 1,045,000 Appointee held at appointee Total I C Conn 22 Jul 2004 690,000 company company fees Dr B E Grote 7 Aug 2000 $1,380,000 Dr A B Hayward Tata Steel Senior 83,000 A G Inglis 1 Feb 2007 690,000 Independent Director Service contracts have a notice period of one year and may be I C Conn Rolls-Royce Senior 65,000 terminated by the company at any time with immediate effect on Independent payment in lieu of notice equivalent to one years salary or the amount of Director salary that would have been paid if the contract had been terminated on Dr B E Grote Unilever Audit committee Unilever PLC the expiry of the remainder of the notice period.
The service contracts member 33,500 are expressed to expire at a normal retirement age of 60 subject to Unilever NV age discrimination.
Z48,625 Dr Grotes contract is with BP Exploration Alaska Inc.
He is A G Inglis BAE Chair of 86,754 seconded to BP p. l. c. under a secondment agreement of 7 August 2000, Systems Corporate which expires on 31 March 2010.
The secondment can be terminated by Responsibility one months notice by either party and terminates automatically on the Committee termination of Dr Grotes service contract.
There are no other provisions for compensation payable on early termination of the above contracts.
In the event of the early termination Remuneration committee of any of the contracts by the company, other than for cause or under All the members of the committee are independent non-executive a specific termination payment provision, the relevant directors thendirectors.
Throughout the year, Dr Julius chairman, Mr Davis, Sir Tom current salary and benefits would be taken into account in calculating McKillop and Sir Ian Prosser were members.
The group chief executive any liability of the company.
was consulted on matters relating to the other executive directors who Since January 2003, new service contracts include a provision to report to him and on matters relating to the performance of the allow for severance payments to be phased, when appropriate.
The company: neither he nor the chairman were present when matters committee will also consider mitigation to reduce compensation to a affecting their own remuneration were discussed.
departing director, when appropriate to do so.
Tasks Director leaving the board in 2008 The remuneration committees tasks are: Dr Allen left the company at the end of March 2008.
He was entitled to To determine, on behalf of the board, the terms of engagement and one years salary 510,000 as compensation in accordance with his remuneration of the group chief executive and the executive directors contractual entitlement, as well as a pro rata bonus for 2008 and and to report on these to the shareholders.
continued full participation in the 2006-08 and 2007-09 share elements, To determine, on behalf of the board, matters of policy over which the according to the normal rules of the plan.
company has authority regarding the establishment or operation of the companys pension scheme of which the executive directors are Executive directors external appointments members.
To nominate, on behalf of the board, any trustees or directors of The board encourages executive directors to broaden their knowledge corporate trustees of the scheme.
and experience by taking up appointments outside the company.
Each To review the policies being applied by the group chief executive in executive director is permitted to accept one non-executive appointment, remunerating senior executives other than executive directors to from which they may retain any fee.
External appointments are subject ensure alignment and proportionality.
to agreement by the chairman and reported to the board.
Any external To recommend to the board the quantum and structure of appointment must not conflict with a directors duties and commitments remuneration for the chairman.
