Directors Remuneration Report Introduction In determining the directors remuneration for the year, the Committee consulted Peter Hargreaves Chief Executive, Theresa This report has been prepared in accordance with Schedule 7A to Barry Group Marketing Director and Stephen Lansdown the Companies Act 1985.
The report also meets the relevant Chairman about its proposals and they attend meetings at the requirements of the Listing Rules of the Financial Services invitation of the Committee except when their own remuneration Authority and describes how the Board has applied the principles is being discussed.
As required by the Act, a resolution to approve the report will be proposed at the Annual The role of the Committee General Meeting of the Company at which the financial statements will be approved.
The Committees purpose is to: The Act requires the auditors to report to the Companys membersdetermine and recommend to the Board the remuneration on certain parts of the directors remuneration report and to state policy for the Chairman, executive directors of the Company whether in their opinion those parts of the report have been and of the subsidiary companies: properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985. ensure the level and structure of remuneration is designed to The report has therefore been divided into separate sections for attract, retain, and motivate the executive directors needed to audited and unaudited information.
run the Company and the Group: and monitor the level and structure of remuneration for senior Unaudited information management.
Remuneration Committee The Committee also ensures that the remuneration relationship between the executive directors and senior executives of the This report deals with the remuneration policies and the work of Company below this level is appropriate.
In particular, any the Remuneration Committee in the year ended 30 June 2008. exceptional remuneration arrangements for senior executives are advised to the Committee.
The Company has established a Remuneration Committee.
The Remuneration Committee is responsible for the framework or Directors contracts broad policy for the fair remuneration of the Executive Directors of the Company and its subsidiaries as well as their performance It is the Companys policy that executive directors should have management.
These will be determined with due regard to the contracts with an indefinite term providing for a maximum of one interests of the Company and the Shareholders.
All executive directors, including Martin Mulligan makes recommendations to the Board.
No director plays a part in who is proposed for re-election at the next annual general meeting, any discussion about his or her own remuneration.
The currently have contracts which are subject to one years notice by Remuneration Committee will meet at least twice per year and is either party.
The Company may at any time exercise its discretion governed by formal Terms of Reference.
They are reviewed to pay the executives in lieu of the notice period.
The details of the annually and can be viewed at www.
directors contracts are summarised in the table below: Name of director Date of contract Notice period The Remuneration Committee is constituted in accordance with Executive directors the recommendations of the Combined Code, except for the inclusion of Stephen Lansdown as a member of the Committee P Hargreaves 5 April 2007 12 months prior to 1 February 2008 when he was replaced as a member of the S Lansdown 5 April 2007 12 months Committee by Jonathan Davis.
The members of the Committee M Mulligan 15 January 2007 12 months from 1 February 2008 to the date of this report were Jonathan Bloomer, Michael Evans and Jonathan Davis who are independent non-executive directors.
The Committee is chaired by Jonathan Hargreaves Lansdown recognises that its executive directors may Bloomer.
As Stephen Lansdown is the Chairman of the Company be invited to become non-executive directors of other companies.
and an executive director, the constitution of the Remuneration Such non-executive duties can broaden experience and knowledge Committee prior to 1 February 2008 was therefore not strictly in which can benefit the Company.
Subject to approval by the Board, compliance with the principle of the Combined Code which executive directors are allowed to accept non-executive requires that this committee should comprise only independent appointments and retain the fees received, provided that these non-executive directors.
appointments are not likely to lead to conflicts of interest.
Peter Hargreaves currently receives fees of 20,000 p. a. in respect of his None of the Committee has any personal financial interest other duties as non-executive chairman of ITM Power plc.
than as shareholders, conflicts of interests arising from crossdirectorships or, except for Stephen Lansdown, any day-to-day involvement in running the business.
Hargreaves Lansdown Plc | Annual report and financial statements | Year ended 30 June 2008 31 Directors Remuneration Report - continued Remuneration policy for the executive directors Basic annual salary of the Company and of the subsidiary companies An executive directors basic salary is reviewed annually by the Executive remuneration packages are prudently designed to attract, Committee prior to the beginning of each financial year and when motivate and retain directors of the high calibre needed to an individual changes position or responsibility.
In deciding maintain the Groups position as a market leader and to reward appropriate levels, the Committee considers salaries throughout them for enhancing value to shareholders.
The performance the Group as a whole, survey data and information provided by measurement of the executive directors and key members of senior advisors and up-to-date information on a comparator group of management and the determination of their annual remuneration companies in the financial sector.
package are undertaken by the Committee.
Salaries were increased during the previous year to bring salaries in There are five main elements of the remuneration package for line with those of other comparable listed companies.
Basic salaries executive directors and senior management: were reviewed in June 2008 with no increases taking effect.
Executive directors contracts of service which include details of basic annual salary: remuneration will be available for inspection at the Annual General benefits-in-kind: Meeting.
share option incentives: pension arrangements and: Benefits-in-kind annual bonus payments.
The executive directors are entitled to life assurance cover of three Hargreaves Lansdown has a long-standing policy of rewarding times the executive's salary and, subject to the rules of the scheme, talent and experience.
Incentives are provided for delivering high permanent health insurance.
The executive directors may also growth and high returns for shareholders.
The Committee believes receive certain benefits-in-kind, principally car fuel and insurance that a significant proportion of total remuneration should be costs.
performance-related to closely align the interests of shareholders and executive directors of the Group.
As described below, Share option incentives executive directors may earn annual performance-related bonus payments together with the benefits of participation in share The executive directors of the Company and subsidiary companies option schemes.
may have options granted to them under the terms of the Executive Share Option Scheme.
Options under this scheme may In determining the balance between the fixed and variable be granted to employees and directors of the Company and its elements of the executive directors remuneration packages, the subsidiaries as selected by the Remuneration Committee.
Under Committee has regard to policy and also market practice.
The that scheme, options are allocated to qualifying employees and remuneration strategy for executive directors and other key directors by reference to individual past performance and therefore executives is tailored to emphasise the delivery of strong year-onthe exercise of options granted under the Executive Scheme are year earnings growth as well as sustained performance in the longer not dependent upon performance criteria.
Performance is rewarded through a combination of cash and longer term share awards as appropriate.
This ensures continued The executive directors of the Company and subsidiary companies emphasis on strong annual performance combined with long-term are entitled to participate in the SAYE share option scheme on the executive share ownership, and provides a strong link between the same terms as all other employees.
They are also entitled to incentives received and shareholder value delivered.
participate in the Share Incentive Plan SIP on the same terms as all other employees.
Hargreaves Lansdown operates in a highly competitive environment.
The success and performance of the business The exercise price of the options granted under the above schemes depends on teamwork and the talents of the key team.
Hargreaves is equal to the market value of the Companys shares at the time Lansdown has a loyal, stable and successful management team, and when the options are granted.
Benefits received under share the Group continues to build and retain the management team at incentive schemes are not pensionable.
It believes its incentives should support the continued progress within the existing business, and the creation of The Group does not operate any long-term incentive schemes new businesses.
The Committee has reviewed the current other than the share option schemes described above.
remuneration arrangements in light of these requirements.
Hargreaves Lansdown Plc | Annual report and financial statements | Year ended 30 June 2008 32 Directors Remuneration Report - continued Pension arrangements Annual bonus payments No directors or staff participate in a defined benefit pension The directors service contracts provide that the executives may be scheme.
On 1st July 2008, the Group replaced its defined paid a discretionary bonus for each financial year of the Company, contribution personal pension scheme with its own Group Self subject to a maximum bonus of 100 per cent of salary in the case Invested Personal Pension the GSIPP.
The new scheme is of Stephen Lansdown and Peter Hargreaves.
The Committee non-contributory and allows staff to take more control of their concluded that Theresa Barry Marketing should not be subjected pension planning.
The Company contributes 4% of salary to the to a capped bonus as was indicated at the time the Group was scheme: bonuses and other benefits are not pensionable.
The Committee establishes the objectives that must be Employees wishing to make personal contributions to the GSIPP met for each financial year if a cash bonus is to be paid.
The can do so via salary exchange ensuring that they benefit from Committee believes that any incentive compensation awarded maximum, immediate relief from income tax and National should be tied to the interests of the Companys shareholders and Insurance Contributions NIC.
All staff are eligible to join the that the principal measure of those interests is Earnings Per Share.
scheme on 1 October each year if they have completed six months Account is also taken of the relative success of the different parts of of service.
Peter Hargreaves and Stephen Lansdown do not the business for which the executive directors are responsible and participate in the GSIPP.
the extent to which the strategic objectives set by the Board are being met.
The Committee does not consider it appropriate to set an upper limit on discretionary awards because of the remuneration practices and culture within the Group, in common with many other financial services companies.
Annual bonus payments to executive directors and management are not capped and are not pensionable.
Bonuses were paid at a rate of 100% of salary to the executive directors of the Company, and varied between 33% of salary 50,000 and 333% 500,000 for the executive directors of the subsidiary companies.
Performance graph The following graph shows the Companys performance, measured by Total Shareholder Return TSR i. e capital growth and dividends paid, compared with the performance of the FTSE 350 General Financial Index during the period since flotation.
Total Shareholder Return FTSE 350 HL TSR General Financial Hargreaves Lansdown Plc | Annual report and financial statements | Year ended 30 June 2008 33 Date June 07 July 07 Aug 07 Sept 07 Oct 07 Nov 07 Dec 07 Jan 08 Feb 08 Mar 08 Apr 08 May 08 June 08 July 08 Aug 08 Directors Remuneration Report - continued As the Company was not listed on a stock exchange prior to May 2007, a comparison of TSR prior to 15 May 2007 has not been possible due to the absence of a quoted share price.
The Companys performance measured using underlying adjusted earnings per share EPS has also been compared against the performance of the FTSE 350 General Financial Index.
Growth in EPS FTSE 350 HL EPS General Financial 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 Non-executive directors Audited information All non-executive directors have specific terms of engagement, The following information is provided in respect of directors who which are available for inspection, and their remuneration is served during the year ended 30 June 2008: determined by the Board within the limits set by the Articles of Association and based on independent surveys of fees paid to nonAggregate directors remuneration executive directors of similar companies.
Each non-executive director is a member of the Remuneration Committee, The total amounts for directors remuneration were as follows: Nomination Committee and Audit Committees, and the basic fee of 30,000 to 35,000 p. a. paid depending on experience includes a fee for membership of each committee.
Additional fees of 15,000 p. a. are paid to Jonathan Bloomer for chairmanship of the three committees.
Non-executive directors cannot participate in any of the Companys share option schemes and are not eligible 2008 2007 to join the Companys pension scheme.
000 000 Appointments are for a fixed term of three years from the Pension contributions 218 2 commencement date unless terminated by either party on three months' written notice or by the Company at any time with Emoluments 1,613 20,830 immediate effect on payment in lieu of notice.
Non-executive Gains on exercise of share options 2,540 75 directors are entitled to reimbursement of all reasonable and Share-based payments 2 32 properly documented travel, hotel and other incidental expenses incurred in the performance of their duties and the Company maintains appropriate directors' and officers' liability insurance for 4,373 20,939 their benefit.
Hargreaves Lansdown Plc | Annual report and financial statements | Year ended 30 June 2008 34 Directors Remuneration Report - continued Directors pension contributions 1 director was a member of a money purchase scheme during 2008 and 2007.
Contributions paid by the Company were: Name of director 2008 2007 Executive directors M J Mulligan 218,320 2,000 The Company pension contribution includes 190,000 of bonus sacrifice and the associated 24,320 employers national insurance saving paid as pension contribution.
2 During March 2007 the Remuneration Committee agreed a remuneration policy for all directors of the Group.
The amount by which directors emoluments paid in the periods prior to floatation has exceeded the maximum amounts which could be payable in future periods under this policy has been noted as an exceptional item in the financial statements as it is not expected to recur in future periods.
2007 emoluments shown in the above table include 19,375,000 of exceptional emoluments.
3 Excludes bonus sacrifice amounts which are shown as an employers pension contribution in the previous table.
Directors share options Aggregate emoluments disclosed above do not include any amounts for the value of options to acquire ordinary shares in the Company granted to or held by the directors.
During the year, the following executive directors acquired Ordinary Shares in the Company from the EBT pursuant to Share Options under the Executive Option Scheme Unapproved, and the all-employee SAYE scheme on the following terms: Name of director Number of Exercise Date of exercise Closing Gains on Gains on Ordinary Price market price exercise exercise Shares acquired at exercise 2008 2007 date Martin Mulligan 1,375,000 0.55 7 September 2007 2.10 2,137,500 - 275,000 0.64 7 September 2007 2.10 402,500 - 36,300 0.04 29 June 2007 2.10 - 74,729 2,540,000 74,729 Hargreaves Lansdown Plc | Annual report and financial statements | Year ended 30 June 2008 35 Directors Remuneration Report - continued The interests of the directors who served during the year in options to acquire shares in Hargreaves Lansdown plc are as follows: Name of director Type of At 1 July Exercised At 30 June Exercise Expiration Date from scheme 2007 2008 Price Date which exercisable Martin Mulligan Option Scheme 1,375,000 1,375,000 - 0.55 Feb 2016 Feb 2006 Option Scheme 275,000 275,000 - 0.64 Jul 2016 Jul 2006 SAYE 17,325 - 17,325 0.04 Mar 2009 Sept 2008 SAYE 26,400 - 26,400 0.55 Nov 2012 May 2012 All of the executive directors of the Group, with the exception of Peter Hargreaves and Stephen Lansdown, were each awarded 12,650 Ordinary Shares on 8 November 2006 under the terms of the HMRC approved Share Incentive Plan SIP.
At the award date the HMRC approved market value was 0.24 per share.
These shares are subject to a three year retention period and are held by the trustee of the SIP, Hargreaves Lansdown Trustee Company Limited.
The figures shown above are exclusive of such awards.
Options granted under the share option and share incentive schemes are not subject to performance criteria.
The closing market price of the ordinary 0.4 pence shares at 30 June 2008 was 1.48 and the range during the year to 30 June 2008 was 1.345 to 2.39.
Approval This report was approved by the Board of directors on 24 September 2008 and signed on its behalf by: Michael Evans Member of the Remuneration Committee 24 September 2008 Hargreaves Lansdown Plc | Annual report and financial statements | Year ended 30 June 2008 36
