Remuneration report Overview The composition in the case of the current Executive Directors The Groups remuneration policy continues to focus on the for 2008 is illustrated in the bar chart below: achievement of corporate and individual goals aligned to the Executive Directors percentage of fixed and Groups strategy.
A sustainable business, which is at the heart variable remuneration of the Groups strategy, is built upon a balanced approach to achieving growth, improving productivity, operating Salary Pension and benefits Bonus cash deferred shares LTIP responsibly and developing a winning organisation.
P N Adams The effectiveness and the market competitiveness of executive J B Stevens remuneration in the context of the Groups strategy and the need to attract, motivate and retain the high-quality executive N Durante talent required to deliver the strategy are the key considerations 0% 10% 20% 30% 40% 50% 60% 70% 80% 90% 100% of the Remuneration Committee.
Comprehensive business Notes: metrics including established Key Performance Indicators 1 The above illustration of the current Executive Directors percentage of fixed and variable remuneration for 2008 is based on a number of assumptions: KPIs measure the delivery of the Groups strategy.
1 base salary represents annual salary: 2 pension represents the transfer value of net increase in pension to the UK Pension Fund as disclosed in Table 4: The consistent theme for a number of years, which will 3 benefits are core benefits such as car car allowance, private medical and continue in 2009, is to build a strong link between executive personal accident insurance: 4 bonus is the amount received for performance in 2008 delivered in cash and deferred shares: and 5 LTIP represents the target remuneration and shareholder value.
The total shareholder annualised expected value of the long-term incentive award granted in 2008 return elements of the Companys long-term incentive plan expressed as a percentage of base salary.
2 Fixed remuneration comprises: salary, pension and benefits.
Variable remuneration LTIP, in particular the total shareholder return measure comprises: bonus cash and deferred shares and LTIP.
which compares the Company against a peer group of international FMCG companies, shows that the Company 2008 in focus has consistently ranked second within that comparator The Remuneration Committee continues to promote a simple group of companies in respect of LTIP awards which vested and transparent approach for the remuneration packages of or will vest in each of 2007, 2008 and 2009. the senior executive team.
The value of this focus is clarity for shareholders and no ambiguity for any eligible participants Variable and fixed remuneration about the required performance levels.
The role of the Remuneration Committee is to determine the policy and framework that apply to the terms of engagement Responsible benchmarking is a key element of setting the including remuneration of the Chairman, the Executive reward opportunity for Executive Directors.
As in 2007, the Directors and the members of the Management Board.
It Remuneration Committee considered additional external also determines the remuneration of each of them including, market reference points to further enhance the robustness where appropriate, awards under share incentive schemes and of the decision-making framework for pay.
pension scheme participation and any compensation payments.
As a result, in 2008, the established peer group of selected The Committee has set a guideline that approximately FTSE 100 companies the Pay Comparator Group was 50 per cent of the remuneration package should be supplemented by market data of FTSE 350 companies taking performance-related.
The remuneration package comprises into account the relative scale and complexity of each company both performance-based variable elements cash and share as well as the practice of the FTSE 30 companies.
The Pay incentive annual bonus plans, and the LTIP and core fixed Comparator Group, which is reviewed annually, is made up elements base salary, pension and other benefits.
of companies with a consumer goods focus, an international spread of operations and those which are considered to be a competitor for top management talent.
The Pay Comparator Group has been in use for a number of years to ensure that base salaries and executive reward continue to be market competitive.
During 2008, the constituent companies were reviewed and Associated British Foods was added and Scottish & Newcastle removed for the purposes of the 2009 pay review.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2008 66 Directors report and accounts Directors report go online at www.
com annualreport2008 The constituent companies in the Pay Comparator Group as where, with reference to external market practice, salary at 31 December 2008 are set out below: increases are linked to individual performance.
Associated British Foods Pearson The Remuneration Committee continues to accept that the AstraZeneca Reckitt Benckiser requirements of recruitment or retention may on occasion BP Reed Elsevier justify the payment of a salary outside the range regarded BT Group Royal Dutch Shell as appropriate for a particular position.
British Sky Broadcasting SABMiller The remuneration of the Executive Directors is reviewed Cadbury Tesco in February each year, with salary increases effective from Diageo Unilever April.
With effect from 1 April 2009, the base salary for GlaxoSmithKline Vodafone Paul Adams Chief Executive will be 1,225,000 1 April 2008: Imperial Tobacco Group WPP Group 1,180,000, for Nicandro Durante 630,000 1 January 2008, Marks & Spencer upon becoming Chief Operating Officer: 600,000 and Ben Stevens 590,000 30 April 2008, upon becoming From 2009, data on the Companys closest competitor, Philip Finance Director: 560,000.
Morris International, will be taken as an additional reference point for the pay review.
In addition to basic salary, the Executive Directors and members of the Management Board receive certain benefits The long-term element of remuneration is delivered through in kind, principally a car or car allowance as well as private the Companys LTIP.
In February 2008, as part of the annual medical and personal accident insurance.
The Executive benchmarking review, the Committee considered whether Directors also receive as a benefit the use of a driver.
the total potential remuneration continued to be competitive against the market.
The review showed that there was a Performance-related bonus plans significant shortfall in the total compensation available at Details of the International Executive Incentive Scheme IEIS higher levels of performance.
On this basis, awards made are shown in the Remuneration policy summary table.
under the LTIP in 2008 were increased from 250 per cent to As reported in 2007, the maximum bonus opportunity 300 per cent of salary for the Chief Executive and from 200 was increased in 2008 for the Executive Directors and the per cent to 250 per cent of salary for the Finance Director and Management Board.
The annual bonus opportunity, both Chief Operating Officer.
Awards for the Management Board on-target and maximum, for the Executive Directors and were increased from 150 per cent to 200 per cent of salary.
Management Board in 2008, and which will be the same In order to maintain the positioning of the package at target in 2009, are shown in the table below.
performance, an adjustment was made to the performance On-target bonus Maximum bonus schedule for the 2008 award to the Executive Directors and Role % % the Management Board such that the same percentage Chief Executive 100 200 of salary would vest for threshold performance before and Finance Director 90 180 after the increase in the award.
The maximum award will Chief Operating Officer 90 180 be achievable only where stretching performance targets Management Board 67.5 135 are achieved in full.
The Remuneration Committee consulted shareholders prior The IEIS rewards short-term business performance within to making awards in 2008, advising them of the increase in the context of longer-term sustainability and any resulting award sizes and offering them the opportunity to comment.
award is delivered as 50 per cent cash and 50 per cent The new vesting schedule and award levels will also be applied deferred shares through the Deferred Share Bonus Scheme.
to the LTIP awards to be made in 2009.
Demanding targets are set by the Remuneration Committee at the beginning of each year and are measured in terms of The Companys key remuneration principles for Executive both business and financial performance.
Directors and the Management Board are summarised in the Remuneration policy summary table.
In 2008, the targets reflected the 5 common measures referred to in the Remuneration policy summary table.
These Salary are identified as the key drivers of sustained performance and The summary table sets out the key policy principles for the have an equal weighting of 20 per cent.
The performance salaries for the Executive Directors and the members of the points described below are set at the start of the year by Management Board.
Similar principles are applied to the reference to the projected performance for each target in salaries of senior managers and other levels in the organisation, the context of the Groups annual budget.
Annual Report 2008 British American Tobacco 67 Directors report and accounts Remuneration report continued Remuneration policy summary for Executive Directors and the Management Board Remuneration constituents Purpose Delivery Policy Base salary reward cash annual review or on a significant change of responsibilities individual with salary changes effective from April monthly performance benchmarked for appropriate salary levels using a reflect skills and company size and complexity model coupled with: experience 1 the Pay Comparator Group with a mainly international consumer goods focus chosen from the FTSE 100 Index: and 2 published salary data for FTSE 350 companies Management Board members are reviewed on the Pay Comparator Group base salary is pensionable  the International Executive Incentive 6 common measures for performance from 2009: underlying related bonus attainment of Scheme IEIS operating profit, market share, Global Drive Brand volume, net corporate revenue and cash flow: and new for 2009 costs annual awards targets on an the on target bonus opportunity for the Chief Executive is annual basis 50 per cent cash 100 per cent of the base salary with a maximum award of 50 per cent shares deferred 200 per cent of salary, and for the Chief Operating Officer shares and Finance Director the on target bonus opportunity is 90 per cent with a maximum award of 180 per cent deferred shares held in trust for 3 years and participants for the Management Board the on target bonus opportunity receive cash sum equivalent to is 67.5 per cent of the base salary with a maximum award of the dividend on the after-tax 135 per cent of salary position of all unvested deferred awards are non-pensionable shares held at the dividend record date Long-term incentivise awards of shares maximum annual award of 300 per cent of salary incentives growth in variable due to performance cash LTIP dividend equivalent to the dividends that participants 2007 LTIP earnings per over 3 year period would have received as shareholders from the date of the LTIP share and total award to the awards vesting date shareholder discretionary annual award return TSR 3 year performance period LTIP dividend equivalent over a 3 year TSR performance 50 per cent of the total award combines period the proportion of shares awarded both the share price and dividend performance during the under an LTIP award which later 3 year performance period as against 2 comparator groups lapse upon the vesting of an 25 per cent for each measure : 1 the constituents of the award do not attract the LTIP FTSE 100 Index: and 2 a peer group of FMCG companies dividend equivalent earnings per share measure 50 per cent of the total award relates to earnings per share growth on an adjusted diluted basis relative to inflation Pension provision of British American Tobacco UK pension accrues at 1 40th of annual basic salary competitive Pension Fund: defined benefit normal pensionable age of 60 post-retirement plan up to April 2005 benefits maximum pension payable will not exceed 2 3 of base salary benefit paid as ongoing pension averaged over the preceding 12 months UK Pension Fund retains a scheme-specific cap following the introduction of the new UK pension regime in April 2006 excess benefits continue to be accrued within an unfunded unapproved retirement benefits scheme British American Tobacco Annual Report 2008 68 Directors report and accounts Directors report go online at www.
com annualreport2008 Subject to the Committee exercising its judgement in Of the Executive Directors, Paul Adams Chief Executive and the assessment of the quality of the Companys overall Nicandro Durante Chief Operating Officer currently meet performance, payouts for each measure are determined the shareholding guidelines: there are transitional provisions on a sliding scale with 3 performance points.
These are: for individuals joining the Board or becoming members of the threshold which must be exceeded to attract any payment Management Board who do not meet the requirements of of a bonus for that measure : target: and maximum amount the shareholding guidelines upon appointment.
In such cases, the level at which the bonus for that measure is capped.
individuals may only sell a maximum of up to 50 per cent of any shares vesting after tax under Company share plans until In respect of the year ended 31 December 2008, the bonus the threshold under the shareholding guidelines has been met.
payouts under the IEIS were 169.4 per cent for the Chief Executive: 153.5 per cent for each of the Finance Director and The interests of the Directors of the Company in the ordinary Chief Operating Officer: and 116.7 per cent for the members shares of the Company are shown in Table 2. of the Management Board.
The actual performance related Long-term incentive plan pay values are shown in Table 1 annual cash bonus and All the Executive Directors, members of the Management deferred share bonus.
Board and senior employees participate in the long-term The Committee receives reports from management to allow it incentive plan adopted in 2007 the 2007 LTIP.
This plan to determine the extent to which performance measures have replaced the LTIP adopted in 1998 1998 LTIP which has now been achieved.
No elements of the bonuses are guaranteed expired.
The 2007 LTIP provides for awards of free ordinary and, as in previous years, the specific targets are commercially shares, provided demanding and stretching performance sensitive and not made public.
conditions are met over a 3 year period.
The first award under the 2007 LTIP was made in May 2007.
Awards made under the Deferred Share Bonus Scheme the Deferred Scheme are in the form of free ordinary shares in the The Remuneration policy summary table sets out the key Company which are normally held in trust for 3 years and no parameters of the plan.
further performance conditions apply in that period.
In certain Award levels circumstances, such as resigning before the end of the 3 year During 2008, as explained above, award levels were increased period, participants may forfeit the shares.
The Remuneration as part of delivering a competitive total remuneration package, Committee encourages a culture of ownership of these and the following LTIP awards were granted, based on salary awarded shares and participants receive a cash sum equivalent as at 1 January 2008. to the dividend on the after-tax position of all unvested ordinary shares held in the Deferred Scheme at the dividend record date.
These award levels will continue to apply to awards made in 2009.
For performance during 2009 and payout in 2010, an Multiple of base salary additional measure, focusing on costs, has been added to LTIP awards % the 5 existing measures to reflect the broader perspective Chief Executive 300 of sustained business performance.
The 6 measures will Finance Director 250 be equally weighted, each contributing 16.67 per cent, and Chief Operating Officer 250 will continue to operate under the current IEIS framework.
Management Board 200 Shareholding guidelines Executive Directors and members of the Management Board The maximum annual award under the rules of the 2007 LTIP is are encouraged by the Remuneration Committee to work 300 per cent of base salary.
The Committee continues to review towards holding ordinary shares in the Company to the levels the application of this limit in the context of its policy overall.
The shareholding guidelines are stated as being For the award made in 2008, the performance schedule was the current value of an individuals shareholding expressed as structured such that the same percentage of salary will vest a percentage of salary and excludes shares earned but not yet for threshold performance for Executive Directors and the vested under Company share plans.
Multiple of Management Board as for awards made in 2007.
This was base salary achieved by reducing the entry level vesting for median ranked Shareholding guidelines % performance for each portion of the total shareholder return Chief Executive 200 TSR performance condition from 7.5 per cent to 6 per cent Finance Director 150 of the award: and reducing the entry level vesting for EPS Chief Operating Officer 150 growth from 10 per cent to 8 per cent of the award.
This Management Board 100 maintains the positioning of the total remuneration package Annual Report 2008 British American Tobacco 69 Directors report and accounts Remuneration report continued for target performance, and increases the opportunity for TSR continues to be measured according to the return index higher levels of performance.
This approach will also apply calculated by Datastream and reviewed by the Companys to the LTIP awards to be made in 2009. independent advisers.
It is measured on the basis that all companies dividends are reinvested in the shares of those For awards made since 2005 initially under the 1998 LTIP and companies.
The return is the percentage increase in each from May 2007 under the 2007 LTIP, participants have been companys index over the 3 year performance period.
entitled to receive a cash payment equivalent to the value of The opening and closing indices for this calculation are the dividends that they would have received as shareholders on respectively the average of the index numbers for the last their vesting awards the LTIP Dividend Equivalent.
The LTIP quarter preceding the performance period and for the last Dividend Equivalent continues to be important in aligning quarter of the final year of that performance period this further the interests of senior management with those of methodology is employed to reflect movements of the shareholders.
The values of the LTIP Dividend Equivalent indices over that time as accurately as possible.
payments for the Executive Directors in respect of the 2006 LTIP award that vests in March 2009 are shown in note 9 to Table 5.
TSR continues to be measured on a local currency basis.
This approach is considered to have the benefits of simplicity and To the extent that the performance conditions have directness of comparison with the performance of the comparator been satisfied following assessment by the Remuneration companies, and is in line with the historic approach taken by the Committee, awards are normally exercisable between 3 and Remuneration Committee for the purposes of TSR measurement.
10 years after they have been made.
An award of shares lapses to the extent that the performance conditions are not satisfied EPS performance condition in accordance with the measures set out above at the end of 50 per cent of an award is based on earnings per share growth the 3 year performance period.
This element of the award will vest fully if EPS growth over the 3 year performance period is an average of at Performance least 8 per cent per annum in excess of inflation.
10 per cent Awards are based on a combination of total shareholder return 8 per cent for the award made in 2008 of this element will TSR and earnings per share EPS performance conditions vest if the EPS growth over the performance period is 3 per cent measured over 3 years.
The Remuneration Committee in excess of inflation.
An award will vest on a pro rata basis considers that both of these measures are widely accepted and between these 2 points.
The EPS portion of an award does understood benchmarks of a companys performance.
This not vest if EPS growth is less than 3 per cent in excess of inflation.
combination provides an important spread of measures relevant to the Groups business and market conditions as well as giving These targets are in line with and support the Companys a balance between the aspirations of the Executive Directors, strategy to deliver high single-digit EPS growth on average the members of the Management Board and shareholders.
over the medium to long term.
The maximum target would These performance conditions are stated in the Remuneration require 8 per cent per annum growth in earnings ahead policy summary table and considered in more detail below.
of inflation and is considered to be very demanding.
The Remuneration Committee will keep these targets under review TSR performance condition to ensure that they continue to be appropriately stretching.
A total of 50 per cent of the total award is based on the Companys TSR performance against 2 comparator groups For awards made up to and including 2008, growth in EPS for 25 per cent for each measure : 1 the constituents of the these purposes is calculated on an adjusted diluted EPS basis London Stock Exchanges FTSE 100 Index at the beginning of using a formula which incorporates: 1 the adjusted diluted the performance period: and 2 a peer group of international EPS for the year prior to the start of the first performance FMCG companies.
In the event of upper quartile performance period and then for the first, second and third years of that by the Company relative to the comparator groups above, performance period: and 2 retail price index RPI for the last 25 per cent of the total award vests in full.
From 2008, month of the year immediately preceding the performance 6 per cent of the total award vests for median performance period and then the RPI for the respective first, second and 7.5 per cent for the 2006 and 2007 awards.
There is third years of that performance period.
pro rata vesting between these 2 points.
The TSR portions of For future awards, the Committee has decided to move to a an LTIP award do not vest for below median performance.
more standard approach for calculating EPS growth.
For awards These comparator groups, which are kept under review to to be made in 2009, EPS performance will be measured as an ensure that they will remain both relevant and representative, increase in adjusted diluted EPS between the base year and the are chosen to reflect the Companys financial and business final year of the performance period, expressed as an annual trading environments.
The FMCG comparator group for the growth rate over the period.
Under this approach only the base outstanding LTIP awards is shown below.
year and final year adjusted diluted EPS results are considered.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2008 70 Directors report and accounts Directors report go online at www.
com annualreport2008 However, on the basis that rolling annual awards are made, all Performance graph years of performance ultimately will be taken into account in Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 requires that calculating EPS growth over time.
This change has been made the Company must provide a graph comparing the TSR in order to simplify the approach and to bring it into line with performance of a hypothetical holding of shares in the Company prevailing market practice.
Where EPS grows at a relatively with a broad equity market index over a 5 year period.
In this constant rate, the 2 methodologies will produce broadly context, the Directors have again chosen to illustrate the similar results, although the outcome will differ for different performance of TSR against the FTSE 100 Index over a 5 year growth profiles.
Both the previous and new approaches are period, commencing on 1 January 2004.
In the opinion of the considered to be a fair and reasonable measure of performance.
Directors, the FTSE 100 Index is the most appropriate index against which TSR should be measured because it is a widely 1998 LTIP used and understood index of broadly similar sized UK companies Following the adoption of the 2007 LTIP, no further awards were to the Company.
The performance graph is shown below.
However, it is necessary to report on the vesting of the award made under the 1998 LTIP in 2006.
Historical total shareholder return performance Growth in the value of a hypothetical 100 holding over 5 years Vesting of LTIP award made in 2006 FTSE 100 comparison based on 30 trading day average values.
As reported last year, 100 per cent of the LTIP award granted in 2005 vested on 17 May 2008.
The eighth LTIP award was British American Tobacco FTSE 100 made in 2006, with the performance period being completed at 31 December 2008.
The Remuneration Committee has 400 300 assessed the performance of the Company against the 2 200 performance conditions outlined above and has determined 100 that 100 per cent of the award will vest.
On the TSR measure, 0 Dec Dec Dec Dec Dec Dec the Company ranked seventh out of the FTSE 100 group of 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 companies, giving a vesting of 25 per cent for performance at the upper quartile.
A vesting of 25 per cent was achieved for In addition to the performance graph, shown below there are ranking second out of the peer group of international FMCG illustrative graphs that show the relative position on the TSR companies, this being upper quartile.
EPS growth was 7.97 measures for the LTIP award vesting in March 2009. per cent per annum in excess of inflation.
The Remuneration Total shareholder return annual % Committee, in its overall assessment of both LTIP measures, FTSE 100 1 January 2006 to 31 December 2008 determined that this resulted in a full vesting of 100 per cent.
The FTSE 100 comparison is based on 3 months average values.
Members of the FMCG peer group are set out below: Upper quartile Lower quartile FMCG peer group: British American Tobacco 14.7% 20 2 4 Altria Group PMI Japan Tobacco 00 Anheuser-Busch InBev Johnson & Johnson Cadbury Kellogg Median Campbell Soup Kimberly-Clark 4.7 % Carlsberg LVMH 50 Coca-Cola Nestle FMCG group 1 January 2006 to 31 December 2008 Colgate-Palmolive PepsiCo The FMCG group comparison is based on 3 months average values.
4 Danone Pernod Ricard Upper quartile Lower quartile Diageo Procter & Gamble British American Heineken Reckitt Benckiser Tobacco 14.7% 20 HJ Heinz SABMiller Median 3 The Hershey Company Sara Lee 4.4% Imperial Tobacco Group Unilever 1 The following comparator companies have delisted since the relevant dates of grant 2006, 2007 and 2008 : Altadis, Gallaher, The Gillette Company, InBev, 00 Scottish & Newcastle and Wrigley.
2 For the 2006 and 2007 awards, Altria Group is tracked until the demerger of Philip Morris International on 17 March 2008, and a market cap weighted basket of Philip Morris International and Altria Group is tracked from March 2008.
For the 2008 awards, Philip Morris International is tracked from the point of the demerger.
Annual Report 2008 British American Tobacco 71 Directors report and accounts Remuneration report continued LTIPs change of control Employee Share Ownership Plan The rules of the 1998 LTIP and the 2007 LTIP both provide The Employee Share Ownership Plan is a HMRC approved that in the event of a change of control of the Company as share incentive plan, which incorporates a Partnership a result of a takeover, reconstruction or winding up of the and Free Shares element.
The Partnership Share Scheme is Company not being an internal reorganisation, LTIP awards open to all eligible employees, including Executive Directors.
will become exercisable for a limited period based on the Employees can allocate part of their pre-tax salary to purchase period of time which has elapsed since the date of the award shares in the Company.
The maximum amount that can be and the achievement of the performance conditions at that allocated in this way is 1,500 in any year.
Shares purchased date, unless the Remuneration Committee determines this not are held in a UK-based trust, normally capable of transfer to be appropriate in the circumstances.
In addition, the 2007 to participants tax-free after a 5 year holding period.
At LTIP allows as an alternative to early release that participants 31 December 2008, of the Executive Directors, Paul Adams may, if permitted, exchange their LTIP awards for new awards and Nicandro Durante, participated in the Partnership Share of shares in the acquiring company on a comparable basis.
Scheme, each investing the maximum monthly contribution.
Share Option Scheme The Company also operates the Free Shares element of the No options have been granted under the Share Option Scheme plan, known as the Share Reward Scheme.
Under this Scheme, since March 2004 and no options have been granted to the eligible employees including Executive Directors receive current Executive Directors since September 1999.
The Share an appropriation of shares in April of each year in which the Option Scheme expired in April 2008.
As at 31 December Scheme operates in respect of performance in the previous 2008, no Executive Directors held outstanding options under financial year.
In this way, an award of 2,706 will be made to the Share Option Scheme.
Executive Directors and members of the Management Board on 1 April 2009 in respect of the year ended 31 December 2008.
During the life of the Share Option Scheme, options granted The performance conditions are aligned to those set for the were not issued at a discount to the market price at the time IEIS in respect of the same performance period.
The plan shares of grant, with the value of options for that grant being limited are held in a UK-based trust for a minimum period of 3 years to 50 per cent of a participants base salary.
All outstanding and during that time the trust will exercise its voting rights as options have matured and are exercisable up to March 2014. directed by the plans participants.
The maximum individual All-employee share schemes award under the Share Reward Scheme is 3,000.
The Executive Directors are also eligible to participate in the Options and awards outstanding following all-employee share schemes which are designed Employee Share Ownership Trust to incentivise employees of the Group by giving them To satisfy the future exercise of options or awards under the opportunities to build a shareholding in the Company: the Groups employee share schemes, ordinary shares are acquired British American Tobacco Sharesave Scheme Sharesave in the market by an existing employee share ownership trust Scheme and the Employee Share Ownership Plan.
the British American Tobacco Group Employee Trust BATGET.
Sharesave Scheme During the year, new ordinary shares were issued by the The Sharesave Scheme is approved by HM Revenue & Company in relation to the Sharesave Scheme and to certain Customs HMRC.
Eligible employees, including the Executive participants in the Share Option Scheme resident outside Directors, have been granted employee savings-related share the UK.
options to subscribe for ordinary shares in the Company.
Under the Sharesave Scheme, a total of 1,355,709 options In November 2008, the Company made a further grant of over ordinary shares in the Company were outstanding options under the Sharesave Scheme which allows for options at 31 December 2008.
The options outstanding under the granted to be exercisable in conjunction with either a 3 year Sharesave Scheme are exercisable until June 2014 at option or 5 year savings contract up to a monthly limit of 250. prices ranging from 568p to 1435p.
Options are normally granted at a discount of 20 per cent to the market price at the time of the invitation, as permitted BATGET is used to satisfy the future exercise of options under under the rules of the Sharesave Scheme.
At 31 December the Share Option Scheme and the vesting and exercise of awards 2008, all the Executive Directors participated in the Sharesave of ordinary shares made under the Deferred Scheme, and the Scheme, each saving the maximum monthly amount.
1998 LTIP and the 2007 LTIP respectively.
The number of shares held in BATGET to satisfy outstanding awards is consistently monitored by a committee of senior management that reports British American Tobacco Annual Report 2008 72 Directors report and accounts Directors report go online at www.
com annualreport2008 to a committee of the Board.
BATGET is funded by interestto leave and take a pension at any time on or after his or her free loan facilities from the Company totalling 400 million, 50th birthday without the employing companys agreement, enabling the trust to facilitate the purchase of ordinary shares subject to a reduction as determined by the Pension Fund to satisfy the future vesting or exercise of options and awards.
trustee in conjunction with the Pension Fund actuary.
Accrual The loan to BATGET amounted to 193 million at 31 December rates differ according to individual circumstances but do not 2008 2007: 263 million.
The loan is either repaid from the exceed one-fortieth of pensionable salary for each year of proceeds of the exercise of options or, in the case of ordinary pensionable service.
shares acquired by BATGET to satisfy the vesting and exercise of Pensionable pay covers basic salary only and therefore bonus awards, the Company will subsequently waive the loan provided awards and the value of benefits in kind are not pensionable.
over the life of the awards.
If the options lapse, ordinary shares may be sold by BATGET to cover the loan repayment.
Paul Adams, Paul Rayner who ceased to be a Director on 30 April 2008 and resigned from the Company on 31 July 2008 BATGET currently waives dividends on the ordinary shares held by and Ben Stevens each joined the Pension Fund after 1989.
As at 31 December 2008, BATGET held 14,137,074 ordinary a result, prior to 6 April 2006, these individuals were subject shares with a market value of 254.5 million 1 January 2008: to the HM Revenue & Customs cap on pensionable earnings 13,987,584 ordinary shares: 274.9 million.
BATGET waived notionally 117,600 for the tax year 2008 09.
In addition, payment of the final dividend for 2007 of 6.5 million in May each has an unfunded pension promise from the Company 2008 and the interim dividend for 2008 of 3.3 million in in respect of earnings above the cap on an equivalent basis September 2008. to the benefits provided by the Pension Fund.
This is provided Where shares held in BATGET have been transferred out through membership of an unfunded unapproved retirement to share scheme participants, the participants may exercise benefit scheme UURBS.
Where shares are held by BATGET and These unfunded commitments are included in note 12 to have not been transferred out to the participants, the trustee the accounts.
of BATGET does not exercise any voting rights.
However, following the changes in pensions legislation in Details of the Companys material share-based payment 2006, it was agreed that benefits up to 75,000 per annum arrangements, reflecting both equity share-based and targeting the Lifetime Allowance would be provided through cash-settled share-based arrangements, are set out in the Pension Fund subject to the consent of the member with note 27 to the accounts.
the remainder of benefits being provided through the UURBS.
Executive Directors pension benefits As a result, the Company paid an additional amount to the Details of the basic pension entitlements are shown in the Pension Fund in 2006 to fund the additional benefits up Remuneration policy summary table.
Retirement benefits form to a maximum of 75,000 per annum.
The overall pension an important part of the overall compensation and benefits entitlement for each of the Executive Directors remained package provided by the Group and the Executive Directors unchanged.
Members of the Pension Fund are entitled to receive with the exception of Nicandro Durante are, like other increases in their pensions in line with price inflation as measured employees, eligible for membership of the British American by the Retail Prices Index up to 6 per cent per annum.
Tobacco UK Pension Fund Pension Fund.
At the time of his departure on 31 July 2008, Paul Rayner The Pension Fund, for members who joined before 1 April 2005, was 54 years old.
The rules of the Pension Fund allow for is a non-contributory defined benefit scheme and includes retirement with the employing companys consent at provision for spouses benefits on death in service or after the age of 55 with the payment of an unreduced pension.
In the event of death in service, a spouses pension Given the circumstances of Mr Rayners departure, the equal to half of the members prospective pension at normal Remuneration Committee exercised its discretion and retirement age would be payable.
A spouses pension payable agreed that Paul Rayner should receive a pension based in the event of death after retirement is equal to half of the on his pensionable salary and service at the date of leaving members full pension, irrespective of any decision to exchange the Company payable from the UURBS until his 60th birthday.
part of the benefit for a lump sum.
The early retirement rules At the age of 60, the UURBS benefit will be reduced by the in the Pension Fund permit a member to draw the accrued equivalent benefit payable from the Pension Fund, currently retirement pension within 5 years of normal retirement age 69,000 per annum.
Details of the actual benefits paid to without actuarial reduction, subject to the employing companys Paul Rayner following his retirement and the associated agreement.
Alternatively, an Executive Director may choose values are set out in Table 4 in this Remuneration report.
Annual Report 2008 British American Tobacco 73 Directors report and accounts Remuneration report continued Paul Rayner also has an accumulated defined contribution if appropriate.
Pension entitlements are dealt with in accordance entitlement from Division A of the British American Tobacco with the terms and conditions of the applicable pension scheme Australia Superannuation Fund of about AUD1.7 million and and do not form part of the contractual compensation payment.
which may be drawn from the age of 55.
No contributions The compensation payment is payable where the requisite were paid to this arrangement on behalf of Paul Rayner from 12 months notice is not given to the Executive Director or 1 January 2008 to the date of his leaving the Company.
when he terminates by giving 12 months notice and the Nicandro Durante, who was appointed an Executive Director Company does not wish him to serve his notice.
If a period with effect from 1 January 2008, is a member of the Fundacao of notice is served, the compensation payment is reduced Albino Souza Cruz in Brazil.
This is a non-contributory defined pro rata.
In the unlikely event that the contract is terminated benefit scheme and includes a spouses death in service for cause such as gross misconduct, the Company may benefit equal to 37.5 per cent of the members prospective terminate the contract with immediate effect and therefore pension at normal retirement age.
Accrual rates do not exceed no compensation payment would be payable.
1.85 per cent of basic salary excluding bonus averaged over Nicandro Durante, who was appointed Chief Operating Officer the 12 months to normal retirement age, for each year of with effect from 1 January 2008, has a service contract with pensionable service.
Nicandro Durantes pensionable salary the Company in the form outlined above.
In addition, as a will be reviewed by the Company annually with reference result of the application of local labour laws in Brazil, Nicandro to the salary of that of a General Manager of Souza Cruz SA Durante retains certain termination or compensation rights in which will increase annually in line with local practice.
In respect of his former employment with Souza Cruz SA.
In the addition, Nicandro Durante accrues a pension of 0.65 per event of any compensation being payable to Nicandro Durante cent for each year of service based on his 12 month average pursuant to his service contract with the Company, these UK basic salary excluding bonus with effect from 1 March Souza Cruz rights will be taken into account first in arriving at 2006, that being the date of his appointment as a member a final compensation amount in order that he does not benefit of the Management Board.
This benefit is provided through twice from these dual arrangements.
External appointments Executive Directors service contracts Executive Directors and members of the Management Board The Remuneration Committee continues to operate a policy are able to accept 1 substantive external Board appointment of 1 year rolling contracts for Executive Directors.
Each provided that permission is respectively sought from the Board Executive Director has such a contract, executed at the time or Chairman.
The fees from such appointments are retained for of his original appointment.
The contract may be re-executed a Directors own account, thereby recognising the increasing during the term of his employment to take account of variations level of personal commitment and expertise required for in terms and conditions as well as changes in best practice: the non-executive roles.
None of the present Executive Directors contractual term will continue to be of a 1 year rolling period.
currently holds such an appointment.
During the year ended In addition, the Remuneration Committee maintains discretion 31 December 2008, Paul Rayner who retired as a Director on in respect of this policy for those future Executive Directors 30 April 2008 served as a non-executive director of Centrica who may be recruited externally or from overseas, when it plc and the fees from this appointment from 1 January 2008 may be appropriate to offer a contract with an initial period to 30 April 2008 totalled 26,000. of longer than 1 year, reducing to a 1 year rolling contract With effect from 5 December 2008, Nicandro Durante, an after the expiry of the initial period.
It is the policy that an Executive Director of the Company, was designated by Brown Executive Directors 1 year rolling contract incorporates a & Williamson Holdings, Inc. a wholly owned indirect subsidiary provision for a termination or compensation payment in lieu of the Company, as its nominee to join the Board of Reynolds of notice.
American Inc RAI an associated undertaking of the Company An Executive Directors compensation payment, in lieu of notice, as a non-executive director in succession to Antonio Monteiro would comprise: 1 12 months salary at his then current base fide Castro an Executive Director of the Company until pay: and 2 a cash payment in respect of other benefits under 31 December 2007.
The Group received a pro-rated fee of the contract such as medical insurance, or the Company may US$17,427 from RAI in respect of Nicandro Durantes service at its option continue those benefits for a 12 month period.
from his date of appointment to 31 December 2008 and, in The Committee maintains discretion as to how to deal with accordance with present arrangements, the Group will receive an any grants or awards made prior to termination under the annual fee of US$215,020 in respect of his services in that role.
LTIPs, the Deferred Scheme and the Share Option Scheme British American Tobacco Annual Report 2008 74 Directors report and accounts Directors report go online at www.
com annualreport2008 Non-Executive Directors terms of appointment meetings.
It is expected that all Non-Executive Directors will The Non-Executive Directors do not have service contracts sit on the Remuneration and the Nominations Committees with the Company but instead have letters of appointment.
and will either be a member of the Audit Committee or the For Non-Executive Directors appointed before 1 October 2007, Corporate Social Responsibility Committee.
the terms of appointment of each such Director provide that Kenneth Clarke retired from the Board at the conclusion of he or she is appointed for a specified term, being an initial the Companys Annual General Meeting on 30 April 2008 and period to the next Annual General Meeting after appointment therefore ceased to be the Deputy Chairman and Chairman and, subject to reappointment at that meeting, for a further of the Corporate Social Responsibility and the Remuneration period ending at the Annual General Meeting held 3 years Committees.
Following his retirement, the position of Deputy thereafter.
Subsequent reappointment is subject to endorsement Chairman ceased and the Board adopted a new fee structure by the Board and the approval of shareholders.
The Board agreed with effect Following the implementation of the relevant provisions of from 1 May 2008 to introduce a supplemental annual fee the Companies Act 2006, an appointment of a Non-Executive of 25,000 for the Senior Independent Director SID : to Director made by the Company from 1 October 2007 is made increase the annual supplement for the Chairman of the on the basis of a 2 year term: such appointment being subject to Audit Committee to 25,000 an increase of 5,000 and approval by shareholders in accordance with the terms of the to introduce supplemental annual fees of 20,000 for each provisions of the Companys Articles of Association relating to of the respective Chairs of the Corporate Social Responsibility the rotation of Directors.
CSR Committee and the Remuneration Committee.
The date of appointment and most recent reappointment is The fees structure for the Non-Executive Directors is shown shown below for each Non-Executive Director: below: Date of last May-Dec 2008 Jan-Dec 2009 reappointment at Annual Date of appointment General Meeting Basic fee 75,000 90,000 SID supplement 25,000 25,000 R E Lerwill 1 January 2005 26 April 2007 Audit Committee Chair 25,000 25,000 A M Llopis 24 February 2003 30 April 2008 CSR Committee Chair 20,000 20,000 C J M Morin-Postel 1 October 2007 30 April 2008 Remuneration Committee Chair 20,000 20,000 A Ruys 1 March 2006 30 April 2008 Sir Nicholas Scheele 28 February 2005 26 April 2007 Non-Executive Directors fees are determined within the K M A fide Segundo 1 October 2007 30 April 2008 overall aggregate annual limit of 2,500,000 authorised M H Visser 1 April 2001 26 April 2007 by shareholders with reference to the Companys Articles of Thys Visser is scheduled to retire at the conclusion of the 2009 Annual General Meeting.
An increase in this annual aggregate limit from 2,000,000 to 2,500,000 was approved by shareholders On termination, at any time, a Non-Executive Director is as part of a revision of the Companys Articles of Association entitled to any accrued but unpaid Directors fees but not at the 2008 Annual General Meeting.
The Board as a whole to any other compensation.
considers the policy and structure for the Non-Executive Non-Executive Directors remuneration policy Directors fees: the Non-Executive Directors do not participate The fees for the Non-Executive Directors are considered in discussions on their specific levels of remuneration.
annually on the recommendation of the Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors receive no other pay or benefits Chief Executive.
They are determined in light of market best with the exception of reimbursement of expenses incurred in practice and with reference to the time commitment and respect of their duties as Directors of the Company.
It is the responsibilities associated with the roles.
In order to recognise policy of the Board that the spouses of the Executive Directors the increased focus on the roles and responsibilities of the and Non-Executive Directors may accompany the Directors Non-Executive Directors, coupled with the need to ensure for business purposes on designated trips and functions that the Company is able to continue to attract and retain during the year.
high calibre individuals to such non-executive roles, the basic annual fee for Non-Executive Directors was increased from Anthony Ruys, a Non-Executive Director, was appointed as 75,000 to 90,000 with effect from 1 January 2009. a non-executive director of ITC Limited ITC an associated undertaking of the Company with effect from 20 January The basic annual fee reflects the Boards view of the inclusive 2009.
Anthony Ruys will receive a fee from ITC which will be nature of the duties of the Non-Executive Directors which is supplemented by the Group so that he receives a total annual reflected in its policy that Non-Executive Directors do not fee for this appointment of 75,000. receive additional fees for attendance at Board Committee Annual Report 2008 British American Tobacco 75 Directors report and accounts Remuneration report continued Chairmans terms of appointment and remuneration setting the reward structure for Executive Directors and The Remuneration Committee is responsible for determining the members of the Management Board.
However, the the terms of engagement and fees payable to the Chairman.
Board continues to recognise the importance of ESG issues.
This process takes into account the breadth of that role Governance is embedded in the organisation as evidenced by coupled with its associated levels of commitment and our strong governance structure see the corporate governance expertise.
Jan du Plessis terms of appointment provide that statement.
In addition, the delivery of our strategic vision he holds the office of Chairman of the Company with effect encompasses the business measure of Responsibility for which from 1 July 2007 for a period of 3 years unless terminated we have used the Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes an external earlier by: 1 the Company giving 3 months notice or benchmark as our primary measure to assess our successful a discretionary compensation payment in lieu of notice: or performance to date.
2 by the Chairman giving 1 months written notice with Membership the Company having discretion to make a compensation At the date of this report, the Committee comprises the payment in lieu of such notice.
The compensation payment following independent Non-Executive Directors of the is limited to any fees which are payable for such part of the Company: Anthony Ruys Chairman of the Remuneration relevant notice period as the Board does not require the Committee : Karen fide Segundo: Robert Lerwill: Ana Maria Chairman to perform his duties.
Llopis: Christine Morin-Postel: and Sir Nicholas Scheele.
As a Director of the Company, the Chairman is subject Kenneth Clarke ceased to be Chairman of the Remuneration to the reappointment of Directors provisions contained Committee upon his retirement as a Non-Executive Director in the Companys Articles of Association.
The date of his at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the last reappointment as a Director was at the Annual General Company on 30 April 2008.
The terms of Jan du Plessis The Secretary to the Committee is Nicola Snook, the appointment provide for: 1 an annual fee of 600,000: Company Secretary.
2 the benefit of the use of a driver: and 3 private medical insurance and personal accident insurance benefits.
In No Executive Director or other member of the Management common with the Non-Executive Directors, the Chairman Board plays any part in determining his or her remuneration.
does not participate in the British American Tobacco share During the year ended 31 December 2008, the Chief schemes, bonus schemes or incentive plans and is not a Executive was consulted and invited to attend meetings of the member of any Group pension plan.
Committee, except when his own remuneration was under consideration.
In determining remuneration for the year, the Following the end of the year, the Committee reviewed Committee consulted the Chief Executive, and the Director, the fees for the Chairman against practice in the FTSE 30 Human Resources and the Head of Reward.
The Chairman, Jan and agreed to increase his fees to 620,000 with effect du Plessis, was also consulted and invited to attend meetings from 1 April 2009. of the Committee, except when his own remuneration was Copies of the Executive Directors service contracts and the under consideration.
Further information on meetings held details of the terms of appointment of each Non-Executive and Directors attendance is disclosed in the Corporate Director and the Chairman are available for inspection during governance statement.
normal business hours at the Companys registered office and Since 1 January 2008, Deloitte LLP have been appointed to will also be available for inspection at the Annual General provide remuneration services and advice to the Company Meeting on 30 April 2009. with specific reference to the needs of the Remuneration Appendices to the Remuneration report Committee.
Deloitte is an international professional services The Remuneration Committee firm which has also provided tax, corporate finance and Terms of reference consulting services to British American Tobacco Group The terms of reference of the Remuneration Committee, companies around the world during the year.
together with an explanation of its role and the authorities Herbert Smith LLP has also been retained by the Company delegated to it by the Board, are available from the Company to provide legal advice in respect of the Companys share Secretary on request and can be accessed on the Corporate schemes, as well as providing other legal services to British governance section of www.
The terms of reference American Tobacco as a whole.
In addition, Ernst & Young LLP of the Remuneration Committee do not currently provide provides tax advice to international assignees and in respect for the Committee to consider corporate performance on of the Companys share schemes.
environmental, social and governance ESG issues when British American Tobacco Annual Report 2008 76 Directors report and accounts Directors report go online at www.
The amounts shown for Ben Stevens have been apportioned to reflect the salary, deferred share bonus payments and benefits in kind received or receivable by him since his date of appointment.
2 The deferred share bonus payments include cash sums equivalent to the dividend on the after-tax position on all unvested ordinary shares comprised in the awards held by participants including Executive Directors in the Deferred Share Bonus Scheme at each dividend record date.
For the year ended 31 December 2008, these payments for Executive Directors were as follows: Paul Adams 56,877 2007: 41,156 : Ben Stevens 15,337 2007: nil : Nicandro Durante 11,364 2007: nil : and Paul Rayner 20,798 2007: 27,770.
Paul Rayner will receive a pro rata cash award in March 2009 in respect of the performance of the Company in 2008 which will include the cash equivalent of the shares which would normally have been awarded under the Deferred Share Bonus Scheme in 2009.
3 Benefits in kind include: a a car or a car allowance: b use of a driver: c travel and other expenses incurred in connection with accompanied attendance at business functions and or corporate hospitality events.
Non-Executive Directors receive benefits under c only.
4 Nicandro Durante: benefits in kind include a an accommodation allowance of 98,078 payable in respect of his relocation from Brazil: b certain travel and related allowances totalling 42,535: and c tax payments of 39,045.
5 Antonio Monteiro fide Castro: a amounts shown as salary comprised outstanding holiday entitlement of 56,210 and 116,956 as an LTIP dividend equivalent payment on the vesting of his outstanding LTIP awards see note 6 to Table 5: and b benefits in kind included i tax advice 99,474 in respect of his former contractual arrangements up to 1 January 2004, prior to which date he received his emoluments in both the UK and Brazil: and ii payments totalling 36,630 in respect of relocation associated with his retirement.
6 Paul Rayner: benefits in kind include a payments in respect of family education 32,867 which followed his relocation to the UK from Australia in 2002: and b payments totalling 185,805 in respect of relocation associated with his return to Australia in 2008.
7 The Directors remuneration shown above does not include the illustrative value as at 23 February 2009 of the Executive Directors LTIP awards made in March 2006 which will vest on 15 March 2009.
Reference should be made to note 7 to Table 5.
Annual Report 2008 British American Tobacco 77 Directors report and accounts Remuneration report continued Table 2.
Paul Rayner ceased to be a Director on 30 April 2008 and remained an employee until 31 July 2008.
2 Jan du Plessis and Thys Visser held interests in Compagnie Financire Richemont S. A. and Remgro Limited respectively and received a distribution of shares in the Company in accordance with the Restructurings referred to in the Stock Market Listings section of the Directors report.
3 The changes in Directors interests since 31 December 2008 relate to a Paul Adams and Nicandro Durante: the purchase of shares pursuant to the Companys Partnership share scheme: and b Thys Visser: revised notification of final number of shares received in accordance with the Restructurings referred to in note 2 above.
4 At 1 January 2008 Nicandro Durante also had an interest in 7,100 shares of no par value in the Common Stock of Souza Cruz S. A. Souza Cruz of Brazil, the listed company in which British American Tobacco has a 75 per cent interest 31 December 2008: nil shares.
5 In addition to the shares shown above, the Executive Directors have the following interests in the ordinary shares of the Company which are held in trust pursuant to the British American Tobacco Deferred share bonus scheme: Awarded Released At At 1 Jan 2008 13 Mar 2008 17 Mar 2008 31 Dec 2008 P N Adams 118,683 25,603 37,742 106,544 J B Stevens 32,192 6,655 10,360 28,487 1,6, 7 6 7 N Durante 10,566 6,028 16,594 Former Directors 8 8 A Monteiro fide Castro 81,966 1,9 9 P A Rayner 74,057 15,502 23,977 6 In addition to these shares, as at 1 January 2008 Nicandro Durante held cash-based awards on equivalent terms to the Deferred share bonus scheme with a value equivalent to 11,983 Deferred shares.
These awards will be cash settled by the Companys subsidiary, Souza Cruz, a former employing company of Nicandro Durante.
7 6,603 Deferred shares were released to Nicandro Durante in March 2008 and were cash settled by Souza Cruz.
In addition to those shown above, at 31 December 2008, Nicandro Durante held cash-based awards on equivalent terms to the Deferred share bonus scheme with a value equivalent to 5,380 Deferred shares that remain outstanding and which will be cash settled by Souza Cruz.
8 In the case of the unvested grants made to Antonio Monteiro fide Castro, a former Director, under the Deferred share bonus scheme, the Remuneration Committee agreed that these grants would vest in full immediately upon his retirement on 31 December 2007 in accordance with the rules of the scheme.
These were released to him in March 2008 and the shares transferred into his own name.
9 The Remuneration Committee agreed that, in accordance with the rules of the scheme, the unvested grants made to Paul Rayner under the Deferred share bonus scheme would vest fully upon his leaving the employment of the Company on 31 July 2008.
The shares awarded to him in March 2008 were in respect of performance for the year ended 31 December 2007.
Subsequently, on 1 August 2008, the vested shares were sold at 1,816p per share.
10 The cost of these shares has been included as Directors emoluments in the prior year.
Details of the Deferred share bonus scheme are given in the Remuneration report.
11 Based on the performance for 2008, the Executive Directors will each be awarded a number of ordinary shares to the value of 2,706 pursuant to an appropriation of shares under the Share reward scheme on 1 April 2009.
12 On 31 December 2008, the Groups employee share ownership trust referred to in the Remuneration report held a total of 14,137,074 ordinary shares in the Company.
All participating employees, including the Executive Directors, are deemed to have a beneficial interest in these shares.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2008 78 Directors report and accounts Directors report go online at www.
Executive Directors share options over British American Tobacco p. l. c. ordinary shares of 25p audited Sharesave Scheme At 1 Jan 2008 2,4 or date of appointment Granted in 2008 Exercised in 2008 At 31 Dec 2008 Dates from Latest number of shares Grant price number of shares number of shares number of shares which exercisable expiry date P N Adams 2,492 663.0p 2,492 Jan 2010 Jun 2010 1 J B Stevens 2,492 663.0p 2,492 Jan 2010 Jun 2010 1 N Durante 1,421 1,152.0p 1,421 Jan 2012 Jun 2012 Former Director 1,3 3 P A Rayner 1,421 1,152.0p Jan 2012 Jun 2012 Notes: 1 Nicandro Durante and Ben Stevens were appointed Directors on 1 January 2008 and 3 March 2008 respectively.
2 Sharesave Scheme: in respect of the Executive Directors, no options lapsed during the year ended 31 December 2008.
There have been no variations in the terms and conditions of these interests in share options during the year.
Options granted under the Sharesave Scheme are exercisable in conjunction with a 3 year or 5 year savings contract up to a monthly limit of 250.
Options are normally granted at a discount of 20 per cent to the market price at the time of the invitation, as permitted under the rules of the Sharesave Scheme.
3 Paul Rayners Sharesave options lapsed upon his leaving the employment of the Company on 31 July 2008 in accordance with the rules of the Sharesave Scheme.
4 There were no Sharesave awards exercised by Executive Directors during the year and therefore no aggregate gains were made.
The aggregate gain on the exercise of share options during 2007 was 52,656.
5 The closing mid-market price of ordinary shares in British American Tobacco p. l. c. on 31 December 2008 was 1,800p and the range during the year was 1,450p to 2,049p.
The mid-market price on 31 December 2008 exceeded the grant price of all the options detailed in Table 3 above.
Executive Directors pension entitlements audited The following Directors were members of defined benefit schemes provided by the Group during the year.
Pension entitlements and corresponding transfer values increased as follows during the year: Total Gross Increase Transfer value Transfer value Transfer value accrued increase in in accrued of net increase of accrued of accrued Total change in pension at accrued pension net in accrual pension at pension at transfer value Normal 31 Dec 2008 pension of inflation over period 31 Dec 2007 31 Dec 2008 during period retirement age P N Adams 60 511,300 66,238 62,018 1,271,011 8,571,089 10,478,739 1,907,651 1,8 N Durante 60 287,105 52,802 50,580 924,121 3,992,784 5,245,580 1,252,796 1 J B Stevens 60 128,804 30,712 29,782 502,450 1,537,795 2,173,058 635,262 Former Director 1,7 P A Rayner 60 110,825 13,580 12,657 305,416 1,818,705 2,674,163 855,458 Notes: 1 Nicandro Durante and Ben Stevens were appointed Directors on 1 January 2008 and 3 March 2008 respectively.
2 The amount of total accrued pension is the pension that would be paid annually on retirement based on service to the end of the year, excluding any increases granted under statute before retirement.
3 The value of net increase in accrued pension represents the incremental value to the Executive Director of his service during the year, calculated on the assumption service terminated at the year end.
4 Changes in the transfer values reflect both individual Executive Directors circumstances such as the date of joining the Pension Fund and changes in salary during the year together with the application of market value adjustments in accordance with actuarial and legislative requirements.
At 1 October 2008, new transfer value regulations came into effect.
The Trustee of the Pension Fund reviewed the method and assumptions used to calculate transfer values and decided to continue with the transfer value basis in place at that time.
Previously, transfer values were calculated in accordance with section 1.5 of version 9.2 of Actuarial Guidance Note GN11 issued by the actuarial profession, but this Guidance Note was withdrawn with effect from 1 October 2008 to coincide with the regulation changes.
The Trustees agreed transfer value basis is consistent with that used for the ongoing funding of the Pension Fund.
The transfer values of the accrued entitlement represent the value of assets that the Pension Fund would need to transfer to another pension provider on transferring the Pension Funds liability in respect of Executive Directors pension benefits.
They do not represent sums payable to individual Executive Directors and, therefore, cannot be added meaningfully to annual remuneration.
Further, although Nicandro Durante is not a member of the Pension Fund, the transfer values shown above have been calculated in accordance with the method used for the Pension Fund.
Although Paul Adams, Paul Rayner and Ben Stevens receive a significant element of their overall entitlement from an unfunded unapproved retirement benefit scheme, the transfer values calculated above have been calculated in accordance with the method used for the Pension Fund.
5 The Pension Fund is non-contributory: voluntary contributions paid by Executive Directors and resulting benefits are not shown.
No excess retirement benefits have been paid to or are receivable by any Executive Director or past Executive Director of the Company.
6 Antonio Monteiro fide Castro retired as an Executive Director on 31 December 2007 and in order to deliver the overall entitlement of 337,372 per annum, a top-up benefit amounting to 133,581 per annum which was provided through the UURBS was payable from 1 January 2008.
Antonio Monteiro fide Castro was also provided with the option of receiving a lump sum in lieu of the annual pension amounting to 2,124,000.
This amount was paid on 7 April 2008.
7 Paul Rayner ceased to be an Executive Director on 30 April 2008 and left the Company on 31 July 2008.
He started to receive a pension from 1 August 2008.
This is payable entirely from the UURBS until age 60.
After this time, part of the pension will be paid from the Pension Fund and the remainder met by the Company.
8 Nicandro Durante is entitled to a benefit promise of 0.65% of final sterling pensionable salary calculated as a 12 month average in relation to service from 1 March 2006.
In addition, he is entitled to a pension from the Souza Cruz Pension Scheme based on an accrual rate of 1.85% of final Brazilian real pensionable salary calculated as a 12 month average in relation to service from December 1981.
The accrued pension amount and transfer values shown above are based on the sum of these promises i. e. with accrual since 1 March 2006 being a total of 2.5%.
Nicandro Durante is entitled to receive that part of the promise from the Souza Cruz Pension Scheme based on 1.85% accrual rate with immediate effect: this entitlement has been ignored for the purposes of the above transfer value.
Annual Report 2008 British American Tobacco 79 Directors report and accounts Remuneration report continued Table 5.
2 Nicandro Durante also received, in May 2005, a cash-based award equivalent in value to 19,057 shares from the Companys subsidiary, Souza Cruz.
This award vested and was cash settled by Souza Cruz during 2008.
He also received cash-based awards granted by the Company in March 2006 and May 2007, equivalent in value to 31,380 and 34,416 shares respectively.
These awards are subject to the same performance conditions and vesting terms as awards made under the LTIPs.
3 The closing mid-market price of ordinary shares in British American Tobacco p. l. c. on 17 May 2005 was 1,030p, on 15 March 2006 was 1,435p, on 15 May 2007 was 1,590p, and on 19 May 2008 was 1,967p the vesting date of 17 May 2008 not being a business day.
The 2005 cash-based award granted to Nicandro Durante was cash settled by Souza Cruz at the rate of 1,916p per share.
4 The vesting of the awards on 17 May 2008 was reported in the Companys Directors Report and Accounts 2007 showing illustrative vesting values based on the mid-market price of ordinary shares of 1,874p at 25 February 2008, being the latest practicable date prior to publication of that Report.
5 In respect of the awards outstanding for Paul Rayner who ceased to be an Executive Director on 30 April 2008 at the time of his leaving the employment of the Company on 31 July 2008, the Remuneration Committee agreed that, in accordance with the rules of the LTIPs, he would receive: 1 77.6 per cent of the award made in March 2006 39,225 shares : 2 52.8 per cent of the May 2007 award 41,374 shares : and 3 19.4 per cent of the May 2008 award 16,033 shares.
These awards vested on his leaving the Company and were exercised on 1 August 2008 at a price of 1,822p per share.
6 In respect of the awards outstanding for Antonio Monteiro fide Castro at 31 December 2007, the date of his retirement as an Executive Director, the Remuneration Committee agreed that, in accordance with the rules of the LTIPs, he would receive: 1 100 per cent of the award made in May 2005 72,324 shares : 2 57.6 per cent of the March 2006 award 32,133 shares : and 3 31.9 per cent of the May 2007 award 27,650 shares.
All of his outstanding LTIP awards were exercised on 18 April 2008 at a price of 1,992p per share.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2008 80 Directors report and accounts Directors report go online at www.
com annualreport2008 7 The March 2006 award will vest on 15 March 2009 at 100 per cent in the manner described in the Remuneration report.
For illustrative purposes only, the share price on 23 February 2009, being the latest practicable date prior to publication, was 1,719p, valuing the vesting awards as follows: Award Award Award vesting granted vesting illustrative number number value of shares of shares P N Adams 113,493 113,493 1,950,945 J B Stevens 33,124 33,124 569,402 Total 146,617 146,617 2,520,347 8 The cash-based award, equivalent to 31,380 shares, granted to Nicandro Durante in March 2006 will also vest on 15 March 2009 and will be cash settled by the Company.
Based on the share price on 23 February 2009 the latest practicable date prior to publication of 1,719p, he will receive a cash payment of 539,422.
9 For awards made since 2005, participants have been entitled to receive a cash payment equivalent to the value of the dividends that they would have received as shareholders on their vesting awards the LTIP Dividend Equivalent.
The value of the LTIP Dividend Equivalent to be paid to the Executive Directors on the March 2006 awards shown above at the time the awards vest are as follows: Paul Adams 233,569: Ben Stevens 68,169 and Nicandro Durante 64,580.
10 The performance conditions applicable to the LTIP awards relate to an apportionment between measures relating to total shareholder return TSR and earnings per share based criteria with reference to a 3 year performance period.
TSR combines both the share price and dividend performance of the Company as set against 2 comparator groups: a the FTSE 100 Index at the beginning of the performance period: and b a peer group of FMCG companies.
A total of 50 per cent of the total award is based upon each of 2 separate measures 25 per cent for each measure.
In the event of upper quartile performance by the Company relative to the comparator groups referred to above, 25 per cent of the total award vests in full.
For median performance, not more than 7.5 per cent 6 per cent for the award made in 2008 of the total award will vest with pro rata vesting between these 2 points.
The TSR portions of an LTIP award do not vest for below median performance.
50 per cent of an award is based on earnings per share EPS growth relative to inflation.
This element of the award will vest fully if EPS growth over the 3 year performance period is an average of at least 8 per cent per annum in excess of inflation.
10 per cent 8 per cent for the award made in 2008 of this element will vest if the EPS growth over the performance period is 3 per cent in excess of inflation.
An award will vest on a pro rata basis between these 2 points.
The EPS portion of an award does not vest if EPS growth is less than 3 per cent in excess of inflation.
11 There have been no variations in the terms and conditions of the interests in LTIPs during the year.
12 The awards made in May 2007 and May 2008 are due to vest in May 2010 and May 2011 respectively.
At 31 December 2008, the performance percentage reflecting performance to date was 100 per cent for the May 2007 award and 100 per cent for the May 2008 award.
Status of Remuneration report Companies Act 1985 requires the auditors to report to the This report has been prepared in accordance with Schedule 7A Companys shareholders on the audited information within to the Companies Act 1985.
The report also meets the relevant the Report and to state whether, in their opinion, those parts requirements of the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority of the Report have been prepared in accordance with the and describes how the Board has applied the Principles of Companies Act 1985.
The Report of the independent auditors Good Governance relating to Directors remuneration as set in respect of the Company addresses those aspects of this out in the Combined Code on Corporate Governance referred Report which have been subject to audit have been clearly to in the Corporate governance statement.
As required by the marked: Table 1, Table 3, Table 4 and Table 5.
Companies Act 1985, a resolution to approve the Directors On behalf of the Board Remuneration report the Report will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting of the Company on 30 April 2009, at Anthony Ruys which the financial statements will be presented for approval.
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee The vote will have advisory status, will be in respect of the 25 February 2009 remuneration policy and overall remuneration packages and will not be specific to individual levels of remuneration.
The Annual Report 2008 British American Tobacco 81 Directors report and accounts
