In the latter case, decisions continued shallberecommended to theCommittee by theCEO.
audit fees charged, or any other facts or circumstances.
There were no services The Committee sets the performance targets applicable to incentive compensation provided during the year that were not pre-approved by the Audit Committee in arrangements.
As part of this process, it seeks to ensure that such packages provide accordance with the Groups policy.
employees with appropriate incentives to perform, reect their positions and roles within the Group, and that the employees are, in a fair and reasonable manner, Communication with shareholders rewarded for their individual contributions to the success of the Group.
Payments or Presentations and webcasts on the development of the business are available to all benets offered to employees in excess of 250,000 which do not form part of an shareholders on the Companys corporate website.
The Company also uses email alerts employees expected remuneration or benets require the approval of the Committee.
and actively promotes downloading of all reports enhancing speed and equality of shareholder communication.
The Company has taken full advantage of the provisions The Committee met three times during the year.
within the Companies 2006 Act allowing the website to be used as the primary means of communication with shareholders where they have not requested hard copy Thefullterms of referencefor the Committee areavailableon the Companys documentation.
The shareholder information section on pages 112 to 119 contains corporate website.
further details on electronic shareholder communications together with more general information of interest to shareholders which is also included on the Companys 1.2 Membership of the Committee corporate website.
The Committee comprised of the following Independent Non-Executive Directors throughout the year ended 30 June 2008: The Company is committed to maintaining and improving dialogue with shareholders in order to ensure that the objectives of both the Group and the shareholders are s David Evans understood.
s Nicholas Ferguson Chairman s Jacques Nasser A programme of meetings with institutional shareholders, fund managers and analysts takes place each year.
The Company also makes presentations to analysts and investors During the year, the Committee sought the advice of James Murdoch as CEO until around the time of the half-year and full-year results announcement: conference calls 6 December 2007, and then Jeremy Darroch on matters relating to the Executive are held with analysts and investors following the announcement of the first quarter Directors and Senior Executives who report to the CEO and advice from the Director for and third quarter results, and on occasion, following the announcement of the fourth People.
The Committee was supported by the Company Secretary, the finance and the quarter results, and presentations are made during the year to many existing or human resources functions.
No Director was present when matters affecting his potential shareholders.
During the year, various members of the Board have met with remuneration were considered.
The former Chairman Rupert Murdoch until 6 institutional shareholders and representative bodies, reinforcing the continuation of December 2007, did not attend any Committee meetings during the year.
James open dialogue and discussion of strategy between the Board and its shareholders.
Murdoch has attended one meeting of the Committee.
Non-Executive Directors are offered the opportunity to attend meetings with major shareholders and are expected to attend if required.
Advisors The Committee has engaged the services of both a lead adviser Patterson Associates The Board views the AGM as an opportunity to communicate with private investors LLP and a support adviser Hewitt New Bridge Street formerly New Bridge Street and sets aside time at these meetings for shareholders to ask questions of the Board.
The lead adviser advises the Committee and the Company on overall All members of the Board attended the 2007 AGM.
At the AGM, the Chairman provides direction and acts as the primary lead for advice.
The support adviser advises on a brief summary of the Companys activities for the previous year to the shareholders.
share-based awards, performance monitoring, remuneration data and accounting All resolutions at the 2007 AGM were voted by way of an electronic poll.
This follows including IFRS and US GAAP for any existing or new incentives and remuneration best practice and allows the Company to count all votes rather than just those of schemes and provides analytical support.
The support adviser works in conjunction shareholders attending the meeting.
As recommended by the Combined Code, all with the lead adviser and they provided no other services to the Company during the resolutions were voted separately and the voting results, which included all votes cast year.
for, against and those withheld, together with all proxies lodged prior to the meeting, were indicated at the meeting and the final results were released to the London Stock 3.
Remuneration policy Exchange as soon as practicable after the meeting.
The announcement was also made The Committees reward policy reects its aim to align Executive Directors available via a link on the Companys corporate website.
As in previous years, the remuneration with shareholders interests and to engage and retain world-class proxy form and the announcement of the voting results made it clear that a vote executive talent for the benefit of the Group.
The main principles of the policy are that: withheld is not a vote in law and will not be counted in the calculation of the proportion of the votes for or against the resolution.
s total rewards should be set at appropriate levels to reect the competitive market in which the Group operates: Directors responsibilities s the majority of the total reward should be linked to the achievement of demanding The responsibilities of the Directors are set out on page 55. performance targets: and s appropriate benchmarks are used when reviewing the salaries of the Executive Report on Directors remuneration Directors and Senior Executives.
The Company uses a subset of the FTSE 100 as its 1.
1.1 Role of the Remuneration Committee and terms of reference In formulating its remuneration policy, the Committee is keen to understand The Remuneration Committee the Committee is responsible for recommendations shareholders views on executive remuneration.
From time to time, the Company holds to the Board regarding: consultation meetings with a range of institutional investors, concerning aspects of the s Committees policy, and has taken their advice into account in arriving at remuneration the design and implementation of incentive compensation arrangements including decisions.
share-based schemes: s remuneration packages for Executive Directors of the Company, including basic salary, The Committee believes that performance share awards continue to be the best performance-based bonus and long-term incentives, pensions and other benets: and long-term incentive vehicle for Executive Directors and Senior Executives.
Accordingly, The proportions of xed and variable pay vary with performance outcomes.
However, 70% of the Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP vests based on operational performance, for target performance, approximately three-quarters of Executive Directors while 30% vests based on Total Shareholder Return TSR relative to the constituents remuneration is performance-related in the year ended 30 June 2008, as shown by of the FTSE 100.
The operational performance conditions chosen to date include the chart below: earnings per share EPS, free cash ow per share FCF and Direct to Home DTH subscriber growth.
The Committee will decide on appropriate performance Remuneration mix conditions for future awards.
It is currently expected that these will be similar to those currently used.
FTSE Comparator Group Median Practice All LTIP programmes are measured over three years using the performance measures described above for the LTIP.
Base salary Benefits Target bonus Expected value of LTIP awards The Committee also recognises that the interactions between different areas of the business in creating long-term shareholder value are complex.
Rather than Senior Executives being incentivised primarily through measures relevant to their own business area, their remuneration emphasises a critical set of Group-wide goals in Jeremy Darroch order to maximise the benets of teamwork and collaboration across the Group.
The Executive Directors of the Company are employed on twelve-month rolling contracts.
Elements of Executive Director remuneration 0% 10% 20% 30% 40% 50% 60% 70% 80% 90% 100% 4.1 Remuneration Mix The Executive Directors and Senior Executives total direct compensation consists of % of package salary, annual bonus, long-term incentives, pensions and other benets.
This reward Notes to chart: structure is regularly reviewed by the Committee to ensure that it continues to support s FTSE Comparator Group is ten companies above and ten companies below BSkyB in the the Groups objectives.
FTSE 100, ranked by market capitalisation on 30 April 2008. s Comparator pay data was taken from the most recently available annual reports at Overview of current remuneration elements for executives, including Executive 30 April 2008.
Directors s Annual bonus valuation assumes on-target performance.
s LTIP valuation assumes annualised expected value, where expected value is face value at Element Objective Performance conditions the time of grant, discounted to reflect expected vesting for target performance.
Basic salary Reects the market Reviewed annually on the basis see section 4.2 value of the position, as of external market benchmarking 4.2 Basic salary well as the skills and and or reference to internal The basic salary for each Executive Director and Senior Executive is determined by the experience of the positioning Committee taking into account the recommendations of the CEO other than in respect incumbent of his own salary and information provided from external sources relative to the industry sectors in which the Group operates and companies of a similar size.
Salaries Annual bonus Rewards achievement of Cash award is subject to for the CEO and CFO are periodically benchmarked against equivalent roles in see section 4.3 short-term objectives set achievement of team and comparable companies.
during the year individual objectives.
For Executive Directors, award is There was no change to James Murdochs salary between the beginning of this wholly dependent on group-level financial year and 6 December 2007, when he ceased to be CEO.
During the period objectives earnings, cash and that he was CFO in this financial year, there was no change to Jeremy Darrochs salary: subscriber growth however, it increased by 29% upon his appointment as CEO on 7 December 2007.
Andrew Grifth was awarded a salary of 450,000 upon his appointment as CFO on LTIP Rewards the 30% of the award is subject to 7 April 2008.
These salaries reect the Committees view of the appropriate base see section 4.4 achievement of achievement of relative TSR salary on appointment for roles of this complexity in a rapidly evolving business long-term objectives performance vs. the FTSE 100 environment, taking into account a range of market benchmarks as described above.
70% of the Over time, it should be expected that these salaries would increase to industry market award is subject to achievement levels as each individual gains experience in their respective roles.
of operating targets for EPS, FCF and DTH subscriber growth 4.3 Annual bonus Executive Directors and Senior Executives participate in a bonus scheme under which Pension and other Set below market Not applicable awards are made to participants at the discretion of the Committee.
For the Executive benets norms, to reect higher Directors the level of bonus paid depends purely on Group-wide operational see sections proportion of performance measures, specically: operating profit, free cash ow and DTH subscriber 6and 7 performance pay growth.
These measures were chosen to reect the tensions inherent in balancing growth, investment and returns to shareholders: an improvement in one measure may Performance-related elements of pay represent a higher proportion of remuneration come at the expense of improvement in another.
This, combined with the fact that BSkyBs pension arrangements for Executive Directors are considerably less generous than those found at comparable For the CEO, the maximum bonus that may be awarded is 200% of salary, while for companies, means that a large amount of pay is at risk.
Pay is very competitive if the CFO the maximum bonus that may be awarded is 125% of salary, and for on BSkyBs stretching targets are delivered, but if these targets are not met, the target performance they would receive 130% and 100% of salary respectively.
Vesting of the remaining 30% of the awards was subject to TSR continued performance relative to the constituents of the FTSE 100 at the time of grant.
Despite the strong operational performance of the Company during the three year period For performance in the year ended 30 June 2008, which exceeded target by a ending 10 August 2007 the Companys TSR performance was below median and substantial margin, the CEO and CFO were awarded the following bonus payments: accordingly the TSR portion of these awards lapsed.
Bonus amount As a Awards vesting in August 2009 % of salary Awards were made in August 2006, 30 July 2007, 6 February 2008 and 30 April 2008 Jeremy Darroch 1,216,250 162% to Executive Directors as detailed in section 13 LTIP of this report.
The first two of Andrew Grifth 450,000 100% these awards were regular annual LTIP awards made to the CEO and CFO, reecting James Murdoch 827,292 80% market benchmarks and the Committees desire to ensure that incentive compensation for Executive Directors was tied to an appropriate mix of long-term, stretching For the year 1 July 2008 to 30 June 2009, the operational measures that will govern performance goals.
The awards made in February and April 2008 were one-off awards bonus payouts will again be: operating profit, freecashow, and DTHsubscriber made to Jeremy Darroch and Andrew Grifth upon their appointments as CEO and CFO growth.
respectively, to make their overall award level for the year commensurate with someone holding that position.
Although bonus awards are primarily driven by  stated measures, the Committee retain the discretion to adjust payouts up and down, as an These awards are due to vest in August 2009, and are subject to performance in the exception, if they feel that an important aspect of performance has not been reected.
As in previous years, vesting of 70% of the award is dependent on operational measures, while 30% is governed by TSR performance.
The specics of 4.4 LTIP the measures and targets are as follows: The Company operates an LTIP for Executive Directors and Senior Executives, under which awards may be made to any employee or full-time Executive Director of the i Operational performance governing 70% of award Group at the discretion of the Committee.
Awards under the scheme are made as a nil Points are awarded for performance on three operational measures as follows: priced option.
Awards are not transferable or pensionable and are made over a EPS growth FCF DTH subscriber growth number of shares in the Company, determined by the Committee.
LTIP awards are satisfied using shares purchased in the market.
Performance Performance Performance Points achieved Points achieved Points achieved awarded % of target awarded % of target awarded The current LTIP plan was approved by shareholders on 30 October 1998, and expires on 30 October 2008.
The rules have been re-drafted and updated in 2008, and will be 105% 105% submitted for shareholder approval at the AGM on 26 September 2008.
These updates RPI 8% pa 10 or more 10 or more 10 primarily concern technical improvements and clarifications, a summary of which can RPI 7% pa 8 100% 8 100% 8 be found in the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
RPI 6% pa 6 95% 6 95% 6 RPI 5% pa 4 90% 4 90% 4 Design of LTIP plan RPI 4% pa 2 85% 2 85% 2 The LTIP has a structure tailored to the needs of the Company in which grants are RPI 3% pa 1 75% 1 75% 1 made every year, but vesting occurs biennially, designed to reduce Executives reliance Less than Less than Less than on annual vesting of LTIP awards.
In the first year, an Executive is granted an award of RPI 3% pa 0 75% 0 75% 0 shares that vests at the end of the three year performance cycle, subject to performance conditions.
In the second year, a further discretionary award of up to The total number of points awarded governs the extent of vesting of the operational normally no more than 100% of the year one award can be made.
This award vests portion, according to a straight-line vesting schedule: at the same time as the first award.
While second year grants are linked to the previous year and therefore capped, the size of first year grants are determined by the Resulting vesting Committee on the basis of a range of factors including internal and external market %of %of benchmarks.
The grant is made in terms of a number of shares as opposed to a Total points achieved operational portion overall award monetary value and therefore values in relation to salary may vary with share price Less than 1 0% 0% movements.
1 10% 7% 1-21 10% 100% on a 7% 70% on a Performance conditions for LTIP plan straight-line basis straight-line basis The awards vest, in full or in part, dependent on points gained for satisfying 21 or more 100% 70% performance targets measured over three years.
Performance targets are calibrated to ensure the achievement of Skys stretching long-term goals, and the cumulative total points achieved governs vesting.
The extent to which performance targets have been met is reviewed by the Committee regularly and at the date of vesting of each award.
Awards  The awards made in 2004 and 2005 vested on 11 August 2007.
Service agreements The Companys TSR performance is measured relative to the constituents of the FTSE Policy 100 at the time of grant.
If the Companys TSR performance is below median, the TSR The Committees stated policy is that Executive Directors service agreements will element of the award lapses with no vesting.
For median performance, one third of contain a maximum notice period of one year.
The Committee will also consider, the TSR portion of the award vests.
For performance in the upper quartile, the whole where appropriate to do so, reducing remuneration to a departing Director.
However, TSR portion of the award vests.
For performance between median and upper quartile, the Committee will consider such issues on a case-by-case basis and will consider the vesting is on a straight-line basis, as shown in the chart below: terms of employment of a departing Director.
A large proportion of each Executive Directors total direct remuneration is linked to performance and therefore will not be payable to the extent that the relevant targets are not met.
TSR vesting schedule Payout TSR Payout % of grant James Murdoch Performance 30 On 6 December 2007, James Murdoch relinquished the role of CEO, to take up the Below Median 0% role of Non-Executive Chairman.
His remuneration consists of Chairmans fees of 25,000 per annum together with a Non-Executive Directors fee of 50,000.
James 50% 10% Murdoch will be paid a bonus amount depending upon the performance criteria 55% 14% adopted by the Committee for his service as CEO during the 2007 08 financial year.
10 60% 18% Prior to his appointment as Chairman, James Murdoch had received a base salary of 1,045,000 per annum.
65% 22% 70% 26% Jeremy Darroch Jeremy Darroch was appointed CEO of the Company on 7 December 2007.
His initial 75% 30% Below 50 55 60 65 70 75 80 service contract as CFO with the Company commenced on 16 August 2004 and was Median 100% 30% revised with effect from 7 December 2007.
The new agreement shall continue unless, Final TSR rank % or until, terminated by either party giving to the other not less than twelve months notice in writing.
Jeremy Darrochs revised remuneration consists of a base salary of TSR calculations are conducted independently by Hewitt New Bridge Street, employing 750,000 per annum.
Jeremy Darroch will be paid a bonus amount depending upon a methodology which averages share prices over three months prior to grants and the the performance criteria adopted by the Committee for each financial year during the threemonthsprior to theend of thethree year performanceperiod.
continuance of his service agreement with the Company.
Other share plans Jeremy Darroch is also entitled to other benets, namely pension benets, company 5.1 Management Long-Term Incentive Plan Management LTIP car, life assurance equal to four times base salary, medical insurance and an The Company also operates a Management LTIP, which has replaced options granted entitlement to participate in the LTIP.
under the Executive Share Option Scheme.
Selected employees will participate in the Management LTIP, but this will not include any Executive Directors or Senior Executives Jeremy Darroch has a non-compete clause in his service agreement specifying that he who participate in the LTIP.
Awards under this scheme are made at the discretion of shall not be able to work for any business or prospective business carried on within the CEO.
To date, the Management LTIP has mirrored the LTIP for Senior Executives the UK, which wholly or partially competes with the Groups businesses at the date of and Executive Directors, with the same performance conditions.
Awards that are termination of his agreement.
Such restriction will be for a period of twelve months.
exercised under the Management LTIP can only be satisfied by the delivery of shares purchased in the market.
On termination of the agreement, Jeremy Darroch will be entitled to one years salary, pension and life assurance benets from the date of termination and a pro-rata bonus 5.2 Executive Share Option Schemes Executive Schemes up to the date of termination.
In the instance of the termination of Jeremy Darrochs The Company has in place Approved and Unapproved Executive Share Option Schemes employment for cause, he would be paid salary and benets up to the date of under Her Majestys Revenue & Customs HMRC guidelines.
Executive Directors and termination but this would not include any pro-rata bonus.
Senior Executives who participate in the LTIP do not participate in the Executive Schemes.
No options have been granted since 2004 and the Company currently has no Jeremy Darroch is a Non-Executive Director of Marks & Spencer Group plc and intention of making grants under the Executive Scheme in the foreseeable future.
retained fees for this appointment of 73,000 for the year ended 30 June 2008.
5.3 Sharesave Scheme Andrew Grifth The Sharesave Scheme is open to all UK and Irish employees, including Executive Andrew Grifth has a service agreement with the Company that commenced on 7 April Directors.
Options are normally exercisable after either three or five years from the 2008 and shall continue unless, or until, terminated by either party giving to the other date of grant.
The price at which options are offered is not less than 80% of the not less than twelve months notice in writing.
Andrew Grifths remuneration consists middle-market price on the dealing day immediately preceding the date of invitation.
It of a base salary of 450,000 per annum.
Andrew Grifth will be paid a bonus amount is the policy of the Group to make an invitation to employees to participate in the depending upon the performance criteria adopted by the Committee for each financial scheme following the announcement of the year-end results.
year during the continuance of his service agreement with the Company.
Pensions Andrew Grifth is also entitled to other benets, namely pension benets, company The Group provides pensions to eligible employees through the BSkyB Pension Plan car, life assurance equal to four times base salary, medical insurance and an Pension Plan, which is a dened contribution plan.
Employees contribute a entitlement to participate in the LTIP.
minimum of 4% of pensionable salary basic salary less the pension offset into the Pension Plan each year and the Group matches this with a contribution of 8% of Andrew Grifth has a non-compete clause in his service agreement specifying that he pensionable salary.
shall not be able to work for any business or prospective business carried on within the UK, which wholly or partially competes with the Groups businesses at the date of 7.
Other benets termination of his agreement.
Executive Directors are entitled to use of a company car, life assurance equal to two times base salary, increased to four times base salary when they become members of On termination of the agreement, Andrew Grifth will be entitled to one years salary, the Pension Plan, and private medical insurance.
pension and life assurance benets from the date of termination and a pro-rata bonus up to the date of termination.
Share interests The interests of the Directors in the ordinary share capital of the Company during the continued year were: employment for cause, he would be paid salary and benets up to the date of At At termination but this would not include any pro-rata bonus.
Non-Executive Directors Jeremy Darroch 60,000 There has been no increase in the basic fees payable to the Non-Executive Directors i i David Evans 16,000 16,000 and the Chairman set by the Board of Directors for the financial year ending 30 June Nicholas Ferguson 10,000 10,000 2009: basic fees are 50,000 2008: 50,000.
Furthermore, the Non-Executive Andrew Higginson 2,160 2,104 Directors will be paid an additional 10,000 2008: 10,000 per annum each for Lord Rothschild 100,000 100,000 membership of the Audit Committee, the Remuneration Committee and the Corporate Lord Wilson of Dinton 486 486 Governance and Nominations Committee.
The Chairman and the Chairmen of the Audit Committee, the Remuneration Committee and the Corporate Governance and This table is audited.
Nominations Committee each receive an additional 25,000 per annum i Held in the form of 4,000 ADSs, one ADS is equivalent to four ordinary shares.
The Deputy Chairman will receive an additional fee of 10,000 per annum 2008: 10,000.
Finally, the Senior Independent Director will receive an Lord Rothschild is also deemed to be interested in 2 million ordinary shares registered additional fee of 15,000 per annum 2008: 15,000.
Each Non-Executive Director is in the name of Bank of New York Nominees, as a result of being a director of RIT engaged by the Company for an initial term of three years.
Reappointment for a Capital Partners plc: and in 18,750 ordinary shares as a result of being a trustee of further term is not automatic, but may be mutually agreed.
two charitable foundations of which Lord Rothschild is not a beneciary.
Performance graph Except as disclosed in this report, no other Director held any interest in the share The following graph shows the Companys performance measured by TSR in the five capital, including options, of the Company, or of any subsidiary of the Company, during years to 30 June 2008.
This graph shows thegrowthinthe valueofahypothetical the year.
All interests at the date shown are beneficial and there have been no 100 holding in the Companys ordinary shares over five years, relative to three changes between 1 July 2008 and 30 July 2008. indices, which are considered to be the most relevant broad equity market indices for this purpose.
The graph is included to meet a legislative requirement and is not During the year ended 30 June 2008, the share price traded within the range of directly relevant to the performance criteria approved by shareholders for the 465.0p to 713.5p per share.
The middle-market closing price on the last working day Companys long-term incentive plans.
of the financial year was 465.0p.
Notes: i Jeremy Darroch received a salary of 577,500 per annum up to 6 December 2007 which was increased to 750,000 on 7 December 2007 following his appointment as CEO.
ii Andrew Griffith was appointed as a Director to the Board on 7 April 2008. iii James Murdoch received a salary of 1,045,000 per annum up to 6 December 2007, which was reduced to 75,000 per annum on 7 December 2007 following his appointment as NonExecutive Chairman.
Notes: The performance conditions attaching to these awards are set out in section 4.4 LTIP.
The aggregate amount received by the Directors under the LTIP was 5,636,562 2007: nil.
James Murdochs LTIP entitlement was settled in cash.
i Under the terms of James Murdochs service agreement, the Company elected to pay him in cash an amount equal to the then market value of the 582,750 shares that vested.
The market price of the shares at the time of the payment was 671.5p.
Furthermore, upon the payment made to James Murdoch, the awards lapsed.
ii These options remain exercisable to the fullest extent subject to the achievement of the performance conditions.
Again, the Company may elect to pay cash.
iii Jeremy Darroch exercised in total 323,750 shares of which 263,750 were sold and 60,000 shares were retained as a personal interest.
iv See performance conditions for LTIP plan on page 48. v These awards were made under the Companys Management LTIP plan prior to Andrew Griffiths appointment as a Director of the Company on 7 April 2008.
Executive Share Options Details of all outstanding options held under the Executive Schemes are shown below: Number of options Granted Exercised Lapsed Market price Date from At during during during At Exercise at date which Name of Director 30 June 2007 the year the year the year 30 June 2008 price of exercise exercisable Expiry date i ii Andrew Grifth 3,030 3,030 9.90 n a 23.11.03 23.11.10 25,222 25,222 9.90 n a 23.11.03 23.11.10 40,025 40,025 7.94 n a 06.11.04 06.11.11 44,184 44,184 6.62 n a 01.09.07 05.09.13 ii 19,819 19,819 5.03 n a 06.08.08 06.08.14 This table is audited.
Sharesave Scheme options Details of all outstanding options held under the Sharesave Scheme are shown below: Number of shares under options At Granted Exercised At Date 30 June during the during the 30 June Exercise from which Name of Director 2007 year year 2008 price exercisable Expiry date Jeremy Darroch 4,281 4,281 3.86 01.02.10 01.08.10 This table is audited.
Options under the Companys Sharesave Scheme are not subject to performance conditions.
