48 International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008 Governance Corporate governance statement continued PwC provides a letter of independence for the committee Remit to consider once a year.
Its remit is: The committee has adopted a policy on the appointment of to assist the board in the process of the selection and employees from the auditors to positions within the various appointment of any new director and to recommend the Group finance departments.
This prevents key members of appointment to the board: and the audit engagement team from being employed as Finance to keep under review the size, structure and composition Director or in certain other senior Group finance roles.
of the board and succession.
The committee has adopted a policy on the use of the external Work in 2008 auditors for non-audit work.
The committee has kept the size, structure and composition of the board under review and recommended to the board The award of non-audit work to the auditors is managed the change in board structure which was implemented on in order to ensure that the auditors are able to conduct an 22 October 2008. independent audit and are perceived to be independent by the Groups shareholders and stakeholders.
Report on the remuneration committee The performance of non-audit work by the auditors is Full details of the composition and work of the remuneration minimised and work is awarded only when, by virtue of committee are contained in the directors remuneration report, their knowledge, skills or experience, the auditors are which also contains details of the Companys equity incentive clearly to be preferred over alternative suppliers.
The Group maintains an active relationship with at least Report on the executive committee two other professional accounting advisers.
For most of the year this committee consisted of David No information technology, remuneration, recruitment, Broadbent and John Harnett under the chairmanship of valuation or general consultancy work may be awarded to Christopher Rodrigues.
On 16 December 2008 Christopher the auditors without the prior approval of the Chairman of Rodrigues ceased to be a member of the committee and the audit and risk committee, such approval to be given only John Harnett became Chairman.
Its remit is to deal with in exceptional circumstances.
those matters specifically reserved to it for decision which primarily relate to the day-to-day running of the Group.
The Chairman of the committee must approve in advance any single award of non-audit work with an aggregate cost Report on the disclosure committee of 125,000 or more.
This committee consisted of David Broadbent and Rosamond The auditors may not perform internal audit work.
Marshall Smith under the chairmanship of John Harnett.
Its remit is to ensure that the Companys obligations pursuant The committee keeps under review the non-audit work to the Disclosure and Transparency Rules are discharged carried out by PwC.
Fees paid to PwC in 2008 are set out and that appropriate policies and procedures are in place.
in note 4 of the notes to the financial statements.
Internal control and risk management Report on the nomination committee Risk management process Members and attendance The board is responsible for the Groups system of internal The members and their attendance at committee meetings control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Any system can in 2008 were as follows: provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against Number of Number Name meetings attended material misstatement or loss.
Christopher Rodrigues Chairman 2 2 In December each year, the board approves a detailed budget John Harnett 2 2 for the year ahead.
It also approves outline projections for the Charles Gregson 2 2 subsequent four years.
A detailed review takes place at the half Tony Hales 2 2 year.
Actual performance against budget is monitored in detail Nick Page 2 2 regularly and reported monthly for review by the directors.
Ray Miles 2 2 The board requires its subsidiaries to operate in accordance with corporate policies and to certify compliance with these policies on an annual basis.
