50 International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008 Governance Directors remuneration report Introduction the committee is to pay remuneration at market levels.
The This is the directors remuneration report of International remuneration policy is designed to ensure that a significant Personal Finance plc the Company which has been prepared proportion of the executive directors remuneration is linked pursuant to, and in accordance with, section 234B of the to performance, through the operation of the annual cash Companies Act 1985 the Companies Act.
In accordance with bonus and the long-term incentive plan.
section 241 of the Companies Act, a resolution to approve this Chairman report will be proposed at the annual general meeting AGM The Chairman was Executive Chairman, devoting three days of the Company to be held on 13 May 2009. a week to his role with the Company, until 22 October 2008 when Unaudited information he became non-executive Chairman and, in consequence, his The following information, comprising details of the remuneration was adjusted.
Until October 2008 his remuneration remuneration committee and its work, the statement of the consisted of a basic salary, pension allowance and other benefits, Companys policy on directors remuneration, the directors including a company-leased car and medical cover for him and service agreements and the performance graph, is unaudited.
With effect from October his salary was reduced from 385,000 to 250,000 a year and his benefits were The remuneration committee phased out in the period up to 31 December 2008, with the Members and attendance exception of the car which may be retained until the end of the The members and their attendance at committee meetings Companys lease.
He continues his existing participation in a in 2008 were as follows: long-term incentive plan at a reduced level but will not receive Number of Number any further awards under the Companys equity incentive schemes.
Name meetings attended Ray Miles Chairman 7 7 Executive directors Tony Hales 7 7 The executive directors remuneration consists of a basic salary, Nick Page 7 7 an annual cash bonus subject to performance conditions and other benefits, including pension arrangements and participation Remit in a long-term incentive plan.
They are provided with companyIts remit is: leased cars and, if they so elect, a fuel card or a cash alternative, to consider the framework of executive remuneration long-term disability cover under the Companys permanent and make recommendations to the board: health policy and medical cover for them and their immediate to determine the specific remuneration packages and families.
Benefits in kind and bonuses are not pensionable.
conditions of service of the Chairman, the executive The committee normally reviews the executive directors directors and the Company Secretary, including their remuneration annually with effect from 1 January.
When the service agreements: and Chief Operating Officer was promoted to Chief Executive Officer to monitor the level and structure of the remuneration of the in October 2008 his salary was increased to 450,000 a year.
most senior management below board level within the Group.
The Finance Director received an interim review in July 2008 and his salary was increased to 250,000 a year.
However, in Other matters view of more difficult economic conditions, no general increases The committee has appointed Kepler Associates Kepler in basic salary were awarded either to the executive directors or as remuneration consultant.
Kepler is independent and does the senior management group with effect from 1 January 2009. not provide any other services to the Group.
The Chairman of the Company and the Chief Executive Officer each normally Non-executive directors attends and speaks at meetings of the committee other than The fees for the non-executive directors are fixed by the board when his own remuneration or any matter relating to him and are designed both to recognise the responsibilities of nonis being considered.
No director is involved in determining executive directors and to attract individuals with the necessary his own remuneration.
The Company Secretary, Rosamond skills and experience to contribute to the Companys plans.
Their Marshall Smith, is secretary to the committee and attended business expenses are reimbursed by the Company.
They received the meetings of the committee in 2008: as a solicitor she no increase in fees in 2008 or for 2009. provides legal and technical support to the committee.
Bonuses Statement of the Companys policy on directors remuneration An annual cash bonus is payable to the Chief Executive Officer Key principles of the remuneration policy and the Finance Director, subject to satisfaction of performance The remuneration policy applied by the committee is based conditions which include, where applicable, appropriate on the need to attract, reward, motivate and retain executive environmental, social and governance matters.
During 2008 directors to enable the Company to achieve its plans.
The the executive directors were eligible for a bonus by reference to committee is also conscious of the need to avoid paying more post-tax profit and personal objectives, subject to a maximum than is reasonable for this purpose and therefore the policy of of 100% of salary.
co. uk Directors report and business review 51 For 2009 a new scheme is proposed for executive directors The Performance Share Plan subject, in the case of the share element, to shareholder approval.
Contingent awards of shares were made under the Performance The bonus will be payable partly in cash, and partly in deferred Share Plan following the demerger to key senior managers shares which will vest at the end of a three-year period subject who did not participate in the Incentive Plan.
The awards will to the director not being dismissed for misconduct.
There will vest after a three-year performance period, starting from the also be a matching award of shares which will vest at the end demerger date, with vesting determined by a range of TSR growth of a three-year period, subject to a performance condition being targets and by employment conditions.
TSR is calculated on the satisfied.
The performance condition will be determined by the same basis as for the Incentive Plan.
No award will vest if TSR committee at the time of grant.
Further details are contained in growth is less than 30%.
50% of the award will vest if TSR growth the Chairmans letter to shareholders to be dated 31 March 2009. is 30% and 100% will vest if TSR growth is 60%.
If growth in Bonuses do not form part of pensionable earnings.
A similar TSR is between 30% and 60%, vesting will be on a straight-line scheme, at reduced levels, will operate for approximately 45 basis.
50% of vested awards will be released after the end of senior managers.
the performance period, with 50% deferred for an additional 12 months.
No awards to directors have been made under Equity incentive schemes this Plan.
The Company currently operates four equity incentive schemes for directors and employees.
These are: In 2008, to achieve consistency of objectives, some further awards were made to new senior managers by reference to The International Personal Finance plc Incentive Plan the the original performance period and target.
Awards were made Incentive Plan : based on either 150% or 75% of salary, depending on seniority, The International Personal Finance plc Performance Share but on a pro rata basis.
Plan the Performance Share Plan : New policy on Grants The International Personal Finance plc Exchange Share The vesting of the awards made under the Incentive Plan in Scheme 2007 the Exchange Scheme : and July 2007 will be determined in July 2010 and at that point it will The International Personal Finance plc Employee Savingsbe necessary to grant further equity incentives to the executive Related Share Option Scheme the SAYE Scheme.
It is therefore proposed that the Performance Share Plan should be used for this purpose The schemes were put in place in June 2007 shortly before the and this will mean that the executive directors and senior demerger from Provident Financial plc PF on 16 July 2007 management will all participate in one plan.
The performance and were individually approved by the shareholders of PF.
target will be determined by the committee at the time of grant.
The Incentive Plan It is expected that awards of up to 100% and 75% of salary will Awards under the Incentive Plan were granted to the Chairman, be made in 2010 and thereafter for executive directors and the executive directors and certain senior executives following other senior managers.
In 2008 some further awards were made to three The Exchange Scheme newly promoted senior executives.
Additionally, a top-up award Awards were made following the demerger to the executive was made to John Harnett in October 2008 when he became directors and 55 other Group senior managers who held options Chief Executive Officer.
The Incentive Plan provides a one-off under the Provident Financial Executive Share Option Scheme incentive to 15 people in the period following demerger.
If absolute 2006, which lapsed at the demerger, and awards under the total shareholder return TSR growth of 30% is achieved over Provident Financial Long Term Incentive Scheme 2006 which a three-year performance period, starting from the demerger, were cancelled, in return for the grant of new equivalent awards and employment conditions are met, awards under the Incentive under the Exchange Scheme.
These options awards under the Plan will enable participants, according to their seniority, to share PF Schemes were valued as at 30 June 2007 and awards were in a pool of up to 3% of the total growth in value the earned value made in the form of contingent rights to acquire shares in pool delivered to shareholders.
The committee believes that the Company with an equivalent value for nil consideration, absolute TSR is a simple and objective measure of shareholder which would normally vest on the third anniversary of the date value creation, given the lack of comparable companies.
All of grant of the original award.
The remuneration committee benefits under the Incentive Plan will be delivered in shares, of Provident Financial plc determined this to be the most with 50% delivered shortly after the end of the performance appropriate approach in all the circumstances.
No further period and delivery of the further 50% deferred for a further awards will be made under the Exchange Scheme.
