50 International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008 Governance Directors remuneration report Introduction the committee is to pay remuneration at market levels.
The This is the directors remuneration report of International remuneration policy is designed to ensure that a significant Personal Finance plc the Company which has been prepared proportion of the executive directors remuneration is linked pursuant to, and in accordance with, section 234B of the to performance, through the operation of the annual cash Companies Act 1985 the Companies Act.
In accordance with bonus and the long-term incentive plan.
section 241 of the Companies Act, a resolution to approve this Chairman report will be proposed at the annual general meeting AGM The Chairman was Executive Chairman, devoting three days of the Company to be held on 13 May 2009. a week to his role with the Company, until 22 October 2008 when Unaudited information he became non-executive Chairman and, in consequence, his The following information, comprising details of the remuneration was adjusted.
Until October 2008 his remuneration remuneration committee and its work, the statement of the consisted of a basic salary, pension allowance and other benefits, Companys policy on directors remuneration, the directors including a company-leased car and medical cover for him and service agreements and the performance graph, is unaudited.
With effect from October his salary was reduced from 385,000 to 250,000 a year and his benefits were The remuneration committee phased out in the period up to 31 December 2008, with the Members and attendance exception of the car which may be retained until the end of the The members and their attendance at committee meetings Companys lease.
He continues his existing participation in a in 2008 were as follows: long-term incentive plan at a reduced level but will not receive Number of Number any further awards under the Companys equity incentive schemes.
Name meetings attended Ray Miles Chairman 7 7 Executive directors Tony Hales 7 7 The executive directors remuneration consists of a basic salary, Nick Page 7 7 an annual cash bonus subject to performance conditions and other benefits, including pension arrangements and participation Remit in a long-term incentive plan.
They are provided with companyIts remit is: leased cars and, if they so elect, a fuel card or a cash alternative, to consider the framework of executive remuneration long-term disability cover under the Companys permanent and make recommendations to the board: health policy and medical cover for them and their immediate to determine the specific remuneration packages and families.
Benefits in kind and bonuses are not pensionable.
conditions of service of the Chairman, the executive The committee normally reviews the executive directors directors and the Company Secretary, including their remuneration annually with effect from 1 January.
When the service agreements: and Chief Operating Officer was promoted to Chief Executive Officer to monitor the level and structure of the remuneration of the in October 2008 his salary was increased to 450,000 a year.
most senior management below board level within the Group.
The Finance Director received an interim review in July 2008 and his salary was increased to 250,000 a year.
However, in Other matters view of more difficult economic conditions, no general increases The committee has appointed Kepler Associates Kepler in basic salary were awarded either to the executive directors or as remuneration consultant.
Kepler is independent and does the senior management group with effect from 1 January 2009. not provide any other services to the Group.
The Chairman of the Company and the Chief Executive Officer each normally Non-executive directors attends and speaks at meetings of the committee other than The fees for the non-executive directors are fixed by the board when his own remuneration or any matter relating to him and are designed both to recognise the responsibilities of nonis being considered.
No director is involved in determining executive directors and to attract individuals with the necessary his own remuneration.
The Company Secretary, Rosamond skills and experience to contribute to the Companys plans.
Their Marshall Smith, is secretary to the committee and attended business expenses are reimbursed by the Company.
They received the meetings of the committee in 2008: as a solicitor she no increase in fees in 2008 or for 2009. provides legal and technical support to the committee.
Bonuses Statement of the Companys policy on directors remuneration An annual cash bonus is payable to the Chief Executive Officer Key principles of the remuneration policy and the Finance Director, subject to satisfaction of performance The remuneration policy applied by the committee is based conditions which include, where applicable, appropriate on the need to attract, reward, motivate and retain executive environmental, social and governance matters.
During 2008 directors to enable the Company to achieve its plans.
The the executive directors were eligible for a bonus by reference to committee is also conscious of the need to avoid paying more post-tax profit and personal objectives, subject to a maximum than is reasonable for this purpose and therefore the policy of of 100% of salary.
