Summary remuneration report The Companys remuneration policy for 2008 Under the DASBS, eligible executives, including Service contracts and beyond is designed to help ensure the the executive directors, receive the deferred It is the Companys policy that executive recruitment, retention and motivation of the element of their annual bonus as an award of directors are normally employed on contracts executive directors by providing fair reward ordinary shares.
The ordinary shares are that provide for 12 months notice from the for the responsibilities they undertake and transferred to the executive on 1 March in the Company and six months notice from the the performance they achieve on behalf of third year after the year in which the award is executive.
The non-executive directors do shareholders.
In this context, the Remuneration made, provided normally the executive has not have service contracts.
Committees policy is to set the overall remained in the employment of the Group remuneration package at a competitive level throughout that period or until their normal Directors emoluments for 2008 and in a form that permits significant additional retirement date.
The directors aggregate emoluments for 2008 remuneration to be earned for high performance were 3.3 million, the aggregate amount of over a sustained period.
This is normally Share based incentives gains made by directors on the exercise of achieved by benchmarking base pay against The Remuneration Committee believes that share options during the year was 0.8 million, comparator companies and a range of factors, the long term performance of the Group is the aggregate market value of performance including performance, and by providing, in an important consideration for shareholders share awards exercised by directors under long addition, short and long term incentives geared and that share based incentives are an term incentive schemes during the year was to performance.
important part of helping to align the interests 3.4 million, the aggregate market value of of shareholders and those employed by the shares exercised by directors under the DASBS In assessing the balance of performance related Group.
A formal share ownership guideline was 0.7 million and the aggregate amount of and non-performance related elements of is in place under which executive directors contributions paid by the Company to money remuneration, base pay and benefits are treated are expected over a period of time to retain purchase pension schemes in respect of the as non-performance related, whereas annual a shareholding worth at least equal to their directors was 0.2 million.
Two of the current bonus including awards under the Deferred basic salaries.
directors participate in defined benefit pension Annual Share Bonus Scheme DASBS and schemes, one of whom who is no longer long term incentives are treated as performance The Group operates a Long Term Incentive accruing future benefits under the defined related.
For this purpose, share options and Plan under which the executive directors and benefit scheme also participates in a money performance shares are valued at an appropriate other senior executives in the Group may be purchase pension scheme.
proportion of their face value on grant or granted options and awards in respect of award.
On this basis, the Committee sets the performance shares.
Participation in the Total shareholder return remuneration package such that about half the Plan is at the discretion of the Committee.
The Companys total shareholder return over total target remuneration package is derived The Committee reviews biannually the level the last five years compared to that of the from the performance related elements.
of grant taking account of each executives FTSE Support Services Sector is shown below.
Annual 190 Bunzl Base pay grants of share options may not exceed an 180 FTSE Support Services The base pay of each executive director is set amount equal to three times base salary.
170 160 to reflect the size and scope of that directors In normal circumstances options granted are 150 responsibilities undertaken on behalf of the exercisable, subject to satisfaction of the relevant 140 130 Board, the level of overall performance performance condition, after three years with 120 110 achieved, including that related to environmental, no provision for retesting, not earlier than three 100 social and governance issues, and experience in years and not later than 10 years after the date 90 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 the post.
It is benchmarked against comparator of grant.
Annual awards of performance shares Source: Thomson Datastream companies and the actual pay level is set after may not exceed an amount equal to two times taking into account individual performance base salary.
A performance share award will and the general movement of base pay within normally vest i. e. become exercisable on the the Group.
third anniversary of its grant to the extent that the applicable performance conditions have Annual bonus plan been satisfied, with no provision for retesting, The executive directors participate in an annual and will remain capable of being exercised for bonus plan intended to support the Companys the three year period following the date on overall remuneration policy.
The bonus plan for which it vests.
each executive director contains meaningful targets that seek to focus attention on one or Retirement benefits two key measures of short to medium term The Group utilises both defined benefit achievement.
Half of this annual bonus is and defined contribution pension schemes normally paid in cash and the balance but throughout the world.
All defined benefit with the total aggregate amount capped is schemes are closed to new entrants who deferred under the rules of the DASBS.
are now offered a defined contribution arrangement.
The executive directors are eligible to participate in the relevant pension scheme and or may choose to take a pension allowance, part of which can be paid into a private pension scheme.
Bunzl plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2008 Summary financial statement 25
