74 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2008 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT This is a report made by the board of Lloyds Banking Group plc, on the recommendation of the remuneration committee.
It covers the current and proposed components of the remuneration policy and details the remuneration for each serving director during 2008.
CONTENT OF REMUNERATION REPORT Statement from remuneration committee chairman Remuneration decisions for 2008 9 key highlights Governance and risk management, including the role, membership and advisers to the committee Directors remuneration policy Remuneration for 2009 Remuneration for 2008 Dilution limits Pensions Service agreements External appointments Performance graph Audited information STATEMENT FROM WOLFGANG BERNDT CHAIRMAN OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE It is my privilege once again to introduce the boards report on remuneration policy and practice.
INTRODUCTION 2008 was a year of unprecedented change and turmoil in financial services, in reality probably one of the most dramatic years that the sector has ever been through.
The erosion of trust in the financial system, triggered by high profile failures both here and abroad, led to a change in business circumstances that no bank could escape.
The problems in the financial sector have fed into the real economy and we now face a severe recession.
This has understandably led to public anger and to questions being raised about the role of banks in the financial crisis.
Deciding how executives should be paid in these extraordinary circumstances has been an immensely difficult task.
We know that many of our stakeholders will want to understand how we came to our decisions.
For this reason, we have adopted a different approach to this years remuneration report.
In addition to the normal information provided, much of which is required by regulations, we have decided to set out the principles underlying our remuneration philosophy.
We have also decided to describe how the committee came to the decisions it did during the year in more detail than would be normal.
Given the current environment, we believe that our shareholders, customers, employees, and regulators are entitled to this information.
We hope that in whatever capacity you are reading this report, you find it helpful.
A PRUDENT REMUNERATION POLICy For some years now we have adopted a strategy based on building long-term relationships with our customers and through managing our business decisions based on our assessment of how they will perform through an entire economic cycle.
This strategy is inherently long-term and requires a prudent approach to managing risk.
It resulted in Lloyds TSB avoiding many of the more high-risk lending areas and funding strategies, even though this could have led to higher profits in the short-term during the boom years.
Like many other banks, we have been unable to avoid the problems created by the sharp decline in the willingness of banks to lend to each other and by the recession in the UK and many other countries around the world.
In addition we recognise that while the acquisition of HBOS creates significant opportunities for Lloyds Banking Group, in the short term it has created a number of challenges and the need to participate in the Government recapitalisation programme.
However, we remain an inherently prudent and well-managed bank, and will be in a very strong position to continue to serve our customers and shareholders in the future.
Historically our prudent business strategy has also been reflected in our approach to remuneration.
Overall, we have taken a conservative approach to remuneration levels.
We have typically positioned our base salaries and incentive levels at or below the levels offered by our direct competitors or by other UK companies of a similar size.
The termination provisions within our contracts are among the toughest in the FTSE 100, ensuring no payment for failure.
We have used targets in our incentive plans that encourage the prudent management of risk.
The economic profit measure that we use takes account of the capital we need to generate our profits, and the risk of the business we are undertaking.
For a given level of profit, higher risk will result in lower levels of annual incentive payout for our executives.
Economic profit is measured on the performance of our business and in particular default rates on loans through an entire economic cycle.
This discourages management from taking short-term risks that will have adverse long-term consequences.
As a result we have been able to avoid the riskier types of lending or the less prudent funding strategies that were the downfall of some other UK banks.
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Group profile 1 Summary of Group results 10 The board 66 Report of the independent Shareholder information 191 auditors on the consolidated Chairmans statement 2 Divisional results 18 Directors report 68 Index to annual report 192 financial statements 96 Group chief executives review 4 Corporate responsibility 36 Corporate governance 70 Financial calendar 2009 195 Consolidated financial Group chief executives Q&A 6 Our people 40 Directors remuneration report 74 statements 97 Marketplace trends 8 Risk management 42 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 102 Five year financial summary 65 Report of the independent auditors on the parent company financial statements 182 Parent company financial statements 183 75 Notes to the parent Lloyds Banking Group company financial statements 186 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Our annual incentive plan also reflects the fact that you cannot run a successful bank by entirely focusing on financial performance.
The plan includes measures relating to how well we serve our customers, how committed and engaged our employees are, the success with which we are growing our franchise, and how we are managing risk.
These are factors that have a direct and measurable impact on the future success of our business.
This combination of financial and non-financial annual incentive targets encapsulated in a balanced scorecard reinforces to all of our executives the importance of doing business for the long-term in a way that is sustainable.
This reflects our commitment to basing our business on building long-term relationships.
GOVERNMENT RECAPITALISATION In October last year Lloyds TSB participated in a recapitalisation programme launched by the UK Government to ensure the stability of the UK banking system.
Details of this arrangement are included in the Chairmans statement.
Participation in this programme has clearly impacted on our remuneration approach as well as our commitment to comply with the Financial Service Authoritys FSA principles on remuneration.
In light of a review of the Groups remuneration polices earlier in 2008 and following consultation with the FSA in October, we developed an approach which is aligned to these principles.
Our approach is currently under further detailed review and any subsequent changes will be made as required to ensure our compliance with the FSAs draft Code of Practice.
Although we believe that our approach to remuneration has served the business well, we recognise that we are now operating in an entirely different environment for banks.
This will be reflected in the changes we are making to our remuneration approach.
In line with our prudent approach to remuneration we had already announced that for 2009 there would be no salary increases for the board and at their own request the executive directors would not be awarded any bonus for 2008.
In addition long-term incentive awards for 2009 have been reduced by 175 per cent of salary.
FUTURE REMUNERATION DESIGN During 2009 we will be undertaking a further review of our remuneration policy and practices.
The committee intends to undertake this review mindful of the requirements of our shareholders and regulators whilst doing the utmost to ensure that we are not competitively disadvantaged against the market with respect to our approach to remuneration going forward: particularly our ability to attract and retain the best talent for the future of the Group.
There are clearly many things to be learned by all banks from the current crisis.
One of the areas receiving a lot of attention is the whole area of remuneration and risk management.
During the year the committee reviewed an analysis of Lloyds TSB incentive schemes and the extent to which they support sound risk-management, and are aligned with customer and shareholder interests.
This was started in the first half of the year, predating the HBOS acquisition and the Financial Services Authoritys project looking at remuneration in the banking sector.
The committee believes that we have an approach to remuneration aligned with our business strategy that remains sound in its fundamental principles.
We do not believe that remuneration led to adverse behaviour at Lloyds TSB.
Indeed we believe that our prudent approach to remuneration helped us to avoid many of the problems experienced by a number of our competitors.
However, we are not complacent.
We recognise that there are areas where our remuneration arrangements can be improved.
We have studied the developments in the industry and the recommendations put forward by regulators and industry commentators.
We are adopting many of these recommendations in our remuneration for 2009 and beyond.
We are committed to rolling out these remuneration practices across the Lloyds Banking Group.
CONCLUSION Our past approach to remuneration has been well received by shareholders and a key focus for the committee and the management team is to maintain that positive relationship.
We have therefore consulted extensively with shareholders in relation to all of our 2008 and 2009 remuneration decisions.
One key challenge that the committee has been grappling with has been how best to motivate and incentivise the management team of the Lloyds Banking Group to undertake the huge task ahead, while recognising that we are operating in a very difficult environment for banks generally.
We recognise the extreme scrutiny that remuneration in the financial services sector is attracting and the current sentiment of shareholders.
At the same time, the Board strongly believes that we have the executive management team required to take on the complexity of issues that the integration of HBOS will bring.
The retention of this team is central to the future success of the bank and it is important that they are paid in a fair and responsible way.
The remuneration committee unanimously recommends that you vote to approve the remuneration report at the 2009 Annual General Meeting.
Dr Wolfgang Berndt Chairman, remuneration committee 76 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2008 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT continued REMUNERATION DECISIONS FOR 2008 2009 KEy HIGHLIGHTS In 2009, our remuneration package will continue to have the same main elements as for 2008: base salary annual incentive long-term incentive plan In addition, executive directors participate in pension arrangements and receive benefits such as life assurance and medical insurance.
The following key decisions have been made for 2008 2009 remuneration: at their own request, the executive directors will not be awarded any bonus for 2008 base salaries for executive directors frozen at 2008 levels reduced the maximum level of incentives from 2008 levels by 175 per cent of salary strengthened the role for non-financial measures, introducing a balanced scorecard into the long-term incentive plan focused on the HBOS integration increased the role of risk-adjusted economic profit, by introducing it as a measure in the long-term incentive plan, in addition to its current use in the annual incentive changed the annual incentive plan so that the payment is deferred over three years, and subject to claw-back if the performance on which the incentive is based is found not to be sustainable determined that, from April 2012, executive directors will no longer participate in the final salary pension plan The approximate make-up of the main components of our new package for executive directors on an expected value basis is shown below.
Long-term incentive Based on a combination of performance targets comprising Paid in shares after 33% economic profit, earnings per share, synergy savings, and three years non-financial measures relating to the success of the integration Short-term incentive Based half on financial measures and half on a balanced Deferred and paid in 33% scorecard of non-financial measures tranches over three years subject to clawback Salary Based on role, market competitiveness, and performance Paid in cash 33% The package is designed to encourage a long-term and risk-based focus: Salary is a significant proportion of the total package, avoiding excessive leverage All incentives will be paid on a deferred basis over three years Deferred annual incentive is subject to claw-back, i. e. is not paid if performance on which the incentive is based is found to be unsustainable A combination of financial and non-financial measures encourages a long-term focus Economic profit, which is a risk-adjusted profit measure, is a core financial target We believe that these arrangements are well aligned with the Financial Services Authoritys draft Code of Practice on Remuneration.
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Group profile 1 Summary of Group results 10 The board 66 Report of the independent Shareholder information 191 auditors on the consolidated Chairmans statement 2 Divisional results 18 Directors report 68 Index to annual report 192 financial statements 96 Group chief executives review 4 Corporate responsibility 36 Corporate governance 70 Financial calendar 2009 195 Consolidated financial Group chief executives Q&A 6 Our people 40 Directors remuneration report 74 statements 97 Marketplace trends 8 Risk management 42 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 102 Five year financial summary 65 Report of the independent auditors on the parent company financial statements 182 Parent company financial statements 183 77 Notes to the parent Lloyds Banking Group company financial statements 186 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT An essential component of our approach to remuneration is the governance process that underpins it.
This ensures that our policy is robustly applied and risk is managed appropriately.
The remuneration committee reviews the remuneration policy for the top management group.
The committees role is to ensure that members of the executive management are provided with appropriate incentives to encourage them to enhance the performance of the Group and that they are rewarded for their individual contribution to the success of the organisation.
The committee advises on major changes of employee benefits schemes and it also agrees the policy for authorising claims for expenses from the group chief executive and the chairman.
It has delegated power for settling remuneration for the chairman, the group executive directors, the company secretary and any group employee whose salary exceeds a specified amount, currently 350,000.
All the independent non-executive directors are invited to attend meetings if they wish, and they receive the minutes and have the opportunity to comment and their views taken into account before the committees decisions are implemented.
The committees terms of reference are available from the company secretary and are displayed on the Groups website, www.
The committee met on nine occasions during 2008, and the members were as follows: Dr Wolfgang Berndt chairman Sir Victor Blank Mr Philip Green Sir Julian Horn-Smith Sir David Manning from 1 May 2008 We welcomed Sir David Manning to the committee in May 2008, which was the only change to the committee membership during the year.
The committee retains independent consultants to provide advice on specific matters according to their particular expertise.
Towers Perrin, Hewitt New Bridge Street and Kepler Associates were retained by the committee during 2008 to advise on various matters relating to executive remuneration.
In addition,  LLP PwC were also retained in 2008 specifically to support the committee with a one-off project to review executive remuneration arrangements in light of the acquisition of HBOS, given their particular expertise in relation to the remuneration aspects of transactions.
In recognition that PwC are also the auditors to the Lloyds Banking Group and to mitigate any threat to audit independence, Kepler Associates continue to be retained as the remuneration committees primary independent advisers, and were commissioned to provide comment on PwCs advice.
In addition to their advice on executive remuneration, during 2008 Towers Perrin also provided market remuneration data as well as other remuneration consulting services to the Group, Hewitt New Bridge Street provided pension consulting services and PwC were the Groups auditors.
During 2008, Alithos Limited continued to provide information on behalf of the committee for the testing of the total shareholder return TSR calculated by reference to both dividends and growth in share price performance conditions for the Groups long-term incentive schemes.
Mr Daniels, Mrs Risley Group Human Resources Director, Mr Farley Reward & Employment Policy Director and Ms Kemp HR Director, Total Reward provided guidance to the committee other than for their own remuneration.
The remuneration committee takes an interest in ensuring that appropriate remuneration and governance arrangements are in place throughout the organisation, with the Group functions providing an oversight role in the development of remuneration policy and practice below the senior executive population.
In particular, divisional remuneration decisions are subject to independent oversight from the human resources function and the appointment and remuneration for risk officers in the divisions is reviewed in conjunction with the chief risk officer for the Group.
During 2008, the committee received a review of the Groups remuneration practices against a number of criteria including customer, shareholder alignment, conflict of interest and risk.
This was prior to the review of practices requested by the Financial Services Authority FSA in October 2008.
In general, the review found that there was good alignment between remuneration practices and the policy objectives.
However, changes are being implemented to the practice in some areas of the business.
In particular we had put in place for those employees in our Wholesale and International Banking division a bonus deferral plan appropriate to the roles they perform.
As described above we have also implemented a deferral arrangement for senior executives, and have increased the use of our risk-adjusted economic profit measure in our incentive plans.
Following the FSAs approach to a number of major UK banks in October 2008, we submitted an analysis of our current remuneration policies against their proposed good practice criteria.
The assessment showed a generally favourable comparison.
We have met with representatives from the FSA and will continue to co-operate with them as they develop their updated guidance in 2009.
Their draft Code of Conduct was published as this report was being finalised.
Although we believe our approach is well aligned with the Code of Conduct, our approach will be subject to a further detailed review.
As a result of this review, and discussions with the FSA, we have identified some areas of governance where we will be implementing changes for the future, as part of our plan for integrating the Lloyds TSB and HBOS businesses: 78 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2008 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT continued We will be enhancing the formal role of control functions in the oversight of remuneration.
Input is already sought from the risk and finance functions into remuneration design and decisions.
However, we believe that our governance would benefit from a more formalised role for control functions in our remuneration processes.
We will be reviewing the oversight of divisional remuneration.
Already we apply independent oversight of divisional remuneration from the Groups centre function.
During the year, the group HR function, in conjunction with the risk function, undertook the group wide review of remuneration practices summarised above, and we will be reviewing the oversight processes and governance controls relating to divisions to identify areas where they can be further strengthened.
Our particular emphasis will be on ensuring that the linkage between good risk practices and remuneration can be robustly demonstrated.
Regulators have identified the remuneration of risk officers as one of their areas of interest.
The decision on risk officer remuneration is already held at the Groups centre function.
We will be reviewing the remuneration setting processes for all of our control functions to ensure that all potential conflicts of interest are identified and managed.
DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICy The Groups remuneration policy supports our business strategy, which is based on building long-term relationships with our customers and employees, and managing the financial consequences of our business decisions across the entire economic cycle.
The policy is designed to ensure that cost effective packages are provided which attract and retain executive directors and senior management of the highest calibre and motivate them to perform to the highest standards.
At the same time, the objective is to align individual rewards with the Groups performance, the interests of its shareholders, and a prudent approach to risk management.
In this way we balance the requirements of our various stakeholders: customers, shareholders, employees, and regulators.
We believe that this approach is in line with the Association of British Insurers best practice code on remuneration as well the draft Financial Services Authoritys Code of Practice, as the policy seeks to reward long-term value creation whilst not encouraging excessive risk taking.
We summarise below how each of these policy objectives is met by our remuneration packages.
Policy objective How achieved Building long-term We build relationships with our customers and people rather than viewing them as counterparties in a money-making relationships transaction and will be seeking to extend this philosphy across the integrated Group.
This means that working for the Lloyds Banking Group should be about more than pay.
While our relationships with our people means that we will pay them fairly and competitively, our pay is positioned conservatively against the market and we will not seek to be among the highest payers in the sector.
In setting pay for executive directors, we take account of the terms and conditions applying to other employees of the Group.
Our incentive measures are not just financial.
Half of the annual incentive for executives is linked to a scorecard including how we performed against targets that measure how satisfied our customers are with us, and the extent to which our employees feel engaged with and committed to working for the Lloyds Banking Group, both of which are important foundations of a relationship-based strategy.
Managing the financial Economic profit is a key measure by which we manage our business.
This measure takes into account the level of capital consequences of our required to generate profits as well as the risks taken.
The same level of profit generated at lower risk results in higher business through the economic profit.
Economic profit also measures risk based on an assessment of how business will perform through the economic cycle economic cycle.
Therefore, for example, in good times, when default rates on loans are low, we adjust the economic profit measure downwards based on a higher average expected default experience over the economic cycle.
This encourages us to avoid business and funding strategies that are only profitable during boom times but turn bad in a recession.
Economic profit plays a prominent role in our incentive plans for executives, a role which will be further enhanced in 2009, with its inclusion in the long-term incentive plan performance measures.
Aligning individual The majority of our executives pay is linked to stretching performance targets through annual and long-term rewards with Group incentives.
Performance measures on the annual incentive are directly aligned to the Groups financial and non-financial performance and performance.
shareholders Executives are aligned with shareholders through the long-term incentive plan, which pays out based on performance against Group targets over a three year period, and which is paid in shares to improve alignment with shareholders further.
The combination of incentive plans is designed to enable executives to achieve pay levels within the top 25 per cent of comparable companies, provided that performance is also in the top 25 per cent.
Executives are required to build up a holding in the Lloyds Banking Group shares of value equal to 1.5 times salary for executive directors 2 times salary for the group chief executive.
They are expected to retain half of the net-of-tax proceeds of share plan pay-outs until they reach this target.
Finally, we operate tough contract provisions whereby no executive has an entitlement to more than 12 months notice, compensation on termination is limited to basic salary, and any compensation is paid monthly over 12 months and is mitigated if the executive gets another job.
This approach avoids the risk of payment for failure.
These requirements are among the toughest in the FTSE 100.
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Group profile 1 Summary of Group results 10 The board 66 Report of the independent Shareholder information 191 auditors on the consolidated Chairmans statement 2 Divisional results 18 Directors report 68 Index to annual report 192 financial statements 96 Group chief executives review 4 Corporate responsibility 36 Corporate governance 70 Financial calendar 2009 195 Consolidated financial Group chief executives Q&A 6 Our people 40 Directors remuneration report 74 statements 97 Marketplace trends 8 Risk management 42 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 102 Five year financial summary 65 Report of the independent auditors on the parent company financial statements 182 Parent company financial statements 183 79 Notes to the parent Lloyds Banking Group company financial statements 186 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Policy objective How achieved A prudent approach to Economic profit measures profit relative to the risk taken to generate that profit.
Its use in our incentive plans therefore risk management encourages executives to take a prudent approach to risk.
We also have non-financial measures of performance against risk objectives in the plan for executives, which enables a more rounded assessment of risk-taking behaviour to be made.
For the 2009 incentive we have increased the alignment to long-term prudent risk management by introducing deferral.
For executive directors and other senior executives, any cash incentive earned will be deferred and paid-out over three years.
If the performance that led to the incentive is found to be unsustainable, then this deferred portion may be forfeited.
We pay competitively but not excessively.
Our prudent approach to positioning compensation means that we reduce the incentives where excessive risk may be taken for personal gain.
This means that we do not attract employees with an extreme appetite for risk.
We have a robust governance framework with an independent remuneration committee reviewing all compensation decisions.
This robust approach to governance and review is cascaded through the organisation.
Cost effective packages We aim to ensure that the totality of remuneration for executive directors is competitive against our benchmark to attract and retain groups.
These groups are other major UK banks, and also the top 20 companies in the FTSE 100, reflecting practices executives in comparably sized large UK companies across all sectors.
We aim to be competitively but conservatively positioned against the market.
We aim to choose incentive plan targets that are directly linked to the business strategy and priorities.
This not only ensures alignment with company performance, but also means that the targets are meaningful to executives and therefore motivating.
This ensures that incentive packages are valued by executives and therefore cost effective.
REMUNERATION FOR 2009 The remuneration committee had already started a review of executive remuneration during 2008 prior to the announcement of the HBOS acquisition.
This was in the light of concerns about the competitiveness of the package, which had led to the committee making long-term incentive awards of 375 per cent of salary in 2008, above the normal maximum of 300 per cent.
The scope and context of this review was naturally altered by the acquisition of HBOS and by the rapidly evolving environment in the financial services sector.
The changes introduced as a result of this review are summarised below.
SUMMARy OF REMUNERATION ELEMENTS The key remuneration elements for 2009 as a result of the review are summarised below.
Each individual element is then described in more detail in the subsequent sub-sections.
Element Level design for 2009 Key purpose Base salary Set competitively relative to FTSE 20 and banking sector Meet essential commitments of executive competitors Retention No increase for 2009 compared with 2008 Annual incentive 200 per cent of salary maximum 225 per cent for CEO, as for 2008 Alignment with Group performance Based 50 per cent on Group financial targets relating to profit Alignment with sound risk management before tax and economic profit Based 50 per cent on balanced scorecard covering, customers, Motivation of executives people, risk and build franchise Subject to deferral with the first tranche released in 2011 Long-term 200 per cent of salary maximum, 175 per cent of salary less than Alignment with shareholder interests incentive plan the maximum award level in 2008, split as follows: 120 per cent of salary Normal LTIP Award based: Alignment with sound risk management 50 per cent on Earnings per Share 50 per cent on Economic Profit 80 per cent of salary Integration Award based: Motivation and retention of executives 50 per cent on financial synergy savings 50 per cent on non-financial measures of the success of the HBOS integration 80 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2008 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT continued Element Level design for 2009 Key purpose Pension A mixture of final salary and defined contribution pension Enable executives to build long-term arrangements retirement savings From April 2012, executive directors with final salary pensions will Retention move to a defined contribution pension arrangement, with no compensation Despite the significantly increased responsibilities of the executive directors, the maximum total pay opportunity for an executive director in 2009 is reduced by 175 per cent of salary from 2008.
GENERAL CONSIDERATIONS When deciding the approach to take for remuneration in 2009, the remuneration committee considered a range of factors.
In forming the Lloyds Banking Group, our senior executive team will be managing a combined business twice the size of Lloyds TSB, at the same time as integrating two highly complex businesses, one of which had a flawed business model.
The balance sheet alone will be among the largest balance sheets in the world.
There will be significant increases in workload and responsibilities.
Shareholders, customers and tax-payers will want to ensure that the right team is in place, appropriately motivated and incentivised to take this bank forward, put appropriate risk management frameworks into HBOS, and deliver the value from the takeover.
The terms on which senior executives have recently been appointed within the banking sector shows that shareholders remain convinced of the need to offer competitive compensation packages.
At the same time, the committee has been very aware of developments in the financial services sector and in relation to remuneration practices more widely.
The committee reviewed trends in relation to base salary and incentives at other major financial firms globally, including those participating in Government funding programmes.
The committee also considered the implications of the Financial Services Authoritys draft code on remuneration.
Finally the committee considered developments at the other UK and international banks, including the terms on which senior executives at banks were hired through the year including executives departing from Lloyds TSB.
BASE SALARy Basic salaries are reviewed annually, usually in December, taking into account individual performance and market information which is provided by Towers Perrin and then adjusted from 1 January of the following year.
The remuneration committee confirmed during the 2008 review that the FTSE 20 was the most appropriate comparator group to use to benchmark overall competitiveness of the remuneration package whilst taking particular account of the remuneration practice of our direct competitors, namely the major UK banks.
The FTSE 20 is regarded as providing a realistic and relevant comparison in terms of company size and complexity, as well as being a key market for talent.
However, in recognition of the current operating environment and in common with many of our peers, base salaries for 2009 remain unchanged from the salaries set for 2008.
Basic salary increases for other employees across the Group will remain in line with any market movement, but will, in general be significantly lower than in previous years.
Name J E Daniels A G Kane G T Tate T J W Tookey H A Weir As at 1 January 2008 1,035,000 590,000 640,000 600,000 625,000 With effect from appointment on 30 October 2008.
This approach has also been applied to the Chairmans salary and non-executive director fees for 2009 which remain unchanged from 2008.
ANNUAL INCENTIVE PLAN The Lloyds TSB annual incentive plan already had many good features, such as the combination of financial and non-financial measures, which supported our prudent approach to managing risk.
We are proposing to keep these features, while enhancing the operation of the plan in order to increase the alignment between risk and reward still further.
The remuneration committee has considered the preliminary guidance from the FSA relating to good practice criteria, and has reviewed emerging practice in other banks within the sector both in the UK and overseas.
Although more than half of our total incentive opportunity was already deferred, through our long-term incentive plan, we have decided that the annual incentive for executive directors should be deferred also.
Consistent with the aim of ensuring that short-term financial results are only achievable sustainably, the committee has decided that the incentive will be deferred and released in tranches over a three year period.
The deferral will be on the same basis as for senior staff with the first tranche being released in June 2011.
The deferred incentive will be subject to 100 per cent claw back if the performance that generated the incentive is found to be unsustainable.
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Group profile 1 Summary of Group results 10 The board 66 Report of the independent Shareholder information 191 auditors on the consolidated Chairmans statement 2 Divisional results 18 Directors report 68 Index to annual report 192 financial statements 96 Group chief executives review 4 Corporate responsibility 36 Corporate governance 70 Financial calendar 2009 195 Consolidated financial Group chief executives Q&A 6 Our people 40 Directors remuneration report 74 statements 97 Marketplace trends 8 Risk management 42 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 102 Five year financial summary 65 Report of the independent auditors on the parent company financial statements 182 Parent company financial statements 183 81 Notes to the parent Lloyds Banking Group company financial statements 186 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 The maximum annual incentive opportunity remains unchanged at 200 per cent 225 per cent for Mr Daniels of basic salary for the achievement of exceptional performance targets.
The remuneration committee believes that the structure of the incentive in particular the use of risk-adjusted and non-financial measures has been highly successful in promoting a long-term focus within the senior management team.
Introducing this deferral element further enhances these aspects of the plan.
LONG TERM INCENTIVE AWARD The current LTIP rules allow for awards to be made of up to 400 per cent of base salary.
Under normal circumstances awards are made of 300 per cent of salary with the additional 100 per cent available for circumstances that the remuneration committee deems to be exceptional.
In 2008, awards were made of 375 per cent of base salary to the CEO and two of the executive directors for retention purposes, and in light of data reviewed by the committee which showed total remuneration to be behind median both for the FTSE 20, and the other major UK banks.
Further information viewed by the committee through 2008 continued to show that total remuneration for the executive directors was materially behind the median of our peer groups, even before allowing for the increased responsibilities of running the combined bank and the magnitude of the task of integrating the two businesses.
However, there is a strong overall focus on cost control within the business, and rapid changes within the industry make it difficult to assess what will, in future, be market competitive.
Therefore, the committee has determined not to seek authority from shareholders to increase the LTIP award to the level required to achieve a market median value of remuneration.
Instead, the committee has determined that for 2009 the grant level for executive directors should be set at 200 per cent of base salary.
This means that, in its totality, the maximum remuneration opportunity for executive directors in 2009 will be reduced by 175 per cent of salary from the maximum awarded to a director in 2008, despite a doubling in the size of the Group, and despite the challenges ahead in integrating the businesses to create the Lloyds Banking Group.
LONG-TERM INCENTIVE PERFORMANCE MEASURES In reviewing measures, the remuneration committee has aimed to build on existing aspects of the remuneration policy that have been successful, with a focus on long-term performance, taking appropriate account of risk.
At the same time, the committee has sought to develop arrangements that motivate executives to meet the near-term objectives of integrating the two businesses.
The setting of the definitive performance targets for 2009 will be completed in time for publication prior to the Annual General Meeting.
The committee will continue to engage with shareholders during this time and will share the detail of the performance targets once they are finalised.
Performance targets will be set by reference to analysts expectations, internal business plans, competitive performance assessments and probability modelling.
Stretch performance will be equated to the remuneration committees assessment of an upper quartile performance level or greater.
Non-financial targets will be fully disclosed, and payments against them justified, in the year of vesting.
The detailed rationale for the proposed measures is set out below.
EARNINGS PER SHARE APPLyING TO AWARD OF 60 PER CENT OF SALARy, BEING HALF THE REGULAR LTIP AWARD Earnings per share continues to be an important measure of our profitability and ability to generate cash at a point in time.
The committee has therefore decided to retain this well-recognised measure in our incentive system.
ECONOMIC PROFIT APPLyING TO AWARD OF 60 PER CENT OF SALARy, BEING HALF THE REGULAR LTIP AWARD Economic profit has been used as a performance measure within Lloyds TSB for a number of years.
It has been very successful at introducing a long-term, risk-based approach to managing our business.
Given the increasing focus now being placed on risk-adjusted measures by shareholders and regulators, adoption of this established measure into the LTIP is felt by the committee to be a further enhancement of the alignment between our remuneration and business strategy.
Our economic profit measure is a through-the-cycle measure, which encourages prudent risk management of our portfolio, considering the impact of decisions over an entire economic cycle.
Economic profit replaces relative total shareholder return within the LTIP.
The committee is of the view that at the current time, with extreme market volatility and the level of disruption in our peer group, TSR is not a robust performance measure.
Moreover, the committee is concerned that relative TSR measures may not have been supportive of sound risk management policies during economic upswings.
Indeed, such a measure can encourage a strategic herd mentality, with banks encouraged to take on more risk in order to improve the prospects of significantly out-performing their peers.
Economic profit, by measuring risk-adjusted performance with targets reflecting the Companys specific risk appetite, is, in the view of the committee, a better incentive for sustainable performance.
The committee is aware that some shareholders favour relative TSR as a measure, and so will further consider its role for long-term incentive awards in 2010 and beyond during the review to be carried out later in 2009.
However, it is the view of the committee that an economic profit measure is better aligned with the Financial Services Authoritys draft Code of Practice criteria.
82 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2008 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT continued SyNERGy TARGETS APPLyING TO AWARD OF 40 PER CENT OF SALARy, BEING 50 PER CENT OF THE INTEGRATION AWARD The Integration Award naturally includes a component relating to the achievement of our 1.5 billion synergy goal by the end of 2011.
However, in order to demonstrate the credibility of our integration to the market, it is important that the trajectory of achieving the synergies, and the cost of achievement, are well balanced.
Therefore, the synergy element will include targets for synergy savings in 2009 and 2010 although awards will not ultimately vest until the end of 2011, and will be subject to an assessment by the remuneration committee at that point that the synergies have been achieved on a sustainable basis.
INTEGRATION BALANCED SCORECARD APPLyING TO AWARD OF 40 PER CENT OF SALARy, BEING 50 PER CENT OF THE INTEGRATION AWARD The committee believes that an excessive focus on financial targets can potentially reward short-term actions that are detrimental to the long-term health of the business.
For this reason a balanced scorecard has been operated in the annual incentive plan for a number of years, with great success.
The committee has decided that this success should be built upon by measuring part of the 2009 LTIP on a long-term balanced scorecard of non-financial measures underpinning the success of the integration over 2009 to 2011.
These measures will be grouped under the categories by which the integration is being managed: Risk Customer People Build business These measures are distinct from the similarly named areas under the annual incentive plan.
The annual incentive measures focus on excellence of performance in business as usual activities.
The non-financial measures in the integration balanced scorecard are specific to the integration.
There is a major change programme to be undertaken within HBOS, particularly in relation to systems and processes for measuring and managing risk.
The integration balanced scorecard will be built around outperformance of this change agenda.
PENSION In April 2012, all executive directors will transition to defined contribution pension arrangements with contributions of 25 per cent of base salary for the chief executive and other executive directors, with no compensation for ceasing final salary accrual.
FURTHER REVIEW OF EXECUTIVE REMUNERATION DURING 2009 The committee recognises that the above proposals for executive remuneration for 2009 are being made at a time of high uncertainty and great volatility, and therefore the committee has decided to undertake a further review of executive remuneration during 2009.
This is to ensure that the overall positioning of remuneration remains appropriate when compared with the external market and ensures that the Lloyds Banking Group is able to attract and retain the high calibre of talent needed to lead the combined Group, while reflecting latest trends in the sector and any updated guidance from shareholders and regulators.
The committee will continue to engage with shareholders during this review.
OTHER SHARE PLANS The executive directors and the chairman are also eligible to participate in the Groups sharesave scheme and the Groups shareplan.
These are all-employee share schemes.
CHAIRMANS REMUNERATION The chairmans remuneration comprises salary and benefits which are broadly similar to those extended to the executive directors.
However, he does not participate in the annual bonus and long-term incentive arrangements, nor is he entitled to pension benefits.
The chairmans salary is reviewed annually, usually in December, taking into account performance and market information and then adjusted from 1 January of the following year.
No adjustments will be made from 1 January 2009 and his salary remains unchanged at 640,000.
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Group profile 1 Summary of Group results 10 The board 66 Report of the independent Shareholder information 191 auditors on the consolidated Chairmans statement 2 Divisional results 18 Directors report 68 Index to annual report 192 financial statements 96 Group chief executives review 4 Corporate responsibility 36 Corporate governance 70 Financial calendar 2009 195 Consolidated financial Group chief executives Q&A 6 Our people 40 Directors remuneration report 74 statements 97 Marketplace trends 8 Risk management 42 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 102 Five year financial summary 65 Report of the independent auditors on the parent company financial statements 182 Parent company financial statements 183 83 Notes to the parent Lloyds Banking Group company financial statements 186 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS FEES The fees of the independent non-executive directors are agreed by the board within a total amount determined by the shareholders.
To accommodate a potentially larger board following the acquisition of HBOS, a resolution was passed at the General Meeting on 19 November 2008 to increase this amount to 1 million.
Directors may also receive fees, agreed by the board, for membership of board committees.
The fees are designed to recognise the various responsibilities of a non-executive directors role and to attract individuals with relevant skills, knowledge and experience.
The fees are neither performance related nor pensionable and are comparable with those paid by other companies.
The annual fees from 1 January 2009 are unchanged and are listed below.
Board 65,000 Audit committee chairmanship 50,000 Audit committee membership 20,000 Nomination committee membership 5,000 Remuneration committee chairmanship 30,000 Remuneration committee membership 15,000 Risk oversight committee membership 15,000 Independent non-executive directors who serve on the boards of subsidiary companies may also receive fees from the subsidiaries.
The fees paid in 2008 to the current non-executive directors are shown in the table below: REMUNERATION FOR 2008 2008 ANNUAL INCENTIVE SCHEME The annual incentive scheme for executive directors is designed to reflect specific goals linked to the performance of the business.
Incentive awards for executive directors are based upon individual contribution and overall corporate results.
Half of the incentive opportunity is driven by corporate performance based on the stretching budget relating to profit before tax and economic profit.
The level of achievement against the targets for profit before tax and economic profit that results in the lower payout will determine the exent to which the target has been met.
The other half of the incentive opportunity is determined by divisional achievement driven through individual performance.
Individual targets relevant to improving overall business performance are contained in a balanced scorecard and are grouped under the following headings: Financial Franchise growth Customer service Risk People development These targets are weighted differently for each of the executive directors, reflecting differing strategic priorities.
The non-financial measures include key performance indicators relating to process efficiency, service quality and employee engagement.
The maximum annual incentive opportunity is 200 per cent 225 per cent for Mr Daniels of basic salary for the achievement of exceptional performance targets.
The maximum payment under the corporate half of the annual incentive is only available if exceptional performance is achieved against the stretching corporate budget.
An amount equal to 50 per cent of this element of the incentive is available on the achievement of the stretching corporate budget.
Failure to achieve at least 90 per cent of the stretching budget would result in no payment under the corporate half of the incentive.
In recognition of the current environment, the executive directors have elected not to receive any annual incentive in respect of 2008.
84 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2008 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT continued LONG-TERM INCENTIVE PLANS 2008 LONG-TERM INCENTIVE PLAN AWARDS In 2008, following shareholder consultation, three directors were granted enhanced awards of 375 per cent of basic salary.
This was to ensure that for these directors, where there was a concern about retention, we continued to provide a fully market competitive remuneration framework.
Details of the plan, including the specific performance conditions, can be found on page 93.
Scottish Widows Services Ltd. DILUTION LIMITS The following charts illustrate the shares available for the Groups share schemes.
ALL SCHEMES 10% IN ANY CONSECUTIVE 10 YEARS 2008 347.1 250.2 0 2007 197.1 367.7 EXECUTIVE SCHEMES 5% IN ANY CONSECUTIVE 10 YEARS 2008 35.6 263.0 Shares used million 0 2007 20.6 261.8 Shares available million PENSIONS Executive directors are either entitled to participate in the Groups defined benefit pension schemes based on salary and length of service, with a maximum pension of two thirds of final salary, or the Groups defined contribution scheme under which their pension entitlement will be based upon both employer and employee contributions.
The defined benefit schemes are closed to new entrants on recruitment.
Pension accruals under the defined benefits scheme for Messrs Daniels and Kane will continue until April 2012.
Thereafter they will have the opportunity to either participate in a defined contribution scheme or to receive a cash supplement with no compensation for ceasing final salary accrual.
There is no entitlement to an immediate and unreduced pension should their employment be terminated before the normal date of retirement.
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Group profile 1 Summary of Group results 10 The board 66 Report of the independent Shareholder information 191 auditors on the consolidated Chairmans statement 2 Divisional results 18 Directors report 68 Index to annual report 192 financial statements 96 Group chief executives review 4 Corporate responsibility 36 Corporate governance 70 Financial calendar 2009 195 Consolidated financial Group chief executives Q&A 6 Our people 40 Directors remuneration report 74 statements 97 Marketplace trends 8 Risk management 42 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 102 Five year financial summary 65 Report of the independent auditors on the parent company financial statements 182 Parent company financial statements 183 85 Notes to the parent Lloyds Banking Group company financial statements 186 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 SERVICE AGREEMENTS The Groups policy is for executive directors to have service agreements with notice periods of no more than one year.
All current executive directors are entitled to receive 12 months notice from the Group, but would be required to give six months notice if they wished to leave.
Executive directors normally retire at age 60.
However, following the implementation of The Employment Equality Age Regulations 2006, they may now choose to delay their retirement until age 65.
It is the Groups policy that where compensation on early termination is due, it should be paid on a phased basis, mitigated in the event that alternative employment is secured, and that bonus payments should relate to the period of actual service, rather than the full notice period, and will be determined on the basis of performance.
Any entitlements under the pension scheme or equity plans will be in accordance with the scheme rules on leaving.
Notice to be given by the Company Date of service agreement letter of appointment Sir Victor Blank 6 months 25 January 2006 J E Daniels 12 months 22 January 2009 A G Kane 12 months 23 January 2009 G T Tate 12 months 9 February 2009 T J W Tookey 12 months 26 January 2009 H A Weir 12 months 21 January 2009 Former directors who served during 2008 T A Dial 12 months 23 May 2005 M E Fairey 12 months 28 August 1991 Independent non-executive directors do not have service agreements and their appointment may be terminated, in accordance with the articles of association, at any time without compensation.
EXTERNAL APPOINTMENTS The Group recognises that executive directors may be invited to become non-executive directors of other companies and that these appointments may broaden their knowledge and experience, to the benefit of the Group.
Fees are normally retained by the individual directors as the post entails personal responsibility.
Executive directors are generally allowed to accept one non-executive directorship.
During 2008, Mr Daniels and Mrs Weir received fees of 54,718 and 42,500 respectively, which were retained by them, for serving as non-executive directors of other companies.
PERFORMANCE GRAPH The graph below illustrates the performance of the Group measured by TSR against a broad equity market index over the past five years.
The Group has been a constituent of the FTSE 100 index throughout this five year period.
TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN FTSE 100 INDEX 150 125 100 75 50 25 0 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 Lloyds TSB Group plc Rebased to 100 on 31 December 2003 FTSE 100 Index Source: Datastream 86 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2008 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT continued AUDITED INFORMATION DIRECTORS EMOLUMENTS FOR 2008 PerformanceOther benefits Salaries related 2008 2007 fees Cash Non-cash payments Total Total 1 2 3 000 000 000 000 000 000 Current directors who served during 2008 Executive directors J E Daniels 1,035 108 8 1,151 2,884 A G Kane 590 22 23 635 1,377 G T Tate 640 25 24 689 1,386 T J W Tookey from 30.10.08 104 4 108 H A Weir 625 95 22 742 1,586 Non-executive directors Sir Victor Blank 640 12 17 669 661 W C G Berndt 100 100 90 Ewan Brown 122 122 151 J P du Plessis 119 119 80 P N Green 100 100 56 Sir Julian Horn-Smith 100 100 95 Lord Leitch 165 165 130 Sir David Manning from 01.05.08 67 67 C J McCall from 01.10.08 16 16 M A Scicluna from 01.09.08 33 33 Former directors who served during 2008 M E Fairey until 30.6.
08 340 128 2 470 1,995 Others 124 5,111 412 100 5,623 12,055 Notes: 1 The cash column under other benefits includes flexible benefits payments 4 per cent of basic salary, the tax planning and education allowances for Mr Daniels, the housing allowance and pension scheme allowance for Ms Dial paid until 30.6.
08, payments to certain directors who elect to take cash rather than a company car under the car scheme and the cash balance of a pension allowance for Mrs Weir.
Sir Victor Blank has elected to take cash rather than a company car.
2 The non cash column includes amounts relating to the use of a company car, use of a company driver and private medical insurance.
It also includes the value of any matching shares which are received under the terms of Shareplan, through which employees have the opportunity to purchase shares up to a maximum of 125 per month and receive matching shares on a one for one basis up to a maximum value of 30 per month, rounded down to the nearest whole share.
3 The executive directors waived their entitlement to any bonus in respect of the 2008 performance.
There will be no free shares award under Shareplan in respect of 2008.
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Group profile 1 Summary of Group results 10 The board 66 Report of the independent Shareholder information 191 auditors on the consolidated Chairmans statement 2 Divisional results 18 Directors report 68 Index to annual report 192 financial statements 96 Group chief executives review 4 Corporate responsibility 36 Corporate governance 70 Financial calendar 2009 195 Consolidated financial Group chief executives Q&A 6 Our people 40 Directors remuneration report 74 statements 97 Marketplace trends 8 Risk management 42 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 102 Five year financial summary 65 Report of the independent auditors on the parent company financial statements 182 Parent company financial statements 183 87 Notes to the parent Lloyds Banking Group company financial statements 186 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 AUDITED INFORMATION WAIVED FEES For the period 1 January 30 June 2008, Mr Fairey waived fees payable to him as a director of Lloyds TSB Group Pension Trust No.
1 Limited and Lloyds TSB Group Pension Trust No.
For the period 1 July 31 December 2008, Mr Fairey received fees payable to him as a director and chairman of the Lloyds TSB Group Pension Trust No.
Mr Brown waived fees payable to him as a director and chairman of Lloyds TSB Group Pension Trust No.
2 Limited for the period 1 January 30 June 2008, which totalled 7,000 in 2008 2007: 15,500 waived.
DIRECTORS PENSIONS The executive directors are currently members of one of the pension schemes provided by the Lloyds TSB Group with benefits either on a defined benefit or defined contribution basis.
Those directors who joined the Lloyds TSB Group after 1 June 1989 and are members of a defined benefit scheme have pensions provided on salary in excess of the earnings cap either through membership of a funded unapproved retirement benefits scheme FURBS or by an unfunded pension promise.
Retirement pensions accrue at rates of between 1 60 and 1 30 of basic salary.
For those directors who are members of a defined pension scheme, pension will continue to accrue until 5 April 2012.
On 6 April 2012, defined benefit pension accrual will cease and directors will be offered the option to participate in the defined contribution pension scheme in operation at that date.
Alternatively, they may choose not to join the scheme and elect to receive a pension cash allowance.
Directors have a normal retirement age of 60.
In the event of death in service, a lump sum of four times salary is payable plus, for members of a defined benefit scheme, a spouses pension of two-thirds of the members prospective pension.
On death in retirement, a spouses pension of two-thirds of the members pension is payable.
The defined benefit schemes are non-contributory.
Members of defined contribution schemes are required to contribute.
DEFINED CONTRIBUTION SCHEME MEMBERS During the year to 31 December 2008 from 30 October 2008 for Mr Tookey, the employer has made the following 000 contributions to the defined contribution scheme: G T Tate 128 T J W Tookey 23 H A Weir 56 DEFINED BENEFIT SCHEME MEMBERS Additional Accrued Accrued Transfer Transfer pension pension at pension at Change in value at value at Change in earned to Transfer 31 December 31 December accrued 31 December 31 December transfer 31 December value of the 2008 2007 pension 2008 2007 value 2008 increase 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 a b a - b c d c - d e f J E Daniels 175 147 28 3,263 2,878 385 23 428 A G Kane 342 305 37 6,146 5,701 445 25 449 M E Fairey 339 322 17 n a 7,469 n a n a n a Pension as at 30 June 2008 i. e. normal retirement date.
The disclosures in columns a to d are as required by the Companies Act 1985 Schedule 7A.
Columns a and b represent the deferred pension to which the directors would have been entitled had they left the Group on 31 December 2008 and 2007, respectively.
Column c is the transfer value of the deferred pension in column a calculated as at 31 December 2008 based on factors supplied by the actuary of the relevant Lloyds TSB Group pension scheme.
The basic method used to arrive at the factors has not changed during the year, although minor adjustments have been made following the introduction of new requirements applicable to transfer calculations effective from 2008.
Column d is the equivalent transfer value, but calculated as at 31 December 2007 on the assumption that the director left service at that date.
Column e is the increase in pension built up during the year, recognising i the accrual rate for the additional service based on the pensionable salary in force at the year end, and ii where appropriate the effect of pay changes in real inflation adjusted terms on the pension already earned at the start of the year.
Column f is the capital value of the pension in column e. 88 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2008 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT continued AUDITED INFORMATION The disclosures in columns e and f are as required by the UK Listing Authority listing rules.
The requirements of the listing rules differ from those of the Companies Act.
The listing rules require the additional pension earned over the year to be calculated as the difference between the pension accrued at the end of the financial year and the pension accrued at the start of the financial year less the increase in the pension earned over the year solely due to inflation.
The transfer value in column f can differ significantly from the change in transfer value as required by the Companies Act because the additional pension accrued over the year calculated in accordance with the listing rules makes allowance for inflation, and the change in the transfer value required by the Companies Act will be significantly influenced by changes in the assumptions underlying the transfer value calculation at the beginning and end of the financial year.
Members of the Lloyds TSB Groups pension schemes have the option to pay additional voluntary contributions: neither the contributions nor the resulting benefits are included in the above table.
Major changes to the legislation governing the provision of pensions in the UK known as pension simplification came into effect in April 2006.
Benefits from an approved pension scheme will be limited to the Lifetime Allowance, currently 1.65 million which is equivalent to an annual pension of 82,500.
Any benefit in excess of this amount will incur a tax charge for the individual.
The Group has agreed that if an executive director has benefits in excess of the Lifetime Allowance they may cease to accrue benefits in the Scheme and receive a salary supplement as an alternative.
This will not cost the Group more than the current arrangements.
The Group will not compensate any individual in respect of any increased tax liability arising from pension simplification.
To date, the executive directors affected have elected to continue to accrue benefits in the approved scheme.
FORMER DIRECTORS WHO SERVED DURING 2008 Ms Dial elected to become a member of the pension scheme for life cover only.
Mr Fairey retired as at 30 June 2008 and took his non-approved benefit entitlement in the form of a lump sum in accordance with the scheme rules.
A tax free amount of 4.523 million was paid from the FURBS, with a further taxable amount of 2.446 million made by the bank from provisions set aside.
The total amount of 6.969 million covered the banks liability to provide benefits in respect of salary in excess of the earnings cap.
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Group profile 1 Summary of Group results 10 The board 66 Report of the independent Shareholder information 191 auditors on the consolidated Chairmans statement 2 Divisional results 18 Directors report 68 Index to annual report 192 financial statements 96 Group chief executives review 4 Corporate responsibility 36 Corporate governance 70 Financial calendar 2009 195 Consolidated financial Group chief executives Q&A 6 Our people 40 Directors remuneration report 74 statements 97 Marketplace trends 8 Risk management 42 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 102 Five year financial summary 65 Report of the independent auditors on the parent company financial statements 182 Parent company financial statements 183 89 Notes to the parent Lloyds Banking Group company financial statements 186 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 DIRECTORS INTERESTS The interests, all beneficial, of those who were directors at 31 December 2008 in shares in Lloyds Banking Group were: SHARES At 1 January 2008 or later date of At 31 December At 26 February appointment 2008 2009 Executive directors J E Daniels 166,023 423,018 607,514 A G Kane 137,000 204,061 293,523 G T Tate 8,112 75,072 108,315 T J W Tookey 2,252 2,493 4,186 H A Weir 10,511 61,822 89,306 Non-executive directors Sir Victor Blank 200,000 301,199 433,528 W C G Berndt 170,000 170,000 243,899 Ewan Brown 4,677 95,074 136,402 J P du Plessis 10,000 50,000 71,735 P N Green 5,000 5,000 7,173 Sir Julian Horn-Smith 5,000 5,000 7,173 Lord Leitch 10,000 10,000 14,347 Sir David Manning 4,500 4,500 6,456 C J McCall M A Scicluna 10,000 14,461 The changes in beneficial interests between 31 December 2008 and 26 February 2009 related to applications made under the Placing and Open Offer, the Scheme of Arrangement relating to the acquisition of HBOS plc and partnership and matching shares acquired under the Lloyds TSB Group Shareplan.
b Executive option granted between March 1998 and August 1999. c Executive option granted between March 2000 and March 2001. d Executive option granted between March 2004 and August 2004. e Executive options granted from March 2005. f Exercisable to the extent at which the performance condition vested.
g Not exercisable as the performance conditions had not been met.
h Not exercisable as the option has not been held for the period required by the relevant scheme.
i Option lapsed on notice of resignation tendered prior to 31 May 2008. j Option lapsed as not exercised by 10th anniversary of date of grant.
k Mr Kane exercised his 2003A Sharesave option on 7 August 2008.
Market price on day of exercise was 318.75p.
In that regard Mr Kane made a gain of 2,009.59. l Exercisable Sharesave option.
Mr Fairey retired from the Group on 30 June 2008.
Mr Tookey was appointed to the board on 30 October 2008.
Ms Dial resigned from the board on 18 April 2008 and left the Group on 30 June 2008.
The market price for a share in the Company at 1 January 2008 and 31 December 2008 was 467.5p and 126p, respectively.
The range of prices between 1 January 2008 and 31 December 2008 was 118.5p to 483.1229p.
None of the other directors at 31 December 2008 had options to acquire shares in Lloyds TSB Group plc or its subsidiaries.
92 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2008 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT continued AUDITED INFORMATION The following table contains information on the performance conditions for executive options granted since 1998.
The remuneration committee chose the relevant performance condition because it was felt to be challenging, aligned to shareholders interests and appropriate at the time.
Options granted Performance conditions March 1998 August 1999 Growth in earnings per share which is equal to the aggregate percentage change in the retail price index plus two percentage points for each complete year of the relevant period plus a further condition that the Companys ranking based on TSR over the relevant period should be in the top 50 companies of the FTSE 100.
March 2000 March 2001 As for March 1998 August 1999 except that there must have been growth in the earnings per share equal to the change in the retail price index plus three percentage points for each complete year of the relevant period.
March 2004 August 2004 That the Companys ranking based on TSR over the relevant period against a comparator group 17 UK and international financial services companies including Lloyds TSB must be at least ninth, when 14 per cent of the option will be exercisable.
If the Company is ranked first in the group, then 100 per cent of the option will be exercisable and if ranked tenth or below the performance condition is not met.
Options granted in 2004 became exercisable as the performance condition was met on the re-test.
The performance condition vested at 24 per cent for Mr Tates March option and at 14 per cent for all other options granted to executive directors during 2004.
March 2005 August 2005 That the Companys ranking based on TSR over the relevant period against a comparator group 15 companies including Lloyds TSB must be at least eighth, when 30 per cent of the option will be exercisable.
If the Company is ranked first to fourth position in the group, then 100 per cent of the option will be exercisable and if ranked ninth or below, the performance condition is not met.
Options granted in 2005 became exercisable as the performance condition was met when tested.
The performance condition vested at 82.5 per cent for all options granted to executive directors.
LLOyDS TSB PERFORMANCE SHARE PLAN Under the plan, executive directors were required to defer 50 per cent of their bonus awards in 2005 and 2006 into shares in the Company, known as bonus shares.
The number of bonus shares awarded was calculated after the deduction of income tax and national insurance from the deferred element of the bonus.
The bonus shares are held on behalf of the executive for a period of three years before release.
Executives received a further award of performance shares on the basis of two performance shares for each bonus share.
The receipt of the performance shares is dependent on the satisfaction of a TSR performance condition measured over three financial years of the Company.
The following table details the number of bonus and performance shares released in respect of their 2004 bonus and the number of bonus and performance shares remaining under the plan relating to the 2005 bonus.
Performance Shares lapsed on resignation.
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Group profile 1 Summary of Group results 10 The board 66 Report of the independent Shareholder information 191 auditors on the consolidated Chairmans statement 2 Divisional results 18 Directors report 68 Index to annual report 192 financial statements 96 Group chief executives review 4 Corporate responsibility 36 Corporate governance 70 Financial calendar 2009 195 Consolidated financial Group chief executives Q&A 6 Our people 40 Directors remuneration report 74 statements 97 Marketplace trends 8 Risk management 42 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 102 Five year financial summary 65 Report of the independent auditors on the parent company financial statements 182 Parent company financial statements 183 93 Notes to the parent Lloyds Banking Group company financial statements 186 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 AUDITED INFORMATION The following table contains information on the performance conditions for performance shares.
Performance shares awarded Performance conditions March 2005 and March 2006 That the Companys ranking based on TSR over the relevant period against a comparator group 15 companies including Lloyds TSB must be at least eighth for any shares to be received.
If ranked ninth or below no shares would be received.
The maximum of two performance shares for each bonus share will be awarded only if the Company is first in the comparator group: one performance share will be awarded for each bonus share if the Company is placed fifth: and one performance share for every two bonus shares if the Company is placed eighth.
Between first and fifth positions and fifth and eighth positions a sliding scale will apply.
Whilst income tax was deducted from the deferred bonus before the conversion to bonus shares, where a match of performance shares is justified, these shares will be awarded as if income tax had not been deducted.
This maintains the original design of the plan prior to the issue of guidance from HM Revenue & Customs in December 2004.
The performance condition attached to the March 2005 award was met, with Lloyds TSB ranked in fifth place.
Bonus shares were released on 18 March 2008, with one performance share awarded for every bonus share.
Performance shares were released on 10 April 2008.
LLOyDS TSB LONG-TERM INCENTIVE PLAN The following are conditional share awards available under the plan.
Further information regarding this plan can be found on page 81.
b share price for the award made 4 April 2008 was 462.75p.
c Mr Faireys LTIP awards will continue to vesting dates, but will be pro-rated depending on the number of months worked during each award.
For the award made on 12 May 2006, this would be 30 months.
For the award made on 8 March 2007, the half subject to the EPS performance condition would be over 18 months and the half subject to the TSR performance condition would be over 16 months.
d Ms Dials LTIP awards lapsed following her resignation from the Group.
94 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2008 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT continued AUDITED INFORMATION The following table contains information on the performance conditions for awards made under the long-term incentive plan.
The remuneration committee chose the relevant performance conditions because they were felt to be challenging, aligned to shareholders interests and appropriate at the time.
LTIP award Performance conditions May 2006 For 50 per cent of the award the EPS Award the percentage increase in earnings per share of the Group on a compound annualised basis over the relevant period must be at least an average of 6 percentage points per annum greater than the percentage increase if any in the retail price index over the same period.
If it is less than 3 per cent per annum, the EPS Award will lapse.
If the increase is more than 3 but less than 6 per cent per annum, then the proportion of shares released will be on a straight line basis between 17.5 per cent and 100 per cent.
The relevant period commenced on 1 January 2006 and ended on 31 December 2008.
For the other 50 per cent of the award the TSR Award it will be necessary for the Companys TSR to exceed the median of a comparator group 14 companies over the relevant period by an average of 7.5 per cent per annum for the TSR Award to vest in full.
17.5 per cent of the TSR Award will vest where the Companys TSR is equal to median and vesting will occur on a straight line basis in between these points.
Where the Companys TSR is below the median of the comparator group, the TSR Award will lapse.
March 2007 For 50 per cent of the award the EPS Award the performance condition was as described for May 2006 with the relevant performance period commencing on 1 January 2007 and ending on 31 December 2009.
For the other 50 per cent of the award the TSR Award the performance condition was as described for May 2006 with the relevant performance period commencing on 8 March 2007 the date of award and ending on 7 March 2010.
March and April 2008 For 50 per cent of the award the EPS Award the performance condition was as described for May 2006 with the relevant performance period commencing on 1 January 2008 and ending on 31 December 2010.
For the other 50 per cent of the award the TSR Award the performance condition was as described for May 2006 with the relevant performance period commencing on 6 March 2008 the date of the March award and ending on 5 March 2011.
Alithos Limited provided information for the testing of the TSR performance conditions for the Companys long-term incentive schemes.
EPS is the Groups normalised earnings per share as shown in the Groups report and accounts, subject to such adjustments as the remuneration committee regards as necessary for consistency.
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Group profile 1 Summary of Group results 10 The board 66 Report of the independent Shareholder information 191 auditors on the consolidated Chairmans statement 2 Divisional results 18 Directors report 68 Index to annual report 192 financial statements 96 Group chief executives review 4 Corporate responsibility 36 Corporate governance 70 Financial calendar 2009 195 Consolidated financial Group chief executives Q&A 6 Our people 40 Directors remuneration report 74 statements 97 Marketplace trends 8 Risk management 42 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 102 Five year financial summary 65 Report of the independent auditors on the parent company financial statements 182 Parent company financial statements 183 95 Notes to the parent Lloyds Banking Group company financial statements 186 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 AUDITED INFORMATION OTHER SHARE PLAN Lloyds TSB Group executive share plan 2005.
Ms Dial was the only participant in this plan where an option was granted to her, in June 2005, to acquire 242,825 ordinary shares in Lloyds TSB Group plc for a total price of 1.
The option was not subject to any performance condition but would normally become exercisable only if she remained an employee, and had not given notice of resignation, on 31 May 2008.
The option lapsed on notice of resignation tendered prior to 31 May 2008.
Full details of the plan were set out in the 2005 annual report.
LLOyDS TSB GROUP EXECUTIVE SHARE PLAN 2003 Mr Tookey was granted an option under this plan to acquire 35,305 ordinary shares in Lloyds TSB Group plc.
The option was not subject to any performance condition but would normally become exercisable only if he remains an employee, and has not given notice of resignation, on 19 April 2009.
In addition, on 26 March 2008 prior to his appointment as an executive director, Mr Tookey was granted an award under the Lloyds TSB Executive Retention Plan 2006.
The award is satisfied in cash only and, subject to continued employment, gives Mr Tookey the right to receive an amount equal to the value of 108,342 Lloyds Banking Group Shares on the date of vesting.
The award vests as to 50 per cent on 26 March 2011 and 50 per cent on 26 March 2013.
Mr Tookey has agreed to reinvest the cash proceeds into Lloyds Banking Group Shares.
As an executive director, he is no longer eligible to be granted awards under this plan.
None of those who were directors at the end of the year had any other interest in the capital of Lloyds Banking Group plc or its subsidiaries.
The register of directors interests, which is open to inspection, contains full particulars of directors shareholdings and options to acquire shares in Lloyds Banking Group.
On behalf of the board Harry F Baines Company Secretary and General Counsel 26 February 2009
