GOVERNANCE | | Annual Report and Accounts 2008 RSA 49 Remuneration report The following report by the Remuneration Committee has been Members of the Committee have no personal financial interest, other approved by the Board for submission to the shareholders at the than as shareholders, in the Committees decisions and they have no 2009 AGM.
conflict of interest arising from cross directorships.
Fees for serving as a committee member and chairing committees of the Board are described Deloitte LLP have audited the following items stipulated in law for in the non-executive directors section of this report on page 56. their review: Advisors to the Remuneration Committee r The table of directors remuneration and associated footnotes on During the first half of 2008, the Committee obtained its principal page 57 and the disclosure of the items comprising benefits in kind advice from Hewitt New Bridge Street, who were appointed by the r The tables of defined benefit and defined contribution pensions on Committee and provided no other services to the Company during the pages 57 to 58 and associated footnotes year.
In July, the Committee reviewed the appointment of its advisers r The table of disclosure of directors share options and share awards and, after presentations to the Committee, appointed Towers Perrin on pages 58 to 61 and associated footnotes.
LLP as its principal advisers.
In addition to providing independent advice to the Committee, Towers Perrin LLP provide broad reward advice to In constitution and operation the Committee complies fully with the the Company and will continue to do so in 2009.
Combined Code as appended to the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority and as described in the corporate governance section of this The terms of engagement for the remuneration consultants are available report, on page 44. to shareholders on request and on our website at www.
Principal duties of the Remuneration Committee The Group CEO is invited to attend all meetings of the Committee to The Committee is a formal committee of the Board and is accountable to provide context and advice to the Committee on Group strategy and shareholders through its annual remuneration report, which is voted on performance and senior executive pay strategy.
The Group Human at the AGM, and remains committed to reflecting the best interests of Resources Director and the Group Director, Reward and Recognition shareholders and to the pursuit of best practice in remuneration policy.
normally attend meetings to provide information on wider remuneration strategy and practice within the Group.
In 2008 the Chairman was The Committees principal duties are as follows: invited to attend meetings as appropriate and became a member of the Committee with effect from 1 January 2009.
The General Counsel and r The determination of the terms and conditions and remuneration Group Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee.
None of the Chairman of the Board and the executive directors of the non Committee attendees are present as of right, and do not attend when their own remuneration is discussed.
r Overseeing the operation of the Companys share based long term incentive schemes, including approving the value and timing of awards and overseeing the operation of performance conditions Activities of the Remuneration Committee r Consideration of, and advice to the Board on, the Groups broader The continuing focus of the Committee is the maintenance of a strong remuneration policy in relation to senior executives reporting to the link between performance and reward.
It is the Committees view that Group CEO the Executive Team.
the interests of shareholders are best served by ensuring a remuneration structure which has a significant element of performance related pay, The Committee presents a summary of its principal activities to and reinforces the culture of high performance and accountability that shareholders through this report, and the Committee Chairman attends applies at all levels throughout the Group.
the AGM to answer questions from shareholders on the activities of the Committee and its remuneration policies.
The Committee is required by its Terms of Reference to meet at least twice each year, but meets as often as necessary throughout the year to The Committees responsibilities are set out in its terms of reference ensure that it is able to fully report to the Board and shareholders on all which are available to shareholders on request and on our website at relevant matters.
In 2008, the Committee met eight times and discussed, www.
The Committee welcomes ongoing dialogue with amongst other things, the issues described below.
In February, the Committee approved the 2007 remuneration Membership of the Remuneration Committee report, determined the outcome of annual bonuses for 2007 in During the year the directors who served on the Committee were the light of actual performance against agreed goals and objectives, John Maxwell Chairman, Edward Lea and Malcolm Le May.
and reviewed the proposed annual objectives and performance goals for executive directors in 2008.
They also reviewed the All of the non-executive directors on the Committee were determined effectiveness of the Remuneration Committee.
At its meeting in by the Board to be independent.
The attendance of members in 2008 April, the Remuneration Committee reviewed the base salaries is shown in the table on page 45. of the executive directors and reviewed a forecast of share usage | | 50 RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Remuneration report continued for Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP awards in 2008.
When the Remuneration review Committee met in July it approved LTIP awards to be granted in The Committee wishes to ensure that the structure of remuneration for September 2008 and approved the grant of Sharesave awards for the senior executives is sufficiently compelling and aligned with practice 2008.
It also received presentations from independent advisers and in the organisations with which we compete for talent.
The Committee resolved to appoint Towers Perrin LLP as independent adviser to has reviewed variable remuneration for the executive directors, the the Committee.
In September the Committee reviewed the fees Executive Team and senior management and believes that adjusting our for the Chairman of the Board.
In October the members of the variable pay policy is appropriate and timely because: Committee received an update on market movements in executive director remuneration.
At its December meeting the Committee r The financial performance of the Group has been sustained and gave its approval to work being undertaken on share plans.
strong for a number of years, and the Group continues to deliver excellent results.
The Committee believes that performance linked Remuneration policy principles variable pay should be capable of delivering outstanding reward for The Committees remuneration policy is consistent with the high consistently outstanding performance performance culture across the Group.
The key principles which r Reward opportunities with a strong performance link are critical to underpin the remuneration policy are: retain our top executives in the current challenging business environment and r Total remuneration is set at a level which enables the recruitment, r Following a review of the market, it was clear that the variable pay retention and motivation of high quality executive talent opportunities at the Company were lower than those in comparator r There is a strong and visible link between remuneration companies and the Committee has approved a number of changes and performance to improve the Companys alignment with those companies.
r Executive remuneration and shareholder interests are strongly aligned.
This is reflected in the design of the LTIP, which provides The Committee has therefore resolved to: a co-investment opportunity r The observation of existing share ownership guidelines to further r Increase the on target and maximum cash bonus opportunity for the enhance the alignment of shareholder interests with those of executive directors the first increase in the annual bonus opportunity executive directors for over five years r Enhance the element of the bonus paid in the form of deferred shares, r Incentive arrangements are leveraged so that only exceptional from 25% of the total bonus to 33% of the total bonus performance attracts the highest levels of award r Increase the maximum value of Performance Shares granted under r A balance of short and long term performance is used, incorporating the LTIP for executive directors, but remaining within the limits measures of financial performance, delivery of shareholder value and approved by shareholders when the LTIP was introduced in 2006 and a robust assessment of personal contribution r Remuneration policy and practice is transparent to shareholders r Improve the robustness of the guidelines for executives shareholdings.
r That, where relevant, there is consideration of environmental, social and governance risks when determining remuneration for executive Additionally, the performance conditions applying to share awards directors and senior managers to ensure that positive behaviours granted under the LTIP were reviewed and the Committee resolved are reinforced.
to adjust the ratio of shares subject to the return on equity ROE and total shareholder return TSR performance conditions.
Further details on each of the above changes is set out in the relevant section of this report.
GOVERNANCE | | Annual Report and Accounts 2008 RSA 51 Elements of remuneration Remuneration for executive directors in 2009 will consist of the four principal elements described in the table below, of which only base salary is pensionable: Remuneration Purpose Delivery Policy detail Base salary To reflect the market r Cash r Reviewed annually, changes effective from 1 April value of the role and the r Monthly r Benchmarked against equivalent roles in similar skills and experience of r Pensionable companies and with reference to the sustained the individual performance of the executive Annual To incentivise the delivery r Maximum opportunity of 180% of base salary r Financial targets are measured against combined performance of annual goals at Group, r One third of the annual bonus received is to operating ratio for Group and business areas bonus business area and be in the form of compulsory Deferred r Individual targets are approved by the individual levels Shares under the LTIP Remuneration Committee r Annual r Up to a further 33% of net cash bonus paid may r Non pensionable be reinvested in voluntarily Deferred Shares under the LTIP LTIP To reward the creation r Performance Shares subject to stretching r Discretionary awards of sustained growth in performance conditions r Participation reviewed annually shareholder value r Matching Shares awarded linked to Deferred r ROE measure, together with TSR performance Shares, also subject to performance conditions measured against a peer group of companies r Annual awards that may vest after three years r Full details of performance measures and vesting r Non pensionable described on page 61 Pension To provide appropriate r Deferred income r Defined benefit scheme or defined contribution and competitive post r Paid monthly scheme, and or cash allowance in lieu of pension retirement benefits contributions This structure is replicated for other members of the Executive Team.
As an indication of the balance of remuneration, including long term incentives LTIs, the following charts illustrate the remuneration attributable to the continuing executive directors over the year excluding allowances and pension provision : Andy Haste George Culmer Simon Lee SALARY SALARY SALARY 24% 25% 21% LTIs LTIs LTIs 48% 46% 55% BONUS BONUS BONUS 28% 29% 24% For the purposes of the charts, the bonus value is based on the cash bonus plus the fair value of the compulsory Deferred Shares.
The LTI value is based on the fair value of awards of Performance Shares and half of the maximum potential number of Matching Shares that may vest subject to performance relating to voluntary and compulsory Deferred Shares under the LTIP.
Details of how the fair values have been calculated are set out in note 27 on page 118.
| | 52 RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Remuneration report continued Base salary the previous level of bonus provision was considerably below the Policy: Base salary is set with reference to equivalent roles in similar median levels of opportunity provided to executive directors in the companies and the sustained performance of the executive.
Consequently, the Committee decided that, from 2009 the Base salaries for executive directors and members of the Executive on target and maximum annual bonus opportunity would be increased Team are set on appointment with reference to market data.
from 66.5% of base salary at on target level, and 133% of base salary at a maximum level, to 90% of base salary at the on target level, and 180% To enable the Group to compete for the most talented executives, the of base salary as a maximum.
Committee relates base salary levels to the median level for equivalent roles in similar companies facing similar levels of complexity and challenge Deferred shares remain an important element of the total bonus and in the UK and internationally.
In the UK, the comparator group most the proportion of deferred shares is to be increased from 25% of the frequently used is a selected group of financial services companies within total bonus payable, to 33% of the total bonus.
If the stretching targets the FTSE 100.
The Committee also has regard to levels of base pay required to achieve on target level are achieved, executive directors within European and international companies.
receive a cash bonus of up to 60% of base salary and Deferred Shares worth up to 30% of base salary.
For outstanding performance, a cash The Committee is alert to market concerns surrounding base pay bonus of up to 120% of base salary and Deferred Shares worth up to increases and closely monitors basic pay and total remuneration for 60% of base salary are achievable.
Deferred Shares are described in the executive directors in the light of both the market and individual and section headed share based long term incentive awards below.
corporate performance, as well as the levels of pay increases available for all employees.
The Committee is confident that the structures and The targets used for determining the amount of bonus payable are a processes in place for reviewing annual salary increases are robust.
combination of stretching business performance targets and the results of a structured assessment of each executives performance against In 2008, base salaries were primarily reviewed on the basis of market detailed and specific personal objectives.
The Committee analysed the remuneration details of a comparator group comprising 14 FTSE 100 financial services companies Financial targets are measured against combined operating ratio COR and awards salary increases with reference to the median position for targets which are the preferred measures for the Group.
COR is the single indicator which most fully captures the underlying strength and equivalent roles in that group.
performance of an insurance business.
To achieve focused incentivisation, for each executive director financial targets are weighted towards the The 2008 salary review process resulted in the following increases, area of the business for which they have primary responsibility.
effective from 1 April 2008, for the continuing executive directors as at 31 December 2008 : The financial targets that apply to the annual performance bonus for Position Increase Base salary Andy Haste and George Culmer are a combination of targets relating Andy Haste Group CEO 6.4% 910,000 to the overall Group COR result and the COR results of the regional George Culmer Chief Financial Officer 10.4% 530,000 operating businesses.
The financial targets for Simon Lees annual Simon Lee International CEO 9.9% 408,000 performance bonus are weighted towards the International business while also retaining a target for the Group COR result as a whole.
The increase in base salary reflected movement in the relevant executive pay market at that time and the performance of the individual.
Personal targets are reviewed and approved by the Committee early in The following table sets out the base salaries of UK based executives the financial year.
The Group CEOs performance is assessed annually by below Board level on a banded basis as at 31 December 2008.
No such the Chairman of the Board and members of the Committee.
The Group executive received a base salary in excess of 360,000.
CEO carries out a similar assessment for each of his direct reports, subject to review and sign off by the Committee in the case of executive Base salary range Number of employees directors.
Assessments also take account of appropriate leadership style 250,001 and over 15 and each executive receives a performance rating against the standard 200,001 - 250,000 11 scale used at all levels in the business.
150,001 - 200,000 38 Bonuses paid to executive directors in respect of the performance year Annual performance bonus 2008 are included in the table of directors emoluments on page 57.
Policy: Bonus payments are related to stretching performance targets The Remuneration Committee is satisfied that the bonus payments and are capped at 180% of base salary.
For maximum bonuses to be made in respect of 2008 reflect the consistently strong COR results achieved outstanding performance must be demonstrated.
across the Group throughout 2008, and the contribution made by each As part of the review of total remuneration, the Committee reviewed executive director.
the on target and maximum bonus opportunities for executive directors.
After a detailed review of the market, the Committee considered that GOVERNANCE | | Annual Report and Accounts 2008 RSA 53 UK based executives who are members of the Top 100 participate in a 150% of base salary, for outstanding personal performance, as approved bonus plan which is structured in the same way and measured using the by shareholders when the LTIP was introduced in 2006. same metrics as the plan described above.
For outstanding performance a cash bonus of up to 80% of base salary and Deferred Shares worth up Account will be taken of personal performance in determining the scale to 33% of the cash bonus are achievable.
of the award to each executive director and members of the Executive Team.
For executives below this level, awards are made based on a Executives are also offered the opportunity to voluntarily invest up to formula which relates the size of award to performance and potential, 33% of the cash element of their bonus into Deferred Shares.
as measured through the annual performance appraisal process.
In 2008 under the LTIP an award of Matching Shares was made on a In any year, the face value of Performance Shares granted to any pro rata basis to the Deferred Shares.
Matching Shares may vest subject individual will be limited to 150% of base salary in normal circumstances to the performance conditions described on page 61 of this report.
subject to an overriding cap of 250% of base salary in exceptional circumstances such as an executive recruitment.
The Committee reserves the right to reduce the permissible investment below this level.
However, the LTIP will continue to operate on the same Performance Shares will vest after three years subject to the terms in 2009. performance condition see below and provided the individual remains in employment with the Group other than in exceptional circumstances Share based long term incentive awards such as death or retirement at normal retirement age.
Policy: To provide annual share awards to executives to ensure alignment with shareholder interests solely through the LTIP.
Deferred Shares Except in exceptional circumstances, no other discretionary As described in the annual performance bonus section on page 52, share plan will be used to make awards.
executive directors, members of the Executive Team and the Top 100 Prior to the approval of the LTIP, two share incentive plans may be granted Deferred Shares as part of the annual bonus.
These were operated: Deferred Shares may not be withdrawn and will normally vest three years from the date of grant subject to continued employment with r The 2004 Share Matching Plan, which was designed to operate for the Group.
The final awards under this plan were made in 2005 r The Executive Share Option Scheme ESOS.
Regular awards under In addition executives may invest an additional portion of bonus in the ESOS were discontinued from 2006.
The ESOS plan rules expire Deferred Shares on a voluntary basis.
Voluntary Deferred Shares are not in 2009.
It is proposed that a renewed Executive Share Option at risk of forfeiture and may be withdrawn at any time but the right to Scheme will be put to shareholders at the 2009 AGM.
As with the Matching Shares would lapse on those Deferred Shares withdrawn.
ESOS, it is intended that the new plan will initially be used only in exceptional circumstances, such as executive recruitment.
Conditional awards of Matching Shares Performance conditions will attach to all options granted under Executives may receive a conditional award of Matching Shares pro rata to the number of Deferred Shares held.
At threshold performance the the new ESOS, and will be determined by the Committee at the matching ratio will be 0.625:1.
The maximum matching ratio for Matching appropriate time.
Shares:Deferred Shares will be 2.5:1, calculated on the gross value of the bonus invested in Deferred Shares.
Details of the performance condition The primary long term incentive is the LTIP, the key features of which used are described below.
and associated policies are summarised in the sections below.
Executive directors, members of the Executive Team and the Top 100 Awards under the LTIP will be funded through a combination of new will be eligible for awards of Matching Shares.
issues and shares purchased in the market.
Matching Shares will vest after three years subject to the performance Conditional awards of Performance Shares condition see below and provided the individual remains in Participants may receive a conditional award of shares with the grant employment with the Group other than in exceptional circumstances level and performance condition determined by the Committee prior to each grant.
Executive directors, members of the Executive Team and such as death or retirement at normal retirement age.
the Top 100 will be eligible for awards of Performance Shares.
As part of the review of total remuneration, the Committee considered the value Performance conditions of Performance Shares that are granted annually to executive directors.
The Committee will determine the performance condition for each After a review of the market, the Committee decided to revise its policy grant of Performance Shares and Matching Shares, with performance of capping Performance Share awards for executive directors at 100% of measured over a single period of three years with no provision to retest.
base salary, and will now permit awards of Performance Shares of up to In 2009 grants of Performance Shares and Matching Shares related to | | 54 RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Remuneration report continued non voluntarily Deferred Shares will be subject to a performance During 2008, trading in Fortis shares was suspended and the Committee condition consisting of a combination of ROE and TSR targets.
resolved to remove Fortis from the comparator group for the purpose of measuring TSR performance for awards made in 2006, 2007 and While the ROE and TSR performance measures will continue to be 2008.
The Committee reviews, on an ongoing basis, the composition used, the weighting of performance measures for long term incentive of the comparator group and will consider adding companies for future awards granted in 2009 is to be amended.
ROE will be given greater awards in the event that the number of constituent companies drops prominence than relative TSR, to underline our commitment to below an acceptable level.
improving the returns that we generate on our balance sheet.
The vesting of 70% of the LTIP awards will be based on ROE performance The Groups TSR will be independently calculated and verified by the and 30% on relative TSR performance with the exception of Matching Committee for the purposes of awards made in 2009 under the LTIP.
Shares attaching to voluntarily Deferred Shares, the vesting of which will remain dependent solely on the ROE performance condition.
The vesting of Matching Shares related to voluntarily Deferred Shares will be determined solely by the ROE performance condition.
r 70% of the shares comprising the award will vest according to ROE performance.
In 2008, the Remuneration Committee approved an ROE has been selected as the measure of financial performance as it is increase in the ROE performance targets for awards made in that year, one of the key measures of overall business performance and is visible so that if underlying average annual ROE over three years commencing externally to shareholders.
with the financial year of grant is below 12% 10% for awards made in 2006 and 2007, no part of the award subject to the ROE performance The TSR performance condition has been designed to provide alignment condition will vest.
If underlying average annual ROE over three years is between executive remuneration and shareholder interests and to 12% 10% for awards made in 2006 and 2007, 25% of the award will ensure that an element of the package is linked directly to share price vest.
If underlying average annual ROE over three years is 18% 16% for performance.
The comparator group has been selected to ensure that awards made in 2006 and 2007, 100% of the award will vest.
Vesting performance is compared fairly against a group of similar companies will be on a straight line basis in between.
Underlying ROE will exclude operating in a similar competitive environment.
The use of ROE and TSR items of an exceptional nature which in the view of the Committee do in combination provides a balanced approach to the measurement of not reflect the underlying performance of the business.
Company performance over the longer term.
For awards to be made in 2009, the ROE target range will return to Dilution that previously approved by shareholders of 10% to 16%.
If the average Dilution levels for all schemes are held strictly within the Association of annual ROE over three years is 10%, 25% of that element of the award British Insurers ABI limits 10% over 10 years for all schemes and 5% for will vest.
If underlying average ROE over three years is 16% or more, discretionary schemes.
The dilution levels compared to ABI limits as at all of this portion of the award will vest.
There will be a straight line 31 December 2008 were: vesting scale between these two points.
ABI limit RSA dilution 10% over 10 years for all share schemes 5.10% r 30% of the shares comprising the award will vest according to TSR 5% over 10 years for discretionary schemes 3.09% performance against a comparator group of UK and international financial services companies.
Below median performance, no part Share ownership guidelines of the award subject to the TSR performance condition will vest.
Strengthened share ownership guidelines were introduced in 2004 for At median performance, 25% of the award will vest.
At upper quintile executive directors and members of the Executive Team.
As part of top 20%, 100% of the award will vest.
Vesting will be on a straight the review of remuneration, the Committee resolved to increase the line basis in between.
shareholding requirements for executive directors and members of r Additionally, before any shares subject to the TSR condition vests, the Executive Team.
the Committee must be satisfied that the Companys TSR performance is reflective of underlying financial performance.
The Group CEO is required to build and maintain a minimum shareholding in the Company equivalent to 200% of base salary The TSR comparator group will consist of the following companies: previously 150% of base salary.
The other executive directors have a Comparator companies target of 150% of base salary previously 100% of base salary and other Aegon AXA members of the Executive Team have a target of 75% of base salary Alleanza Allianz previously 50% of base salary.
In order to ensure that progress is made AVIVA Baloise towards this target, executives are required to retain shares to a value of Generali Legal & General 50% of the net of tax gain under all executive schemes until the relevant Munich Re QBE guideline is attained.
This requirement will apply to awards under the Swiss Re Zurich Financial Services LTIP and will continue to apply to awards under all existing long term incentive plans.
GOVERNANCE | | Annual Report and Accounts 2008 RSA 55 The following table shows the number of shares including voluntary of termination and in all cases of termination on performance grounds Deferred Shares held under the LTIP held by each executive director the Committees policy would be to seek and apply mitigation.
None of at 31 December 2008 and the increase in shareholding over the year.
the executive directors have current terms in their service contracts which allow them additional rights or payment in the event of a Shares held Increase Salary reconstruction or amalgamation of the Group.
Andy Haste 1,480,103 38% 225% George Culmer 325,423 33% 85% Director Effective date of contract Notice period Simon Lee 477,458 170% 161% Andy Haste 2 April 2003 12 months Assuming share price of 138.10p the closing middle market price on the last dealing day George Culmer 1 May 2004 12 months of the year.
Simon Lee 30 April 2003 12 months Bridget McIntyre 1 November 2005 12 months Pension provision and other benefits Bridget McIntyres contract was terminated by mutual consent on 31 December 2008.
Policy: Reasonable provision in line with arrangements made in similar companies will be made to allow executives to plan effectively for Andy Hastes service contract expires under normal circumstances in their retirement but the Committee will not compensate executives January 2024.
The service contracts for George Culmer and Simon Lee affected by the tax limits effective 6 April 2006. terminate under normal circumstances in October 2024 and March Andy Haste is a member of the SAL Pension Scheme SAL, 2023 respectively.
These service contracts may all be terminated earlier a contributory defined benefit occupational pension scheme.
In common by the Company, or the individual, on 12 months notice.
with all other members of the Groups defined benefit occupational pension schemes, from 1 January 2006 Andy Hastes future benefits Bridget McIntyres termination arrangements within SAL will accrue on a career average revalued earnings basis rather Bridget McIntyres contract of employment was terminated by mutual than on a final salary basis.
The Group retains a cap within its defined consent, effective from 31 December 2008, when she stood down from benefits and Andy Hastes benefit accrual is calculated with reference to the Board.
The Committee approved termination payments that a capped salary 117,600 for the tax year commencing 6 April 2008. comprised an amount payable in lieu of notice, in line with the In addition to his benefits within SAL, Andy Haste receives an age contractual entitlement, equivalent to one years base salary and bonus related taxable cash allowance to enable him to make his own provision for 2008.
No amount is payable in respect of a bonus for 2009.
Awards for retirement above the cap.
In 2009 he will be paid an allowance of made under ESOS and SMP vested prior to termination, and may be 29% of base salary for this purpose.
exercised within the time periods set out in the rules of the plans as they relate to leavers.
Matching Share awards and Performance Share awards George Culmer is a member of the Royal & SunAlliance Stakeholder made under the LTIP will vest on a time pro rated basis to 31 December Pension Plan which is a contributory defined contribution occupational 2008 on the normal vesting date, and remain subject to further pro pension scheme.
In 2009, as in 2008, he will receive employer rating for performance to the end of the relevant performance periods.
contributions worth 15% of base salary, subject to an employee All awards of voluntary and compulsory Deferred Shares will vest on contribution of 5% of base salary up to the HM Revenue and Customs the normal vesting date.
An amount equivalent to 30% of base salary annual allowance as applicable.
Additionally, George Culmer receives a is payable in respect of pension contributions for the notice period.
taxable cash allowance of 15% of base salary, in order to bring his overall The balance comprises other contractual benefits.
pension provision closer to the market median.
The sums payable in respect of base salary, pension and benefits Simon Lee elected not to join a Group pension plan on appointment, are subject to mitigation.
They will be paid in 12 monthly instalments and receives a taxable cash allowance of 17.5% of base salary instead.
during 2009 and are subject to reduction, in whole or in part, by any amount received as remuneration or fees from employment, consultancy In addition, the executive directors participate in a number of benefits or any other arrangement until the final payment is made.
The sum available to other senior managers including life assurance at the rate of payable in respect of bonus for 2008 will be paid in March 2009. four times base salary together with a spouse dependant annuity, sickness and ill health early retirement benefits and private medical insurance.
External directorships They also have a choice between a company car and a monthly cash car Where appropriate, the Group encourages directors and other senior allowance.
In common with other employees, the executive directors are managers to accept, subject to the approval of the Chairman and the eligible to participate in the Royal & SunAlliance Sharesave plan.
Group CEO, an invitation to join the Board of another company in a non-executive capacity, recognising the value of such wider experience.
Service contracts In these circumstances, they are permitted to retain any remuneration The Committees policy on service contracts is that they should be from the non-executive appointment.
For executive directors and other subject to a maximum notice period of one year.
Generally in the event members of the Executive Team, external appointments are limited to one.
| | 56 RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Remuneration report continued On 11 August 2008 Andy Haste was appointed to the Board of ITV plc Non-executive director Effective date of letter of appointment as a non-executive director.
During the year he received a fee of 23,878.
Edward Lea 10 July 2003 At the date of this report Simon Lee and Mark Chambers held John Maxwell 10 July 2003 directorships in not for profit organisations.
Noel Harwerth 30 March 2004 Malcolm Le May 30 March 2004 Non-executive directors Johanna Waterous 20 May 2008 Under the Companys Articles, the remuneration paid to non-executive directors is determined by the Board, within limits set by shareholders.
All non-executive directors including the Chairman are subject to a The fee structure for non-executive directors is shown below: three year rolling period of appointment in accordance with the Companys Articles.
Base fee 45,000 John Napiers initial letter of appointment was effective 9 January 2003 Plus: and the term of his appointment was three years.
At the beginning of Chairman of Group Audit Committee 20,000 2006 it was extended until 31 December 2008, and was extended Chairman of Remuneration Committee 12,500 again at the beginning of 2009, until 31 December 2011.
Chairman of Investment Committee 12,500 Additional fee for sitting on more than one committee Historical TSR performance but not acting as chair of any committee 5,000 The graph below is included in the report of the Committee as a requirement of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985.
Non-executive directors are not entitled to bonus payments or pension arrangements, nor do they participate in the Groups long The graph shows the TSR of the Group with reference to the FTSE term incentive plans.
World Europe Non Life Insurance Index and the FTSE 100 Index.
The FTSE World Europe Non Life Insurance Index comprises the The Committee determines the Chairmans remuneration.
The fee range of European insurance businesses which most closely match our payable to John Napier in respect of his appointment as Chairman competitor group, and the TSR comparator group selected for awards of the Board was 325,000 p. a. until the end of his previous term of under the LTIP.
The FTSE 100 Index comprises the 100 most highly appointment which ended on 31 December 2008, and was not increased capitalised companies of the UK market.
TSR performance relative for three years.
In 2009, the fee payable to John Napier is 400,000 for to the indices is shown over the five years from 31 December 2003 the first year of his current appointment and will be subject to annual to 31 December 2008. review by the Committee.
The appointment may be terminated by the Chairman on three months notice to the Company.
TSR reflects the change in value of ordinary shares in a company over time, as represented by the evolution of a notional initial investment Non-executive directors do not have service contracts but each has a of 100 in the shares and including any distribution of dividends.
The letters of appointment all request a period of one months notice should the non-executive director wish to resign.
Total shareholder return for RSA and FTSE World Europe Non Life Insurance Index and FTSE 100 Index 250 200 150 100 50 0 31Dec 31Dec 31Dec 31Dec 31Dec 31Dec 03 04 05 06 07 08 RSA FTSE World Europe FTSE 100 Index Non Life Insurance Index
