214443 Report & Accounts 2008 FRONT SEC:214443 Report & Accounts 2008 FRONT SEC 17 3 09 11:58 Page 64 Remuneration Report The Directors present the Remuneration Report for the financial year ended 31 December 2008 which has been prepared on behalf of the Remuneration Committee the Committee and in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Acts 1985 and 2006.
Shareholders will be invited to approve the report at the Annual General Meeting on 30 April 2009.
The Report contains information relating to executive remuneration policy including Directors pay and benets, share awards and pension provision.
It also contains additional information required by the FSA Listing Rules and the Combined Code on Corporate Governance.
The sections marked with an asterisk are subject to audit by KPMG Audit Plc.
Summary of Remuneration Policy The remuneration policy is designed to support and encourage the delivery of the Groups short-term and long-term business objectives.
To provide alignment with shareholders, a significant proportion of the remuneration package is delivered in shares and, in addition, the executive Directors are encouraged to build up a shareholding in the Company equal to 100% of base salary.
The fixed elements of the remuneration package salary, pension and fringe benefits are positioned below the market median.
The Committee reviewed remuneration policy during the year in light of the changing economic environment and the guidance issued by the FSA on balancing risk and incentive pay practices and concluded that the current remuneration policy supported good governance practices and remains appropriate.
No changes to the remuneration policy are therefore proposed for 2009.
Reflecting the general economic climate, the Remuneration Committee has also determined that no salary increases should be awarded to the executive Directors for 2009, save for David Lamb whose salary has been moved closer to but still below the market median in recognition of his performance and development since his appointment to the Board in December 2007.
Role of the Committee The Committee, on behalf of the Board, determines the remuneration packages of the executive Directors of the Company, including the Chairman.
In addition, the Committee monitors the remuneration of the senior management team and oversees the operation of the executive long term incentive schemes and all employee share schemes.
The membership and terms of reference of the Committee are reviewed at least annually and the terms of reference are available on the Companys website.
Details of the number of meetings of the Committee during the year can be found in the Corporate Governance Report on page 49.
Membership of the Committee The members of the Committee all independent non-executive Directors are as follows: Michael Sorkin Chairman, Senior Independent Director Derek Netherton Roger W alsom 64 St. Jamess Place plc Report & Accounts 2008
