Remuneration report for the year ended 31 December 2008 Introduction This report deals with the remuneration paid to the Directors for the year ended 31 December 2008 including the Companys executive Directors, Andrew Williams and Lynn Fordham.
It also addresses the policy for future remuneration of the Directors.
This report has been prepared in accordance with schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 as inserted by the Directors Remuneration Regulations 2002 and the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority and a resolution to approve this report will be put to shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
The Remuneration Committee the Committee The Committees members during the year were Francis Finlay Chairman, Anthony Habgood, Denis Raeburn and Gary Steinberg, all considered by the Board to be independent non-executive Directors.
The Committee meets at least twice a year and invites selected executives and advisers to attend as appropriate.
None of the executives invited to attend during the year participated in discussions or decisions regarding their own remuneration.
Francis Finlay, Anthony Habgood, Denis Raeburn and Gary Steinberg attended the meetings held in January 2008 and March 2008.
The Committee is responsible for determining the remuneration policy throughout the SVG Group including the remuneration of the Chairman and the operation of the Companys Executive Share Incentive Plans, further details of which are described below.
Its terms of reference take into account the provisions of the Combined Code on corporate governance.
The Committee has appointed Hewitt New Bridge Street and Towers Perrin, independent remuneration consultants, to advise it.
Hewitt New Bridge Street also provides advice on the operation of the Companys share schemes.
The terms of reference of the Committee are set out on page 41.
Appointment, re-appointment and re-election of Directors All Directors are appointed for an initial term of three years subject to election at the first Annual General Meeting following their appointment.
Thereafter Directors retire by rotation at least every three years.
The Chairman meets with each Director before a Director is proposed for re-election, and, subject to the evaluation of performance carried out each year, the Board agrees whether it is appropriate for that Director to seek an additional term.
When recommending whether an individual Director should seek re-election, the Board will take into account the provisions of the Combined Code, including the need to refresh the Board and its committees.
Policy on the remuneration of non-executive Directors Remuneration paid to non-executive Directors is determined by the Board and reviewed each year.
When considering remuneration levels, the Board will consider, amongst other things, industry practice and contribution to various committees and time spent on the business of the Company.
Policy on the remuneration of executive Directors The Committees aim is to ensure that remuneration packages should attract, retain and motivate senior executives including executive Directors but should avoid paying more than is necessary for this purpose.
Basic salaries are set on this basis and the Committee has due regard to competitive market data on similar positions in other private equity organisations and financial institutions this is provided by Towers Perrin.
The Committee is sensitive to wider issues including pay and employment conditions in the Group when setting pay levels.
No executive Director of the Company is involved in deciding his or her own remuneration.
At 31 December 2008 Andrew Williams and Lynn Fordham were the only executive Directors of the Company.
The Committees policy is that performance-related elements of remuneration form a significant proportion of the total remuneration package.
At the 2007 AGM the Companys shareholders approved the rules of the SVG Capital 2007 Performance Share Plan the Performance Share Plan or PSP and the SVG Capital Share Incentive Plan the SIP.
The grant of options under the Companys Executive Share Option Plan 2001 the 2001 ESOP was suspended following the approval and adoption of the PSP, further details of which and awards granted under it are set out below.
The SIP is an HM Revenue & Customs approved all-employee plan: however, no awards were made under the SIP in 2008.
The Committee will review whether or not to implement and make awards under the SIP in 2009.
The basic salary of executive Directors is reviewed annually, having regard to individual performance and comparative market data.
There will be no increases in salary for 2009 for the executive Directors.
In addition, they are eligible for a non-pensionable discretionary bonus, which is conditional on Group performance and the achievement of predetermined personal objectives based on the successful implementation of the business plan and strategies agreed by the Board.
The normal maximum annual bonus for an executive Director has been set at 300% of salary.
No bonuses will be paid to executive Directors in respect of 2008 except for the bonus guaranteed to Lynn Fordham as part of her recruitment.
The bonus limit of 300% will also apply in respect of the current financial year.
Benets in kind which are not pensionable relate to the provision of health insurance and life assurance cover.
SVG Capital plc 32 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Overview Business review Corporate information Financial information Company information External appointments The Company permits executive Directors of the Company to accept limited non-executive directorships and other similar appointments, it being recognised that such appointments increase their commercial knowledge and business experience to the general benefit of the Company.
Fees earned from such directorships may be retained by the executive Directors.
Andrew Williams was, throughout the year, a non-executive Director of CDC Group plc.
Andrew Williams was also appointed as a non-executive Director of Macquarie in January 2008.
Directors fees of 61,000 for these appointments were retained by Andrew Williams.
Service contracts Other than Lynn Fordham, Directors do not have service contracts with the Group.
Andrew Williams, an executive Director in the year ended 31 December 2008, is employed by Schroder Investment Management Limited SIM and is seconded to the Group.
His contract with SIM provides for six months notice.
SIM may terminate his employment by paying a sum in lieu of notice.
Andrew Williams contract with SIM is dated 1 March 2004.
It is the Companys policy to have regard to the duty of a departing executive Director to mitigate his loss when determining the level of any termination payment.
Lynn Fordham joined the Board as Finance Director on 1 July 2008.
Her contract provides for six months notice for termination and SVG Advisers Limited may terminate her employment by paying a sum in lieu of notice calculated accordingly to her salary and other benets.
In the event of termination of her employment on the giving of notice by SVG Advisers Limited or constructive dismissal in contemplation of or following a change of control of SVG Capital on or before 1 July 2010 she will be entitled to receive a liquidated payment of 240,000 less necessary withholdings reduced by 1 364 for each day that she has served under any period of notice that she may be under at the time of termination.
Such payment will be in addition to her normal salary and benets in respect of the period preceding termination and will be made in full and final settlement of all and any claims arising from or in connection with her termination.
Performance graph The Companies Act 1985 requires this report to include a performance graph comparing the Companys total shareholder return performance against that of a broad equity market index.
For this purpose, the Committee has decided that the FTSE All-Share Index is the most appropriate available index for comparative purposes because it is the principal index in which the Companys shares are quoted.
Total shareholder return 200 180 160 140 120 100 80 60 40 20 31-Dec 31-Dec 31-Dec 31-Dec 31-Dec 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 SVG Capital FTSE All-Share Index Source: Datastream This graph looks at the value, by the end of 2008, of 100 invested in SVG Capital on 31 December 2003 compared with the value of 100 invested in the FTSE All-Share Total Return Index.
The other points plotted are the values at intermediate financial year ends.
SVG Capital plc 33 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Remuneration report continued Pension arrangements The following gures, prepared in accordance with UK legislation and the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, apply to Andrew Williams who was a member of Schroders Retirement Benets Scheme in respect of the year ended 31 December 2008, during which he was an executive Director of the Company.
No pension contributions are payable by Andrew Williams.
Executive Directors pensions Transfer value at 31 December 2008 in respect Increase in Increase of increase Accrued Increase in accrued Accrued Transfer in transfer Transfer in accrued benefit at accrued benefit due benefit at value at value net value at benefit 31 December benefit due to other 31 December 31 December of Directors 31 December excluding 2007 to ination factors 2008 2007 contributions 2008 ination 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 Andrew Williams 113 6 1 118 1,992 267 2,259 18 This forms part of the audited section of the Remuneration Report.
Transfer values are liabilities of the relevant pension fund rather than amounts due to be paid to the executive Directors or liabilities of the Company.
Directors remuneration The emoluments of the Directors in respect of the year ended 31 December 2008 were as specified below: Total Total emoluments emoluments Year to Year to Salary Annual 31 December 31 December and fees Benets bonus 2008 2007 000 000 000 000 000 Nicholas Ferguson 200 200 200 Andrew Williams 336 2 338 1,172 Lynn Fordham 120 19 180 319 Damon Bufni 34 34 33 Francis Finlay 44 44 43 Anthony Habgood 44 44 44 Edgar Koning 32 32 29 Denis Raeburn 44 44 44 Charles Sinclair 44 44 44 Gary Steinberg 43 43 35 Aggregate emoluments 941 21 180 1,142 1,644 This forms part of the audited section of the Remuneration Report.
The Company attributes an amount equal to 30% of Lynn Fordhams basic annual salary to her personal pension plan, subject to a notional salary cap equal to 200,000.
For the year ended 31 December 2008 the Company made a total contribution of 17,640.
Bonuses include provision for amounts accrued but not paid in each year.
Annual bonuses are awarded in respect of calendar years.
The bonus awarded to Lynn Fordham represents a contractual amount guaranteed as part of the terms of her employment.
Details of the Directors interests in shares are shown on pages 37 and 38.
SVG Capital plc 34 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Overview Business review Corporate information Financial information Company information Executive Share Incentive Plans The Performance Share Plan PSP Andrew Williams and Lynn Fordham, the executive Directors of the Company during the year, and selected employees of, and secondees to, the SVG Group are eligible to participate in the PSP at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee.
Awards may not be made to non-executive Directors.
The PSP enables annual conditional free shares to be made or nil or nominal cost options with a value worth up to an annual limit of 200% of base salary and bonus in any financial year.
For the purposes of calculating these limits the maximum amount of bonus which may be used is capped at 300% of base salary and the value of an award shall be calculated and, if necessary, adjusted to take into account the total exercise cost if any payable by an award holder on exercise e. g. the 1 per share in respect of awards granted to Andrew Williams and any employers secondary National Insurance contributions or overseas equivalent that may have been transferred to the award holder.
The policy on granting awards under the PSP is intended to be broadly the same as under the Executive Share Option Plan, with the same limit applying to the value of shares that may be awarded in any one year.
The vesting of awards made to the executive Directors during the year was based on the average growth in the Companys undiluted Net Asset Value per Share NAV.
In the case of awards granted to Andrew Williams, NAV will be measured over four financial years, commencing with the financial year in which the award was made.
In the case of awards granted under the PSP to Lynn Fordham following her appointment to the Board on 1 July 2008, the Committee determined that NAV will be measured over eight half-years commencing on 1 July 2008.
For the purposes of the PSP, NAV will include the Directors unaudited valuation of SVG Advisers Limited in accordance with the International Private Equity and Venture Capital Association guidelines.
Awards made to the executive Directors will normally vest on the fourth anniversary of the award being granted provided that he or she is a director or employee or on secondment within the SVG Group on that date and to the extent that the NAV performance condition has been satisfied, as follows: Average annual NAV growth over the performed period Percentage of the total number of shares subject to the NAV condition that will vest Less than 10% p. a. Nil 10% p. a.
Between 25% and 100% on a straight-line basis It was agreed during the negotiations to appoint Lynn Fordham that, to sufciently incentivise and potentially reward her in the new role of Finance Director and to align her interests with shareholders, she should be granted a conditional free share award over a total of 99,999 shares under, or on terms similar to, the PSP.
It was agreed that the award should be granted to Lynn Fordham as soon as reasonably practicable following her appointment in 2008.
The maximum total value of shares that may be granted to an employee under the PSP in any financial year is 200% of current base salary and bonus for the prior financial year.
Accordingly, it was agreed that an award over shares with a value worth 200% of base salary i. e. 83,478 shares should be granted to Lynn Fordham under the PSP and that the excess i. e. 16,521 shares should be granted, on substantially similar terms to the PSP, under a special one-off conditional free share award in accordance with Listing Rule 9.4.
The Recruitment Award is subject to substantially the same terms as the award granted to Lynn Fordham under the PSP in 2008.
In particular, the Recruitment Award will normally vest on the fourth anniversary of grant, subject to her continued employment within the SVG Group and the satisfaction of the same NAV performance conditions that apply to PSP awards, as described above.
The principal terms of the Recruitment Award are as follows: No payment was required on the grant of the award.
The award is not transferable, except on death, and is not pensionable.
In accordance with the PSP, the Remuneration Committee may vary the NAV performance conditions applying to the award if an event occurs provided that the Committee considers the varied conditions are fair and reasonable and not materially less challenging than the original conditions would have been but for the event in question.
The award will, once vested, normally remain capable of exercise until the tenth anniversary of grant.
While it is intended that the award will be satisfied using shares, the Committee may decide to satisfy the award with cash.
The award will normally lapse in the event that Lynn Fordham ceases to be a Director or employee with any member of the SVG Group.
However, the award may vest early or continue to be capable of vesting on the fourth anniversary of grant if Lynn Fordham ceases employment within the SVG Group by reason of death, injury, disability, ill-health, retirement, redundancy, or the sale or transfer of her employing company or business out of the SVG Group or any other reason permitted by the Remuneration Committee a good leaver.
If Lynn Fordham is a good leaver her award may either vest on the date of cessation or the fourth anniversary of grant, subject to the extent that the Committee determines the performance conditions have been satisfied if at all.
SVG Capital plc 35 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Remuneration report continued The award may also vest early in the event of a takeover, scheme of arrangement or winding up a corporate event, subject to the extent that the Committee determines the performance conditions have been satisfied if at all.
The Committee may reduce on a pro rata basis the total number of shares that vest early in the event of a good leaver scenario or a corporate event to take account of the period from the date of grant to the date of the relevant event relative to a four year period.
The award may also vest early in the event of a demerger, special dividend or other similar event which the Committee determines would affect the market price of shares to a material extent.
In these circumstances awards will vest on the basis which would apply in the case of a corporate event.
The award will not confer any shareholder rights until the award has been exercised and shares have been acquired.
However, on vesting the Committee may determine that Lynn Fordham will be entitled to a payment in cash and or shares equivalent to the dividends that would have been paid on those shares between the grant date and date of vesting.
Any shares allotted when the award is exercised will rank equally with shares then in issue except for rights arising by reference to a record date prior to the date of allotment.
The Committee may adjust the total number of shares held under the award in the event of any variation of the Companys share capital or in the event of a demerger, payment of a special dividend or similar event which materially affects the market price of shares.
The Committee may amend the terms of the award in any respect provided that the prior approval of shareholders is obtained for any amendments that are to the advantage of Lynn Fordham in respect of the terms governing the basis for determining her entitlement to, and the terms of, the shares or cash to be acquired and the adjustment of awards.
The requirement to obtain shareholder approval will not apply to any minor alteration made to benefit the administration of the award, to take account of a change in legislation or to obtain or maintain favourable tax, exchange control or regulatory treatment for Lynn Fordham or for any company in the SVG Group.
Awards made to certain senior executives below main Board level were granted subject to the satisfaction of the NAV performance conditions described above or a condition requiring the achievement of significant growth targets in the gross value of SVG Advisers Limited at the end of three financial years.
It is currently intended that awards made to the executive Directors, and a proportion of the awards made to certain senior executives below main Board level, in 2009 will be granted subject to the same NAV targets described above.
In particular, the Remuneration Committee continues to believe that, in respect of awards granted to the executive Directors and certain other senior executives below main Board level, growth in NAV remains the most appropriate measure of long-term performance for a business focused on delivering superior levels of NAV growth and will, therefore, help align the interests of the executive Directors and other executives of the Group with shareholder interests.
Furthermore, the Committee believes that awards of performance shares, as opposed to market value share options, are currently the best form of long term incentive, especially given the very demanding targets set for the delivery of shares as described above.
Awards to executives below main Board level will, for the time being, continue to be based either on the satisfaction of the NAV performance conditions or the achievement of growth targets in the gross value of SVG Advisers Limited.
In the event of a takeover, scheme of arrangement or winding up of the Company not being an internal reorganisation all awards will vest early subject to: i the extent that the performance conditions have been satisfied at that time or, in the reasonable opinion of the Committee as constituted before the relevant event, would have been satisfied had the relevant performance period run its full course : and ii will normally be subject to a time pro rata adjustment to reect the early curtailment of the applicable performance period.
The Committee may, in its discretion, permit awards to vest early in the event of a demerger, special dividend or other similar event which would affect the market price of shares to a material extent.
In such circumstances awards will vest on the basis that would apply in the case of a takeover as described above.
The SVG Executive Share Option Plan 2001 formerly known as the SVIIT Executive Share Option Plan 2001 The PSP replaced the 2001 ESOP following the 2007 AGM.
However, whilst the Committee does not intend to make further grants under the 2001 ESOP it has been retained for use in exceptional circumstances such as for the recruitment and retention of senior staff or to reward exceptional performance.
Any grant of options under the 2001 ESOP will count towards the individual grant limits under the PSP and appropriately demanding performance targets will be set at the time of grant.
The Committee does not currently intend to adjust awards under the PSP including the Recruitment Award made to Lynn Fordham or options under the 2001 ESOP to take account of the recent Rights Issue and Placing.
All-employee share plans As mentioned above the SIP was approved by shareholders at the 2007 AGM.
The SIP is an all-employee share plan and will, on approval from HM Revenue & Customs, permit the Company to offer i Partnership Shares, whereby employees may buy shares using pre-tax pay max contribution of 1,500 per tax year, ii Matching Shares, whereby employees who purchase Partnership Shares may receive matching shares worth up to 3,000 per tax year, and iii Free Shares, worth up to 3,000 per tax year.
No awards have been made under the SIP.
SVG Capital plc 36 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Overview Business review Corporate information Financial information Company information Options held by Directors over ordinary shares of the Company under the 2001 ESOP The following Directors have been granted options over ordinary shares under the Executive Share Option Plan.
Options granted to Nicholas Ferguson were made at a time prior to his appointment as Chairman.
Options are exercisable subject to the satisfaction of performance conditions see below.
Performance conditions have been met.
For options granted in 2006, the target was for growth in the Companys net asset value per ordinary share to exceed the growth in the Retail Prices Index plus 4% per annum over the three years from the date of grant.
This performance target was not satisfied and the options have lapsed.
For all options granted up to the end of March 2005, performance targets have been met.
All of the above options were granted for nil consideration.
All options under the 2001 ESOP were granted at the prevailing market price around the time of grant.
SVG Capital plc 37 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Remuneration report continued Awards held by Directors over ordinary shares of the Company During the year Vesting dates At At Exercise 31 December Awards Awards Awards 31 December price per share 2007 granted vested lapsed 2008 pence Earliest Latest A C Williams 229,848 229,848 100.00 15 May 2011 15 May 2017 337,642 337,642 100.00 13 March 2012 13 March 2018 L Fordham 99,999 99,999 0.00 25 September 2012 25 September 2018 Total 229,848 437,641 667,489 This forms part of the audited section of the Remuneration Report.
Awards will vest and become exercisable subject to the satisfaction of performance conditions details summarised in the section headed Performance Share Plan above.
Of the 99,999 shares awarded to Lynn Fordham, awards over 83,478 shares were made under the PSP and the remaining 16,521 shares were awarded under a one-off agreement under Listing Rule 9.4.
The one-off award was granted on substantially the same terms as the PSP award and is subject to the same NAV growth performance conditions.
The price of an ordinary share on 13 March 2008, when awards were granted to Andrew Williams under the PSP, was 708.5p.
The price of an ordinary share on 25 September 2008, when awards were granted to Lynn Fordham under the PSP and the one-off agreement, was 579.0p.
The mid-market price of shares at 31 December 2008 was 89.0p and the range during the year was 82.0p to 778.0p.
External advisers will confirm the performance criteria calculations for the Committee, which will be measured on a consistent basis.
Share Plan Dilution Limits It is currently intended that all awards granted under the PSP will be satisfied using new issue shares.
All options and awards granted under the 2001 ESOP and PSP to persons seconded to the Group have been structured as nominal cost options and will be satisfied using new issue shares.
In any 10 calendar year period the Company may not issue or grant rights to issue more than 10% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company under the PSP, the 2001 ESOP and any other employees share scheme adopted by the Company.
As at 31 December 2008, the total number of shares issued or issuable under awards and options made under the PSP and the 2001 ESOP was equal to 7.6% of the issued ordinary share capital on that date.
The Company has established an employee benefit trust to enable it to subscribe for or purchase shares in the market to satisfy awards and options made to employees under the PSP and the 2001 ESOP.
As at 31 December 2008 no shares were held in the trust.
The Board will regularly review the benefit of using the trust to make market purchases.
On behalf of the Board Francis Finlay Chairman, Remuneration Committee 1 April 2009 SVG Capital plc 38 Annual Report and Accounts 2008
