Directors Report: Business Review Corporate Responsibility Working to limit our environmental impact Our business is about connecting people.
We can play an important role in educating customers about the responsibilities and risks that come with an increasingly connected world.
The Group has a strong track record as a responsible employer, Charity, community and employee activities consumer and distributor.
As a supporter of its local and wider Our two operating divisions each have their own partner charity.
The communities, and in its charitable activities, The Carphone Warehouse Distribution business supports Get Connected, and the UK Fixed Line division supports TreeHouse.
We choose to back small charities that both continues to be a pioneer.
relate to communication, so we can help them not only with fund-raising, While our overall environmental impact is relatively low compared to but also with the more practical and technical support that is often harder companies in other industries, our efforts in this area have historically for charities to come by.
lagged our community and charitable activities.
However, we have now started to work on ways of reducing our carbon emissions and our Get Connected Over the past year The Carphone Warehouse has continued to support consumption of other raw materials.
We are doing this through a its charity partner, Get Connected.
Get Connected provides young people combination of updating our infrastructure, and encouraging our in distressing situations with the emotional support and information they employees and customers to adapt their behaviour to mitigate their need to decide what they want to happen next, whether they need a environmental impact.
listening ear or a bed for the night.
Their dedicated helpline volunteers However, it is in the sphere of social responsibility that we believe we can talk through any problems, and can connect callers with a free call to make the greatest impact.
As a communications business, we provide the any other useful service in the UK.
tools that enable customers to connect with one another, and with an In addition to raising funds for Get Connected, The Carphone infinite range of content, across a number of platforms.
It is therefore our Warehouse also covers all overheads for the charity including providing responsibility to educate our customers about the risks that come with accommodation, equipment and IT support, covering utility bills, covering this freedom and to protect them from illegal or anti-social activity.
This the cost of phone lines, printing, mailings and internet connection and year we will start a programme which aims to do just that.
offering marketing support and training free of charge.
We also offer our employees the chance to earn additional holiday if they become a helpline volunteer for Get Connected.
In February 2008, The Carphone Warehouse held its fourth annual charity auction for Get Connected at Frankies in Knightsbridge, London.
Money raised at Get Connected charity auction Comedian Phil Jupitus was compere for the night and with the support of suppliers and partners we raised a record 208,000.
Money raised for Get Connected in the past year has enabled it to, 208000 expand its team of volunteers to over 100 and increase its webchat service opening hours to run every day in 2006 this service only ran for three evenings a week.
In addition to this Get Connected now receives Light energy consumption savings, at flagship warehouse project as many requests for webchat per month as it did in the whole of 2006 and has managed to help 20% more users in 2007 than in the previous year.
Going forward we plan to help Get Connected to expand an online self help directory that they have recently launched as well as support % 64 them with a national awareness campaign.
TreeHouse Our fixed line business, TalkTalk, has also continued to support Increase in handsets recycled or re-used TreeHouse, the national charity for autism education, which aims to improve the lives of children with autism across the UK.
Autism is a serious, life-long, neurological condition affecting one in 100 children.
At its most profound, children with autism may never acquire spoken % 400 language, require constant 24-hour care and may be perceived to be 22 The Carphone Warehouse Group PLC Annual Report 2008 Business Review The Carphone Warehouse Charity Partners living in a world of their own.
Their lives, and those of others who Holding raffles and donating profits from sales of items in-store: care for them, can be extremely stressful and families can be driven Raising money via handset recycling: to desperation.
Donating money saved by sending out Christmas e-cards instead TalkTalk has pledged 500,000 to TreeHouse over the next five years of paper cards: and will be working closely with the charity on a joint project to launch In-store collecting tins: an online service to guide and connect families affected by autism through the maze of practical and emotional information.
TalkTalk Holding a monthly collection in support centres: also continues to donate 1p for every call made to our directory Offering employees the opportunity to sign up for Give as you Earn service 118111 to TreeHouse.
GAYE which has raised over 26,000 for charity since the service Innovation in the Community was launched in 2006: and In addition to this, TalkTalk has continued its commitment to make Acting as a call centre for Comic Relief.
Over 100 volunteers manned broadband internet access a right not a privilege, and this year launched the phones in 2007 taking over 140,000 in pledges for the charity.
the TalkTalk Innovation in the Community Awards to do just that.
We believe that internet access can change lives for the better but there South Africa trek and project are still a lot of people who have never used a computer and do not In May 2007, 43 intrepid employees spent five days trekking through have access to modern technology.
the Cedarberg Mountains of South Africa and five days working on a project in one of Cape Towns townships, Khayelitsha, which Non-profit making organisations and charities in need of funding for an involved building an eight foot perimeter wall around an orphanage internet-related project were invited to put forward requests for cash for and spending time educating the children who lived and went to technology products and services.
Thirty organisations were chosen to school there.
Each participant raised a minimum of 2,250 to take win 2,000 each to help fund their particular project, as well as receiving part and in total over 30,000 was raised for our charity partners TalkTalk free broadband.
The 2007 winners represented a cross section of the UK, from Dundee Employees Womens Aid, a charity that plans to create podcasts for survivors of Our Human Resources teams continue to review and improve processes abuse to encourage other women to seek help, through to Northern to ensure that the work environment, recruitment, training processes and Seams, a charity that wishes to use the internet to inspire textile artists employee satisfaction are of the highest standard.
In February 2008 The with learning difficulties.
Carphone Warehouse launched The Pulse survey in place of our previous employee engagement survey, Backchat.
We wanted a survey that linked The Carphone Warehouse Foundation employee opinion with business performance and that would enable The Carphone Warehouse Foundation was set up over four years ago change to take place on a more local level than before.
to support employees with their own fundraising initiatives for causes that are close to their hearts.
Small grants are awarded to charities nominated An encouraging 72% of employees took part in the survey.
On the positive by employees, or where there is a large demand for the same charity for side, eight out of ten employees are proud to work for The Carphone example Children in Need, a larger grant will be made on behalf of the Warehouse, nine out of ten said that they know whats expected of them whole company.
at work and eight out of ten believe that their colleagues are committed to quality.
As a result of some other feedback we are now looking at the way The Carphone Warehouse supports its charity partners and in which we recognise our employees contribution to the business, how The Foundation in a number of ways including: we encourage personal development and how we communicate the Awarding extra days holiday for employees who commit to taking part bigger picture across the whole of the business.
in fundraising activities organised by the company: All employees were also invited to take part in team workshops and Setting up sponsored events which in the past have included skydiving, feedback sessions so that they could come up with solutions to more overseas challenges, runs and football tournaments: localised issues together and work on improving their working environment.
com 2 Directors Report: Business Review Corporate Responsibility continued Pulse, our annual employee survey, enables us to measure the impact of actions taken to improve the working environment Regulatory and social issues on the research work it has been undertaking since its inception in We are committed to championing the causes that affect the safety 2001.
The work has been funded jointly by government and industry, and wellbeing of our customers in relation to mobile phone and and is run by an independent programme management committee to internet use.
As well as providing information in all of our stores on ensure that none of the contributors can influence the outcome of the health, crime, first phones for children and driving legislation, we are programme.
The Carphone Warehouse has been a significant contributor active campaigners on key issues and work regularly with officials and to research in this area.
None of the research supported by the programme and published so Driving far demonstrates that biological or adverse health effects are produced by 70% of people say the update to the law on holding a mobile radiofrequency exposure from mobile phones.
Specifically, no association phone whilst driving has had no impact on their driving habits.
was found between short-term mobile phone use less than ten years CPW research, May 2007. and cancers of the brain and nervous system.
Similarly, studies on electrical hypersensitivity have not supported the theory that symptoms This year we have worked very closely with the Department for Transport experienced by sufferers result from exposure to signals from mobile and police forces across the country to educate customers about the phones and base stations.
change in penalty for driving whilst holding a mobile phone.
We trained all our sales consultants on the law change and provided clear guidance The report proposes a further programme of work to address areas of at point of sale, in our buyers guide which has a monthly circulation of outstanding concern, which it will report on in due course.
These include two million and on carphonewarehouse.
It is also now company whether longer-term mobile phone usage increases the risk of developing policy that any employee caught using a mobile phone whilst driving cancers of the brain and nervous system, and whether any effects of will be subject to disciplinary action.
exposure to mobile phone signals are greater in children.
Phonewise The Carphone Warehouse continues to take a lead in communicating Mobile Life 2007 research found that the number of children bullied health issues to its customers.
We list the specific absorption rates for beyond the school gates as a result of cyber bullying intimidation every handset in our buyers guide and on our website, and will this year via mobile phones, email and instant messaging continues to grow.
be updating our independent and extensive health factsheet to reflect the In September we joined forces with our charity partner Get Connected latest findings of MTHR and other studies.
to build on our campaign against this vicious form of bullying.
Working with Get Connected we compiled a Phonewise guide that among other Carbon reductions important issues included advice for parents and children to combat cyber Our ambition at CPW is to cut our carbon emissions in a way that does bullying.
The guide is available on carphonewarehouse.
com safety and in not compromise our customers experience or our employees working Direct Marketing Magazine Good Call.
We aim to broaden this campaign environment.
Our energy efficiency and carbon management programme next year to reach even more children and young people.
introduced this year will deliver environmental benefits to the wider Crime community and financial benefits to our stakeholders.
To facilitate this 9% of all mobile phone owners say that they have had their phone we have partnered with the Governments Carbon Trust and introduced stolen.
Mobile Life, 2006. measures such as: We are absolutely committed to combating spiralling mobile phone crime Lift share: a scheme in which employees are encouraged to share their and personal theft.
Andrew Harrison, UK Chief Executive, has appealed to vehicles and are given a guaranteed parking space.
Please see all network and manufacturer CEOs to join MICAF Mobile Industry Crime www.
The Carphone Warehouse is the only mobile phone retailer Conducting an ongoing energy and carbon awareness campaign and to automatically register all its customers with Immobilise, the UK national promoting good practices to enable all employees, service partners mobile phone register.
and contractors to make a contribution to energy efficiency: Mobile phones and health In 2007, the UK Mobile Telecommunications and Health Research Providing awareness workshops for employees, service partners MTHR Programme published a detailed report to provide an update and contractors: 4 2 The Carphone Warehouse Group PLC Annual Report 2008 Business Review Increasing awareness % 70 of people say the update to the law on holding a mobile phone whilst driving has had no impact on their driving habits CPW research, May 2007 Implementing energy and carbon monitoring from which challenging The Carphone Warehouse Limited and TalkTalk Telecom Limited are but realistic reduction targets can be set and monitored: and subject to the regulations both as producers and distributors.
To comply with the WEEE Regulations The Carphone Warehouse Limited and Introducing a closed door policy for our retail chain.
TalkTalk Telecom Limited have joined a compliance scheme operated by Recycle Telecom Limited, which manages a Take-back on behalf of the Our main distribution warehouse in Wednesbury, Birmingham, has been two companies and reports regularly to the Environment Agency on their chosen as the centre of excellence for trialling many carbon reducing behalf.
Information on the correct disposal of WEEE is provided to initiatives, and as such has already received a complete new energy customers with relevant products and in stores.
efficient daylight-varying lighting system to the online picking area Branch 100.
A direct saving of 64% on lighting energy consumption has been made since installation in October 2007.
Other areas of the business have since been refitted with the new lighting.
Our E2Save offices in Loughborough have been the on-site test facility for air conditioning passive controls SavaWatt.
These passive electronic controls electronically reduce the electricity flow to the compressor thus supplying the minimum amount of electricity needed as opposed to the actual amount demanded by the systems.
Changes to lighting and air conditioning fittings will be rolled out across the retail and non-retail portfolio over the next three years and will be the initial main sources of carbon savings.
Handset Recycling As part of our commitment to recycling and re-use we are offering a service for customers to dispose of their old handsets and raise valuable funds for our charity partner Get Connected and The Carphone Warehouse Foundation at the same time.
For every handset recycled we currently donate 10 to be split equally between the two charitable organisations mentioned above.
In the past 12 months we have raised over 112,000 in this way.
In December 2007 we also started sending out a recycle bag with every purchase made via our direct channels.
This has seen an increase of over 400% in handsets being returned for recycling or re-use.
WEEE The Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment WEEE Regulations came into force on 2 January 2007 and the various obligations took effect at different stages throughout 2007.
These regulations transpose the EU WEEE Directive, which aims to minimise the impact of electrical and electronic goods on the environment, by increasing re-use and recycling and reducing the amount of WEEE going to landfill.
It seeks to achieve this by making producers responsible for financing the collection, treatment, and recovery of waste electrical equipment, and by obliging distributors to allow consumers to return their waste equipment free of charge Take-back.
com 2 Directors Report: Governance Board of Directors and Group Advisors Charles Dunstone John Gildersleeve Non-Executive Chairman Chief Executive Officer Age 63.
Joined the Board in June 2000 and became Non-Executive Age 43.
Founder and Chief Executive Officer of the Group since Chairman in July 2005.
He was an Executive Director of Tesco PLC 1989.
He is also responsible for new business development and until he retired in February 2004.
He was Chairman of Gallaher Group strategic initiatives.
He is a Non-Executive Director of The Daily Mail PLC until April 2007 and Chairman of EMI Group PLC until September and General Trust PLC and Independent Media Distribution PLC.
Prior to this he was a Non-Executive Director of Vodafone He is also Chairman of The Princes Trust Trading Board and a Group PLC from 1998 to 2000. member of its Council.
He was a Non-Executive Director of HBOS PLC from February 2000 until April 2008.
Roger Taylor ACA David Ross ACA Chief Financial Officer Non-Executive Deputy Chairman Age 43.
Chief Financial Officer of the Group since January 2000.
He was appointed Deputy Chairman in July 2005.
Prior to He is responsible for controlling the Groups finance function, financial this, he was Chief Operating Officer between 1990 and 2003 with reporting and procedures.
He also manages the Groups investor responsibility for the strategic development of the Groups activities in relations and corporate finance function and is responsible for mainland Europe.
He is Chairman of National Express Group PLC and corporate development and strategic initiatives.
Following completion Cosalt PLC, a Non-Executive Director of Big Yellow Group PLC, a of the proposed transaction between the Company and Best Buy Co. Board Member of the Olympic Lottery Distributor and a Trustee of the Inc. he will combine these duties with the role of Chief Executive Officer National Portrait Gallery.
He was a Non-Executive Director of Trinity of the Retail & Distribution business.
David Goldie Sir Brian Pitman Chief Executive Officer, UK Fixed Line Non-Executive Director Age 44.
Joined the Group in November 2002 and appointed to the Age 76.
Joined the Board in January 2001 and is the Senior Board in July 2005.
He has previously been Managing Director of Independent Director.
A senior advisor to Morgan Stanley, he is also Martin Dawes Telecommunications Limited which was sold to BT a Non-Executive Director of ITV PLC, Singapore Airlines Limited and Cellnet in 1999, and then Chief Executive Officer of Opal Telecom Virgin Atlantic Airways Limited.
He retired in 2001 from Lloyds TSB which was acquired by The Carphone Warehouse in 2002.
He is Group PLC, where he was Chief Executive for 13 years and Chairman now the Chief Executive Officer of the UK Fixed Line division, for four years.
He was also Chairman of NEXT PLC from 1998 to 2002 responsible for planning and executing the Groups fixed line and a Non-Executive Director of Tomkins PLC from June 2000 to telecoms and broadband strategy.
He is a Non-Executive Director June 2007. of The Cheshire Building Society.
Andrew Harrison Adrian Martin ACA Chief Executive Officer, UK Retail & Distribution Business Non-Executive Director Age 37.
Appointed to the Board in April 2006.
He joined the Group in Age 58.
Joined the Board in November 2000.
He is a Non-Executive July 1995 as Strategy Manager, and became Commercial Director for Director of M & C Saatchi PLC and an Independent Director and the UK in 1998.
He was appointed to his current role in July 2001.
Treasurer of The Disasters Emergency Committee.
Previously he was Chief Executive of Reynolds Porter Chamberlain LLP until June 2008.
Prior to this he was UK Managing Partner of BDO Stoy Hayward and Chairman of BDOs International Policy Board.
26 The Carphone Warehouse Group PLC Annual Report 2008 Governance Company Secretary David Mansfield Tim Morris Non-Executive Director Board Committees Age 54.
Joined the Board in September 2005.
He is an Executive Audit Committee: Director of Ingenious Media PLC, a specialist media and entertainment David Grigson Chairman investment and advisory group: and an advisor to Edleman, a global Sir Brian Pitman public relations company.
He is Chairman of Raja Limited, the radio Adrian Martin research company currently owned by the BBC and Commercial David Mansfield Radio, and of the 1700 Group PLC, a recruitment company Steven Esom specialising in media.
He was previously Chief Executive of Capital Baroness Morgan Radio PLC and latterly GCap Media PLC, the UKs largest commercial radio company.
He is a fellow of the Radio Academy, and a member Remuneration Committee: of the London Business School London 100 Group.
Sir Brian Pitman Chairman Adrian Martin David Mansfield Steven Esom Steven Esom Baroness Morgan David Grigson Non-Executive Director Age 47.
He is Director of Food Nomination Committee: at Marks & Spencers and previously he was Managing Director of Sir Brian Pitman Chairman Waitrose, the supermarket division of the John Lewis Partnership, John Gildersleeve from 2002 to April 2007.
Prior to joining Waitrose, he spent the major David Ross part of his career in various buying roles with J Sainsbury PLC and Adrian Martin also worked for the Ladbroke Group and Hilton International.
Baroness Morgan Advisors Principal Bankers Barclays PLC Deutsche Bank AG HSBC Bank plc ING Bank NV Baroness Morgan of Huyton Royal Bank of Scotland Group PLC Non-Executive Director Legal Advisors Age 48.
Joined the Board in November 2005.
From November 2001 Ashurst Morris Crisp until May 2005, she was Director of Government Relations at 10 Clyde & Co Downing Street.
Prior to this she was Political Secretary to the Prime DLA Minister from 1997 to 2001, and was appointed Minister for Women Linklaters and Equalities in 2001.
In 2006 she was appointed a Board Member Osborne Clarke of the Olympic Delivery Authority and was also appointed as a NonCorporate Brokers Executive Director of Southern Cross Healthcare Group PLC.
She is Credit Suisse First Boston Advisor to the Board of the childrens charity ARK and a member of Europe Limited the Lloyds Pharmacy Advisory Panel.
1 Cabot Square London E14 4QJ UBS 1 Finsbury Avenue David Grigson ACA London EC2M 2PP Non-Executive Director Registrars Age 53.
Joined the Board in April 2007.
He was Chief Financial Equiniti Limited Officer of Reuters Group PLC until May 2008.
Prior to joining Reuters Aspect House in 2000, he was Group Finance Director of Emap PLC and Chairman Spencer Road, Lancing of Emap Digital.
West Sussex BN99 6GU Auditors Deloitte & Touche LLP, London Registered Office 1 Portal Way London W3 6RS Registered number: 3253714 7 www.
com 2 Directors Report: Governance Corporate Governance Introduction Board meetings The Board meets formally at least six times a year, with additional The Board of Directors recognises the importance of high standards of meetings as required.
All Board papers are sent out on a timely basis corporate governance.
This Report and the Remuneration Report set out with sufficient information for the Directors to be able to discharge their on pages 32 to 38 explain that the Company has complied during the period duties.
The Board met formally six times during the period including a with the principles contained in Section 1 of the 2006 Combined Code strategy day.
All Directors formally attended these meetings with the on Corporate Governance Code except as stated to the contrary in exception of Steven Esom who was absent from the meeting held on 27 this Report.
In accordance with the Listing Rules issued by the Financial September 2007 and Sir Brian Pitman and David Grigson who were both Services Authority, the relevant parts of this Report have been reviewed by absent from the meeting held on 31 January 2008.
These absences were the auditors and their opinion is contained in the Independent Auditors due to prior engagements that could not be changed with the exception Report on page 41. of David Grigson who had to attend an emergency meeting in respect Board of Directors of Reuters Group PLC.
The Company Secretary ensures that all Composition of the Board Board papers are sent out to non-attending Directors and that, where There are currently four Executive Directors and eight Non-Executive possible, any comments they have are received beforehand so that Directors including the Non-Executive Chairman and the Non-Executive they can be expressed at the meeting.
Biographies of each of the Directors, their responsibilities Operation of the Board and Board Committee memberships are set out on pages 26 and 27.
The wide range of experience and expertise of the Non-Executive The following changes to the Board have taken place since last years Directors, combined with the skill sets of the Executive Directors, provides Annual Report: vast experience of retailing, mobile and fixed line telecommunications and general business experience, strong personal skills and independence of The appointment of David Grigson as a Non-Executive Director thought and perspective.
The overriding responsibility of the Board is to was approved at the Annual General Meeting held on 26 July 2007. provide entrepreneurial and responsible leadership to the Group within a On 5 June 2007 Jim Dale also stepped down as a Director.
framework of prudent and effective controls.
These controls allow for the Between the period of 1 April 2007 and 24 April 2007, the Board key issues and risks facing the business to be assessed and managed.
comprised five Executive Directors and seven Non-Executive Directors The Board determines the overall strategic direction for the Group, reviews including the Non-Executive Chairman and Non-Executive Deputy management performance and ensures that the necessary financial and Chairman.
Following the appointment of David Grigson on 24 April 2007 human resources are in place to enable the Group to meet its objectives.
the number of Non-Executive Directors increased to eight.
Following Jim The Board is comfortable that the necessary controls and resources exist Dale standing down on 5 June 2007, the number of Executive Directors within the Group to enable these responsibilities to be met.
The Board reduced to four.
ensures that the Directors, and in particular the Non-Executive Directors, develop an understanding of the views of major shareholders about the Between the period of 1 April 2007 and 24 April 2007, five of the NonCompany.
The Company regularly communicates with major shareholders Executive Directors excluding the Non-Executive Chairman and the and has a dedicated internal investor relations department.
Briefings Non-Executive Deputy Chairman were considered to be Independent on market activity, together with the views of shareholders and analysts Non-Executive Directors.
They were Sir Brian Pitman, Baroness Morgan, on the Company, are also regularly provided to the Board.
David Mansfield, Steven Esom and Adrian Martin.
There is a clear and documented division of responsibilities between Following the appointment of David Grigson, six of the Non-Executive the roles of the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer.
There are also Directors excluding the Non-Executive Chairman and the Non-Executive documented schedules of matters reserved to the Board and matters Deputy Chairman are considered to be Independent Non-Executive delegated to Committees of the Board.
Such reserved matters include Directors.
They are Sir Brian Pitman, Baroness Morgan, David Mansfield, decisions on strategic and policy issues, the approval of published Steven Esom, Adrian Martin and David Grigson.
financial statements and major acquisitions and disposals, authority levels for expenditure, treasury and risk management policies.
Strategic and Charles Dunstone is the Chief Executive Officer, John Gildersleeve is policy issues are reviewed annually at a combined Board and senior Non-Executive Chairman, David Ross is Non-Executive Deputy Chairman executive strategy day.
and Sir Brian Pitman is the Senior Independent Director.
Performance evaluation Following his appointment, David Grigson went through a formal process During the period the balance of skills, knowledge and experience of of induction principally carried out by the Company Secretary.
All Directors the Directors was reviewed.
The Board, and each individual Director, are subject to election by shareholders at the first Annual General Meeting also undertook performance evaluations.
Using the Higgs Suggestions following appointment and thereafter to re-election at least every three for Good Practice as guidance, the individual Directors initially completed years.
Each Executive Director and David Ross has a service contract that separate questionnaires.
The results were collated for and analysed by can be terminated by either the Company or the Director on 12 months the Chairman, the Senior Independent Director, the Chief Executive Officer notice or less.
The areas covered included the roles of the The Non-Executive Directors, apart from David Ross, have three year Executive and Non-Executive Directors, the Board, the Board periods of appointment, the terms of which are substantially in the same Committees, the Chairman of the Company, preparation for and format as suggested by the Code, with three month notice periods and performance at meetings, the effectiveness of each Director, leadership, no compensation for loss of office.
Further details on each Directors culture and corporate governance.
The results were then considered by remuneration, including the dates of their contracts with the Company, the Board as a specific item of business.
The Board intends that these are set out in the Remuneration Report on pages 32 to 38. exercises or similar ones continue to be carried out each year.
28 The Carphone Warehouse Group PLC Annual Report 2008
