Report on Directors Remuneration The Report on Directors Remuneration The Chairman of the Remuneration The Company provides fide ned sets out the role of the Remuneration Committee attends AGMs of the Company contribution pension arrangements.
Committee, the Companys general and is available to answer questions raised It provides employees with medical remuneration policies and how they by shareholders.
insurance, but otherwise seeks to avoid the are applied to Directors and details of provision of bene ts in kind.
Directors remuneration for the year Professional advice ended 31 December 2008.
The Report During 2008, and subsequently, the Remuneration for revenue-generating has been prepared in accordance with Remuneration Committee received advice brokers is directly based on financial Schedule 7A of the Companies Act 1985 from PwC on executive compensation.
performance, generally at a desk team and the Combined Code, and will be put to The only other assignment that PwC level, and is calculated in accordance with shareholders for approval at the AGM on undertakes for the Company is the formulae set out in xed term contracts 14 May 2009. provision of outsourced internal of employment.
Up front sign on bonuses audit services and related risk control are only paid when a claw back provision The Companies Act 1985 requires the consultancy.
is included in the contract of employment.
auditors to report to the Companys Typically, brokers receive a xed salary members on certain parts of the Report Remuneration policies paid regularly throughout the year, on Directors Remuneration and to state In common with other businesses with a signi cant proportion of variable whether in their opinion those parts of operating in the sectors in which remuneration dependant on revenue, the report have been properly prepared the Company trades, the Companys which is paid after the revenue has been in accordance with the Act.
All sections remuneration policies are in some respects fully received in cash.
Once cash has been of this report are unaudited, except for distinct from the normal practices of UK received, revenue is not subject to any Details of directors remuneration and listed companies.
The majority of the remaining contingency.
Companys competitors are not UK listed companies.
The Remuneration Committee has Remuneration committee considered the relationship between The Remuneration Committee is The Companys remuneration policies incentives and risk.
Details of the responsible, on behalf of the Board, for are designed to attract, motivate and Companys key risks and risk management developing policy on the remuneration retain staff with the necessary skills are set out in the Business Review.
The of executive directors and deciding on and experience to achieve high levels of business does not take any trading risk and their remuneration.
The remuneration of pro t and returns for shareholders.
The does not hold principal trading positions.
the Chairman is also determined by the application of this policy takes account The Remuneration Committee considers Remuneration Committee.
In addition, the of general practices in the parts of the that the remuneration policies do not Committee reviews remuneration policies financial services sector in which the contribute signi cantly to the risk pro le for senior management, is consulted by Company trades, which is characterised of the Company and incentivise control the Chief Executive on the speci c matters by high levels of remuneration dependent and that risks are effectively minimised by relating to the remuneration of senior upon the achievement of correspondingly the Companys risk controls and processes.
executives and, on behalf of the Board, high levels of performance, in comparison approves all share and long term incentive with many other sectors.
It is considered schemes and their application.
that failure to do so would not be in the best interests of shareholders.
The Committees terms of reference are available on the Companys website or, on request, from the Company Secretary.
Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2008 37 shareholder information financial statements governance business review Report on Directors Remuneration continued The Companys remuneration policies for 4.
Performance bonuses are not formally Discretionary performance bonuses management include the following: capped since within the sector in which Executive directors bonuses are 1.
Remuneration includes high levels of the Company operates the probable discretionary and no director has an variable rewards that are dependent on outcome of such a policy could be to entitlement to a bonus.
The main component of reduce returns to shareholders once these variable rewards is annual bonuses targets have been achieved.
The policy In determining the annual performance which are used to motivate and retain of minimising xed remuneration as bonus the Remuneration Committee staff and to achieve superior returns for a proportion of overall remuneration establishes a bonus pool for all directors.
Salary levels are normally means that the Company does not apply This is currently determined under the set to provide a reasonable level of xed percentages or multiples of salary to the following formula: remuneration, paid monthly, which determination of bonuses.
would be appropriate in circumstances 1.
Ten per cent of the surplus return on 5.
Long term incentive plans are also where bonuses are not paid due to capital employed achieved in the year utilised where appropriate to motivate market conditions.
Salaries are reviewed after deducting the Companys weighted and retain the Companys executive annually.
These reviews give rise to average cost of capital: management.
These are structured salary increases only if information on to reward the achievement of medium 2.
One per cent of the value of the absolute comparable sector practice indicates term operational objectives, financial total shareholder return in the year, after that salary levels are not appropriate.
performance and growth in shareholder deducting an average risk free capital 2.
Performance bonuses are, where value.
return to shareholders: and possible, discretionary and not 6.
It is recognised that this approach to 3.
One per cent of the value of the contractual, with the level of annual performance bonuses requires strong relative total return to shareholders bonus determined on the basis of management with an effective approach benchmarked against the average judgements on performance relative to risk.
of returns achieved by the UK FTSE to the relevant trading conditions 250 index and the UK FTSE General and other circumstances.
In some Application of policies to executive Financials index in the year.
jurisdictions in which the Company directors operates the exercise of discretion is The Company currently has two executive For this purpose shareholder returns do subject to employment law restrictions, directors, Terry Smith Chief Executive and not include exceptional returns of capital including a requirement to act Paul Mainwaring Finance Director.
The as opposed to normal dividends.
reasonably and limits on retrospective above policies are applied to the Executive application.
Directors as follows: The Remuneration Committee continues to review the appropriateness of this 3.
The level of unforeseeable variability Salaries formula and it may decide to change in market circumstances affecting short Salaries are reviewed and determined the formula if it concludes that doing so term financial outcomes is such that by the Remuneration Committee.
In would be bene cial, and would record factors taken into account in forming accordance with the Companys policies, such a change in the Report on Directors judgements on performance for the salaries are not routinely increased Remuneration.
The Remuneration purpose of determining bonuses are annually.
In determining salaries the Committee may decide to reduce the pool not restricted to, or predominantly Remuneration Committee takes into to be distributed if it concludes that it is determined by, annual financial budgets.
account salary levels for equivalent excessive relative to performance achieved In some market circumstances financial positions in comparable sector against plan, performance in market outcomes above annual budgets may businesses, most of which are not UK circumstances, performance against not be regarded as demonstrating a high listed companies.
Given the policy of previous results and achievement of the level of performance whereas in others maintaining high variable remuneration Companys objectives.
It will also take into even superior performance might not the level of salaries would normally account the number of executive directors be capable of achieving budgets and the be below the average of that paid covered by the pool.
In exceptional failure to recognise this might result in by businesses of comparable size for circumstances it may also increase the size avoidable levels of underperformance equivalent positions.
of the pool if it concludes that it would through failure to motivate or retain clearly be unfair not to do so.
This approach is balanced by the decisions would be recorded in the Report Companys objective that the cost of on Directors Remuneration.
staff should be sensitive to returns to shareholders.
For more information please visit: 38 Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2008 www.
com The pool is then allocated between Long term share incentive plans Holders of awards made in 2008 are executive directors taking into Equity incentivisation of staff continues required to use one half of their annual consideration their personal contribution, to be an important part of the Companys bonuses in respect of 2008 and 2009 to comparable levels of remuneration in remuneration strategy.
The main incentive purchase shares in the Company in order competitive or comparable businesses in scheme in force in 2008 was the Tullett to retain their right to the award, and to the sectors in which the Company trades Prebon Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP.
hold those shares throughout the plans and considerations relating to retention The majority of the share options under performance period.
Awards are in the and motivation.
It is the policy of the the Tullett Liberty Equity Incentive Plan form of share options, exercisable for Remuneration Committee not to pay have now been exercised.
bonuses to a director if it is not satis ed with personal performance.
If following Tullett Liberty Equity Incentive Plan The lowest share price of Tullett Prebon this process not all of the bonus pool has The Tullett Liberty Equity Incentive Plan plc ordinary shares during the year to been allocated, the unallocated proportion was introduced in 2004.
Options over 31 December 2008 was 130p and the is retained by the Company.
56,779 shares remain exercisable under highest price was 534.5p.
None of these are held by 2008 it was 136.5p.
It is recognised that the bonuses arising executive directors.
from this policy may be large.
However, it Future developments is considered to be in the best interests of Tullett Prebon Long Term Incentive Plan The Remuneration Committee keeps up to the Company and the shareholders to pay Shareholder approval was granted in date with the latest regulatory and market remuneration in line with market practice November 2006 for the discretionary LTIP.
developments, guidelines and codes of in the sectors in which the Company The principal aim of the LTIP is to improve practice published by various bodies, operates.
Awards under and research published by professional the plan are granted by the Remuneration advisers.
The most recent and relevant Long term and share incentive schemes Committee.
The first awards under this example is the FSAs code of practice The participation of executive directors in plan were made in 2008. on remuneration policies which was long term and share incentive schemes published on 26 February 2009. is determined by the Remuneration For grants made in 2008, minimum vesting Committee.
Details of the Companys of awards will be achieved if annual It is anticipated that current general long term and share incentive schemes revenue growth is 5% per annum for the discussions over remuneration practices are set out below.
three years to 31 December 2010 with and concerns over rewards and risks in the maximum vesting of awards if annual financial services sector will give rise to Pensions and other bene ts revenue growth is 10% per annum over a need for the Remuneration Committee Terry Smith does not participate in the the same period, subject in both cases to continue to review developments and Companys pension scheme.
Since May to achieving in 2010 operating margins discuss issues arising with shareholders.
2007, Tullett Prebon Group Limited has of 17.5% and a return on capital employed made a contribution of 6% of basic pay, up of not less than 25% on operating assets to the notional earnings cap 105,600, to and goodwill, including that arising on the Tullett Prebon Group Personal Pension future acquisitions.
Plan in respect of Paul Mainwaring.
Executive directors also participate in the Companys medical bene ts scheme.
Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2008 39 shareholder information financial statements governance business review Report on Directors Remuneration continued Details of directors remuneration Total emoluments received by directors during the year ended 31 December 2008 were as follows: Bonuses To be invested Salaries and fees Bene ts Cash in shares Total 2008 2007 2008 2007 2008 2007 2008 2007 2008 2007 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 Executive directors Terry Smith 650 650 2 2 2,000 4,000 2,000 4,652 4,652 Paul Mainwaring 275 275 1 1 475 500 475 1,226 776 Lou Scotto 37 37 Non-executive directors Keith Hamill 150 150 150 150 David Clark 45 43 45 43 Michael Fallon 45 45 45 45 Richard Kilsby 45 45 45 45 Rupert Robson 40 40 40 40 Bernard Leaver 57 57 John Spencer 65 65 1,250 1,407 3 3 2,475 4,500 2,475 6,203 5,910 Executive directors Salaries The salary of the Chief Executive, Terry Smith, is 650,000 and has not been changed since 2005.
The salary of the Finance Director, Paul Mainwaring, is 275,000 and has not changed since his appointment in 2006.
These salaries are not being increased.
Annual bonuses The Remuneration Committee has determined the following awards in respect of 2008: Terry Smith: 2.0m in cash 2007: 4.0m : and 2.0m to be awarded on condition that it is invested in the Companys shares, to be held until the end of 2010 2007: no investment.
Paul Mainwaring: 0.475m in cash 2007: 0.5m : and 0.475m to be awarded on condition that it is invested in the Companys shares, to be held until the end of 2010 2007: no investment.
The total bonus payout is substantially less than the pool arising from the quantitative formula before other factors were taken into account.
The total bonus payout for 2007 was also less than the pool arising from the quantitative formula, although to a lesser extent.
The bonus for the Finance Director re ects a substantial increase in his personal contribution with regard to risk control and general commercial management of the Company.
In line with the Companys policy of restricting xed remuneration as far as is practical the Remuneration Committee has decided to re ect his contribution through the annual bonus.
For more information please visit: 40 Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2008 www.
com The Remuneration Committee considered whether the share price performance should be taken into account to a greater extent than automatically arises under the stated bonus pool formula.
It did not believe that an additional adjustment was appropriate and considered that this issue should be dealt with through share ownership and share based incentives rather than the annual bonus.
The Committee also considered whether it should take additional account of general public issues relating to remuneration levels.
It concluded that it should make its decisions in accordance with the best interests of the Company and the shareholders and in conformity with its previously stated policies.
The extent of the outperformance of the Company during the year was taken into account in reaching this conclusion.
Comparable levels of remuneration have also been reviewed, with the aid of professional advice.
The review con rmed that Tullett Prebons approach is in line with normal practices adopted in the IBD sector.
Long term incentives The outstanding share options granted to each person who served as a director of the Company at any time in the financial year are as follows: Shares Shares under under option option Lapsed Exercise at at 31 Granted Exercised unexercised price Date from Date of Name of Share 1 January December during during during per which first expiry of director scheme 2008 2008 period period period share exercisable option Terry Smith LTIP 1,860,465 1,860,465 1 in total 18.3.
2018 Bene ts No pension contributions were made in respect of Terry Smith during 2008 2007: nil.
Paul Mainwaring received pension contributions during 2008 of 6,336 2007: 4,224.
These contributions were made to the Tullett Prebon Group Personal Pension Plan.
Terry Smith and Paul Mainwaring received private medical cover at a cost of 1,746 and 892 respectively during 2008.
Outside directorships At the time of the demerger of Collins Stewart plc it was decided that it would be in the best interests of the then shareholders if Terry Smith undertook the role of Chairman of that company.
In that capacity, Terry Smith receives a salary of 200,000 per annum and is entitled to a bonus for the year ended 31 December 2008 from Collins Stewart plc.
Paul Mainwaring has no outside directorships.
Non-executive directors The fees paid to the non-executive directors are determined by the Board and the fees paid to the Chairman are determined by the Remuneration Committee.
These are benchmarked against published information on the fees paid to the non-executive directors of UK listed companies of comparable size and activities.
The Chairmen of the Remuneration and the Audit Committee and the Senior Independent Non-executive Director are paid additional fees to re ect their increased time commitment and responsibilities, but are not eligible to participate in short or long term incentive plans or to receive any pension from the Company.
The fees paid in 2007 to Bernard Leaver and John Spencer include payments for compensation for loss of of ce of 40,000 and 45,000 respectively.
Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2008 41 shareholder information financial statements governance business review Report on Directors Remuneration continued Directors contracts Directors notice periods are limited to 12 months and are subject to mitigation and restrictive covenants.
Termination payments under any directors service contract will not exceed 100% of base salary plus annual bonus.
The contracts provide for retirement at the age of 65 in all cases.
Details of directors contracts are set out below: Director Date of contract Notice period Terry Smith 29 January 2007 12 months Paul Mainwaring 25 September 2006 12 months Keith Hamill 22 September 2000 12 months David Clark 10 March 2003 12 months Michael Fallon 24 August 2004 12 months Richard Kilsby 3 June 2005 12 months Rupert Robson 4 January 2007 12 months Total shareholder returns A graph depicting the Companys total shareholder return in comparison to other companies in the FTSE Mid 250 index and the FTSE General Financials index in the five years to 31 December 2008 is shown below: 250 Collins Stewart Tullett plc Tullett Prebon plc FTSE250 FTSE350 General Financials 210 170 130 90 50 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 The Board believes that the above indices are most relevant as they comprise businesses either of similar size or engaged in the financial services industry.
On behalf of the Board Michael Fallon Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 10 March 2009 For more information please visit: 42 Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2008 www.
