174 DireCtorS remuneration report REmuNERATIoN CommITTEE REmuNERATIoN CommITTEE REmIT ANd mEmBERSHIp ANd mEETINGS KEY ACTIVITIES duRING THE YEAR The members of the Remuneration Committee A copy of the Remuneration Committees are John Varley Chairman of the Committee, remit is available on the Companys website, John Buchanan, Louis Schweitzer and astrazeneca.
com, or by request from the Nancy Rothwell.
They are all Non-Executive Company Secretary.
The Board considers them all to be independent Louis Schweitzer was considered KEY ACTIVITIES duRING THE YEAR We have included in our work during independent upon his appointment as The Remuneration Committee considered 2008 an extensive benchmarking of the Chairman of the Board: in accordance the following matters, amongst other things, activities and policies of the Remuneration with the UK Combined Code on Corporate during 2008: Committee to assess how these conform Governance, the test of independence is not with the continuous advance in best appropriate in relation to the Chairman after The terms of senior executives packages on practice in these areas.
The independence of the appointment, promotion and termination.
in this work, as in all our work, is to Non-Executive Directors is discussed in more ensure that AstraZenecas remuneration detail in the Directors Report on page 92.
As part of a benchmarking of the strategy supports its business strategy, The Company Secretary acts as the Committees activities and policies, and thereby serves shareholders.
secretary to the Remuneration Committee.
a review of the Companys compliance with institutional investor guidelines.
JoHN VARlEY The Remuneration Committee met seven Chairman of the Remuneration Committee times in 2008.
Each meeting was attended A review of guiding principles that inform by all of its members, except that other the Companys approach to total reward commitments prevented John Buchanan from arrangements to ensure that the This Directors Remuneration Report has been attending the meetings on 30 January 2008, remuneration strategy supports the prepared in accordance with the Directors 18 March 2008 and 10 December 2008. business strategy.
Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 Nancy Rothwell was also unable to attend the Regulations and meets the relevant the meeting on 18 March 2008.
Other Assessment of financial performance requirements of the Financial Services commitments prevented Louis Schweitzer from against earnings per share EPS targets Authoritys FSA Listing Rules.
As required attending the meeting on 10 December 2008. to determine the level of payment of by the Regulations, a resolution to approve bonuses for 2007 and set EPS targets the report will be proposed at the Annual At the request of the Remuneration for 2008.
General Meeting AGM on 30 April 2009.
Committee, the Chief Executive Officer and certain senior managers were invited to attend Prepared, reviewed and approved the The following sections of the Directors meetings of the Remuneration Committee Directors Remuneration Report.
Remuneration Report up to and including throughout the year.
Accordingly, the following the section titled Non-Executive Directors attended meetings of the Remuneration Approved the awards made under the on page 181 were not subject to audit by Committee in 2008, except where their Groups main incentive plans Performance KPMG Audit Plc.
own remuneration was being discussed: Share Plan and Share Option Plan to David Brennan Chief Executive Officer : Senior Executive Team SET members Lynn Tetrault Executive Vice-President, and other selected participants.
Human Resources and Corporate Affairs : and Simon Appleby Vice-President, Developed long-term incentive LTI Performance and Reward.
These individuals arrangements for a number of provided advice and services that materially subsidiary businesses which contribute assisted the Remuneration Committee during towards specific Group strategic and the year.
In so doing, they drew on various commercial objectives.
sources of data concerning directors and executives salaries, bonus levels and other Reviewed LTI arrangements in the incentives including general pharmaceutical light of age discrimination legislation.
industry reports and surveys, as well as surveys specifically carried out for the Company, such Proposed remuneration and as those prepared by Towers Perrin.
incentive arrangements to support senior level recruitment.
During 2008, Carol Arrowsmith of Deloitte LLP Deloitte was retained by the Remuneration Committee to provide it with independent advice on all matters being considered by it.
Deloitte also provided taxation advice and other non-audit services to the Company.
ASTRAZENECA ANNuAl REpoRT ANd FoRm 20-F INFoRmATIoN 2008 remuneration report 175 ASTRAZENECAS oVERAll REmuNERATIoN 6.
The Remuneration Committee seeks CompoNENTS oF REmuNERATIoN polICY ANd puRpoSE to ensure that the overall proportion of variable pay bonuses and share-based During 2008, the components of employee 1.
The role of the Remuneration Committee awards to which Directors and members remuneration including that of the Executive is to help the organisation to create value of the SET may become entitled form a Directors and SET members comprised fixed for shareholders over time through the significant part of their overall remuneration and variable ie performance-related elements, development and deployment of opportunity.
The Remuneration Committees as set out below.
remuneration policies and practices objective is to ensure that such variable that support the implementation of the pay is linked to a range of measures Annual salary based on conditions in the business strategy.
designed to promote both individual and relevant geographic market and the value team behaviour and performance in a way of an individuals sustained personal 2.
The Board is committed to maintaining that supports the success of AstraZeneca performance to the business, resulting a dynamic performance culture, in which and creates value for shareholders.
Such from their ability and experience.
the Group can compete strongly by measures are designed to be stretching employing and developing the best talent, and challenging to the relevant individuals.
Pension arrangements appropriate to and where every employee is clear about the relevant national market.
the Groups objectives, how their work 7.
The Groups overall remuneration policy will impact on those objectives and how and purpose is to: Benefits such as healthcare they will benefit from achieving high levels cost-effective and compatible with of performance.
Attract and retain people of the quality relevant welfare arrangements.
To underpin these objectives, in addition to as one of the best pharmaceutical Short-term bonus a lump sum payment fixed remuneration which comprises basic companies in the world.
related to the targeted achievement of pay, pension, and certain other benefits and corporate, functional and individual goals, which is benchmarked against appropriate Enable AstraZeneca to employ the measured over a year and contained within external comparators, the majority of best people and to develop the best a specific plan.
The corporate goals are employees are eligible to receive an annual talent by recognising and rewarding derived from the annual financial targets cash incentive.
This incentive is determined superior performance.
set by the Board and take into account by reference to corporate, team and external expectations of performance.
The component Motivate these people in order to The functional goals are agreed by the based on corporate financial performance achieve the level of performance Remuneration Committee at the start of is in the form of EPS.
Whilst details of bonus necessary to create sustained growth the year.
These functional goals are derived plans differ from country to country, the in shareholder value through time.
from the Business Scorecard, the key EPS component ensures that all eligible elements of which are set out in the strategy, employees receive an element of reward Align the interests of employees with goals and performance measurement based on the Companys overall financial those of shareholders.
table on page 12, and are monitored performance.
In addition, LTI awards are thereafter as part of a Quarterly Business provided to selected senior employees in Align individual and team reward with Review.
Individual goals are based on order to align their interests closely with business performance at each level.
annual objectives, which are linked to those of the Companys shareholders.
Encourage employees to perform to 4.
Pay for performance principles apply their fullest capacity.
LTI arrangements for selected groups, throughout the Group and provide targeted at the achievement of strategic a consistent framework within which Create pay structures that are fair, objectives closely aligned with the interests executive remuneration decisions are made.
of shareholders, namely the AstraZeneca Performance Share Plan PSP described 5.
The Remuneration Committee has Ensure that pay structures are both on page 179, and the AstraZeneca Share responsibility for determining the competitive and cost effective in each Option Plan described on page 180, and in individual compensation paid to the Chief of the relevant employment markets.
Some individuals Executive Officer and members of the primarily those based in the US, but SET: and for the approval of any single Ensure proper balance of fixed and excluding Executive Directors participate payment or award over $1,000,000.
in the Restricted Stock Unit Award Plan described on page 180.
Share participation various plans provide the opportunity for employees to take a personal stake in the Companys wealth creation as shareholders.
These plans are described in Note 24 to the Financial Statements.
ASTRAZENECA ANNuAl REpoRT ANd FoRm 20-F INFoRmATIoN 2008 176 CompoNENTS oF REmuNERATIoN FIXEd ANd VARIABlE FIXED ELEMENTS VARIABLE ELEMENTS Fixed Linked to Linked to elements short-term long-term performance performance Base Pension Benefits Bonus Deferred Share Performance salary such as Bonus Plan Option Share healthcare share based Plan Plan The way in which these elements of EXECuTIVE dIRECToRS ANd SENIoR For 2009, the Executive Directors annual remuneration were combined and applied EXECuTIVE TEAmS REmuNERATIoN salaries are on page 177. varied according to a range of factors including ANd TERmS oF EmploYmENT specific business needs and practices in Pension arrangements different geographic markets, although, in IlluSTRATIoN oF FIXEd ANd VARIABlE REmuNERATIoN The table on page 183 gives details of the general, the more senior the role within the Based on AstraZenecas remuneration policy, changes in the value of the Executive business, the greater the proportion of total the charts on page 177 illustrate the potential Directors accrued pensions during 2008. remuneration was made up from variable pay.
weighting given to fixed and variable elements of the remuneration package at Executive US Executive Directors Components of remuneration are taken into Director level.
Performance-related elements pension arrangements account both separately and in their totality of the package are shown on an Expected David Brennan is a member of the AstraZeneca in judging the value of a package.
For 2009, Value basis, and in the event that performance US Defined Benefit Pension Plan, by virtue of the Company will continue to benchmark conditions are not met, such elements would his membership of pension plans applicable against appropriate comparator companies not deliver any value.
The Expected Value to legacy Astra Merck employees.
Benefits and will assess whether or not and to what approach considers the range of possible for members of this plan are delivered on a extent the overall opportunities for remuneration outcomes and the probability attached to each, tax-qualified basis, with accrued benefits that offered by the current structure of remuneration in order to provide a value that represents exceed specific limits under the plans formula remain appropriate in the context of changes the average that would be delivered if the and the US Tax Code being delivered through within the business and the external arrangements were operated over many years.
The environment in which it operates.
The Expected Value for bonus payment is normal pension age under both plans is 65. taken to be the target payout level.
Recognising that shareholder approval to As previously disclosed, in September 2008, operate the AstraZeneca Share Option Plan FIXEd REmuNERATIoN David Brennan satisfied a condition in the will expire at the end of its 10-year life during All Executive Directors terms and conditions pension plan relating to combined age 2010, and that it will be necessary to seek are UK-based, apart from David Brennans and service exceeding 85 years, which is further shareholder approval in order to pension and health insurance arrangements, a condition that applies to all members within continue operating the plan beyond this date, which are described below.
On leaving or retiring from the Remuneration Committee intends to employment, he is eligible to take a pension consider whether or not the Companys Basic salary or lump sum equivalent based on accrued established remuneration policy and the The basic salary for each Executive Director service and final pensionable pay ie without operation of the existing incentive plans and SET member is determined by the actuarial reduction.
This change in status continue to meet the needs of the business Remuneration Committee.
Recognising under the pension plan triggered an increase in securing key senior executive talent to the external economic environment, the in transfer value during 2008. grow shareholder value.
This will build on a Remuneration Committee did not increase review of remuneration policy started during the salaries of Executive Directors or other David Brennans participation in the pension 2008.
To the extent that any material changes members of the SET for 2009, other than plan is subject to a service cap at 35 years are to be proposed as a consequence of this in respect of situations where additional service, which will be attained in January review, the Remuneration Committee will responsibilities had been taken on.
Salary 2011, after which no further service accrual consult with shareholders in advance of next decisions reflect the experience and can be earned.
sustained performance of the individuals to whom they apply, taking account of market Members and, in the event of death, competitiveness and the level of increases surviving spouses dependants can elect to applicable to employees in the wider Group.
take pensions in lump sum form based on For the Executive Directors and other actuarial valuation.
members of the SET, the policy has been to position salaries at or slightly above the median of the relevant market.
ASTRAZENECA ANNuAl REpoRT ANd FoRm 20-F INFoRmATIoN 2008 remuneration report 177 EXECuTIVE dIRECToRS SAlARIES 2009 Benefits In conjunction with the majority of employers, Annual salary Annual salary in 2008 in 2009 certain benefits are made available to the Executive Director % Increase Executive Directors and members of the SET David Brennan 972,900 972,900 0 via local benefits programmes offered by 1 John Patterson 540,000 540,000 0 AstraZeneca.
Benefits under these programmes Simon Lowth 550,000 550,000 0 typically include health care, insurances and 1 facilitated car purchase arrangements.
John Patterson will retire from the Board on 31 March 2009.
VARIABlE REmuNERATIoN CompoNENTS oF REmuNERATIoN EXpECTEd VAluE BASIS Executive Directors and members of the SET are eligible to participate in a number CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR of different elements of variable pay, which are described below.
The decision as to FIXED FIXED whether or not in any given year the Executive 22% BASE SALARY 28% BASE SALARY Directors and members of the SET receive any or all of their elements of variable pay is VARIABLE VARIABLE 35% PSP 29% PSP determined by the Remuneration Committee, 22% BONUS 26% BONUS which will typically have regard to the 21% OPTIONS 17% OPTIONS performance of the individual and will consider the elements of variable pay applicable to senior employees in other comparable In addition, David Brennan is a contributing to HM Revenue & Customs limits, in return organisations in making such a determination.
2 member of the US 401 k savings plan, as for an adjustment to their own pension of applies to all US employees.
Pensions are also Short-term bonus payable to dependent children.
Performance criteria In the event of a US participant becoming All Executive Directors and members of incapacitated then permanent health Pensions in payment are increased annually the SET are eligible for a short-term bonus.
insurance cover will provide continuation in line with inflation, as measured by the UK The basis for the payment of any short-term of a proportion of salary, subject to the Retail Prices Index, up to a maximum of 5%.
bonus is determined by reference to a range satisfaction of certain medical criteria.
of factors linked to the underlying performance Simon Lowth Chief Financial Officer is of AstraZenecas business, the performance UK Executive Directors eligible to join AstraZenecas main UK defined of the functional area for which the individual pension arrangements contribution pension plan at a Company is responsible and the performance of the UK Executive Directors have the option to contribution rate of 24% of annual basic individual in his or her role.
participate in the UK Pension Fund according salary, or alternatively, to take the Company to their eligibility, or to take a cash allowance contribution as a cash allowance.
For the Structure and assessment of performance in lieu of pension.
The cash allowance is option year 2008 2009, he has elected to The annual bonus for Executive Directors and consistent with the appropriate value of the take the cash allowance as detailed in the members of the SET is based on performance alternative gross pension benefit.
pensions section on page 183. criteria linked to the following targets: John Patterson Executive Director, In the event of a senior employee in the main 50% by reference to EPS targets set at Development elected to take the cash UK defined benefit pension plan becoming the start of the financial year: allowance in lieu of pension for the option incapacitated, then a pension is payable year 2008 2009 as detailed in the pensions immediately as if such person had reached 25% by reference to measures and table on page 183. normal retirement age subject to a maximum initiatives as set out in, or derived from, of 10 years additional service, based on the strategy, goals and performance In respect of pension accrued up to that point current pensionable salary.
In the event of measurement table on page 12 relevant to he remains a member of the AstraZeneca a members death prior to retirement, the individuals functional accountability or, main UK defined benefit pension plan.
dependants are entitled to a pension of in the case of the Chief Executive Officer, the The normal pension age under this plan is two-thirds of the pension that would have average of these individual outcomes : and 62.
However, a members accrued pension been earned had the deceased remained in is available from age 60 without any actuarial service to age 62, plus a capital sum of four 25% by a balance of qualitative and reduction.
John Patterson, having reached age times pensionable pay.
quantitative objectives that address overall 60 in January 2008, on retiring on 31 March business performance, the key elements 2009, will be eligible to take a pension based In the event of a senior employee in the of which are set out in the strategy, goals on accrued service and final pensionable pay.
main UK defined contribution pension plan and performance measurement table on or where an alternative cash allowance has page 12.
On death in retirement, the accrued pension been taken becoming incapacitated, then 2 is guaranteed payable for the first five years permanent health insurance cover provides The 401 k savings plan is a qualified plan to which of retirement and then reduces to two-thirds continuation of a proportion of salary subject to eligible employees may make salary-deferral contributions on a post-tax and or pre-tax basis.
of this amount should there be a surviving the satisfaction of certain medical criteria.
In the Employers may also make matching or non-elective spouse or other dependant.
Any member event of death prior to retirement, dependants contributions to the plan.
There is a supplementary may choose higher or lower levels of are entitled to a pension and or lump sum non-qualified plan in place for all eligible employees survivors pensions at retirement, subject whose earnings exceed specific limits.
secured from a multiple of ten times salary.
ASTRAZENECA ANNuAl REpoRT ANd FoRm 20-F INFoRmATIoN 2008 178 Following a review by the Remuneration Bonus outcomes for 2008 These achievements were underpinned by Committee, it has been agreed that the Bonus outcomes for 2008 reflected a continuing emphasis on cost discipline, performance criteria for the determination performance in respect of EPS, together improved productivity and performance of annual bonus for Executive Directors and with overall business and financial outcomes management.
Having assessed the members of the SET for bonus year 2009 and relevant functional performance against Companys performance as set out above, will be adjusted to align with the current clear measures and initiatives in support of the the Remuneration Committee is satisfied objectives and measures that are used by strategic priorities and business objectives, that the bonus payments that have been the business as follows: the key elements of which are set out in the earned against stretching performance strategy, goals and performance measurement targets that were set at the start of the year 60% by reference to a group of Corporate table on page 12, in relation to the following are fully justified.
objectives comprising: EPS and cash flow categories which are consistent with delivering targets, together with objectives in each shareholder value: Bonus share deferral requirements of the strategic priority areas identified Consistent with best practice, the by the Board for the business, the key Strengthen the pipeline.
Remuneration Committee has put in place elements of which are set out in the Grow the business.
a requirement that a certain proportion of any strategy, goals and performance Reshape the business.
short-term bonus payment be deferred and measurement table on page 12: and Promote a culture of responsibility invested into Ordinary Shares or American and accountability.
Depositary Shares ADSs in the Company 40% by reference to individual measures acquired on the open market at the prevailing and initiatives which link to the business The bonus outcomes for the Executive market price and held on behalf of individual objectives relevant to the individuals Directors for 2008 are shown in the table below.
Executive Directors and SET members by the functional accountability or, in the case Company for a period of three years from the of the Chief Executive Officer, the average In respect of the assessment of bonuses date of acquisition.
This arrangement is one of these individual outcomes.
for 2008, EPS excluding restructuring and of the ways in which, over time, Executive synergy costs, global sales and operating Directors and members of the SET will be These changes will further enhance profit excluding restructuring and synergy able to build up a significant shareholding in AstraZenecas emphasis on individual and costs were taken into account in particular the Company.
Although the delivery of these business accountability.
The key measures by the Remuneration Committee, which also shares to the individual after three years is not referred to above are clearly set out in the noted growth in the share price and relative contingent on the continued performance of strategy, goals and performance measurement total shareholder return TSR performance.
the Company, the Remuneration Committee table described on page 12, whereby Group has reserved the right to retrospectively alter and Functional objectives and measures are The Remuneration Committee also noted bonus outcomes in circumstances where it managed in a robust and consistent way and that the development pipeline now comprises does not consider that the delivery of shares assessed by the SET as part of a Quarterly 98 clinical projects.
The Phase III portfolio is warranted by the underlying performance Business Review.
The outcome of this process remained constant with 10 projects.
The proportion currently is rigorously scrutinised by the Board.
delivered 32 FGLPs and delivered 17 first time deferred into shares is one third of the pre-tax in man.
Good progress was made in product bonus for Executive Directors and one sixth Bonus ranges for 2009 development life-cycle management with eight for all other SET members.
On leaving, For 2009, the bonus ranges for each Executive significant submissions across a number of participants would normally have to wait for Director are shown below and are the same jurisdictions, and two product submissions.
the shares to be released at the end of the as for 2008. three-year period.
BoNuS RANGES FoR 2009 Long-term incentive plans Executive Directors and members of the SET Bonus range for 2009 may also be granted share options under the Executive Director % David Brennan 0 180 AstraZeneca Share Option Plan and awards 1 John Patterson 0 150 under the AstraZeneca Performance Share Simon Lowth 0 150 Plan.
The grant of such options and award of such shares are determined by the 1 John Pattersons bonus for 2009 will be considered by the Remuneration Committee in January 2010, Remuneration Committee, as are the when performance outcomes are known and, to the extent that any bonus is payable, will be based on his eligible earnings for the period in 2009 prior to retirement.
performance targets that apply to their vesting and or exercise.
Both of these schemes are intended to align the interests BoNuS ouTComES FoR 2008 of Executive Directors and members of the SET with those of shareholders.
Following Short-term bonus Percentage 1 delivered as a combination of cash and shares, as shown in the table of emoluments of salary the exercise of an option under the Executive Director 000 % AstraZeneca Share Option Plan it is the David Brennan 1,295 133 expectation of the Remuneration Committee John Patterson 522 97 that Executive Directors and members of the Simon Lowth 704 128 1 Bonuses for Executive Directors are not pensionable.
ASTRAZENECA ANNuAl REpoRT ANd FoRm 20-F INFoRmATIoN 2008 remuneration report 179 SET will retain the net number of shares from in relevant employment under certain allow Awards to vest or to only allow them the exercise for a period of not less than six circumstances during the vesting period to partially vest where this appears to the months from the date of exercise.
to the extent that the performance targets Remuneration Committee to be warranted.
Shareholding guidelines The Remuneration Committee has the For Executive Directors and members of Performance period and vesting dates discretion to award Shares up to a further 25% the SET, the Remuneration Committee has In the case of all Awards granted so far, the over and above the Shares subject to the established target shareholding guidelines, performance target relates to the three-year Award, if the Companys TSR performance under which it is expected that they build up period commencing on 1 January of the year is substantially better than that of the upper their own holding of shares in the Company, of grant.
Thus, for the Awards made in 2008, quartile of the comparator group.
equivalent to their basic salary.
It is expected the performance period runs from 1 January that these shareholding targets will be 2008 to 31 December 2010.
The vesting date Individual limit reached in part through shares delivered is the third anniversary of the date of grant.
In respect of any financial year, the maximum from the various LTI arrangements as well market value of Shares that may be put under as the deferred part of the short-term bonus Performance targets Award in respect of an employee is 500% described above.
For all Awards so far to Executive Directors of that employees basic salary.
This limit and SET members, the performance target excludes the above 25% maximum additional AstraZeneca Performance Share Plan is the Companys TSR over the relevant Shares that may vest, at the sole discretion of The AstraZeneca PSP was approved by three-year period compared with the TSR the Remuneration Committee, if the Companys shareholders at the AGM in 2005 and provides of a selected peer group of pharmaceutical TSR performance is substantially above for the grant of performance share awards that of the upper quartile of the comparator companies for the same period.
These Awards over Ordinary Shares or ADSs in companies are currently a total of 12: Abbott group.
For Awards to vest at this level, the AstraZeneca PLC together, the Shares.
Laboratories, Bristol-Myers Squibb, Eli Lilly, Company would need to have sustained GlaxoSmithKline, Johnson & Johnson, Merck, a level of performance well in excess of Basis of participation upper quartile over a period of years and Novartis, Pfizer, Roche, Sanofi-Aventis, The Remuneration Committee is responsible Schering-Plough and Wyeth.
the Remuneration Committee would need for setting the policy for the way in which the to be satisfied that this was warranted.
PSP should be operated, including agreeing TSR evaluates share price growth and performance targets, identifying which The actual individual limits that apply under the dividends re-invested in respect of a notional employees should be invited to participate in number of shares, from the beginning of the PSP, subject to this maximum, are set by the the PSP and the level of Awards.
Participation relevant performance period to the end of Remuneration Committee from time to time.
is highly selective and tends only to include it, and ranks the companies in the selected senior employees on the basis of their Performance under the AstraZeneca comparator group by reference to their TSR performance.
Awards are not pensionable and achieved over that period.
The rank which Performance Share Plan in 2008 may not generally be assigned or transferred.
the Companys TSR achieves over the The peer group graphs on page 184 show, performance period will determine how for each Award, how the Companys TSR Generally, Awards can be granted at any performance has compared with the TSR for many Shares will vest under the relevant time although in practice they are awarded Award, as per the vesting schedule shown the companies in the comparator group from annually, but not during a close period of the in the table below: the first day of the relevant performance Company.
In 2008, the main grant of Awards period to 31 December 2008 and how the was made on 28 March, with other awards Company ranks against those other peer TSR ranking Vesting percentage of of the Company Shares under Award % approved by the Remuneration Committee companies on this basis.
We will continue Below median 0 in relation to, for example, new appointments to report on the performance of each Award Median 30 or promotions granted on 22 August.
The against the relevant performance target Upper quartile 100 value of the shares subject to the Award during the relevant vesting period.
Between median and upper quartile Pro rata is determined by reference to the market Significantly above upper quartile up to 125 price of Shares over the three-day period Change in control provisions immediately preceding the date of grant.
On a change in control of the Company as a result of a general offer to acquire the whole Details of Awards to Executive Directors are To alleviate any short-term volatility, the return of the issued ordinary share capital of the shown in the table on page 186. index is averaged in the TSR calculations Company, Awards will vest pro-rata to the for each company over the three months time elapsed between the date of grant of the Performance conditions prior to the start and end of the relevant Award and the date of the change in control Save in exceptional circumstances, which performance period.
to the extent that the relevant performance are prescribed in the PSP rules, the vesting targets have been met up to the date of the of Awards is contingent on the satisfaction of In addition to the TSR performance target change in control or the most practicable specified performance targets and continued being met for each Award as set out above, earlier date.
The Remuneration Committee employment with the Group.
In addition to the Remuneration Committee also has to will, however, have discretion to take into the satisfaction of these performance targets, satisfy itself that achievement of the TSR account any other factors it believes to be Awards will generally not vest until the third performance target is a genuine reflection relevant in determining the extent to which anniversary of the date of grant although of the Companys underlying financial Awards will vest in these circumstances.
Awards may vest in part on a time pro-rated performance and has the discretion to not basis where a participant ceases to be ASTRAZENECA ANNuAl REpoRT ANd FoRm 20-F INFoRmATIoN 2008 180 As well as taking into account these Dilution AstraZeneca Share Option Plan The AstraZeneca Share Option Plan SOP performance considerations at the point of The dilutive effect of the grants of Awards on was approved by shareholders at the AGM granting Awards, the Remuneration Committee the Companys issued share capital was also in 2000 and provides for the grant of share imposed performance conditions in respect considered by the Remuneration Committee, of the exercise of such Awards in respect in accordance with its commitment, reflecting option awards Awards over Ordinary Shares or ADSs in AstraZeneca PLC of members of the SET including the the guidance of the Association of British together, the Shares.
Executive Directors which, in the view of the Insurers, that the percentage of the issued Remuneration Committee were considered share capital that could be allocated under appropriately stretching.
In order for Awards all of the Companys employee share plans This plan was approved for a period of 10 years.
Recognising this, the Company to vest, the EPS of the Group must increase over a period of 10 years should be under intends to begin the process of consulting at least in line with the UK Retail Price Index 10%.
This commitment is applied by the with key institutional shareholders during plus 5% per annum on average, over a three Remuneration Committee in practice as a limit, on average, of under 1% per annum.
2009 in relation to any proposal to adopt year period, the base figure being the EPS a new plan for 2010. for the financial year preceding the date of The Remuneration Committee concluded that grant, with no re-testing.
In addition, since a grant of Awards to those plan participants Basis of participation the review of executive remuneration in 2004, and individual Executive Directors proposed for a grant was appropriate given the level The Remuneration Committee is responsible the Remuneration Committee has included for setting the policy for the way in which the a condition that, if an event occurs which of performance achieved.
None of the other SOP should be operated, including agreeing causes material reputational damage to the LTI arrangements currently operated by the performance targets and identifying which Company, such that it is not appropriate for Company have a dilutive effect because they do not involve the issue and allotment of new employees should be invited to participate the Awards to vest and become exercisable, and the level of Awards.
Participation is highly the Remuneration Committee can make a Shares or ADSs in the Company but rather selective and tends only to include senior determination to reflect this.
rely on the market purchase of Shares or employees on the basis of their performance ADSs that have already been issued.
except in the US where for cultural reasons, The Remuneration Committee also sought participation in the SOP is more widespread.
and received assurances that each individual Zeneca 1994 Executive Awards are not pensionable and may not proposed for the grant of an Award has been Share Option Scheme generally be assigned or transferred.
performing in a manner that justified a grant to This plan was replaced by the AstraZeneca SOP.
The last grant of options under this them.
There was some variation in the level of Generally, Awards can be granted at any time, grants being proposed between individuals, plan was in March 2000.
Certain Executive but not during a close period of the Company.
to reflect differing levels of performance and Directors and members of the SET have In 2008, grants of Awards were made on their seniority within the business.
options outstanding under this plan, all of which are exercisable, the performance 28 March and 22 August.
The exercise price is fixed by reference to the market price of Change in control provisions conditions having been satisfied.
A description Shares over the three-day period immediately On a change in control of the Company of this plan can be found on page 142. preceding the date of grant.
as a result of a general offer to acquire the Other plans whole of the issued ordinary share capital Details of Awards to Executive Directors are of the Company, any unvested Awards vest In addition to the plans described above, shown in the table on page 187. immediately following the change in control.
the Company operates a Share Incentive All outstanding vested Awards can be Plan and a Savings-Related Share Option Plan, both of which are UK HM Revenue & Performance conditions exercised during the period of six months The AstraZeneca SOP, in particular, requires from the date of the change in control.
Certain Executive the Remuneration Committee, before agreeing The Company will use its best endeavours Directors and members of the SET are to grant an Award to Executive Directors to ensure that any shares acquired from an eligible to participate in these plans, more detailed descriptions of which can be found and others, to consider whether or not the exercise following a change in control are underlying performance of the Company subject to the same terms as shares of the on pages 139 and 142. justifies a grant.
In addition, it must also be same class were acquired under the general satisfied that each individual nominated is offer.
Unexercised Awards will lapse at the Restricted Stock Unit Plans The AstraZeneca Pharmaceuticals LP performing to the necessary standard.
end of the six-month period following a change in control or, if the Award is exchanged for an Restricted Stock Unit Award Plan RSU Plan In agreeing grants of Awards in 2008, the option relating to shares in a different company, was introduced in 2007 and provides for the Remuneration Committee took into account the date of exchange, whichever is earlier.
grant of restricted stock unit awards Awards to selected employees predominantly in the strong underlying financial performance and progress towards achieving longer-term goals.
The MedImmune, Inc. 2008 Restricted Stock Unit Award Plan MedImmune RSU Plan was introduced in 2008 to make awards to employees of MedImmune.
The RSU Plan and MedImmune RSU Plan are used in conjunction with the AstraZeneca SOP to ASTRAZENECA ANNuAl REpoRT ANd FoRm 20-F INFoRmATIoN 2008 remuneration report 181 provide a mix of restricted stock units and Policy on external appointments The Chairmans and the Deputy Chairmans share options.
Awards typically vest on the and retention of fees annual fees are 325,000 and 100,000 third anniversary of the date of grant and are Subject to the specific approval of the respectively, and the annual fees applicable Board in each case, Executive Directors and to other Non-Executive Directors are set contingent on continued employment with AstraZeneca.
In 2008, Awards were made members of the SET may accept external out below.
under these plans on 28 March and 22 August.
appointments as non-executive directors of Neither of these plans is used to make Awards other companies and retain any related fees The remainder of this Report was subject to paid to them provided always that such audit by KPMG Audit Plc.
to Executive Directors or SET members.
external appointments are not considered by Restricted Share Plan the Board to prevent or reduce the ability of AudIT The AstraZeneca Restricted Share Plan was the Executive to perform his or her role to the required standard.
Such appointments are The Directors emoluments in 2008 and introduced in 2008 and provides for the grant of restricted share awards to key employees, seen as a way in which Executives can gain the details of the Directors interests in the excluding serving Executive Directors.
a broader business experience and, in turn, Companys Ordinary Shares disclosed in the Awards are made on an ad hoc basis with benefit the Company.
Directors Emoluments section on pages 182 to 188 have been audited by the Companys variable vesting dates.
The plan has been used twice in 2008 to make awards to four John Patterson is a non-executive director of external auditor.
The Remuneration Committee Cobham plc.
In respect of such position, he has responsibility for agreeing any awards retained the fees paid to him for his services under the plan and for setting the policy for the which, in 2008, totalled 51,500. way in which the plan should be operated.
Non-Executive Directors Service contracts None of the Non-Executive Directors has Details of the service contracts for each of a service contract.
They are not eligible for the Executive Directors, including their notice performance-related bonuses or the grant periods, are set out below.
The notice of share options.
No pension contributions periods in the Executive Directors service are made on their behalf.
None of the contracts are 12 months.
It is the Boards Non-Executive Directors has participated intention that, in the event of early termination or will participate in any decision made by of an Executive Directors employment, any the Board in relation to the determination of compensation payable under the service their own fees.
In addition to the mandatory contract should not exceed the salary and shareholding requirement imposed on all benefits that would have been received had Directors under the Companys Articles the contractual notice period been worked of Association described on page 197, and this may be further reduced in line with in December 2008 the Board agreed that the Executive Directors duty to mitigate losses.
each Non-Executive Director should also Compensation for any bonus entitlement will be encouraged to build up, over time, be assessed initially as on target but subject a shareholding in the Company with a value to adjustment by the Remuneration Committee approximately equivalent to the basic annual to take account of the particular circumstances fee for a Non-Executive Director 60,000 or, of the termination.
in the case of the Chairman, approximately equivalent to his annual fee 325,000. dETAIlS oF EXECuTIVE dIRECToRS SERVICE CoNTRACTS AT 31 dECEmBER 2008 Date of Unexpired term at Notice 1 Executive Director service contract 31 December 2008 period David Brennan 1 January 2006 12 months 12 months John Patterson 1 January 2005 12 months 12 months Simon Lowth 5 November 2007 12 months 12 months 1 None of the Executive Directors has any provision in their service contracts giving them a right to liquidated damages or an automatic entitlement to bonus for the duration of their notice period.
NoN-EXECuTIVE dIRECToRS FEES Basic Fee 60,000 Senior Non-Executive Director an additional 25,000 Membership of the Audit Committee or the Remuneration Committee 15,000 Chairman of the Audit Committee or the Remuneration Committee an additional 20,000 Membership of the Science Committee 10,000 Chairman of the Science Committee an additional 7,000 ASTRAZENECA ANNuAl REpoRT ANd FoRm 20-F INFoRmATIoN 2008 182 dIRECToRS EmolumENTS IN 2008 The aggregate remuneration, excluding pension contributions and the value of shares under option and shares subject to performance share plan awards, paid to or accrued for all Directors of the Company for services in all capacities during the year ended 31 December 2008 was 5.9m $11.1m.
The remuneration of individual Directors is set out below in sterling and US dollars.
All salaries, fees, bonuses and other benefits for Directors are established in sterling.
2 Fees applicable to all Non-Executive Directors increased during the year, effective from the AGM on 24 April 2008.
The revised fees are set out on page 181 of this Report.
3 Relates to relocation allowances, a car allowance and cash payments in respect of dividends accrued on vesting of a 2005 US performance share plan award.
4 Relates to remaining cash following selection of benefits within AstraZenecas UK flexible benefits programme.
5 Includes a deduction of 11,000 $21,000 in respect of member contributions to the AstraZeneca Defined Benefit Programme paid through salary sacrifice see page 183.
6 Part year only as appointed Director on 18 February 2008.
5 Includes a deduction of $21,000 11,000 in respect of member contributions to the AstraZeneca Defined Benefit Programme paid through salary sacrifice see page 183.
7 Part year only as appointed Director on 12 September 2008.
ASTRAZENECA ANNuAl REpoRT ANd FoRm 20-F INFoRmATIoN 2008 remuneration report 183 In the tables on this page and on the previous page, salaries have been converted between sterling and US dollars at the average exchange rate for the year in question.
These rates were: GBP USD 2006 0.547 2007 0.500 2008 0.534 The Executive Directors were also granted options to subscribe for Ordinary Shares and awards of Ordinary Shares under the Companys long-term incentive arrangements the AstraZeneca Share Option Plan and the AstraZeneca Performance Share Plan.
Details of share options granted to, and exercised by, Directors and the aggregate of gains realised on the exercise of options, and of awards under the long-term incentive plans, in the year are given on pages 185 to 188.
No Director has a family relationship with any other Director.
pENSIoNS dEFINEd BENEFIT ARRANGEmENTS Pensions are payable to Directors in sterling, with the exception of David Brennans, whose pension is payable in US dollars.
For ease of understanding, the table below has been presented in both sterling and US dollars using the exchange rates for 2008 set out on the previous page.
David John David John Brennan Patterson Brennan Patterson 000 000 $000 $000 Defined Benefit Arrangements 1.
Increase in accrued pension during year as a result of inflation 17 32 3.
Adjustment to accrued pension as a result of salary increase relative to inflation 57 7 107 13 4.
Increase in accrued pension as a result of additional service 12 6 23 11 5.
Change in transfer value during the period less employee contributions 3,988 1,455 7,468 2,724 3 11 3 11 10.
Pensionable service years as at 31 December 2008 33 33 12 33 33 12 Notes For John Patterson, transfer values are calculated on the market related basis used by the AstraZeneca UK Pension Plan, in line with the GN11 guidance note published by the Board for Actuarial Standards in the UK.
The basis was reviewed during 2008 and this resulted in an increase in his transfer value of 993,000 $1,860,000.
For David Brennan, transfer values are calculated to be consistent with the value of the lump sum distribution equivalent to his deferred accrued pension annuity.
The minimum permissible value of such a lump sum distribution was modified in 2008.
As described on page 176, David Brennan reached age 55 during 2008 at which point he became entitled to receive his benefits immediately on retirement without reduction for payment before normal pension age.
This results in a recalculation of his transfer value, which is reflected in this table for 2008.
The figures shown above reflect David Brennans participation in the AstraZeneca US Defined Benefit Pension Plan qualified and non-qualified pension plans.
For John Patterson, member contributions of 11,000 $21,000, being 4% of pensionable salary for the first half of 2008 before he opted for cash in lieu, are paid through salary sacrifice, and as such no employee contributions are shown above or included within emoluments.
dEFINEd CoNTRIBuTIoN ARRANGEmENTS In addition to the defined benefit arrangements above for David Brennan, an employer matching contribution of 49,000 $91,000 was made to his 401 k plan and associated non-qualified plan during 2008.
In addition to the defined benefit arrangements described above for John Patterson, as described on page 177, he has chosen to receive a cash allowance in lieu of pension, which during the second half of 2008 amounted to 84,000 $157,000.
Simon Lowth joined the Board on 5 November 2007.
As described on page 177, he has chosen to receive a cash allowance in lieu of pension, which during 2008 amounted to 132,000 $247,000.
TRANSACTIoNS WITH dIRECToRS There were no material recorded transactions between the Company and the Directors during 2008 or 2007.
ASTRAZENECA ANNuAl REpoRT ANd FoRm 20-F INFoRmATIoN 2008 184 ToTAl SHAREHoldER RETuRN GRApHS TSR oVER A FIVE YEAR pERIod 175 The UK Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 require the inclusion in the 150 Directors Remuneration Report of a graph showing total shareholder return TSR over 125 a five year period in respect of a holding of the Companys shares, plotted against TSR 100 in respect of a hypothetical holding of shares of a similar kind and number by reference 75 to which a broad equity market index is JAN 04 JAN 05 JAN 06 JAN 07 JAN 08 JAN 09 calculated.
The Company is a member of the FTSE 100 Index and consequently, for ASTRAZENECA PHARMA PEERS AVERAGE FTSE 100 the purposes of this graph, which is set out opposite, we have selected the FTSE 100 Index as the appropriate index.
This graph TSR ASTRAZENECA CompAREd WITH pEER GRoup 1 JAN 2006 To 31 dEC 2008 is re-based to 100 at the start of the rolling FoR THE 2006 AWARd five-year period.
We have also included a 50 Pharma Peers Average, which reflects the TSR of the same comparator group used for 40 the Performance Share Plan graphs opposite.
30 20 The AstraZeneca Performance Share Plan 4th 10 PSP referred to on page 179 requires that the TSR in respect of a holding of the Companys 0 shares over the relevant performance period -10 be compared with the TSR of a peer group -20 of 12 other pharmaceutical companies.
The -30 graphs opposite show how the Companys ABT MRK BMS AZ J&J GSK RCH NOV PFI WYE SP LLY SA TSR performance has compared with the TSR for the companies in the comparator group from the first day in the relevant TSR ASTRAZENECA CompAREd WITH pEER GRoup 1 JAN 2007 To 31 dEC 2008 three-year performance period in respect of FoR THE 2007 AWARd each Award to 31 December 2008 and how 20 the Company ranks against those other companies on this basis.
10 5th To alleviate any short-term volatility, the return 0 index is averaged in the TSR calculations for -10 each company over the three months prior to the start of the relevant performance period -20 as stipulated in the PSP and, for the purposes of the graphs opposite, over the -30 last three months of 2008.
-40 ABT J&J GSK BMS AZ NOV RCH WYE SA SP PFI MRK LLY TSR ASTRAZENECA CompAREd WITH pEER GRoup 1 JAN 2008 To 31 dEC 2008 FoR THE 2008 AWARd 20 1st 10 0 -10 -20 -30 -40 -50 AZ ABT GSK J&J NOV RCH SA PFI BMS WYE LLY SP MRK ASTRAZENECA ANNuAl REpoRT ANd FoRm 20-F INFoRmATIoN 2008 remuneration report 185 dIRECToRS INTERESTS IN SHARES BENEFICIAl INTERESTS The table below shows the interests at 31 December 2008 or on the date of resignation if earlier of the persons who on that date were Directors including the interests of their Connected Persons, as such term is defined in the Companies Act 2006 in shares and debentures of AstraZeneca PLC.
All such interests were beneficial except as otherwise stated.
However, interests in Ordinary Shares or ADSs that are the subject of awards under the AstraZeneca PSP, the AstraZeneca Deferred Bonus Plan or the AstraZeneca US Executive Performance Share Plan discussed elsewhere, are not included in the table below but are shown on page 186 to page 187.
None of the Directors has a beneficial interest in the shares of any of the Companys subsidiaries.
Between 31 December 2008 and 29 January 2009 there was no change in the interests in shares and debentures shown in the table below.
Beneficial Interest in Ordinary Shares Beneficial Interest in Ordinary Shares Director at 1 January 2008 or if later appointment date Change to beneficial interest at 31 December 2008 or if earlier resignation date Louis Schweitzer 4,000 4,000 Hkan Mogren 62,164 62,164 1 2 David Brennan 115,644 2,796 112,848 Simon Lowth 850 850 John Patterson 8,015 625 8,640 Bo Angelin 500 500 John Buchanan 2,500 2,500 3 Jean-Philippe Courtois 500 500 Jane Henney 500 500 Michele Hooper 500 500 4 Rudy Markham 1,137 1,137 Nancy Rothwell 500 500 John Varley 500 500 Marcus Wallenberg 67,264 67,264 1 This figure represents the difference between the net number of ADSs acquired by David Brennan from the vesting of his 2005 award under the US Executive Performance Share Plan and the net reduction in his notional beneficial interest in ADSs held within the unitised stock plans see separate tables and footnotes below.
2 The total number of Ordinary Shares and ADSs in which David Brennan has an interest including potential interests in unreleased shares held in Company plans as detailed in the tables below has increased in 2008 by 147,683 to 508,822 as at 31 December 2008.
3 Part year only as appointed Director on 18 February 2008.
4 Part year only as appointed Director on 12 September 2008. uNITISEd SToCK plANS David Brennan, in common with other participating executives in the US, has interests awarded to him prior to him becoming Chief Executive Officer in the following: the AstraZeneca Executive Deferral Plan, the AstraZeneca Executive Deferred Compensation Plan and the AstraZeneca Savings and Security Plan.
These are unitised stock plans into which the value of certain previous share incentive awards has been deferred and are not incentive awards in their own right.
Participants hold units in each plan, which represents a long-term equity interest in the Company.
A unit comprises part cash and part ADSs.
The overall unit value can be determined daily by taking the market value of the underlying ADSs and adding the cash position.
The ADSs held within these units carry both voting and dividend rights.
David Brennan is deemed to have a notional beneficial interest in these ADSs, calculated by reference to the fund value and the closing price of ADSs.
Therefore, the number of ADSs in which a notional beneficial interest arises can vary daily as a consequence of stock price movements.
ADSs held at Net ADSs ADSs held at Unitised stock plan 1 Jan 2008 acquired disposed during 2008 31 Dec 2008 1 AstraZeneca Executive Deferral Plan 63,789 22,849 40,940 AstraZeneca Executive Deferred Compensation Plan 30,382 1,621 32,003 AstraZeneca Savings and Security Plan 6,983 717 7,700 1 This figure relates to a scheduled distribution in February 2008.
No Director or senior executive beneficially owns, or has options over, 1% or more of the outstanding shares of the Company, nor do they have different voting rights to other shareholders.
uS EXECuTIVE pERFoRmANCE SHARE plAN The interests of David Brennan at 31 December 2008 in ADSs of AstraZeneca PLC that are the subject of awards under the AstraZeneca US Executive Performance Share Plan established in 2000 are not included in the above tables but are shown below.
One ADS equals one Ordinary Share.
The number of ADSs to which David Brennan may become unconditionally entitled on the vesting date will be determined by reference to AstraZenecas total shareholder return compared with that of other companies in the US Pharmaceutical Human Resources Association over the three year performance period from the date of first award.
1 1 1 Award Number of ADSs Award price Grant date Vesting date Performance period David Brennan 2005 Award 27,877 $40.35 24.03.05 24.03.08 01.01.05 31.12.07 Total at 1 Jan 2008 27,877 2 3 Partial vesting of 2005 Award 26,762 Partial lapse of 2005 Award 1,115 Total at 31 Dec 2008 1 UK date convention applies.
2 Vesting of 2005 Award was paid out in the form of ADSs.
The ADS price on the vesting date was $37.63.
3 Following certain mandatory tax deductions, David Brennan became beneficially interested in a net number of 17,715 ADSs.
dEFERREd BoNuS plAN There is a requirement for SET members, including the Executive Directors, to defer a proportion of their bonus and to use it to acquire Ordinary Shares in the Company purchased on the market at the prevailing market price for a period of three years from the date on which the shares were first acquired.
The proportion currently deferred into Ordinary Shares is one third of the pre-tax bonus for Executive Directors and one sixth for all other SET members.
The interests of Directors and former Directors at 31 December 2008, or on the date of resignation if earlier, in Ordinary Shares that are the subject of awards under these arrangements are not included in the table on the previous page but are shown opposite: ASTRAZENECA ANNuAl REpoRT ANd FoRm 20-F INFoRmATIoN 2008 8831 AZ AR08 p173-188 v03 13 02 JF.
SHARE opTIoNS The interests of Directors, and of former Directors who served during 2008, in options to subscribe for Ordinary Shares in the Company, which include options granted under the AstraZeneca Share Option Plan, the AstraZeneca Savings-Related Share Option Plan and the 1994 Executive Share Option Scheme, together with options granted and exercised during 2008, are included in the following table.
All grants in 2008 were made under the AstraZeneca Share Option Plan, unless otherwise indicated.
2 First and last exercise dates of groups of options, within which period there are shorter exercise periods.
ASTRAZENECA ANNuAl REpoRT ANd FoRm 20-F INFoRmATIoN 2008 188 GAINS BY dIRECToRS oN EXERCISE oF SHARE opTIoNS The aggregate amount of gains made by Directors on the exercise of share options during the year and the two previous years is set out below.
Gains made by Directors on Gains made by the exercise of share options the highest paid Director Year $ $ 2008 1,764.96 2007 783,858.08 2006 2,962,173.19 2,212,636.27 During 2008, the market price of shares in the Company was as follows: Share market price as Range of the share Stock Exchange at 31 December 2008 market price during 2008 London 2807p 1748p to 2888p Stockholm 307.00 SEK 211.50 SEK to 340.50 SEK New York $41.03 $34.10 to $49.85 The Register of Directors Interests which is open to inspection contains full details of Directors shareholdings and options to subscribe for Ordinary Shares.
On behalf of the Board A C N KEmp Company Secretary 29 January 2009 ASTRAZENECA ANNuAl REpoRT ANd FoRm 20-F INFoRmATIoN 2008
