Remuneration policy Directors The key policy objective of the Committee is to secure and retain high calibre executive Directors and management with the skills, experience and remuneration motivation necessary to direct and manage the affairs of the Group so as to maximise shareholder report value on a sustainable basis.
The Committee aims to align its remuneration policies with the Groups This Report, which has been prepared in medium and long term strategy.
This is achieved by accordance with the Companies Act 1985 as a combination of: amended by the Directors Remuneration - a basic salary package, which recognises the Report Regulations 2002, outlines the responsibilities of individual Directors and reflects membership and workings of the salary and benefit levels of comparable positions Remuneration Committee the in the real estate sector and takes cognisance of Committee and provides an explanation salary and benefit levels of UK FTSE 250 companies: of the components of the Groups - an Annual Bonus Scheme, which provides rewards remuneration policy together with details which reflect the performance of the Group and of Directors remuneration in respect of the the contribution of individual Directors in a particular year ended 30 September 2008.
A resolution year and which encourages participants to invest annual bonuses in the Companys shares: to approve this Report will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
- long term incentives which incentivise executives to deliver sustained improvement in financial The Groups Auditors are required to report to performance and shareholder returns: and shareholders regarding Directors remuneration, descriptions of the Groups Long Term Incentive - a pension contribution, which funds retirement Arrangements and Sharesave Scheme and the benefits.
information contained in Tables 1, 2 and 3 in this In determining the components of total remuneration, Report the audited parts and to state whether, the Committee seeks to incentivise Directors and in their opinion, these parts of the Report have staff, placing emphasis on rewards for performance been properly prepared in accordance with the and delivery of shareholder value and recognises Companies Act 1985. that under-performance should not be rewarded.
The Board considers that the Group has complied The performance related elements of annual bonus throughout the year with the requirements of the and long term incentives can constitute a substantial Combined Code 2006 the Combined Code in proportion of the overall remuneration package relation to Directors remuneration.
where the challenging performance targets set by the Committee are met.
The Committees recommendations during the period from 1 October 2007 to the date of this The Committee undertakes an annual review of the Report regarding Directors remuneration have share incentive schemes operated by the Group to been accepted by the Board without amendment.
ensure that their structure and targets remain appropriate to the Groups circumstances and overall Membership of the remuneration policy.
Remuneration Committee Terms of employment John Emly Chairman of the Committee John Manser The executive Directors are employed under service Alastair MacDonald contracts which may be terminated by either party Gordon McQueen giving not less than twelve months notice.
In the Patience Wheatcroft appointed 22 September 2008 case of Jonathan Lane and Brian Bickell, a maximum of twelve months salary and benefits would be payable The Committee has been chaired throughout the year by the Group in the event of termination without by John Emly the Senior Independent Director.
The notice although the Board would seek to reduce the Committee is comprised solely of independent nonamount payable by enforcing a Directors duty to executive Directors with the exception of the Groups mitigate his loss.
In the case of Simon Quayle and Chairman, John Manser, who is permitted under the Thomas Welton, their contracts can be terminated Combined Code to be a member of the Committee as by the Group paying a sum equal to their basic he was deemed independent on appointment as annual salaries.
The Group has no other financial Chairman to the Group.
obligations in the event of early termination of an executive Directors contract.
The Committee met three times during the year ended 30 September 2008 to consider the employment terms Executive Directors are permitted to accept external and remuneration of executive Directors and the Groups appointments with the prior approval of the Board employees.
The Committee also reviews the fees of the and where there is no impact on their role with the Groups Chairman.
Proposals in respect of matters Group.
Any fees arising from such appointments relating to the Directors and Chairmans remuneration may be retained by the executive Director where the are submitted to the Board for approval before appointment is unrelated to the Groups business.
Whilst the Chief Executive may at the Fees from external appointments are disclosed in invitation of the Chairman attend Committee meetings, this Report.
the other executive Directors do not attend.
No Director has any involvement in decisions regarding his own The terms of appointment of non-executive Directors remuneration.
are documented in letters of appointment between the Group and the non-executive Director.
Their Hewitt New Bridge Street HNBS has provided term of appointment does not extend beyond the independent external advice throughout the year to date on which they are next subject to re-election by assist the Committee in formulating its shareholders.
If re-elected and elected at the 2009 recommendations to the Board to implement the Annual General Meeting, John Manser, Gordon remuneration policy.
HNBS is appointed by the McQueen and Patience Wheatcroft will receive new Committee and only provides advice to the Group in letters of appointment.
45 Where a participant elects for shares, they are Salaries, benefits and awarded under a Deferred Annual Share Bonus Non-Executive Directors fees Scheme, which allows participants to exercise their The Committees policy is broadly to align salaries right to their entitlement after a minimum period of with comparable companies in the real estate sector two years and no later than seven years following whilst also taking cognisance of salaries of similar the date of the award.
No dividend is payable on sized UK FTSE 250 companies.
The salary for each these shares whilst they are held in the Scheme.
executive Director is reviewed annually in November This award is not subject to any further performance against market information provided by the conditions as the award relates to the deferred Committees independent advisor and taking into element of a bonus which has already been earned.
account the individuals performance and experience in their role and salary increases of Annual bonuses are not pensionable and are not other employees in the Group.
The benefits provided to each executive Director are Long Term Incentive arrangements a fully expensed car or a car allowance in lieu, life The 2006 Long Term Incentive Plan was approved by assurance including widows pension, health shareholders at the 2006 Annual General Meeting.
insurance and long term disability insurance.
The Under the 2006 Long Term Incentive Plan all employees Group makes a pension contribution of 25% of basic are eligible to participate, with the conditional award salary into a personal pension plan in respect of of shares granted to employees at the discretion of each executive Director.
Beyond this the Group has the Remuneration Committee.
Shares are awarded no further obligation in respect of funding executive in the form of nil cost options.
All awards are subject Directors pensions.
An executive Director may elect to performance conditions set by the Committee to receive elements of his benefit entitlement in cash, each year.
Awards to executive Directors and all although the cash equivalent is reduced by any employees are limited to 150% of salary per annum resultant taxation liability borne by the Company.
Within this limit, the Fees payable to non-executive Directors are maximum percentage of salary will vary according determined by the Board and are reviewed to the employees position in the Group and in periodically, with advice from HNBS.
Fees are within particular to the extent to which each employee is the limits set by the Articles of Association and are capable of influencing corporate performance.
intended to reflect the time commitment and There are two separate performance conditions for responsibilities of individual non-executive the vesting of awards, each applying to one half of Directors roles and are set at broadly market the shares awarded.
The conditions apply to the median levels to ensure individuals of the necessary awards made in previous and current financial calibre and experience are recruited and retained.
years as the Committee believes the conditions are The fees payable to the Chairman are set by the still appropriate to the Group.
Committee with advice from HNBS and ratified by the Board.
The Chairman is absent for the discussion The performance condition attached to one half of regarding his fees and therefore takes no part in the an award will require average annual net asset value discussion.
NAV growth of between RPI plus 3% to RPI plus 7% per annum over three financial years for Fees for non-executive Directors were reviewed in between 30% and 100% of this part of the award to November 2007 and new fee levels became effective vest i. e. between 15% and 50% of the total award.
Fees are expected to be reviewed again in November 2009.
The performance condition attached to the other half will require total shareholder return TSR Annual Bonus Scheme performance against the FTSE 350 Real Estate Index to match or exceed it by up to 5.5% per annum The Group operates an Annual Bonus Scheme under over three financial years for between 20% and which executive Directors and staff may receive a 100% of this part of the award to vest i. e. between bonus based on the achievement of a range of 10% and 50% of the total award.
For the purposes challenging personal and corporate performance of calculating TSR, share price plus dividends targets set annually by the Committee and intended reinvested will be averaged over the three months to stretch the individuals performance.
prior to the start and end of the performance period.
These annual targets, which are consistent with the Awards will vest on a straight line basis between Groups key business objective of long term growth minimum and maximum thresholds.
of its net asset value, focus on the attainment of key management and business objectives.
They relate to The Committee believes that these are the most those operational and financial aspects of managing appropriate measures of performance to deliver the Groups portfolio which are considered to be enhanced shareholder value.
critical to maximising and realising its long term Performance against targets will be subject to income and capital value potential.
independent review and ratification by the In setting these targets and assessing actual Committee prior to vesting.
performance, the factors the Committee takes Following the establishment of the 2006 Long Term into account include the Groups financial and Incentive Plan, no further awards of shares have non-financial key performance indicators and its been made under the 2001 Discretionary Share corporate responsibility policies and goals.
Details of outstanding awards are A participant may elect to receive all or part of the set out in Table 2. annual bonus in the form of shares or in cash.
The value of the bonus is reduced by 20% for that part Sharesave Scheme taken in cash rather than shares.
Other than in The Group operates an H M Revenue and Customs exceptional circumstances, the maximum bonus approved Sharesave Scheme for all employees, limit is 125% of salary if the entire bonus is taken in including executive Directors, subject to a qualifying shares or 100% of salary if taken entirely in cash.
Sharesave allows employees to save The Committee is satisfied that the bonus limit is each month over a three, five or seven year period competitive with peer companies and is not excessive.
up to a maximum of 250 per month.
At the end of the period, employees may use their savings, plus a tax free bonus, to buy shares in the Company at a 20% discount to the market price prevailing shortly before the date of grant.
The Company made a further offer of options to all employees in 2008.
The reduced levels of bonuses awarded in respect of the year ended 30 September 2008 reflect the achievement of individual and corporate targets set by the Committee at the beginning of the year and also take account of the decline in the Companys net asset value and share price.
All the executive Directors have elected to take their 2008 Annual Bonus entirely in shares and this is reflected in the figures above.
Chairman and other non-executive Directors PJ Manser JRK Emly AW MacDonald WG McQueen PJ Wheatcroft Total 000 000 000 000 000 000 Fees 80 44 44 44 26 238 2007 60 36 36 36 - 168 Review of Salaries and Fees Executive Directors basic annual salaries were revised with effect from 1 December 2008 to the following levels and were generally awarded an inflation linked annual increase in the order of 4%: 1.12.2008 1.12.2007 000 000 JS Lane 385 370 B Bickell 275 260 SJ Quayle 265 255 TJC Welton 255 245 47 Summary of Directors share options Directors share options held and exercised during the year ended 30 September 2008 in the Groups schemes are as follows: Table 2 Share options audited Options and nil cost options held at 30.9.
2008 Exercise Period Options and nil cost options held Not Grant at 1.10.2007 Granted Exercised Total Vested Vested Price From To JS Lane 2001 Scheme 53,300 - - 53,300 53,300 - 2.945 2.2004 2.2011 21.2.
2006 - - See notes opposite No Director exercised any options during the year.
There have been no changes in options outstanding in the period from 1 October 2008 to 28 November 2008.
No options lapsed during the year.
The Committee does not anticipate any changes to the conditions of the Schemes under which existing options have been granted.
The mid-market price of the shares at 30 September 2008 was 4.225 and during the year then ended was quoted in the range 3.705 to 6.03.
48 Notes to Table 2 Vesting of options during the year 2001 Discretionary Share Option Scheme Under the terms of the 2001 Discretionary Share Option Scheme, performance is measured in terms of growth in net asset value per Ordinary Share prior to distributions compared with that of a Peer Group of listed real estate companies.
Calculations of performance are reviewed by the Groups Auditors prior to the vesting of any options.
The following sliding scale range applies: Net Asset Value Performance Proportion of options exercisable Upper quartile 100% Median 30% Between median and upper quartile Pro-rata between 30% and 100% Below median Nil Performance conditions are applied with options vesting after three years.
A comparison of the Groups performance against the Peer Group resulted in the full vesting during the year of options granted on 15 December 2004.
The closing mid market share price on 19 March 2008, being the date the options vested, was 5.66.
No grants have been made under this scheme since 2004.
2006 Long Term Incentive Plan The performance conditions described above in the 2006 Long Term Incentive Plan section apply to the vesting of awards granted to date, each applying to one half of the shares awarded.
The award of nil cost options is based on the average closing mid market share price on the five days prior to the date of grant.
For options granted on 18 December 2007, this was 5.13.
Closing market share price on the date of grant was 4.80.
For the awards made under the 2006 LTIP on 15 February 2006, the performance period of 1 October 2005 to 30 September 2008 has now ended.
The performance criteria have been met as follows: the TSR performance condition has been met in full and 50% of the award will vest.
The NAV performance has not been met and therefore none of the remainder of the award will vest.
Overall, 50% of the award will vest on 15 February 2009.
The performance calculations were prepared by HNBS.
Table 3 Share entilements audited Directors hold entitlements to shares in respect of that part of awards granted under the Deferred Annual Bonus Scheme where Directors have elected to take their annual bonus by way of shares rather than cash.
At 30 September 2008 and at 28 November 2008, the trustee of the Shaftesbury PLC Employee Benefit Trust held a total of 325,084 shares in respect of awards granted but not delivered to Directors as set out below and employees: Entitlement to Entitlement to Ordinary Ordinary Date of Shares at Awarded Delivered in Shares at Award 1.10.2007 in Year Year 30.9.
No long term performance conditions apply to these awards as the awards have been made after annual performance targets relating to the annual bonus have already been met.
49 Total Shareholder Return The graphs below show the Total Shareholder Return for the Company compared with the FTSE 350 Real Estate Index.
As the Company is a constituent of the FTSE 350 Real Estate Index and the Committee uses this index as one measure of performance for awards of shares under the 2006 Long Term Incentive Plan, it considers this is an appropriate benchmark against which the relative performance of the Company should be compared for the purposes of considering executive Directors remuneration.
The graphs below show relative Total Shareholder Return which includes dividends reinvested performance over the last five and ten financial years.
The Committee considers the ten year period gives a better indication of the Groups long term performance.
Total Shareholder Return - 5 years 350 300 250 200 150 100 50 Shaftesbury FTSE 350 Real Estate Index 0 30.9.
2008 This graph shows the value, by 30 September 2008, of 100 invested in Shaftesbury PLC on 30 September 2003 compared with the value of 100 invested in the FTSE 350 Real Estate Index.
The other points plotted are the values at intervening financial year ends.
Source: Thomson Financial Total Shareholder Return - 10 years 400 350 300 250 200 150 100 50 Shaftesbury FTSE 350 Real Estate Index 0 30.9.
2008 This graph shows the value, by 30 September 2008, of 100 invested in Shaftesbury PLC on 30 September 1998 compared with the value of 100 invested in the FTSE 350 Real Estate Index.
Source: Thomson Financial Fees from external appointments Jonathan Lane received and retained fees in the year ended 30 September 2008 in respect of his directorship of two private companies unconnected with the Groups business totalling 9,250 2007 - 7,650.
The other executive Directors did not hold any paid external appointments during the year.
On behalf of the Board John R K Emly Remuneration Committee Chairman 3 December 2008 50 Value Value
