Report on Directors remuneration and related matters The Board presents its report on Directors remuneration and related Remuneration decisions are made on the advice of or proposals matters in compliance with the Directors remuneration report prepared by the Chairman, the Group Chief Executive and the Regulations.
The report includes the following sections: Company Secretary who are invited to attend meetings of the Committee as and when appropriate.
In addition, in making its 1 Role and membership of the Remuneration Committee.
decisions, the Committee has had access to the relevant external Terms of Reference.
advisers appointed by the Remuneration Committee and the Company.
3 Remuneration policy and description of Kesa pay elements.
The Committee has sought advice in the past 1 months from Kepler 4 Performance linkages.
Associates in connection with the benchmarking of executive 5 Performance graph illustrating Kesas performance against the remuneration.
The Committee has used KPMG to assist in the design FTSE35 General Retailers Index.
and implementation of the current share-based incentive plans.
7 Share and long-term incentive plan awards.
3 Remuneration policy and description of Kesa pay elements 8 Retirement benets.
Kesas businesses are well positioned to achieve sustained growth.
The key element to achieving this is the move towards a more 1 Chairman and Non-Executive Directors.
performance-oriented culture with a clear link between remuneration 11 The Combined Code.
The five core principles on which the remuneration structure is founded are as follows: The report is, following the change of the financial year end from 31 January to 3 April, based on the 15 month period from 1 February 1 Base pay levels are established on the basis of mid-market practice 7 to 3 April 8.
Any comparative gures used in this report are amongst UK and European companies of comparable size.
extracted from the 6 7 Annual report for the 1 month period Benets for example pensions are provided on a basis that is ended 31 January 7. appropriate to the local market in which the employee is employed.
3 Performance related incentives provide the opportunity to deliver 1 Role and membership of the Remuneration Committee substantial rewards for high performance.
The Remuneration Committee decides both the level and structure 4 Wherever reasonable, total remuneration is aligned to shareholders of executive Directors pay and the remuneration of the Chairman.
This is reected in the choice of performance standards The remuneration of Non-Executive Directors is a matter reserved for targeted at upper quartile levels to produce a highly leveraged the Chairman and the Executive Directors and no Director is involved package if our growth objectives are attained.
in setting their own remuneration.
5 Encourage wider share ownership amongst all Kesa employees, by offering employees the opportunity to purchase shares via tax 2 Terms of reference effective vehicles, and by creating a Long Term Incentive Plan, which The Remuneration Committee is a Board committee consisting reects the Anglo-French nature of the Company and is available to exclusively of independent Non-Executive Directors: Peter Wilson all senior managers.
Chairman, Michel Brossard, Bernard Dufau and Andrew Robb.
It has written terms of reference from the Board, which currently specify the The AGM in May 6 agreed to amend the rules of the then existing major duties to be as follows: Deferred Annual Bonus plan DAB and the Performance Share Plan PSP.
To make recommendations to the Board, within these terms of reference, on the Companys framework of executive remuneration The current maximum bonus opportunity was increased by 15 per and its cost, its aim being to demonstrate that executive cent of base salary, although any realised increase will be subject remuneration is set objectively and that Executive Directors are to compulsory deferral into investment shares.
Deferrals will be made on a before-tax rather than an after-tax basis.
To determine on behalf of the Board specic remuneration packages The deferral period is three years.
for each of the Executive Directors, following the process described There are no matching shares in relation to the amount below, together with conditions of employment including pension compulsorily deferred.
rights, contracts of employment and any compensation package If a participant leaves for any reason other than death they will forfeit in the event of the early termination of a contract.
the investment shares derived from the compulsory deferral.
To monitor the remuneration of senior executives below Board level so that it can be sensitive to the wider scene especially when determining annual salary increases for Executive Directors.
To establish incentive schemes for Executive Directors, set performance criteria and monitor their performance.
Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 7 8 9 Report on Directors remuneration and related matters Performance Share Plan c Pensions and other benets The 6 AGM also agreed the following changes to future awards Pensions are offered in line with local competitive practice.
The normal under the PSP: retirement age for Directors in France is 6.
Senior employees have the benefit of le plan fide retraite complementaire Kesa Internationale which A change in the TSR comparator group from the FTSE 5 to is a dened benefit scheme and provides life insurance of 4.
5 times a group comprising FTSE 35 general retailers: and annual basic salary including travel allowance.
Pensionable salary is A reduction of the vesting period from four to three years following the annual gross remuneration received over the three preceding years, changes in the relevant French tax legislation.
excluding profit sharing plans, any termination payments and any exceptional compensation.
The Committee believes that the increased bonus opportunity helps to rebalance the share-based and cash-based incentives, and brings the The retirement age for Directors in the UK is 6. annual bonus opportunity more in line with market practice.
The total bonus opportunity, however, will continue to be on or below median in The Trustees of the UK pension scheme have agreed that future most cases and will ensure a longer-term interest in the Kesa share accrual in the UK Pension Scheme should cease with effect from price through both the DAB and the PSP.
4 Performance linkages With effect from 1 October 7, a dened contribution arrangement Each element in the reward package is designed to support the became the primary future pension arrangement for all UK Directors.
achievement of different corporate objectives.
The Director contributes 6.5 per cent of salary and the Company contributes 15 per cent of salary.
In fair value terms, the proportion of total pay excluding pensions and benets, which is variable, is equal to approximately 4 per cent.
The previous arrangements under the UK Pension Scheme provided a pension equal to 1 6 of pensionable salary, subject to a maximum We believe that linking incentives to profit growth helps to reinforce our of two-thirds of final salary subject to Inland Revenue limits, life growth objectives and is an appropriate measure for a predominantly assurance at four times salary and ill health and dependents pensions.
Incentive payments such as annual bonuses are not pensionable.
The UK Pension Scheme Trustee has also agreed that pensionable The pay elements are further explained below: salary should be based on the date of leaving, not 3 September 7, when future accrual ceased.
a Base salary To ascertain the jobs market value, external remuneration consultants From 6 April 6, the following changes to the UK Pension Scheme annually review and provide data about market salary levels and advise were agreed by the Trustees of the scheme: the Remuneration Committee accordingly.
These market rates are based on peer group data and derived from the pay position described i the introduction of a Scheme specic Earnings Cap for pension above.
Before making a final decision on individual salary awards, the purposes equivalent to 7 per cent of the Lifetime Allowance Committee assesses each Directors contribution to the business to as applying from time to time subject to review in 1 : reect individual performance.
ii a Flexible Retirement arrangement introduction deferred until 1 February 7 whereby dened benefit scheme members may b Annual bonus choose to receive pension payments prior to normal retirement date, To reward annual performance, the Chief Executive is eligible for an subject to complying with criteria set by the Employer: annual incentive with a target of up to 75 per cent of which 15 per cent iii the option of receiving cash lump sums at retirement equal to four is paid in deferred shares 6 per cent in cash of base salary and times initial pension plus 5 per cent of any fund accrued a maximum of 95 per cent of which 15 per cent is paid in deferred from the payment of additional voluntary contributions.
shares 8 per cent in cash of salary for substantially exceeding targets.
Other Executive Directors are eligible for an annual incentive On 1 April 6 the UK Pension Scheme Trustee introduced cost with a target of up to 65 per cent of which 15 per cent is paid in neutral actuarial factors in all aspects of the schemes operations.
deferred shares 5 per cent in cash of base salary and a maximum Cash equivalent transfer values have been reduced to reect the under of 75 per cent of which 15 per cent is paid in deferred shares funded position of the UK Scheme in accordance with advice received 6 per cent in cash of salary for substantially exceeding targets.
If the minimum targets are not met there is no bonus.
Further details are provided under the disclosure of the arrangements The target bonus for the Chief Executive and the Finance Director is for each Director.
Cars or a car allowance are provided on a basis that principally awarded for achieving budgeted profit after interest.
With the is consistent with competitive practice.
change in financial year end, exceptionally the performance target for the three month period from 1 February 8 to 3 April 8 was principally awarded for achieving budgeted retail profit.
3 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 7 8 d Share incentives Awards made under the PSP are subject to a TSR performance hurdle, For the 15 month period under review the Company had one principal which is a measure of performance based on share price and executive share award plan.
If Kesas TSR performance is at the middle point of the FTSE 35 General Retailer Index then 5 per cent of the Matching Shares The Long Term Incentive Plan which consists of two elements, will vest.
For 1 per cent of the Matching Shares to vest, Kesas TSR performance must be in the top quarter of the companies in the FTSE i A Deferred Annual Bonus An award of up to 15 per cent of base 35 General Retailers Index, and there is a sliding scale between this salary subject to compulsory deferral into investment shares and the mid-point.
received as part of the annual bonus for up to 14 senior executives.
To vest the employee must still be in employment with the Group e Service contracts at the end of the three year deferred period.
The Boards policy is to limit service contracts of Executive Directors ii A Performance Share Plan PSP, which applies up to a maximum to one-year rolling terms.
In the event of termination of the Directors of 4 senior employees.
There is a base award equal to 3 per cent contract, any compensation payment is calculated in accordance with of the eligible executives basic salary, and the award is normally normal legal principles, including the application of mitigation to the made irrespective of any achievement of Group or operating extent, which is appropriate to the circumstances of the case and company bonus targets or overall Group financial performance.
The PSP is intended to both build a shareholding and reward individual performance as opposed to corporate performance.
An eligible executive may also receive up to a further per cent based on their personal performance and contribution to the Group rather than on any specic financial metrics.
5 Performance graph illustrating Kesas performance against the FTSE 350 General Retailer Index The following performance graph shows the Total Shareholder Return TSR for Kesa versus the FTSE 35 General Retailer Index for the period 13 July 3 being the date of demerger and 3 April 8.
The Committee believes that the FTSE 35 General Retailer Index is the most objective comparator group for measuring the Companys Total Shareholder Return and provides a transparent and accessible method of gauging performance.
Kesas performance against the FTSE 350 General Retailer Index 200 Kesa FTSE 350 General Retailer Index 180 160 140 120 100 80 Jul 03 Jun 04 Jun 05 May 06 May 07 Apr 08 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 7 8 31 TSR rebased to 100 Report on Directors remuneration and related matters 6 Directors emoluments audited 15 months to 1 months to 3 April 31 January 8 7 Salary 1,3 1,879 1,15, 61 Performance related bonuses 8 7, 83 688,918 Taxable benefits in kind 5,7 1 3,169 Non-Executive Directors fees 463,834 359,499, 618,517, 1,647 Pensions contributions 53,7 134,9 Total emoluments, 67, 17, 356,547 Note 1 This table is prepared on the basis of 15 months from 1 February 7 to 3 April 8.
The 7 comparative is based on the 1 months from 1 February 6 to 31 January 7.
In addition the Directors received nil 7: 19, 17 on the exercise of employee share schemes.
The following table shows an analysis of the remuneration of the individual Executive Directors: Total Total 15 months to 1 months to Bonus Taxable 3 April 31 January Salary payments benefits 8 7 Note Jean-Nol Labroue 1 849,48 534,838 3,886 1,388, 4 1,15, 8 6 Simon Herrick 47, 399 7, 45 1,835 766,479 664,557 This table is prepared on the basis of 15 months from 1 February 7 to 3 April 8.
Benefits for Executive Directors comprise a fully expensed company car or cash equivalent and private medical insurance.
The following table provides details of the emoluments of the Chairman and individual Non-Executive Directors.
There were no taxable benefits.
15 months to 1 months to 3 April 31 January 8 7 Notes David Newlands 55,5 198,333 Peter Wilson 55,75 43, Michel Brossard 48,417 37,583 Bernard Dufau 48,417 37,583 Andrew Robb 3 55,75 43, Notes 1 Translated at a rate of 1 to Eur 1.471 for the 1 month period 1 February 6 to 31 January 7 and 1 to 1.4165 for the 15 month period from 1 February 7 to 3 April 8.
Includes a prorated payment equivalent to 5,5 pa for acting as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee to 13 June 7 and 6, p. a thereafter.
3 Includes a prorated payment equivalent to 5,5 pa for acting as Chairman of the Audit Committee to 13 June 7 and 6, p. a. thereafter.
3 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 7 8 7 Share and Long Term Incentive Plan Awards audited Long Term Incentive Plan The following rights to shares were granted to the Directors and other senior managers under the terms of the Long Term Incentive Plan.
Performance Share Plan Number of Exercised Lapsed performance At start Granted during during Date shares at Vesting Lapse of year during year the year the year of grant end of year date date Jean-Nol Labroue 6, 578 4 5 6 6, 578 3 9 9 9 53,866 3 7 53,866 3 1 9 1 Simon Herrick 47,859 3 3 5 47,859 3 9 3 9 9 35,117 4 5 6 35,117 3 9 9 9 31,439 3 7 31,439 3 1 9 1 Deferred Annual Bonus Number of Exercised Lapsed performance At start Granted during during Date shares at Vesting of year during year the year the year of grant end of year date Jean-Nol Labroue 4,846 3 6 4,846 3 9 6,933 3 7 6,933 3 1 Simon Herrick, 8 6 3 6, 8 6 3 9 15,719 3 7 15,719 3 1 As at the close of the market on 3 April 8 the share price was 8.
Between 31 January 7 and 3 April 8, the lowest price has been 183.
5 pence and the highest price was 36.
Kesa Share Incentive Plan A UK Inland Revenue approved Share Incentive Plan is open to all eligible UK employees, including Executive Directors, in the UK.
As is the usual practice with plans of this type, open to all employees, there are no performance criteria provisions.
Employees receive one matching share for every four partnership shares they acquire.
Number of Exercised Lapsed Date from At start Granted during during At end which of year during year the year the year of year exercisable Simon Herrick 1, 69 869 1,938 5.
9 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 7 8 33 Report on Directors remuneration and related matters 8 Retirement benets audited The following table shows details required under both Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 and the UKLAs Listing Rules as they apply to Kesa Electricals for the period ended 3 April 8.
Directors remuneration report regulation Additional Listing Rules Transfer Increase in value of the accrued increase Increase in pension in accrued Increase in transfer value pa benefits accrued Accrued pensions net Transfer value 4 net of net of pension of directors inflation directors Years of pa 8 7 contributions 8 7 revaluation contributions Age service 1 3 5 6 Jean-Nol Labroue 6 9 49 199 15 879 3,84, 961 45 868 Simon Herrick 45 3 75 14 65 5 16 Schedule 7A requires the disclosure of: the accrued benefit at the end of the year: the change in accrued benefit over the year: the transfer value at both the beginning and end of the year and the change in the transfer value over the year.
The Listing Rules require additional disclosure of the change in accrued benefits net of inflation and the transfer value of this change.
Columns 1 and represent the deferred pension to which the Directors would have been entitled had they left the Group on 3 April 8 and 31 January 7 and the associated movement between these dates.
Column 3 is the change in transfer value of accrued pension during the year, net of contributions by the Director.
Column 4 is the transfer value of the deferred pension in column calculated as at 3 April 8 and 31 January 7 based on factors supplied by the actuary of the relevant group pension scheme in accordance with actuarial guidance note GN11 at the relevant date.
Column 5 is the increase in pension built up during the year, recognising i the accrual rate for the additional service based on the pensionable salary in force at the year end, and ii where appropriate the effect of pay changes in real inflation adjusted terms on the pension already earned at the start of the year.
Column 6 is the capital value of the pension in column 5.
It represents the amount of cash required to secure that increase in accrued pension net of inflation.
The Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors are not entitled to pension benefits from the Company.
During the year a contribution of, was paid into Simon Herricks Defined Benefit Scheme, and since October 7 33,7 has been paid into his Defined Contribution Scheme.
34 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 7 8 9 Directors service contracts The disclosures required by the Regulations in respect of Directors service contracts are as follows: Jean-Nol Labroue Mr Labroues service contract dated 13 June 3 is covered by the applicable French collective Bargaining Agreement in force within Kesa Electricals SAS from time to time, which sets certain of his terms and conditions of employment.
His current annual salary is 97, 43.
Mr Labroue also participates in mandatory French retirement benefit arrangements.
In line with French practice, Mr Labroues pensionable salary is the annual gross remuneration received by him over the three preceding years, excluding profit sharing plans, any termination payments and any exceptional compensation received by him.
Under his service contract, Mr Labroues employment may be terminated on not less than six months notice given by either party.
Kesa Electricals SAS may require Mr Labroue not to serve out his notice but in that case Kesa Electricals SAS must maintain his contractual remuneration and benefits save for bonus and incentive arrangements during the notice period.
In addition to notice, if certain conditions are met, Kesa Electricals SAS may be required under French law to make a further payment to Mr Labroue as compensation for the termination of his employment.
This payment is not likely to exceed 1 months remuneration.
In addition, Mr Labroues service contract provides that if during the 1 months immediately following a change of control of Kesa Electricals, Kesa Electricals SAS gives Mr Labroue notice of termination of his employment other than cause he is entitled to receive a liquidated damages payment equivalent to 1 months remuneration.
For these purposes, one months remuneration for Mr Labroue is calculated by reference to his annual basic salary at the time including the allowance for his travel outside France, and such bonus and benefits provided to him in the 1 months prior to the month in which the change of control occurs.
Any amounts payable under French law to Mr Labroue on any termination of his employment count towards the liquidated damages payment and are not deducted from the contractual obligations.
Simon Herrick Simon Herrick has a service contract with Kesa Electricals plc dated 15 March 5.
Mr Herricks service contract provides for an annual basic salary currently 389,917 per annum, a travel allowance, pension benefits and private medical insurance.
Mr Herrick is also provided with life insurance of four times earnings.
Under his service contract he is subject to post-employment restrictive covenants.
Mr Herricks pension and life insurance benefits are provided under the Comet Pension Scheme.
Mr Herrick is also provided with a pension supplement of 13 per cent of such amount of his basic salary as exceeded the then permitted maximum as defined in the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 from time to time.
Under his service contract, Mr Herricks employment can be terminated on not less than 1 months notice given by Kesa Electricals or not less than six months notice from Mr Herrick.
In the case of notice given by Kesa Electricals, a payment may be made in lieu of the unexpired portion of notice and Kesa Electricals can reduce the payment to take into account the receipt of a lump sum and mitigation.
Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 7 8 35 Report on Directors remuneration and related matters 10 Chairman and Non-Executive Directors The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors do not have service contracts and their appointment may be terminated at any time without compensation.
Non-Executive Directors are appointed for specified terms of three years and their appointments are reviewed at the end of each three-year term.
Remuneration policy for Non-Executive Directors The Board determines the fees paid to Non-Executive Directors under a policy which seeks to recognise the time commitment, responsibility and technical skills required to make a valuable contribution to an effective board.
Non-Executive Directors have letters of engagement instead of service contracts, and are appointed for an initial period of three years.
Their position can be revoked without compensation at any time at the discretion of the Company.
Date of last letter Unexpired term Total Length of Service David Newlands 13 6 6 One year months Five years months Peter Wilson 13 6 6 One year months Five years months Andrew Robb 13 6 6 One year months Five years months Michel Brossard 13 6 6 One year months Five years months Bernard Dufau 13 6 6 One year months Four years 6 months 11 The Combined Code The constitution and operation of the Remuneration Committee are in compliance with the principles of good governance and Code of Best Practice set out in the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
12 Shareholding guideline It is one of the tenets of Kesas reward strategy that shareholders and Directors interests be aligned.
To reinforce this, the Remuneration Committee expects that over a period of years Executive Directors will build a personal holding in Kesa shares.
To underpin this commitment, the Committee expects that, while the guideline holding remains unfulfilled, Executive Directors will not dispose of any shares vesting to them under any of the Kesa incentive plans save for any disposals necessary to meet tax liabilities arising from them, until they hold shares worth the following percentage of their base salary.
CEO 15 per cent of base salary Other Executive Directors 1 per cent of base salary Executive Committee Members 5 per cent of base salary 36 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 7 8 13 Directors interests The beneficial interests of the Directors, which include holdings by their spouses or other related parties, together with non-beneficial interests in the ordinary shares of the Company, are shown below.
Share options or rights over shares granted to Directors, are shown on pages 9 to 37.
Company Beneficial holdings 3 April 8 31 January 7 Jean-Nol Labroue 81,9 81,9 Simon Herrick 1,938 1, 69 David Newlands 1 6, 53 73,675 Peter Wilson 1, 1, Michel Brossard 1, 7, Bernard Dufau 8, 4, Andrew Robb 15, 15, Save for Simon Herrick receiving 156 shares under the all employee Share Incentive Plan there has been no change in the Directors shareholdings between 3 April 8 and the date of this report.
On behalf of the Board Peter Wilson Chairman Remuneration Committee 4 June 8 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 7 8 37
