Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements 2 5 6 37 Report on directors remuneration 65 144 Report on directors remuneration Role of the remuneration committee The remuneration committee has responsibility for the governance of Experians remuneration strategy, in particular: l recommending Experians senior management remuneration policy and that of the Chairman of the board: l determining individual remuneration packages for executive directors and those of certain senior managers: l communicating to shareholders on remuneration policy and the committees work on behalf of the board: l reviewing and recommending the design of the Groups share schemes: and l overseeing the Groups executive pension arrangements.
The remuneration of non-executive directors is a matter reserved for the board as a whole.
No director is involved in any discussions as to his or her own remuneration.
The remuneration committee has written terms of reference which are available on request from the Company Secretary and are also published on the Companys website www.
Committee membership and meetings The remuneration committee comprises the following non-executive directors: Roger Davis Chairman Fabiola Arredondo Laurence Danon Sean FitzPatrick Alan Jebson Sir Alan Rudge David Tyler All members of the committee are provided with an induction in the role of the committee and the operation of its terms of reference on first appointment.
In the year under review the committee has met five times including one meeting which was held immediately after the year-end which was originally scheduled to take place during March 2008 but was rescheduled to early April 2008 due to the timing of Easter.
Attendance at these meetings is set out in the corporate governance statement on page 46.
Advisers In making its decisions, the committee consults with the Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer, the Group HR Director and the Global Head of Reward who are invited to attend meetings of the committee as and when appropriate.
They are not permitted to participate in discussions or decisions relating to their own remuneration.
The committee has access to independent consultants to ensure that it receives independent advice.
During the year under review Deloitte and Touche LLP Deloitte were appointed as advisers to the committee.
Deloitte also provided unrelated advisory and tax services to the Company during the year.
Kepler Associates Kepler were re-appointed to provide valuation data for Experians long-term incentive plans and to provide independent advice on target calibration for the Annual Bonus Plan.
Linklaters LLP were re-appointed to provide legal and general remuneration advice.
Experian Annual Report 2008 51 Report on directors remuneration Remuneration policy Experians policy is to use reward to drive business performance.
The remuneration committee has determined that the policy set out in last years remuneration report remains appropriate for the coming year.
The remuneration policy will be regularly reviewed by the committee.
The remuneration committee aims to have in place a remuneration policy for Experian which is consistent with its business objectives, and which can: l pay market-competitive base salary levels but no higher than this: l provide competitive performance-related compensation which influences performance, and helps attract and retain executives by providing the opportunity to earn substantial rewards for outstanding performance leading to long-term shareholder value creation: l apply demanding performance conditions to deliver sustained profitable growth in all our businesses, thereby aligning incentives with shareholders interests: l provide a balanced portfolio of incentives - bonus, options and shares which align both short term one year and longer term three years plus performance such that sustainable growth and value are delivered for our shareholders: l drive accountability and transparency and align remuneration to the interests of shareholders: and l deliver competitive benefits to underpin the other components of the remuneration package.
Consistent with the policy, the committee reviews the elements of the remuneration package relative to other comparable organisations and other companies of similar size and scope to Experian.
Performance-related incentives are calibrated at upper quartile levels for outstanding performance to produce a highly leveraged package if the Groups growth objectives are attained.
Experian is committed to performance-related pay at all levels within the organisation.
All employees are encouraged to become shareholders in the Company.
Service contracts Each executive director has a rolling service contract which can be terminated by the Group giving twelve months notice.
In the event of termination of the directors contract, any compensation payment is calculated in accordance with normal legal principles, including the application of mitigation to the extent appropriate in the circumstances of the case.
Further details can be found on page 62.
Remuneration of executive directors Each element of reward is important and has a specific role in achieving the aims of the remuneration policy.
The combined potential remuneration from annual bonus and share awards outweighs the other elements and is subject to performance conditions, thereby placing the majority of the package at risk.
The remuneration package is weighted towards the performance-related elements of the package.
In fair value terms, the proportion of total remuneration excluding pension and benefits which is shown as variable is approximately 71% as illustrated.
Fair value of executive director remuneration Fixed 29% Variable 71% 52 Experian Annual Report 2008 Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements 2 5 6 37 Report on directors remuneration 65 144 The remuneration committee selects performance measures that align with the Groups strategic goals and that are transparent to both directors and shareholders.
Each element in the remuneration package is designed to support the achievement of different corporate objectives as outlined below.
Element Purpose Delivery Policy Base salary Reflects the competitive In cash Individual contribution market salary level for the Pensionable Reviewed annually individual and their role Takes account of personal contribution, skills and performance Annual bonus Rewards the achievement Cash deferred shares Profit before tax is the Co-investment Plan of annual financial key measure Annual targets Non-pensionable Participants are eligible to invest bonus in Experian shares with the opportunity to earn matching shares Aligns with shareholder interests through delivery in shares Experian Performance Aligns with shareholder Shares, subject to Profit before tax over a Share Plan interests through performance conditions three-year period delivery Relative total shareholder in shares return against a tailored Rewards sustained comparator group growth in shareholder measured over a threevalue and outyear period, subject performance relative to satisfactory overall to peers financial performance Acts as a retention tool demerger awards are released five years after date of grant Experian Share Direct link to value Shares under option, EPS growth measured Option Plan creation through share subject to performance over a three-year period price growth as major conditions objective Aligns with shareholder interests through delivery in shares Acts as a retention tool Sharesave Opportunity for Shares under option Employees must be in employees to invest in bought with accumulated employment on qualifying Experian shares over 3 or savings at the end of the date in order to participate 5 year savings period savings period.
Pension To provide market Monthly contributions Defined benefit scheme competitive postDefined contribution retirement benefits including US 401k arrangements Experian Annual Report 2008 53 Report on directors remuneration continued Fixed remuneration Base salary and benefits To ascertain a jobs market value, external remuneration consultants annually review and provide data on market salary levels and advise the remuneration committee.
Executive directors salaries are benchmarked against a mid-market level of main board executive directors from the comparator companies in the FTSE 100 Index and other global comparators which reflects the market in which Experian recruits talent.
Before making a final decision on individual salary awards, the committee assesses each directors contribution to the business, to reflect individual performance and experience.
When setting base salary levels for executive directors, the committee considers pay levels and increases throughout the organisation.
In addition to base salary, executive directors receive certain benefits in kind including a car or car allowance, private health cover and life assurance.
Pensions The retirement age for directors is 60 under arrangements which broadly provide a pension of two thirds of final salary, life assurance and ill health and dependants pensions.
Incentive payments such as annual bonuses are not pensionable.
The Company has had arrangements in place for a number of years which were designed to ensure that UK directors who were affected by the 1989 HM Revenue and Customs earnings cap were placed in broadly the same position as those who were not.
With the agreement of the trustees of the scheme, the Company decided to retain a notional earnings cap for its existing and future employees, with the exception of new senior executives who are pensioned on full base salary up to the Lifetime Allowance.
The Company has put security in place for the unfunded pension entitlements of UK executives affected by the earnings cap, by establishing Secured Unfunded Retirement Benefits Schemes SURBS.
Further details are provided under the disclosure of the arrangements for each director.
Variable remuneration Annual Bonus Plan and Co-investment Plan Annual bonuses are awarded for achieving profit growth targets.
The committee believes that linking incentives to profit growth helps to reinforce Experians growth objectives.
Targets are calibrated by Kepler using benchmarks that reflect stretching internal and external expectations.
Benchmarks include: broker earnings estimates: earnings estimates for competitors: straight-line profit growth consistent with median upper quartile shareholder returns over the next three to five years: latest projections for the current year: budget: strategic plan: and long-term financial goals 2007 08 bonus As disclosed at the time of the GUS demerger, it was agreed that for annual bonuses paid in respect of the year ending 31 March 2008 and subsequently, the maximum bonus opportunity for executive directors would be 200% of base salary.
This level of annual bonus would only be paid if Experians financial performance surpassed stretching financial targets and hence would only be payable if exceptional results were delivered to shareholders.
The enhancement to the bonus opportunity for the executive directors was intended to recognise the global market in which Experian operates and accompanied the reduction of the matching opportunity under the Experian Coinvestment Plan to 1:1 previously 2:1 under the GUS Co-investment Plan.
Executive directors will not participate in the Experian Co-investment Plan in respect of the 2007 08 fiscal year and bonus payments will be made in cash.
Experian performed strongly in 2007 08 in a particularly difficult trading environment and the bonuses payable to executive directors in respect of this financial year disclosed on page 58 are representative of this strong performance in uncertain market conditions in which global targets were met and annual bonuses were paid at target levels.
54 Experian Annual Report 2008 Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements 2 5 6 37 Report on directors remuneration 65 144 2008 09 bonus For annual bonus earned in respect of the 2008 09 fiscal year, which may be up to 200% of base salary, executive directors will be offered their first opportunity since the GUS demerger to defer receipt of their bonus and invest it in Experian Group Limited shares invested shares under the Experian Co-investment Plan.
The release of the invested shares will be deferred for three years.
The number of invested shares acquired on behalf of the executive will be matched with an additional award of shares matching shares on a 1:1 basis.
The release of these matching shares to participants will be subject to the achievement of a performance condition, details of which will be disclosed in next years remuneration report.
The release of these shares will be deferred for three years including the original bonus deferral.
If an executive resigns during the three-year period he she will forfeit the right to the matching shares and the associated dividends.
The executive would be entitled to retain any invested shares.
With respect to Responsible Investment Disclosure, the committee has ensured that environmental, social and governance risks are not raised by the incentive structure for senior management inadvertently motivating irresponsible behaviour.
Experian Performance Share Plan The Experian Performance Share Plan was approved by GUS shareholders at the Extraordinary General Meeting EGM on 29 August 2006.
An initial award was made to participants, including the executive directors, on 11 October 2006.
There will be no further awards to executive directors under this plan until June 2009.
Performance shares are free Experian shares for which no exercise price is payable.
Shares are allocated subject to a performance condition which is measured over a three-year performance period with a five-year vesting period for demerger awards and a three-year vesting period for subsequent awards.
Dividend equivalents will accrue on these awards.
For the demerger awards granted in October 2006, the performance condition is in two separate parts: 50% of the award will be subject to achievement against a sliding scale of growth in profit before tax PBT which the Company considers to be an appropriate measure as this represents one of the key strategic drivers of the business.
The threshold for vesting will be growth in PBT of 7% per year at which 25% of this part of the award will vest rising, on a straight-line basis, to 100% of this part of the award vesting if PBT grows at a rate of 14% per year.
The remaining 50% of the award will vest according to the performance of Experians Total Shareholder Return TSR defined as share price movement plus reinvested dividends relative to the following group of peer companies: Acxiom Fair Isaac Harte-Hanks Alliance Data Systems Fidelity National Financial IAC Interactive Corp Bisys Group Fimalac Moodys Capita Group First American Reuters Group Choicepoint First Data Thomson Dun & Bradstreet Fiserv Total System Services Equifax Global Payments.
Experian Annual Report 2008 55 Report on directors remuneration continued This bespoke comparator group consists of Experians main competitors in the business areas and countries in which the Group operates.
This part of the award will not vest if Experians TSR is below the median return for the comparator group.
Once Experian achieves median performance, 25% of this portion of the award may vest rising on a straight-line basis to 100% of this part of the award vesting for upper quartile performance or better.
This can be summarised as follows: Total Shareholder Return Performance Scale 120 100% 100 85% 80 70% 55% 60 40% 40 25% 20 0 1st-6th 7th 8th 9th 10th 11th 12th - 21st Experians TSR ranking in the peer group Performance conditions for future awards under the Experian Performance Share Plan will be decided in advance of grant.
Experian Share Option Plan The Experian Share Option Plan was approved by GUS shareholders at the EGM on 29 August 2006.
It is intended to align shareholder and participant interests through share price growth.
Options will vest subject to the satisfaction of a stretching target which will be set prior to options being granted.
No options will be granted to executive directors under the plan until June 2009.
For each of the long term incentive plans, external consultants will be used to calculate whether, and the extent to which, the performance conditions have been met.
Experian Sharesave All executive directors and employees of Experian and any participating subsidiaries are eligible to participate in Sharesave if they have been employed by Experian for a qualifying period.
Sharesave provides an opportunity for employees to save a regular monthly amount which at the end of the savings period may be used to purchase Experian Group Limited shares under option at a discount of up to 20% on the market value.
56 Experian Annual Report 2008 Percentage of TSR award vesting Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements 2 5 6 37 Report on directors remuneration 65 144 Performance graph The committee has chosen to illustrate TSR for GUS plc until demerger and Experian Group Limited against the FTSE 100 Index for the period since listing on 11 October 2006 to 31 March 2008.
The FTSE 100 Index is the most appropriate index against which TSR should be measured, as it is a widely used and understood index of leading UK companies.
Value of 100 invested in GUS Experian and the FTSE 100 Value of 100 invested in GUS Experian and the FTSE 100 on 31 March 2000 on 31 March 2003 350 300 300 250 FTSE 100 Index 250 200 200 150 150 FTSE 100 Index 100 100 50 50 0 0 March March March March March March March March March March March March March March March 00 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 03 04 05 06 07 08 Performance as GUS to 6 October 2006 Performance as GUS to 6 October 2006 Performance as Experian from 6 October 2006 Performance as Experian from 6 October 2006 The above graphs show that, at 31 March 2008, a hypothetical 100 invested in GUS and subsequently, Experian would have generated a total return of 198 compared with a return of 120 if invested in the FTSE 100 Index on 31 March 2000 and a total return of 153 compared with a return of 192 if invested in the FTSE 100 Index on 31 March 2003.
Shareholding guideline The committee believes that it is important that executives build a significant shareholding to align their interests with those of shareholders.
Therefore the committee has established guidelines under which the Chief Executive Officer should hold the equivalent of two times his base salary in Experian Group Limited shares and other executive directors, one times their base salary, including shares held under the Co-investment and Reinvestment plans.
Each of the executive directors meets these guidelines.
Non-executive directors remuneration policy The boards policy on non-executive directors remuneration is that: l Fees should reflect individual responsibilities and membership of board committees.
l Remuneration should be in line with recognised best practice and sufficient to attract, motivate and retain high calibre nonexecutives.
l Remuneration should be a combination of cash fees paid quarterly and Experian Group Limited shares bought annually in the first quarter of the financial year.
l Non-executive directors are obliged to comply with a shareholding requirement explained below.
Any tax liability connected to these arrangements is the responsibility of the individual director.
l The use of Experian Group Limited shares in the package helps align the interests of non-executive directors with those of shareholders.
l Non-executive directors do not receive any benefits in kind.
The Chairman has the use of a company car and private healthcare.
The fees of non-executive directors were reviewed in 2008 and will next be reviewed in 2009.
Fees are reviewed in the light of market practice in FTSE 100 companies and anticipated number of days worked, tasks and responsibilities.
Base fee 106,154 Senior independent director 19,437 Chair of audit committee 31,398 Chair of remuneration committee 23,922 Experian requires its non-executive directors to build up a holding in the Companys shares equal to one times their annual fee.
One quarter of their annual fee is used to purchase shares in the Company each year until they reach this holding.
Such shares are included in the table of directors interests on page 63.
Non-executive directors do not participate in executive share schemes or other employee share scheme arrangements.
Non-executives do not have service contracts but each has a letter of appointment.
No non-executive directors letter of appointment provides for any termination payment.
Each appointment is for a renewable three-year term but may be terminated by either party on one months written notice.
Experian Annual Report 2008 57 Report on directors remuneration continued The information set out in the tables below has been subject to audit.
Annual remuneration The following table shows an analysis of the emoluments of the individual directors for the full year ended 31 March 2008.
All amounts shown are in the currency received by directors.
Annual bonuses are shown in the year they were earned.
Salary and Annual 1 2 fees bonus Benefits Total 2008 Total 2007 000s 000s 000s 000s 000s Chairman 3 John Peace 450 27 477 1,784 Executive directors 4 5 Don Robert $1,400 $1,400 $941 $3,741 $2,341 4 6 Paul Brooks 440 440 75 955 724 Non-executive directors 7 Fabiola Arredondo 136 136 28 7 Laurence Danon 107 107 33 7 Roger Davis 131 131 39 7 Sean FitzPatrick 107 107 7 Alan Jebson 162 162 41 7 Sir Alan Rudge 126 126 89 7 David Tyler 908 27 935 1,638 The following shares were purchased for the non-executive directors on 29 June 2007 in line with the shareholding guidelines for non-executive directors described above.
The non-executive directors not described below already meet the shareholding guidelines.
The value reported below is included within the remuneration reported in the above table.
of Value shares Fabiola Arredondo 1,299 8,184 Laurence Danon 1,665 10,490 Alan Jebson 2,157 13,590 Sir Alan Rudge 409 2,577 Notes: 1.
Non-executive directors receive an additional fee of 5,981 per trip to attend board meetings where such attendance involves inter-continental travel from their home location.
This results in disparities between their fee levels relative to those fees listed on page 57.
Benefits to executive directors include life insurance, private health care, company car and fuel allowance where applicable.
Don Robert relocated to the UK in the period under review.
The figures for him include a one-off disturbance allowance of 100,000.
In addition, he will receive an annual expatriate allowance of 550,000 for the duration of his assignment: a pro-rata payment in respect of the financial year under review is included above.
Benefits to Paul Brooks include a one-off payment in respect of his relocation back to the UK.
John Peace is not eligible for a performance bonus, pension contributions or further long term incentive awards but will continue to receive a company car benefit and coverage under the Companys private healthcare arrangements.
Don Robert and Paul Brooks were appointed to the board of Experian Group Limited on 6 July 2006.
Experian Group Limited pays directors fees to Don Robert and Paul Brooks of 106,154 per annum in respect of their services as directors of Experian Group Limited.
Such fees form part of, and are not additional to, the remuneration set out in the table.
During the year under review, Don Robert served as a non-executive director of First Advantage Corporation for which he received a fee of US$53,000 2007: $51,000.
Figures for the prior period for Paul Brooks have been restated in sterling to allow a like for like comparison.
Fees for the non-executive directors represent their fees for the period under review.
For the prior period, and as is permissible under Jersey law, the Company met the cost of the tax payment on their taxable travel expenses where applicable.
Experian has since gained agreement from the Irish tax authorities that these expenses are non-taxable and thus for the period under review these expenses are not reported.
Fees in respect of the previous period for the non-executive directors were for the period since appointment which for some individuals was three months or less.
Fees in respect of 2007 for Sir Alan Rudge and David Tyler were paid by Experian Finance plc formerly GUS plc.
David Tyler was previously an executive director of GUS plc and Sir Alan Rudge was a non-executive director.
With effect from 1 April 2007, David Tyler ceased to be a director of Experian Finance plc by reason of redundancy: his contract provided for a notice period of 12 months or contractual pay in lieu of notice for 12 months.
Contractual pay on redundancy includes base salary 545,000, car and fuel allowance 18,200 and is included above.
These payments were made in April 2007 and are in addition to the non-executive directors fee of 106,154.
Figures for the prior period for David Tyler have been restated in euros to allow a like for like comparison.
John Peace ceased to be an employee of the Group on 31 March 2007.
Under the GUS Unapproved Executive Share Option Scheme rules, he has six months from this date to exercise his options, excluding any periods during which he is restricted from dealing in the Companys shares.
Disclosures will be made in respect of the exercise of these options at the appropriate time.
Options granted to Don Robert prior to his date of appointment to the board of GUS plc in April 2005 were granted under the GUS North America Stock Option Plan.
The 2005 and 2006 grants were made under the GUS Executive Share Option Scheme.
Options were granted to David Tyler in respect of his role as an executive director of GUS plc.
On the demerger of GUS plc, he was eligible to exchange his options for equivalent options over Experian shares on the same basis as other participants in the relevant GUS plans except that he was not eligible to participate in the Experian Reinvestment Plan.
To the extent that his options were rolled over, the new options did not vest or lapse in connection with his termination of employment.
In respect of such options, David Tyler is treated as a good leaver for the purposes of the relevant plan rules if he ceases to be a non-executive director of the Company except as a result of voluntary resignation or actions which would constitute gross misconduct.
The relevant performance conditions apply.
No options were granted to executive directors on the GUS demerger.
All options in the above table were originally granted under the GUS Executive Share Option Schemes.
Options which were granted before 2005 were exchanged for equivalent options over Experian shares on demerger of GUS plc.
Unvested options granted in 2005 and 2006 other than options granted under the GUS 1998 Approved Executive Share Option Scheme were automatically exchanged for equivalent options over Experian shares.
The performance condition for options granted in 2005 and 2006 is based on the growth of Experians Earnings per Share in excess of the UK Retail Price Index from the date of demerger.
The market price of Experian Group Limited shares at the end of the financial year was 367.0p: the highest and lowest prices during the financial year were 633.5p and 358.0p respectively.
Experian Annual Report 2008 59 Report on directors remuneration continued Sharesave options Details of Sharesave options granted to directors under the SAYE share option scheme are set out below: Market Total Date from Number of price at number of which options at Exercise day of options at exercisable 1 April 2007 price Granted Exercised exercise Lapsed 31 March 2008 expiry date Executive directors Paul Brooks 2,488 378.6p 2,488 520.0p 01.09.07-29.02.08 Performance Share Plans In May 2005 and June 2006, executive directors received a share award under the GUS Performance Share Plan with a face value of one times salary.
On the GUS demerger, these awards were automatically rolled over into Experian shares.
As approved by GUS shareholders at the EGM on 29 August 2006, awards equivalent to two times salary were made to executive directors on demerger in October 2006 under the Experian Performance Share Plan.
Both awards are outlined below.
For awards granted under the rolled over GUS Performance Share Plan, the performance condition is based on Total Shareholder Return against the comparator group adopted by Experian see page 55 since the demerger.
Rolled over awards will not vest if Experians Total Shareholder Return defined as share price movement plus reinvested dividends is below the median return for the comparator group.
For these rolled over awards only, once Experian achieves median performance, 40% of the award may vest rising on a straight-line basis to 100% of the award vesting for upper quartile performance or better.
On demerger, GUS Performance Share Plan awards made in 2005 and 2006 were replaced with equivalent awards over Experian shares.
As John Peaces employment with Experian Finance plc formerly GUS plc ended on 31 March 2007, under the rules of the GUS Performance Share Plan, all outstanding awards will vest subject to the performance condition on the vesting date specified in the table, and will be time pro-rated to 31 March 2007.
Disclosures will be made in respect of vesting at the appropriate time.
David Tylers awards were rolled over on the basis described in footnote 3 to the Share Options table on page 59.
60 Experian Annual Report 2008 Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements 2 5 6 37 Report on directors remuneration 65 144 GUS Co-investment Plans and Experian Reinvestment Plans Awards to directors under the 2004 and 2005 cycles of the GUS Co-investment Plan and North America Co-investment Plan were reinvested in awards under the Experian Reinvestment Plan and North America Reinvestment Plan at demerger.
Awards under the 2006 cycle were automatically rolled over into equivalent awards over Experian shares under the rules of the GUS Co-investment Plan.
Release of matching shares under the Experian Reinvestment Plan is subject to the achievement of performance conditions see note 3 to the table below, the retention of reinvested awards and continued employment.
No further awards will be made under the Reinvestment Plan.
Matching shares awarded under the GUS Co-investment Plans will be released subject to continued employment.
Invested shares for John Peace and David Tyler were purchased with their bonus net of tax.
The matching share awards are made on a gross basis and are taxed at the point of vesting.
Invested shares for Don Robert and Paul Brooks were calculated by reference to the bonus gross of tax.
John Peace was not eligible to participate in the Reinvestment Plan.
He was granted a special reinvestment award over Experian Group Limited shares which will vest after three years if he continues to be Chairman of Experian Group Limited, subject to the good leaver reasons included in the rules.
Details of this award were disclosed in the circular to GUS shareholders dated 26 July 2006.
Invested shares in respect of the 2006 GUS Co-investment Plan award for John Peace were released following the end of his employment with Experian Finance plc on 31 March 2007 in accordance with the plan rules.
The matching share option in respect of this award also became exercisable in full on this date.
Under the Plan rules, participants are entitled to dividend equivalents on exercise of this matching share option.
John Peace received 9,019 in respect of dividend equivalents payable on his matching share options.
The first 50% of a matching award under the Experian Reinvestment Plan will vest subject to satisfaction of a performance condition relative to a sliding scale of growth in Experian Groups PBT over a three year period.
The threshold for vesting will be growth in PBT of 7% per annum at which 30% of this part of the matching award will vest, rising on a straight-line basis to 100% of this part of the award vesting at growth in PBT of 14% per annum.
This part of the matching award will vest in two equal tranches on the fourth and fifth anniversaries of grant.
The remaining 50% of the matching award will be time-based and will vest as to 50% of this part of the matching award on the third anniversary of grant and as to 25% on each of the fourth and fifth anniversaries of grant.
David Tylers 2004 and 2005 GUS Co-investment Plan awards vested at the time of the GUS plc demerger, and he did not reinvest these awards.
David Tylers 2006 GUS Co-investment Plan awards were rolled over on the basis described in footnote 3 to the Share Options table on page 59.
Experian Annual Report 2008 61 Report on directors remuneration continued Executive directors annual pension Don Robert is provided with benefits through a Supplementary Executive Retirement Plan SERP which is a defined benefit arrangement in the US.
The figures below are in respect of his SERP entitlement.
He also participates in a US defined contribution arrangement and the employer contributions to this arrangement during the year were $3,692 2007: $9,423.
Paul Brooks is a member of the registered Experian Pension Scheme.
His benefits within the Scheme are restricted by an earnings cap.
However, benefits in excess of this cap are provided for through the Experian Limited SURBS.
The pension figures below reflect both his registered and non-registered entitlement.
The table below provides the disclosure of the above directors defined benefit pension entitlements in respect of benefits from registered schemes and non-registered arrangements.
Additional pension Transfer Accrued Accrued Change earned to value pension at pension at Transfer Transfer in transfer 31 March 2008 of the 31 March 31 March value at value at value less net of increase 2008 2007 31 March 31 March directors inflation less directors per annum per annum 2008 2007 contributions per annum contributions 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 $000 pa $000 pa $000 $000 $000 $000 pa $000 Don Robert 311 252 5,586 4,006 1,580 49 877 000 pa 000 pa 000 000 000 000 pa 000 Paul Brooks 101 74 1,254 995 251 24 294 Six former directors of Experian Finance plc formerly GUS plc have been receiving unfunded pensions from the Company for a number of years.
The pensions of two of these former directors were transferred into the registered scheme in October 2006.
Three of the former directors are now members of the SURBS that provides security for the unfunded pensions of executives affected by the HMRC earnings cap.
In addition, one former director, who retired with effect from 31 March 2007, is now receiving an unfunded pension through the SURBS.
The total unfunded pensions paid to the former directors was 539,644 2007: 445,646.
Notes: Columns 1 and 2 represent the deferred pension to which the director would have been entitled had they left the Group at 31 March 2008 and 2007 respectively.
Column 3 is the transfer value of the pension in column 1 calculated as at 31 March 2008 based on factors supplied by the actuary of the relevant group pension scheme in accordance with UK actuarial guidance note GN11.
Column 4 is the equivalent transfer value, but calculated as at 31 March 2007 on the assumption that the director left service at that date.
Column 5 is the change in transfer value of accrued pension during the year net of contributions by the director.
Column 6 is the increase in pension built up during the year, recognising i the accrual rate for the additional service based on the pensionable salary in force at the year end, and ii where appropriate the effect of pay changes in real inflation adjusted terms on the pension already earned at the start of the year.
Column 7 represents the transfer value of the pension in column 6.
The disclosures in columns 1 to 5 are equivalent to those required by the UK Directors Remuneration Report Regulations and those in columns 6 and 7 are those required by the UK Listing Authoritys Listing Rules.
Directors service contracts In accordance with Don Roberts service agreement with Experian Services Corporation ESC dated 7 August 2006, if his employment is terminated by ESC without cause he is entitled to the following severance payments: continued payment of monthly salary for 12 months from the termination date: 12 months participation in welfare benefit plans in which he participated during his employment: and an annual bonus based on a 100% achievement of objectives payable in equal monthly instalments for 12 months.
The same amounts are payable by ESC if Don Robert terminates the contract: i following material breach by ESC: or ii for Good Reason following a change of control of ESC.
Good Reason means, during the six month period following a change of control, a material and substantial adverse reduction or change in Don Roberts position.
Don Roberts service agreement also provides for the following payments to be made if the agreement terminates in the event of Don Roberts death in addition to payments due but unpaid before death : a pro rata annual bonus for the bonus year to the termination date based on ESCs performance in that bonus year: and a lump sum equal to 12 months base salary to be paid no later than 90 days after the date of death.
If the employment is terminated due to Don Roberts disability he is entitled to the bonus as described immediately above in addition to payments due but unpaid before the termination.
Any 62 Experian Annual Report 2008 Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements 2 5 6 37 Report on directors remuneration 65 144 deferred compensation obligations with respect to Don Robert will be governed in accordance with the relevant plan rules.
This is consistent with US employment practice.
In his service agreement dated 2 April 2007, upon termination of employment at the absolute discretion of Experian Group Limited, Paul Brooks may be paid base salary alone, pension contributions and benefits in kind excluding bonus or incentive payments unless the Company in its absolute discretion determines otherwise in lieu of six months notice where notice is given by Paul Brooks or 12 months notice where notice is given by Experian Group Limited.
Save for the benefits described above, the service contracts of each of the executive directors do not provide for any benefits on the termination of employment.
Combined Code The constitution and operation of the remuneration committee are in accordance with the principles of good governance and the Combined Code on Corporate Governance published by the UK Financial Reporting Council.
Directors interests The beneficial interests of the directors, together with non-beneficial interests, in the ordinary shares of the Company are shown below.
Share options granted to directors, awards under the Performance Share Plan and the contingent interests in matching shares under the Co-investment and Reinvestment Plans are shown on pages 59 to 61.
The directors have no interests in the debentures of the Company or in any shares or debentures of the Companys subsidiaries.
Shares held in Experian Group Limited 1 at 31 March 2008 Chairman John Peace 1,136,713 Executive directors 2 Don Robert 493,578 2 Paul Brooks 220,074 Non-executive directors Fabiola Arredondo 99,299 Laurence Danon 1,665 Roger Davis 220,199 Sean FitzPatrick 46,700 Alan Jebson 42,157 Sir Alan Rudge 13,994 David Tyler 590,069 Notes: 1.
For regulatory purposes, as at 20 May 2008, there had been no changes in the above interests.
The number of Experian shares for Don Robert and Paul Brooks reflects 304,441 and 134,655 shares respectively awarded to them under the legacy GUS North America Co-investment Plan and the Experian North America Reinvestment Plan as shown in the table on page 61 in addition to their personal holding.
Don Robert and Paul Brooks have an unconditional right to receive Experian shares at the end of the relevant three-year deferral period.
Prior to receipt they do not have dividend or voting rights in respect of such shares.
On behalf of the board remuneration committee Charles Brown Company Secretary 20 May 2008 Experian Annual Report 2008 63
