Board Remuneration Report The Board submits its report on directors remuneration.
A resolution will be put to shareholders at the Companys AGM inviting them to approve this Report.
Details of the Remuneration Committees responsibilities are given on page 20.
Members of the Remuneration Committee The members of the Remuneration Committee during the year were David Campbell Chairman, Colin Cooke and David Buttfield.
During the year, the Remuneration Committee took advice from independent external sources, as noted on page 20.
Remuneration policy Executive directors The Companys policy on remuneration is to attract, retain and incentivise executives with the experience and skills necessary to operate and develop the Companys businesses to their maximum potential.
It is also designed to align the interests of the executives with those of the shareholders by rewarding them for enhancing shareholder value and promoting the growth and stability of the Company.
Consistent with this policy, benefit packages awarded to executives are intended to be competitive and comprise a mix of performance related and non-performance related remuneration designed to incentivise them, but not to detract from the goals of corporate governance.
"It is the Committees current intention to continue to reward the executive directors with an annual performance related bonus plan, linked to earnings per share ""EPS"" and a PSP, details of which are given on page 29."
The shares allocated under the final cycle of the outgoing LTIP will be awarded to executives after the three year plan cycle expires in November 2008.
The award will be dependent on the comparative performance of the Companys total shareholder return TSR against the TSR of companies comprising the FTSE All Share Industrial Engineering Sector LTIP Peer Group over the period from the provisional allocation date to the final award date.
The PSP has a bespoke peer group comprising companies from the FTSE All Share Industrial Engineering Sector and comparative companies from the General Industrials and Electronic & Electrical Equipment Sectors PSP Peer Group.
The Committee considers that TSR, which comprises of, inter alia, dividend yield and share price movement in comparison with both the LTIP Peer Group and the PSP Peer Group, is the best measure of long term performance as it aligns the interests of executives with shareholders and recognises market conditions in the Groups industrial sector.
The targeted composition of each executive directors remuneration is as follows: Non-performance related Performance related Mark Abrahams 60% 40% Richard Perry 60% 40% Chairman and non-executive directors The Chairman and non-executive directors are usually appointed for a fixed three year term.
The remuneration of the non-executive directors is determined by the Board as a whole, having regard to the packages awarded by other UK listed companies of similar size and complexity.
The fees paid to the Chairman and non-executive directors have been brought into line with the bespoke comparator group with effect from 1 September 2008 following the results of the HNBSC report, as detailed on page 28.
The non-executive directors do not participate in any of the Groups bonus, share option or incentive schemes, nor do they accrue any pension entitlement.
Directors service contracts The executive directors have rolling 12 month contracts.
In addition, the Company has agreed to the payment of a prescribed sum equivalent to 12 months salary and contractual benefits if there is a change of control or termination of their contracts by the Company other than for cause.
The service contracts do not contain any provision for compensation on early termination other than the notice period and the provision noted above, however the Committee will seek to mitigate cost to the Company whilst dealing fairly with each individual case.
Fenner PLC 27 Board Remuneration Report continued The details of the service contracts in relation to the executive directors and letters of appointment in relation to the Chairman and non-executive directors who served as directors during the year are as follows: Unexpired term at Notice 31 August 2008 period Executive directors Mark Abrahams - 1 year Richard Perry - 1 year Non-executive directors Colin Cooke 28 months 1 year David Buttfield 28 months 1 year David Campbell 38 months 1 year Colin Cookes services are provided by way of an agreement between the Company, Steels Management Limited and Colin Cooke.
His service agreement was extended in September 2008 until the AGM 2011.
David Buttfield has agreed to serve a further term of two years from the AGM 2009 until the AGM 2011.
David Campbell will serve for a second three year term from 1 November 2008.
External appointments The Company recognises that its executive directors are likely to be invited to become non-executive directors of other companies and that such appointments can broaden experience and knowledge which may benefit the Company.
Therefore, executive directors may, subject to approval by the Board and providing there is no conflict of interest, be allowed to accept appointments as a non-executive director of another company and are normally allowed to retain the fees paid from such appointments.
In normal circumstances, they may not accept more than one appointment.
Currently the Chief Executive Officer, Mark Abrahams, is the non-executive Chairman of Inditherm plc and retained fees of 35,000 in relation to Inditherm plcs year ended 31 December 2007.
The Group Finance Director, Richard Perry, is a non-executive director of Scapa Group plc and retained fees of 35,500 in relation to Scapa Group plcs year ended 31 March 2008.
Remuneration components for executive directors The major components of the executive directors remuneration are as follows: Basic annual salary and benefits The basic annual salary is subject to an annual review which takes into account the performance of the Group and the individual and salary trends in comparable companies.
In addition, a car allowance, healthcare insurance and other benefits are available in line with normal corporate practice.
During the year, HNBSC were commissioned to produce a report on comparative pay for chairmen, non-executive directors, executive directors and senior executives of companies similar to Fenner, benchmarked against two comparator groups: 1 a bespoke group of 20 companies comprising the majority of the companies used in the PSP Peer Group and 2 a number of other companies with median market capitalisation and turnover similar to Fenner, comprising 26 companies from all industries excluding financial services, property and real estate.
All companies in these groups had a market cap and turnover within 50% - 200% of the Company and at least 25% of their turnover outside the UK.
In light of the report recommendations, the salaries of the executive directors were increased with effect from 1 September 2008 to raise them above the lower quartile.
The Remuneration Committee takes account of the pay levels of senior management of the Fenner Group when establishing the executive directors remuneration and has adjusted salaries in the light of the HNBSC report.
Annual performance related bonus Performance related cash bonuses are reviewed annually.
Demanding performance targets are set which must be achieved before the maximum bonus is payable.
The confirmed criteria for the year under review include targets linked to the Groups performance in terms of operating profit, EPS and working capital.
The target bonus for achievement of the annual budget for these measures is 35% of basic annual salary and the maximum potential payment for the annual bonus is 60% of basic annual salary, excluding benefits in kind and pension contributions.
The Remuneration Committee has introduced a new bonus scheme for 2008 09 wherein the executive directors will receive a bonus based on EPS targets aligned to shareholder expectations.
If expected EPS returns are achieved for the year, the executive director will receive 45% of salary as a bonus with a linear EPS progression to cap bonuses at 60% of basic salary.
28 Fenner PLC Performance Share Plan The PSP, which was approved by shareholders at the AGM on 10 January 2007 and which replaced the outgoing LTIP, is designed to encourage its participants to deliver sustained long term above market returns to shareholders.
Rewards under the PSP are linked to the Company's performance against demanding targets over three year periods Performance Periods.
A conditional award of ordinary shares is based on a percentage maximum 150% of the participant's annual basic salary and the value of the Company's ordinary shares on grant.
In exceptional circumstances, such as recruitment or retention of key participants, the Remuneration Committee can make awards of shares worth up to 300% of annual basic salary.
The performance measurement for each of the Performance Periods is the Company's TSR which is compared with the TSR of the PSP Peer Group.
The PSP Peer Group is described on page 27.
The Remuneration Committee selected the PSP Peer Group as it believed it to be the most appropriate group against which the TSR of the Company should be measured because it is a group of businesses similar in nature to the Company and which represents alternative investment options for our shareholders.
100% of the award may vest only if the Company's performance places it within the top 10% of the companies in the PSP Peer Group.
25% of the award vests at the median.
No awards vest if the Company's ranking is below the median.
Between the median and the top 10%, awards will vest on a straight-line basis with interpolation between rankings.
In addition, no award will vest unless the Committee is satisfied that the Companys TSR performance reflects its underlying financial performance.
There have been no departures from the Company's policy on awarding benefits under the PSP since it was adopted at the AGM on 10 January 2007 other than to align the Performance Period with the financial year of the Group and to roll up dividends into the conditional award until the date of vesting.
The performance chart below illustrates the Companys TSR over the past five years compared to the TSR performance of the FTSE All Share Industrial Engineering Index.
In addition to the statutory requirement to plot data over five financial year ends, the graph and table below reflect data for each of the three year periods Plan Cycles for the LTIP and PSP Performance Periods.
The Plan Cycles and Performance Periods for the LTIP and the 1st issue of the PSP are aligned with the release of the Groups Preliminary Results.
The 2nd and subsequent PSP Plan Cycles will remain aligned with the release of the Group's Preliminary Results but the Performance Periods will be aligned to the financial year of the Group.
The Remuneration Committee believes that moving the Performance Period to correspond with the financial year of the Group more closely aligns the PSP performance with shareholder expectations and shareholder value.
The Plan Cycles remain tied with the release of the Preliminary Results to ensure Plans are not issued during a close period and that they are only issued once there is full disclosure of price sensitive information into the market as a whole.
Total Shareholder Return FTSE All Share Industrial Date Fenner Engineering Index 31 August 2003 97 94 6 November 2003 100 100 31 August 2004 137 102 10 November 2004 155 114 31 August 2005 195 134 9 November 2005 203 139 31 August 2006 289 172 8 November 2006 283 189 31 August 2007 338 228 7 November 2007 375 234 31 August 2008 334 231 Fenner FTSE All Share Industrial Engineering Index The outgoing LTIP expired in 2007 having reached the end of its 10 year life and the PSP was introduced as the sole long term incentive vehicle for participants, subject to the final Plan Cycles of the LTIP reaching their natural ends.
The Committee believes that the PSP provides a real incentive for key executives and will result in appropriate rewards for delivering sustained out-performance against comparator companies and revenue growth.
The form of the PSP takes due account of changes in market practice and standards of good governance.
Fenner PLC 29 Board Remuneration Report continued Pensions The executive directors participate in the defined benefits section of the Fenner Pension Scheme, an Inland Revenue approved mixed benefits scheme, on the same terms as other senior executives.
The Scheme provides for a maximum pension of two-thirds of remuneration at or near retirement age of 62.
For both executive directors, pensionable salary and benefits from the Fenner Pension Scheme had been restricted to the Scheme's permitted maximum which had been aligned to the Inland Revenue earnings cap until the implementation of the Finance Act 2004, which was effective from 6 April 2006.
Payments up to that date had also been made to funded unapproved retirement benefit schemes FURBS to provide top-up pension benefits in excess of the Inland Revenue limits.
Since 6 April 2006, the FURBS payments to the executive directors have converted to a Pension Allowance under the terms of their Service Agreements.
The total amount of the payments post 5 April 2006 does not exceed the amounts that would have been paid as FURBS.
The executive directors have full discretion in how they choose to invest these payments post 5 April 2006.
The following sections of the Board Remuneration Report are audited.
Directors detailed emoluments Annual salary, Annual fees or performance Total Total consultancy Benefits in related emoluments emoluments services kind bonus 2008 2007 Executive directors Mark Abrahams 325,000 22,994 195,000 542,994 496,606 Richard Perry 195,000 20,012 117,000 332,012 307,193 Non-executive directors Colin Cooke 90,100 - - 90,100 90,100 David Buttfield 37,597 - - 37,597 36,127 David Campbell 34,114 - - 34,114 32,780 681,811 43,006 312,000 1,036,817 962,806 Benefits in kind include the provision of a car allowance and healthcare insurance for both executive directors.
By an agreement between the Company, Steels Management Limited and Colin Cooke dated 24 June 1993, as amended by subsequent supplemental agreements between the same parties, the last one being dated 24 September 2008, Steels Management Limited agreed to provide the services of Colin Cooke as a non-executive director and Chairman of the Company until the 2011 AGM.
Steels Management Limited may at any time terminate the agreement by giving 12 months notice in writing to the Company.
During the year ended 31 August 2008, 90,100 2007 90,100, including a 5,100 car allowance, was payable under this agreement.
No remuneration was paid directly to Colin Cooke, nor were any pension contributions paid on his account.
The non-executive directors do not participate in any Company pension scheme, nor do they receive any benefits in kind.
No directors waived emoluments in respect of the year ended 31 August 2008.
Pensions Directors pension entitlement Details of the pension benefits to which each of the executive directors is entitled are as follows: Accrued Increase in Accrued Transfer Transfer Increase in entitlement accrued entitlement value at value at transfer value 31 August entitlement 31 August 31 August 31 August less directors 2007 over the year 2008 2007 2008 contributions Mark Abrahams 48,300 5,000 53,300 533,800 693,300 159,500 Richard Perry 48,900 6,000 54,900 677,200 872,800 186,400 30 Fenner PLC Additional information as required by the Listing Rules: Transfer value of additional accrued benefits Additional accrued benefits earned in year earned in year less directors contributions Mark Abrahams 3,000 33,600 Richard Perry 3,900 45,800 The accrued pension entitlement is the amount that the director would be paid annually on retirement based on service to 31 August 2008.
The Listing Rules require the increase in this amount to be disclosed excluding inflation.
The benefits do not allow for any retained benefits which the directors may have relating to previous employment.
The pension benefits exclude any additional pension purchased by additional voluntary contributions.
The increase in the accrued entitlement is the difference between the accrued entitlement at 31 August 2008 and the accrued entitlement at 31 August 2007.
The pension benefits are based on the directors pensionable salaries which are limited to the Schemes permitted maximum currently 117,600 per annum.
All transfer values have been calculated on the basis of actuarial advice in accordance with Actuarial Guidance Note GN11, which remained in force until 30 September 2008.
The transfer values of the accrued entitlement represent the value of assets that the pension scheme would need to transfer to another pension provider on transferring the Schemes liability in respect of the directors pension benefits.
They do not represent sums payable to individual directors and, therefore, cannot be added meaningfully to annual remuneration.
The transfer value of the increase in accrued benefits, required by the Listing Rules, discloses the current value of the increase in accrued benefits that the director has earned in the period whereas the change in his transfer value, required by the Companies Act 1985, discloses the absolute increase or decrease in his transfer value and includes the change in value of the accrued benefits that results from market volatility affecting the transfer value at the beginning of the period, as well as the additional value earned in the year.
Until 5 April 2006, the Company made contributions to FURBS in respect of the executive directors.
From 6 April 2006, payments to the executive directors have been converted to a Pension Allowance under the terms of their Service Agreements.
The total amounts paid by the Company were as follows: 2008 2007 Mark Abrahams 219,375 202,500 Richard Perry 129,675 121,030 Fenner PLC 31 Board Remuneration Report continued Interests in shares The interests of the directors in the 25p ordinary shares of the Company were as follows: 31 August 2008 1 September 2007 Number Number Mark Abrahams 590,099 549,044 Richard Perry 452,269 426,446 Colin Cooke 210,408 210,408 David Buttfield - - David Campbell 3,150 3,150 All directors interests are beneficially held.
David Buttfield acquired 6,535 shares on 10 September 2008.
There have been no other changes in the interests set out above between 31 August 2008 and 12 November 2008.
Share schemes None of the directors held any share options during the year.
Awards to executive directors under long term incentive schemes were as follows: LTIP Provisional Provisional allocation Provisional allocation End of Plan Cycle 1 September allocation Shares Shares 31 August Value & Award 2007 in the year awarded lapsed 2008 awarded Determination Allocation Date Number Number Number Number Number Date Mark Abrahams 10 November 2004 155,046 - 69,584 85,462 - 173,271 14 November 2007 9 November 2005 133,236 - - - 133,236 - 13 November 2008 Richard Perry 10 November 2004 97,524 - 43,768 53,756 - 108,986 14 November 2007 9 November 2005 82,364 - -- 82,364 - 13 November 2008 Total of awards in year 113,352 282,257 Mark Abrahams and Richard Perry received a cash equivalent dividend on the shares of 3,670 and 2,308 respectively.
PSP Conditional Conditional End of award Conditional award Performance 1 September award Shares Shares 31 August Value Period & Award 2007 in the year awarded lapsed 2008 awarded Determination Allocation Date Number Number Number Number Number Date Mark Abrahams 20 February 2007 97,720 - - - 97,720 - 19 February 2010 12 February 2008 - 93,238 - - 93,238 - 11 February 2011 Richard Perry 20 February 2007 59,284 - - - 59,284 - 19 February 2010 12 February 2008 - 55,943 - - 55,943 - 11 February 2011 Total of awards in year - - Performance Period ends 31 August 2010 but the award will not vest before 11 February 2011.
32 Fenner PLC The performance criteria attached to the conditional award of shares made on 12 February 2008 relate to the Companys TSR which is compared with the TSR of the PSP Peer Group.
There have been no variations in the terms and conditions of scheme interests during the year other than to align the Performance Period with the financial year of the Company.
All awards under the LTIP were in respect of qualifying services.
The Plan Cycle that ended on 14 November 2007 was independently evaluated and an award of shares made representing 44.88% of the original award of shares was made on 13 February 2008.
The market value as defined in the Rules of the Plan of an ordinary share of the Company at the beginning of the Plan Cycle was 127.70p 125.16p after adjustment for the Share Placing and Open Offer in May 2005, at the end of the Plan Cycle was 255.50p, on the day the shares were awarded was 249.01p and at 12 February 2008 for the 2nd PSP was 244.00p.
The performance chart on page 29, which shows the relative TSR of the Company and the FTSE All Share Industrial Engineering Index, gives an indication of whether each LTIP Plan Cycle and PSP Performance Period will achieve the performance criteria, based upon the share price at 31 August 2008.
Given the nature of the performance calculation, it could be misleading to indicate a likely outcome for future share awards.
Movements in share price during the year The market price of the Companys shares at the end of the financial year was 228.00p and the range of market prices during the year was between 215.00p and 283.75p.
Signed on behalf of the Board of Directors D A Campbell Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 12 November 2008 Fenner PLC 33 Directors Report The directors submit their report and the audited Group financial statements for the financial year ended 31 August 2008.
Principal activities Fenner PLC is a global manufacturer and distributor of conveyor belting and reinforced precision polymer products.
Business review The Business Review, incorporating the Chief Executive Officers Review and the Group Finance Directors Review, can be found on pages 5 to 16.
Results and dividends 2008 2007 m m Group profit for the year 25.9 23.9 Dividends: Interim 2.2p per share 2007 2.075p payable 3.8 3.3 Final 4.4p per share 2007 4.15p proposed 7.7 6.6 11.5 9.9 Donations During the year, the Group contributed 10,000 2007 5,000 to United Kingdom charitable organisations.
No donations are made to political parties.
Substantial shareholdings As of 12 November 2008, the following interest in shares have been notified to the Company: Number of % of issued Interested party shares share capital HSBC Holdings Plc 14,860,061 8.50 Invesco plc 9,030,847 5.17 Legal & General Investment Management Limited 7,691,470 4.40 Lloyds TSB Group Plc 9,582,497 5.48 Rathbone Brothers Plc 6,918,413 3.96 Directors and their interests The directors of the Company who served during any part of the year are shown in the Board Remuneration Report on page 28.
Details of the directors beneficial interests in the ordinary shares of the Company, in share options over the ordinary share capital of the Company and in the LTIP and PSP are given in the Board Remuneration Report on pages 27 to 33.
Save as disclosed in the Board Remuneration Report: - no director has any interest beneficial or non-beneficial in any share or loan capital of the Company or any of its subsidiaries: - no change in the interests of directors has occurred between the end of the financial year and 12 November 2008: and - there were no contracts of significance subsisting during or at the end of the financial year in which a director of the Company was materially interested.
David Buttfield and David Campbell will be retiring by rotation at the forthcoming AGM and being eligible, offer themselves up for re-election.
Both directors' performances continue to be effective and they continue to demonstrate commitment to their roles.
Given the length of his tenure, Colin Cooke will also retire by rotation and offer himself up for re-election in accordance with best practice.
34 Fenner PLC Supplier payment policy Given the international nature of the Groups operations, the Group does not operate a standard code in respect of payments to suppliers.
Individual operating businesses are responsible for agreeing the terms and conditions under which transactions with their suppliers are conducted, including the terms of payment.
It is the Groups policy that payments to suppliers are made in accordance with these terms.
The average creditor days for the Group during the year ended 31 August 2008 was 55 days 2007 51 days.
The Company does not have any trade creditors.
Employment policy The Group operates worldwide and its employment policies are designed to meet local conditions and requirements but are established on the basis of the best practices in each country.
Wherever the Group operates, it encourages the provision of equal employment opportunities.
The Groups policy is to secure good relations between management and all employees, to promote a better understanding of all the issues, both internal and external, that influence the Groups business performance and to improve performance and productivity.
Formal and informal meetings are used to consult employees and to keep them informed about the performance of the Group.
The practices of consultation and involvement vary from country to country according to local customs, legal considerations and the size of the operation.
The regular worldwide issue of a Group magazine assists the process of communication, as do briefing meetings, information bulletins and meetings with employee representatives.
The Group continues to recognise its social and statutory duty to employ disabled persons and does all that is practicable to meet this responsibility.
Full and fair consideration is given to the recruitment, training, career development and promotion of disabled persons bearing in mind the aptitude and ability of the individual concerned.
If an employee becomes disabled while employed by the Group, wherever possible, he or she will continue to be employed in the same job.
If this action is not practicable or possible then every effort will be made to find suitable alternative employment.
In these circumstances, retraining would be made available using Group resources as well as by contact with the local disabilities employment adviser.
Further details of the Companys employment policy are given in the Business Review on pages 8 and 9 and the Corporate Responsibility Report on page 24.
Environmental policy The Group recognises and accepts that concern for the environment is an integral and fundamental part of the Groups corporate business strategy.
Details of the Companys environmental policy are given in the Business Review on pages 9 and 10 and Corporate Responsibility Report on pages 25 and 26.
Other statutory information Set out below is a summary of certain provisions of the Companys current Articles of Association the Articles and the Companies Act 2006 Companies Act.
If further information is required, the relevant provisions of the Articles and the Companies Act should be consulted.
Share capital The Companys authorised and issued share capital as at 31 August 2008, together with details of shares issued during the year, is set out in note 9 to the Company financial statements on page 81.
Each ordinary share of the Company carries one vote.
The Company has a single class of share capital which is divided into ordinary shares of 25p each.
Dividends and distributions Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act, the Company may, by ordinary resolution, from time to time declare dividends not exceeding the amount recommended by the Board.
The Board may pay interim dividends, including fixed rate dividends, whenever the financial position of the Company, in the opinion of the Board, justifies such payment.
Dividends will be paid pro rata to the amounts paid up on the shares.
In specie and scrip dividends can be authorised at a General Meeting at the Boards recommendation.
Voting rights Subject to any rights or restrictions attaching to any shares by or in accordance with the Articles, at a General Meeting, every member who is present in person or by proxy shall have one vote and on a poll every member present in person or by proxy shall have one vote for each share.
In the case of joint holders of a share, the vote of the senior who tenders a vote, whether in person or by proxy, shall be accepted to the exclusion of the votes of the other joint holders.
For this purpose, seniority shall be determined by the order in which the names of the holders stand in the register.
Fenner PLC 35 Directors Report continued Restrictions on voting Unless the Board determine otherwise, no member shall be entitled to vote at a General Meeting, either in person or by proxy, in respect of any share held unless all moneys are fully paid up on that share.
In addition, no member shall be entitled to vote if he has been served with a notice after failure to provide the Company with information concerning interests in those shares required to be provided under the Companies Act.
Deadline for exercising voting rights Voting rights may be exercised in person, by proxy, or by a Corporate Representative.
The deadline for submission of proxy forms is not less than 48 hours before the time appointed for holding the meeting or adjourned meeting.
Variation of rights Subject to the provisions of legislation, the Articles specify that rights attaching to any class of shares may be varied or abrogated, either with the consent in writing of the holders of three-quarters in nominal value of the issued shares of the class being varied or with the sanction of an extraordinary resolution passed at a separate General Meeting of the holders of the shares of that class.
Transfer of shares All transfers of certificated shares may be in any usual form or in any other form which the Board may approve.
The instrument of transfer shall be signed by or on behalf of the transferor and, unless the share is fully paid, by or on behalf of the transferee.
An instrument of transfer need not be under seal.
Transfers of shares which are in uncertificated form are effected by means of the CREST system.
The Board may refuse to register the transfer of a share which is not fully paid, provided that the refusal does not prevent dealings in shares in the Company from taking place on an open and proper basis.
In the case of uncertificated shares, the Board may exercise its discretion to refuse to register a transfer of a share to the extent permitted by the regulations and the facilities and requirements of the relevant system.
The Board may also refuse to register the transfer of a certificated share unless the instrument of transfer is lodged, duly stamped if stampable at the office or at another place appointed by the Board, accompanied by the certificate for the share to which it relates and such other evidence as the Board may reasonably require to show the right of the transferor to make the transfer and, if the instrument of transfer is executed by some other person on his behalf, the authority of that person to do so : is in respect of only one class of shares: and is in favour of not more than four transferees.
If the Board refuses to register a transfer of a share, it shall send the transferee notice of its refusal together with reasons for the refusal within two months after the date on which the instrument of transfer was lodged with the Company.
The registration of transfers of shares or of transfers of any class of shares may be suspended at such times and for such periods not exceeding 30 business days in any one year as the Board may determine, except that the Board may not suspend the registration of transfers of any participating security without the consent of CREST.
Restriction of transfer rights The former owners of King Energy Services in New Mexico and King Energy Services in Colorado have had part of the consideration for the purchase of their businesses paid in Fenner shares.
Both vendors have a contractual obligation to hold the shares for a specified period before they are to dispose of them unless they seek the consent of the Company to vary the obligation.
The Company ensure compliance with the provisions of the UKLA Model Code, including the rules on dealing in shares during a prohibited period.
Appointment and replacement of directors Unless varied by ordinary resolution, the number of directors other than alternate directors shall be not less than two nor more than fifteen in number.
Directors are not required to hold any shares in the Company by way of qualification.
At each AGM, all those directors who have been in office for three years or more since their last re-appointment shall retire from office and be eligible for re-appointment.
A director who has held office for a continuous period of nine years or more at the date of the AGM shall retire from office and be eligible for re-appointment.
The Company abides by best corporate practice and requires that directors with nine years or more service seek annual re-election.
The Company is seeking to adopt new Articles at the forthcoming AGM and, if the new Articles are adopted, the current requirement to have one-third of the directors, or the nearest number thereto, retire at each AGM will be dropped.
The Board may appoint a director either to fill a casual vacancy or as an additional director provided that the appointment does not cause the number of directors to exceed the maximum prescribed by the Articles.
A director so appointed shall hold office only until the next following AGM.
If not re-appointed at such AGM, he shall vacate office at its conclusion.
36 Fenner PLC Powers of directors Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act and Articles and to any directions given by special resolution, the business of the Company shall be managed by the Board which may exercise all the powers of the Company.
The Board may exercise all the powers of the Company to borrow money, to mortgage or charge all or any part of its undertaking, property, assets present or future and uncalled capital and to issue debentures and other securities whether outright or as collateral security for any debt, liability or obligation of the Company or of any third party.
Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act and Articles, at a General Meeting, the Board may request the power to allot the relevant securities including for cash and to buy the Company's own ordinary shares in the market.
Currently the Board request such consent at each AGM.
The details of requested authorities in connection with the AGM to be held on 14 January 2009 are set out in the Notice of the Annual General Meeting.
Significant agreements: change of control All of the Companys current share plans contain provisions relating to a change of control.
Outstanding awards and options would normally vest and become exercisable on a change of control, subject to the satisfaction of any performance conditions at that time.
Amendment to articles of association Any amendments to the Articles may be made in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act by way of special resolution.
The adoption of a new set of Articles is proposed at the AGM to be held on 14 January 2009 and, should the proposal be passed, will be effective from that date.
Further details are set out in the Notice of the Annual General Meeting.
Independent auditors A resolution to re-appoint  LLP as independent auditors to the Company will be proposed at the AGM.
As far as each director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware.
Each director has taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as a director in order to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
Annual General Meeting As special business at the forthcoming AGM, resolutions will be proposed to renew the directors authority to allot relevant securities, to disapply the statutory pre-emption rights to a limited extent, to make market purchases of ordinary shares in the Company subject to defined limits and adopt an updated set of Articles of Association.
The proposed resolutions and further details regarding these proposals are set out in the Chairmans explanatory letter accompanying the Notice of the Annual General Meeting.
Signed on behalf of the Board of Directors C I Cooke Chairman 12 November 2008 Fenner PLC 37 Independent Auditors' Report to the members of Fenner PLC We have audited the Group financial statements of Fenner PLC for the year ended 31 August 2008 which comprise the Consolidated income statement, the Consolidated balance sheet, the Consolidated cash flow statement, the Consolidated statement of recognised income and expense and the related notes.
These Group financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have reported separately on the parent company financial statements of Fenner PLC for the year ended 31 August 2008 and on the information in the Board Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report and the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union are set out in the Corporate Governance statement on page 21.
Our responsibility is to audit the Group financial statements in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
This Report, including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the Group financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We report to you whether, in our opinion, the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with the Group financial statements.
In addition, we report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors' remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate Governance statement reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the Combined Code 2006 specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited Group financial statements.
The other information comprises only the Directors Report, the Financial Highlights, the Chairmans Statement, the Business Review, the Corporate Governance statement, the Corporate Responsibility Report and the unaudited part of the Board Remuneration Report.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Group financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the Group financial statements.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgments made by the directors in the preparation of the Group financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the Group financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the Group financial statements.
Opinion In our opinion: - the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union, of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 August 2008 and of its profit and cash flows for the year then ended: - the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation: and - the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with the Group financial statements.
 LLP Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors, Hull 12 November 2008 38 Fenner PLC
