Fidessa group plc 22 Directors remuneration report Introduction This report by the Remuneration Committee has been approved by the Board for submission to shareholders in accordance with the revised Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued by the Financial Reporting Council in June 2006 the Combined Code, the requirements of the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority and the reporting requirements of the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 the Regulations.
Consistent with previous years, a resolution to approve the report will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting of the Company at which the financial statements will be approved.
The Regulations require the auditors to report to the Companys members on the auditable part of the Directors Remuneration Report and to state whether in their opinion that part of the report has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 as amended by the Regulations.
The report has therefore been divided into separate sections for audited and unaudited information.
Unaudited information Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee comprises Ron Mackintosh and Philip Hardaker, both non-executive directors, the chairman of the committee being Ron Mackintosh.
Neither of the members of the committee has any personal financial interest other than possibly as shareholders, conflicts of interest arising from cross-directorships or day-to-day involvement in running the business.
The committee is responsible for determining the remuneration, other benefits and terms of employment, including performance-related bonus schemes and share option schemes, for the executive directors and senior management.
The committee has access to external advisers as necessary and commissions independent reviews periodically of its remuneration policies and structures.
Remuneration policy The Remuneration Committee determines the remuneration of the executive directors after consulting with the Chairman and Chief Executive.
The committee reviews the performance of the individual concerned and takes account of comparative market data from other companies in the IT sector.
The Remuneration Committee believes that the executive directors should be rewarded fairly, competitively and at a similar level to directors in comparable companies and at a level that will attract, motivate and retain directors of an appropriate calibre who deliver value to shareholders.
The Groups policy is that a substantial proportion of the remuneration of the executive directors should be performance related.
Therefore, the remuneration of the executive directors is characterised by a lower base salary and greater weighting to performance related bonus than for comparative companies.
Further to input from the Companys shareholders the weighting attached to bonus has been reduced so that there is less disparity between salary and bonus.
The overall package, which will be reviewed on a regular basis, may contain any of the following elements: A base salary Performance-related bonus payments Other benefits Share-based incentives Basic salary Each executive directors basic salary is reviewed annually based on performance, achievement of objectives and comparative salaries and periodic reviews from the Companys remuneration advisers.
Bonus The Company operates a performance-related bonus scheme for executive directors.
Chris Aspinwall is entitled to a bonus based on the Groups operating profit excluding any items that the Remuneration Committee considers to be exceptional or inappropriate.
The terms of the bonus are reviewed if there is a material acquisition in any period.
The bonus is subject to an upper limit of four times base salary.
Andy Malpass is entitled to a bonus subject to performance against a series of financial and management objectives and also subject to the discretion of the Remuneration Committee.
The bonus is capped at not more than 150% of base salary.
Other benefits Benefits provided include the provision of medical insurance and life assurances.
No director currently participates in a Group pension scheme.
Annual Report and Accounts 2008 23 Service contracts The contracts of service for Chris Aspinwall and Andy Malpass are for an indefinite term providing for 12 months notice by either party.
These contracts were entered into on 2nd June 1997 and amended on 3rd October 2003.
In the event of termination the director is eligible to salary, benefits and bonus accrued during the notice period and payable in equal monthly instalments subject to the director using reasonable endeavours to obtain suitable alternative employment.
The contract of service for John Hamer was entered into on 2nd June 1997 and is for an indefinite term providing for six months notice by either party.
Philip Hardaker in February 2008 signed a new letter of appointment that provides for a further period of three years, subject to termination by either party on one months notice.
Ron Mackintosh signed a new letter of appointment during the 2007 financial year for a further term of three years also subject to termination by either party on one months notice.
Elizabeth Lake signed a letter of appointment in October 2008 providing for a term of three years, subject to termination by either party on one months notice.
Non-executive fees The Board determines the non-executive directors fees.
The non-executive directors are not involved in decisions about their own remuneration.
The Chairman and non-executive directors are not eligible for performance-related remuneration or participation in sharebased incentives.
Interests in contracts During the year no director had any interest in any contract of significance with the Company or its subsidiary undertakings other than the directors deeds of indemnity and the service contracts of the Chairman and the executive directors with the Company.
Total shareholder return performance graph The Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 require the presentation of a performance graph of total shareholder return compared to a broad equity market index for a period of five years.
The total shareholder return is the share price plus dividends reinvested over the period of the graph.
The Board believes that the TechMARK All-Share Index, of which Fidessa group plc is a constituent, provides the best benchmark for comparison.
The Company share price and the TechMARK All-Share Index are both set to 100 at the start of the five year period.
300 FDSA TechMark 250 200 300 150 250 100 200 50 150 Source: Fidessa 0 100 50 0 300 250 200 Fidessa 150 techMARK All Share 100 50 0 Pence Jan 04 Jul 04 Jan 05 Jul 05 Jan 06 Jul 06 Jan 07 Jul 07 Jan 08 Jul 08 Dec 08 Fidessa group plc 24 Directors remuneration report continued Audited information Directors remuneration Details of the remuneration of the directors are set out below Base fees & salaries Benefits Bonus Total Year ended 31st December 2008 000 000 000 000 Chairman John Hamer 135 1 136 Executive Chris Aspinwall 200 1 653 854 Andy Malpass 200 3 210 413 Non-executive Ron Mackintosh 45 45 Philip Hardaker 45 45 Elizabeth Lake 9 9 Total 634 5 863 1,502 Base fees & salaries Benefits Bonus Total Year ended 31st December 2007 000 000 000 000 Chairman John Hamer 120 1 121 Executive Chris Aspinwall 150 13 576 739 Andy Malpass 150 15 190 355 Non-executive Ron Mackintosh 40 40 Philip Hardaker 40 40 Total 500 29 766 1,295 Directors interests The interests of the directors and their families in the ordinary shares of the Company, all of which were beneficial, were as follows: 31st December 2008 31st December 2007 Number Number John Hamer 458,132 447,918 Chris Aspinwall 883,897 823,527 Andy Malpass 136,249 120,138 Ron Mackintosh 10,000 10,000 Philip Hardaker 2,000 2,000 Elizabeth Lake Nil N. A Between 31st December 2008 and the date of this report the interests of John Hamer, Chris Aspinwall and Andy Malpass have each increased by 19 shares as a result of a regular monthly purchase by the Fidessa group plc Share Incentive Plan.
Annual Report and Accounts 2008 25 Share incentives The Company has share option schemes whereby employees of the Group are able to subscribe for ordinary shares in the Company.
The executive directors participated in the share option schemes in previous years but are now restricted from the grant of share options by their participation in the Share Bonus Plan and the Exceptional Growth Rate Incentive Plan.
The interests of the directors in share options are as follows: Number at Exercised Number at Date 1st January during 31st December Option exercisable 2008 year 2008 price from Expiry date Andy Malpass 1,167 1,167 12.85 17.08.2003 17.08.2010 1,167 1,167 12.85 17.08.2004 17.08.2010 The interests of the directors in the Share Bonus Plan are as follows: Total interest in Number of shares conditionally Number of shares Total interest in the Share Bonus Plan awarded during the year to match called during the year the Share Bonus Plan at 1st January 2008 employee purchases of shares under the vesting of awards at 31st December 2008 Chris Aspinwall 10,145 7,050 6,112 11,083 Andy Malpass 9,685 6,397 0 16,082 The interests of the directors in the EGRIP are as follows: Total interest in the EGRIP Award made under the EGRIP Total interest in the EGRIP at 1st January 2007 during the year at 31st December 2007 Chris Aspinwall 89,500 25,000 114,500 Andy Malpass 89,500 25,000 114,500 The mid-market price of the shares in the Company at 31st December 2008 was 493p 830p at 31st December 2007 and the range in the year was 450p to 1,004p.
Share options Share options are granted on the recommendation of the Remuneration Committee on a discretionary basis.
The scheme is used to provide long-term incentives to the recipients to assist in creating and sustaining growth in share value.
The Company Performance Related Share Option Plan has expired and the CSOP as defined below is the current scheme.
Companys Performance Related Share Option Plan This plan was introduced in 1997 on the float of the Company.
The vesting of share options granted under this plan is conditional on continued employment of three and four years after the grant of the option.
These share options have been granted periodically, typically once each year to eligible employees until 2005.
The Company has shareholder approval under this plan for share options of up to 10% of the issued ordinary share capital subsequent to the listing on the London Stock Exchange, of which 5.8% has been used.
At 31st December 2008 the outstanding share options represented 3.1% of the issued share capital.
Company Share Option Plan 2006 the CSOP Shareholders approved the implementation of the CSOP at the Extraordinary General Meeting in February 2006 with over 89% of the votes cast voting in favour of the plan.
All employees and full time working directors of the Company or any subsidiary determined by the Board to be a participating company under the CSOP are eligible to receive options under the CSOP: however an employee or full time working director who has received an award under the Exceptional Growth Rate Incentive Plan or Share Bonus Plan in any financial year will be ineligible to receive a CSOP option in that financial year.
Share options granted under this plan are subject to performance conditions set by the Board taking into account the recommendation of the Remuneration Committee.
Under the rules of the CSOP the performance Fidessa group plc 26 Directors remuneration report continued conditions must be objective and must relate to the overall financial performance of the Company and its subsidiaries over a period of at least four years commencing on the date of grant or the first day of the accounting period current at the date of grant.
In relation to grants made under the CSOP, the performance conditions relate to diluted earnings per share EPS growth and will be achieved in relation to an option if the Actual Cumulative EPS during the Measurement Period is greater than the Target Cumulative EPS during the Measurement Period.
The Actual Cumulative EPS during the Measurement Period is the sum of the EPS for each financial year of the Measurement Period.
The Target Cumulative EPS during the Measurement Period is the sum of the EPS figures obtained by increasing the Base Year EPS at the rate of 5%.
per annum for each financial year of the Measurement Period.
EPS under the scheme means the diluted earnings per share of the Company for any financial year before exceptional items being such items which the grantor determines to be exceptional in relation to any financial year and shall be calculated by reference to the Group Annual Report and Financial Statements for the financial year ended immediately prior to the Date of Grant the Base Year EPS and those calculated from the four subsequent preliminary results announcements.
The Measurement Period is the period commencing at the beginning of the financial year in which an award is made and ending on the last day of the fourth consecutive financial year including the financial year in which that award was made.
The performance conditions can be waived or amended if the Board determines after consultation with the Remuneration Committee that a change of circumstances means that the performance conditions cannot be fairly and reasonably met.
The number of shares that may be the subject of options granted under the CSOP is limited such that no option to subscribe shares can be granted under the CSOP if the number of shares subject to the option when added to the number of shares issued on the exercise of or remaining capable of being issued on the exercise of options granted under the CSOP during the period of ten years ending on the proposed date of grant would exceed 8% of the issued share capital of the Company immediately prior to the proposed date of grant.
For the purpose of the 8% limit no account will be taken of rights to acquire shares which have been released, lapsed or otherwise become incapable of being exercised or of options or awards granted under any other Fidessa employee share scheme.
In addition, account will be taken of any shares which a trustee has a right to subscribe to satisfy options and of any treasury shares used, or to be used, to satisfy options or awards.
No awards were made during this financial year and at 31st December 2008 the used and outstanding share options under the CSOP represented 2.1% of the issued share capital.
The Remuneration Committee believes that the use of share options has been a material contributor to the growth and success of Fidessa.
Share bonus plan At the 2003 Annual General Meeting shareholders approved the creation of the Fidessa group plc Share Bonus Plan.
In summary, the plan allows the Company to make awards to executive directors and senior managers a participant.
An award provides that, should a participant purchase ordinary shares in the Company up to the value of their award, then they have the opportunity to receive a share bonus.
A share bonus constitutes the right, subject to certain vesting conditions, to call for free matching shares.
The maximum number of free matching shares comprised in a share bonus is equal to the number of shares purchased by the participant.
The maximum value of shares which any one participant is permitted to acquire is limited to the value of the award.
The plan rules limit the maximum value of individual awards to 100,000.
For all awards from the Share Bonus Plan a participants right to a share bonus will vest subject to and to the extent that a combination of four performance conditions are satisfied as follows: the Company achieving compound annual growth in earnings per share in excess of defined hurdles over a period of three financial years, commencing with the financial year in respect of which an award is made.
In relation to awards made in any financial year, the specified hurdle rates were: i if compound annual growth in EPS is equal to or greater than UK retail price index RPI plus 3% but less than RPI plus 4% then 6.25% of the Share Bonus shall vest: ii if compound annual growth in EPS is equal to or greater than UK RPI plus 4% but less than RPI plus 5% then 12.5% of the Share Bonus shall vest: iii if compound annual growth in EPS equal to or greater than UK RPI plus 5% but less than RPI plus 6% then 18.75% of the Share Bonus shall vest: iv if compound annual growth in EPS equal to or greater than UK RPI plus 6% then 25% of the Share Bonus shall vest: Annual Report and Accounts 2008 27 the Company achieving an objective business development target.
The nature of this target will not, necessarily, be a measure of the financial performance of the Company and will be determined by the Remuneration Committee from time to time.
If this condition is fully satisfied, then 25% of the Share Bonus will vest: the Company achieving compound annual growth in total shareholder return TSR, the share price plus the cumulative dividends over the period, in excess of defined hurdles over a period of three financial years commencing with the financial year in respect of which an award has been made.
In relation to awards made the specified hurdle rates have been: i if compound annual growth in TSR is more than 3% but less than or equal to 5% then 6.25% of the Share Bonus shall vest: ii if compound annual growth in TSR is more than 5% but less than or equal to 7% then 12.5% of the Share Bonus shall vest: iii if compound annual growth in TSR is more than 7% but less than or equal to 9% then 18.75% of the Share Bonus shall vest: iv if compound annual growth in TSR is more than 9% then 25% of the Share Bonus shall vest: and continued employment within the Group until the third anniversary of the date on which the participant purchased the shares relating to a particular award.
If this condition is satisfied, then 25% of the Share Bonus shall vest.
The final performance condition is an overriding performance condition.
Therefore, it must be satisfied in order for any of the other performance conditions to be satisfied.
The Remuneration Committee will set performance conditions in accordance with the structure set out above at the time awards are made to participants.
Performance conditions relating to awards made in relation to each subsequent financial year cannot be less challenging than those relating to the immediately preceding financial year.
In exceptional circumstances, where events occur which cause the Remuneration Committee to reasonably believe that some or all of the performance condition relating to an award are no longer fair taking into account the original purpose of the performance condition s, then the Remuneration Committee may procure that a recommendation be made to the trustee of the plan for the performance condition to be amended or waived in such manner as the Remuneration Committee believes to be fair and reasonable provided that the amended performance condition is not easier or more difficult to achieve than the original performance condition was considered to be when it was first set.
Where a change of control event occurs prior to the vesting of a share bonus, the Remuneration Committee shall procure that a recommendation is made to the trustee in relation to the extent to which a share bonus should vest on the occurrence of the change of control event.
The Remuneration Committee must make such recommendation taking into account the amount of progress made by the Company towards achieving the performance conditions as at the time of the change of control, the extent and likelihood of the performance conditions being satisfied by the date on which the share bonus would have vested in the absence of the change of control event occurring and any other relevant factors which the Remuneration Committee considers, in its absolute discretion, to be relevant such as time elapsed since an award was made.
The operation of the Share Bonus Plan has been reviewed during the year by the Remuneration Committee and the level of grants and the performance conditions attached to the plan are considered by the Remuneration Committee to be appropriate to the Companys current situation and in line with the remuneration policy recommended by the Companys external independent remuneration advisers.
Exceptional Growth Rate Incentive Plan In 2005 the Remuneration Committee and its external advisers reviewed the Companys share incentive schemes as a whole and as a result they formulated the Exceptional Growth Rate Incentive Plan the EGRIP which was voted on by the shareholders at the Extraordinary General Meeting of the Company in February 2006 with over 88% of the votes cast approving the adoption of the plan.
All executive directors of the Company are eligible to receive awards under the EGRIP as are any employees of the Group selected by the Remuneration Committee.
However, an executive director or selected employee who has received an award under the CSOP in any financial year will be ineligible to receive an EGRIP award in that financial year.
An EGRIP award Award or Awards represents a right to acquire i. e. call for shares in the Company at the call price subject to the terms and conditions of the EGRIP.
Awards may be made by the Board or the trustee of an employee benefit trust if the Company has established one at the relevant time.
It is the current intention that all Awards will be made by the Board.
In either case Awards may be made to individuals selected at the relevant grantors absolute discretion, but after consultation with the Remuneration Committee.
No consideration is payable for the making of an Award.
Under the rules of the EGRIP, Awards may only be made in relation to the financial years ending 31st December 2006, 2007, 2008, 2009 and 2010.
Awards may only be made prior to 31st December 2010 during the following periods i within 42 days of the plan or any amendment to the plan being approved by shareholders, ii within 42 days of the announcement by the Company Fidessa group plc 28 Directors remuneration report continued of its final or interim results, iii within 42 days of the commencement of an eligible employees employment within the Group and iv within 42 days of an event relating to or affecting the Group that the grantor considers to be exceptional.
If for any reason the grantor is restricted from making Awards during these periods, then it may make Awards within 42 days of such restriction being removed.
A call in relation to all Awards will be subject to the achievement of the following performance conditions: Share price target The first performance condition requires the average Company share price plus dividends reinvested over the five year period commencing on the date on which an Award is made calculated using the daily closing price on each trading day over the five years to be greater than the average derived if the share price were to increase on a uniform basis of 20% per annum compound growth over the same five year period.
The starting share price is the average share price plus dividends reinvested for the 12 months prior to the date on which the Award is made.
EPS target The second performance condition requires the Companys cumulative diluted earnings per share before any items which are deemed to be exceptional EPS over the five financial years commencing with the financial year in which an Award is made to be greater than the equivalent total achieved over a five year period by applying a growth rate of 10% per annum to the EPS achieved in the year prior to the Award.
TSR sector-relative underpinning The third performance condition requires the Companys annualised total shareholder return TSR over the five year period commencing on an Award date to be greater than the annualised equivalent achieved by the FTSE techMARK All-Share Index TSR, during the same five year period, plus 5%.
Each Award is personal to the participant and may not be transferred, assigned or charged and shall become immediately void on the bankruptcy of the participant.
Call price The call price per share subject to an Award is the nominal value of a share or such higher price as set by the grantor.
In the Awards made during the current financial year the call price of a share is the nominal value of a share, i. e. 10 pence and it is anticipated that the call price will be the same under future Awards.
Plan limits The maximum number of shares subject to Awards made to any one participant in a financial year will be limited to 15% of the maximum share allocation for that year.
The maximum share allocation being the maximum number of shares in relation to which Awards may be made for each financial year will be: Year ended Maximum Allocation Awards made 31st December 2006 1.6% of the total issued share capital of the Company 523,512 31st December 2007 1.4% of the total issued share capital of the Company 483,940 31st December 2008 1.2% of the total issued share capital of the Company 415,400 31st December 2009 1.0% of the total issued share capital of the Company N A 31st December 2010 0.8% of the total issued share capital of the Company N A The maximum share allocation in relation to each financial year will be adjusted, at the absolute discretion of the Remuneration Committee, to reflect any variation in the total issued share capital of the Company for example, any capitalisation issue or offer by way of rights including an open offer or upon any subdivision, reduction or consolidation of the Companys share capital which occurs.
For the purposes of calculating the usage of the maximum share allocation in relation to any financial year, the following shall be included: Annual Report and Accounts 2008 29 Shares subject to Awards made in relation to that financial year whether they subsist, have been released, have lapsed or are otherwise incapable of exercise: shares which the trustee of any Company employee benefit trust has a right to subscribe in order to satisfy Awards made in relation to that financial year: and treasury shares used, or to be used, to satisfy Awards made in relation to that financial year.
Vesting and calls under Awards Shares subject to Awards may only be called for if Awards have vested.
The vesting of Awards will be subject to the related performance conditions having been achieved.
Where the performance conditions relating to Awards have been satisfied, Awards will vest with effect from the date on which participants are notified of this.
Where the performance conditions relating to Awards have not been satisfied, subsisting Awards will lapse on the fifth anniversary of the date on which the Award is made.
Other than under the US Sub-Plan and in other limited circumstances a call in relation to an Award may only be made in the period of 90 days commencing on the date on which the Award vests.
Under the US Sub-Plan a participants call in respect of a vested Award shall be deemed to occur i if the last day of the Measurement Period with respect to an Award occurs from January 1 to June 30 of a given calendar year, at the time within the last six months of the calendar year in which the last day of the Measurement Period occurs: and ii if the last day of the Measurement Period with respect to an Award occurs from 1st July to 31st December of a given calendar year, at the time within the first six months of the calendar year following the calendar year in which the last day of such Measurement Period occurs, in each case as determined by the Remuneration Committee and consistent with the rules of the scheme.
This change was made to the US Sub-Plan during the year in order to comply with US Treasury Regulation Section 1.409A.
Calls will be conditional upon payment of the call price and payment of or entering into arrangements relating to the payment of any tax and relevant social security liability including, to the extent permitted by law, employers social security liability relating to the call or related acquisition of shares.
Cessation of employment If a participant ceases to be an employee of the Group prior to the end of the period over which the performance conditions are measured in relation to any of his subsisting Awards, those Awards will lapse upon such cessation.
However, where a participant ceases to be an employee after the end of the period over which the performance conditions are measured in relation to any of his subsisting Awards, those Awards will not lapse and will continue to subsist under the terms and conditions of the EGRIP.
Change of control If a change of control of the Company occurs including a takeover, scheme of arrangement or voluntary winding-up of the Company subsisting unvested Awards will become vested subject to the satisfaction of modified performance conditions which take into account the period of time which has elapsed since the relevant date of Award and the Companys performance up to the time of the change of control.
The extent to which Awards vest will be pro-rated to reflect the time that has elapsed from the date of the Award to the date on which a change of control event occurs.
All vested Awards will become exercisable within specified periods of time following the relevant change of control event.
Variation of share capital In the event of any variation in the share capital of the Company including by way of rights issue, capitalisation, reduction, sub-division or consolidation, the number of shares which may be allotted or transferred to a participant pursuant to the EGRIP and the call price shall be adjusted in such manner as the Companys auditors shall in their opinion consider to be fair and reasonable.
Rights attaching to shares All shares allotted to a call in relation to an Award will rank pari passu with fully paid up shares for the time being in issue save as regards any rights attaching to such shares by reference to a record date before the date on which a call notice is received and application will be made for such shares to be admitted to the Official List of the UK Listing Authority and to trading on the London Stock Exchanges main market for listed securities.
Fidessa group plc 30 Directors remuneration report continued Amendment, assignability and termination The Board may make amendments to the EGRIP rules, but certain amendments to the advantage of existing or new participants cannot be made without the prior approval of shareholders in general meeting unless the alteration is, in the opinion of the Board, minor and to benefit the administration of the EGRIP or to take account of a change in legislation or to obtain or maintain favourable tax, exchange control or regulatory treatment for existing or new participants or any member of the Group.
The Board can, at any time, terminate the EGRIP so that no further Awards are made but any subsisting Awards made before such termination shall not be affected.
International The Board may adopt sub-plans to the EGRIP for the purposes of making Awards to employees in a particular jurisdiction.
The EGRIP rules may be varied in such manner as the Board believes is necessary or desirable in relation to such sub-plan in order to comply with or take account of relevant overseas legal, taxation or securities laws provided that such variation is in accordance with provisions set out under the sub-heading Amendment, assignability and termination, above.
Approval This report was approved by the Board on 13th February 2009 and signed on its behalf by: Susanna Freeman Secretary 13th February 2009
