Report of the Directors Directors remuneration report This report has been prepared in accordance The Committee met four times during the group with variable additional remuneration with the Directors Remuneration Report year and all members attended each meeting to reflect outstanding performance.
It also held whilst they were Directors except for meets the requirements of the Listing Rules John Sievwright who was absent from one The peer comparator group comprised a of the Financial Services Authority and of these meetings.
sample of smaller FTSE 100 companies and describes how the Board has applied the an additional sample of FTSE 250 companies main supporting principles of the Combined Remuneration policy of similar size to the Company from the Code on Corporate Governance issued by Aim transport and other sectors.
the Financial Reporting Council in 2006 the The aim of the Committee is to design Code relating to Directors remuneration.
remuneration packages for the Companys Following the review certain adjustments The Company complies with all of the Executives which attract, retain and motivate were made to the base salaries of the provisions of the Code.
A resolution to the high calibre individuals necessary to Executive Directors to bring them into line approve this report will be proposed at the maintain the Groups position as a leader in with those of the peer group and the Companys Annual General Meeting to be the public transportation industry.
In adjustments are reflected in the Executive held on 10 July 2008. implementing its policy, the Committee has Directors remuneration for the year set out given full consideration to the Principles of on page 40.
In particular, the Committee felt The Regulations require the Companys Good Governance of the Code with regard to that the base salary of the Chief Executive auditors to report to the Companys Directors remuneration.
had fallen significantly behind those holding shareholders on the auditable part of the equivalent positions in the peer group.
Directors Remuneration Report and to state Structure of remuneration packages whether in their opinion that part of the report There are currently four main elements to the In addition the review concluded that there has been properly prepared in accordance executive remuneration package: was a requirement to extend the incentive with the Companies Act 1985 as amended nature of the total executive remuneration by the Regulations.
This report has therefore basic salary and benefits in kind: package in order to further align such been divided into separate sections for remuneration with the interests of audited and unaudited information.
annual cash and deferred share bonus shareholders and detailed proposals in both paid under the Executive Annual respect of a Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP Unaudited information Bonus Plan : are contained in the notice of Annual General Remuneration Committee Meeting for the consideration and approval of The Remuneration Committee is chaired by share options: and shareholders at the forthcoming Annual Jim Forbes.
The other current members of General Meeting.
The Companys major the Committee are David Begg, David Dunn, pension provision.
shareholders have been consulted in relation John Sievwright and Audrey Baxter.
The to the proposals in respect of the LTIP.
Board considers each of the members of the In 2007 the Committee decided to undertake Committee to be independent in accordance a special review of executive remuneration The Committee considers the remuneration with the Code.
None of the members of the in order to reflect the increased scope of package as a whole, balancing each of the Committee has any personal financial interest responsibilities of the Executive Directors in individual elements to ensure that overall, the other than as a shareholder in the matters to the acquisition of Laidlaw International, Inc. remuneration received by each Executive be decided, conflict of interest arising from and the impending entry of the Group to the Director is competitive but not excessive, cross-directorships or any involvement in the FTSE 100.
The Committee wished to ensure contains an appropriate balance between day-to-day running of the business.
that whilst the executive remuneration fixed and variable performance-related remained competitive they also wished to remuneration and that each Executive The remit of the Committee was adopted in ensure that the total remuneration packages Director will have sufficient long-term March 2004 in the light of the revisions to the of Executive Directors were in line with the incentive to ensure that his interests are Code and its terms of reference are available aims of the Company and its shareholders.
aligned with those of shareholders.
A high on request and are also published on the The Committee appointed MCG Consulting proportion of each Directors potential Companys website.
These terms of reference part of the DLA Piper law group to provide remuneration is performance-related.
will be kept under review to take into account advice as part of that review.
The review any changes to the Code and corporate process involved consideration of publicly governance practice.
The principal purpose available information, including the of the Committee is to consider matters remuneration packages of those holding related to the remuneration of the Executive equivalent posts at the Companys peers Directors and senior management below within the transport industry and other Board level.
companies of comparable market capitalisation.
The Committees objective was to propose payment of base salaries for the Executive Directors at the median of the peer FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2008 37 Directors remuneration report continued The remuneration of the Executive Directors or ill-health.
The Committee considers it is The incentive to be provided by the proposed is made up of the following components: appropriate for a proportion of the annual LTIP referred to above will effectively replace bonus to be taken in the form of deferred the incentive previously provided by the ESOS.
Basic salary and benefits in kind shares as this acts as a retention mechanism The basic salary and benefits in kind for and also aligns that Executives longer-term Save As You Earn SAYE Scheme each Executive Director are determined by interests with those of the Companys The Company operated a SAYE Scheme the Committee for each financial year and shareholders.
for eligible employees during the year under when an individual changes position or review under which options may be granted responsibility.
In determining appropriate As the award of any bonus is already on an annual basis at a discount of up to levels, the Committee considers the Group dependent on the achievement of stringent 20% of market value.
As with the previous as a whole and also the packages received targets, the Committee considers that it is not scheme the Executive Directors are eligible by similar individuals at the Companys peers appropriate to attach further performance to participate in the current scheme.
in the public transport sector and other conditions on vesting of the deferred share companies of comparable market element of any bonus other than that the Buy As You Earn BAYE Scheme capitalisation.
Details of the salaries and relevant Executive remains employed by the The Company operates a Share Incentive benefits in kind received by each of the Group and has not tendered his resignation Plan under the title Buy As You Earn.
The Executive Directors in the year are shown at the end of the deferral period.
scheme, which is open to all UK employees on page 40. of the Group enables employees including The level of bonus payable to Executive the Executive Directors to purchase Executive Annual Bonus Plan Directors in the year to 31 March 2008 was partnership shares from their gross income The Group operates a discretionary 93.5% of basic salary in the case of the Chief before income tax and National Insurance performance-related bonus plan for its Executive, 90% in the case of the Chief deductions.
The Company provides two senior management under which payment Operating Officer, North America, 90% matching shares for every three partnership of bonuses is linked to achievement of in the case of the Director of International shares, subject to a maximum Company budgeted annual Group operating profit Development and 95% in the case of the contribution of shares to the value of 20 targets and personal objectives including Commercial Director.
The shares are held in trust for safety targets.
Where an Executive Director Executive and the other Executive Directors up to five years, in which case, no income is also directly responsible for one or more would receive 75% of their bonus in cash tax or National Insurance will be payable.
operating division s, payment of a proportion and the remaining 25% in the form of The matching shares will be forfeited if the of the bonus is also linked to the profitability deferred shares.
corresponding partnership shares are removed of those divisions.
The Committee considers from trust within three years from award.
and agrees the Group and divisional For all Executive Directors, up to 25% objectives for all Executive Directors and the of any bonus award will be payable in shares.
Special Share Award personal objectives for the Chief Executive.
The deferral period for these shares was In 2006 the Company declared a special The Chief Executive, in consultation with the previously five years in order to provide a bonus of deferred nil-cost options over Committee, agrees the personal objectives long-term lock-in and to further align the 200,000 ordinary shares in the capital of for the other Executive Directors.
Executive Directors interests with those of the Company in favour of Dean Finch.
The same deferral period also Each year, the Board sets challenging applied to senior management within the These options will vest on 31 March 2011 but budget targets for the Group as a whole Group.
The review of remuneration referred only to the extent that certain performance and for each business unit within the Group.
to above concluded that the deferral period criteria are satisfied based on targets relating The Committees policy continues to for awards made in 2008 and thereafter be to the profitability of First Greater Western be that bonuses will be payable for Group reduced to three years to reflect current Limited and the EPS growth of the Company performance against budget of between practice among the peer comparator group over a five-year performance period which 90% and 110% although the level of and to align it with the proposed LTIP referred commenced on 1 April 2006. bonus payable is heavily skewed towards to above.
performance in excess of 100% of budget.
Retirement benefits 70% of any bonus payable is dependent Share Schemes Executive Directors are members of a number upon Group performance and the balance Executive Share Option Scheme of defined benefit Group pension schemes.
upon the achievement of safety objectives up The Company operated an Executive Share Their dependants are eligible for dependants to 20% and personal objectives up to 10%.
Option Scheme ESOS up to June 2004 pensions and the payment of a lump sum in for Executive Directors and other senior the event of death in service.
Further details Bonus payments comprise a mixture of cash management.
In common with other larger are set out on page 40. and deferred share awards.
Share awards companies no further awards were granted will lapse if the relevant individual leaves the under the ESOS after 2004 and the Group during the deferral period for any Remuneration Committee has no present reason other than redundancy, retirement intention of granting any further awards.
38 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Report of the Directors Service contracts Details of the fees paid to Non-Executive Total shareholder return It is the Companys policy to restrict notice Directors are set out on page 40.
The following graph shows, for the last five periods for Executive Directors to a maximum financial years of the Company, the total of 12 months.
In line with this policy, all of the Non-Executive Directors, other than the shareholder return on a holding of shares in Executive Directors have service contracts Group Employee Director, cannot participate the Company as against that of a with an undefined term but which provide for in any of the Companys share option hypothetical holding of shares made up of a notice period of 12 months.
schemes or the proposed LTIP and are not shares of the same kinds and number as eligible to join a Company pension scheme.
those by reference to which the The contracts contain a provision, exercisable Each of the Non-Executive Directors other FTSE 100 Index and the FTSE All-Share at the discretion of the Company, to pay an than David Dunn, who, with effect from Transport Index are calculated.
amount in lieu of notice on early termination January 2006 elected to receive all of his of the contract.
Such payments are limited to fees in cash and Audrey Baxter, who receives This graph is included to meet the relevant basic salary plus certain benefits but would all of her fees in the form of shares in the legislative requirements and is not directly not include entitlement to bonus or share Company has elected to receive 40% of his relevant to the performance criteria used options.
There are no contractual provisions fees in the form of shares in the Company for the Companys Executive Share Option governing payment of compensation on early in the case of Martyn Williams, with effect Scheme.
Nonetheless, the indices used termination of the contracts.
If it becomes from January 2006 in order to ensure that were selected as the Company believes necessary to consider early termination of their interests are more closely aligned to that they are the most appropriate and a service contract, the Company will have those of the Companys shareholders.
The representative indices against which to regard to all the circumstances of the case, shares are purchased on a monthly basis in measure the Companys performance for including mitigation, when determining any the market.
The appointment of each of the this purpose.
Details of the Non-Executive Directors is subject to early Executive Directors contracts are set termination without compensation if he she is out below: not re-appointed at a meeting of shareholders where he she is up for re-election.
Date of service contract Moir Lockhead 5 March 2001 Total shareholder return Dean Finch 26 February 2004 David Leeder 3 September 2001 350 Sidney Barrie 31 August 2005 300 Where Board approval is given for an Executive Director to accept an outside 250 non-executive directorship, unless the appointment is in connection with Group 200 business, the individual Director is entitled to retain any fees received.
150 Non-Executive Directors All Non-Executive Directors have a letter of 100 appointment and their fees are determined by the Board based on surveys of fees paid 50 to non-executive directors of comparable 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March companies.
These letters of appointment are 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 available for inspection at the Companys Source: Datastream registered office during normal business FirstGroup plc Total shareholder return hours and will be made available at the Annual General Meeting.
FTSE All-Share Transport Index Total shareholder return During 2007 the Board, excluding the NonExecutive Directors, undertook a review FTSE 100 Index Total shareholder return of the level of fees paid to non-executive directors and requested assistance from MCG Consulting referred to above in the review process.
That review concluded that such fees should be increased, based upon the level of fees paid to non-executive directors of companies of comparable market capitalisation.
FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2008 39 Directors remuneration report continued Audited information Market price of FirstGroup plc shares The market price of FirstGroup plc shares at 31 March 2008 was 563.50p and the range during the year was 496.75p to 815p.
Directors remuneration Details of the Directors remuneration for the year ended 31 March 2008 are set out on the following pages.
Emoluments and compensation The total salaries, fees and benefits paid to, or receivable by, each person who served as a Director of the Company at any time during the year for the period of such directorship are shown in the table below.
These include any and all payments for services as a Director of the Company, its subsidiaries or otherwise in connection with the management of the Group.
2 The Directors received the following non-cash benefits in the year: Moir Lockhead: 24,000 company car, 5,000 private fuel and 1,000 medical insurance for himself and spouse: Dean Finch: 14,000 company car, 5,000 private fuel and 1,000 medical insurance for himself and family: David Leeder: 13,000 company car, 5,000 private fuel and 1,000 medical insurance for himself: Sidney Barrie: 10,000 car allowance and 1,000 medical insurance for himself and spouse.
Retirement benefits Details of the retirement benefits for each of the Directors are set out in the table below: Moir Dean David Sidney Lockhead Finch Leeder Barrie 1 2 2 2 Scheme 3 Normal retirement age 65 60 60 60 Directors contributions during the year 36,213 14,100 14,100 16,290 Increase in accrued pensions during the year net of inflation pa 51,368 2,666 2,675 2,699 Increase in accrued pension during the year pa 62,708 3,555 3,397 2,995 Accrued pension as at 31 March 2008 pa 287,920 22,560 18,330 7,520 Transfer value of increase in accrued pension net of inflation during the year 963,095 16,526 16,632 45,656 Transfer value of accrued pension at 31 March 2007 4,192,178 142,698 112,839 73,377 Transfer value of accrued pension at 31 March 2008 5,359,466 139,824 113,962 127,215 Increase decrease in transfer value over the year, net of Directors contributions pa 1,131,075 16,974 12,977 37,548 1 Aberdeen City Council No.
3 Normal retirement age under relevant scheme is 65 but benefits can be taken without reduction at 60 so transfer values for the purpose of this table have been calculated assuming immediate retirement.
Guaranteed Minimum Pensions have been ignored for the purpose of the transfer value calculations.
The Group does not have one pension scheme but instead operates a number of different schemes.
All of the schemes in which the Executive Directors participate are defined benefit schemes and are not limited in membership to Executive Directors.
40 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Report of the Directors Directors share options The outstanding share options under the ESOS, deferred share bonus and SAYE Scheme granted to each of the serving Directors are set out in the table below.
No price was paid for the award of any option.
There have been no changes to the terms and conditions of any option awarded to Directors.
At beginning Lapsed of year or Granted Exercised waived date of during during during At end appointment the year the year the year of year Exercise Date from number of number of number of number of number of price which Expiry Directors Scheme shares shares shares shares shares pence exercisable date Moir Lockhead ESOS: 2001 130,985 130,985 346.5 15.8.
11 31.07.11 1 The figures shown represent the number of nil-cost options which were granted under the deferred share element of the Executive Annual Bonus Plan in respect of the 2003 04, 2004 05, 2005 06 and 2006 07 financial years.
The cash values of the 2007 08 award are Moir Lockhead: 135,575, Sidney Barrie: 65,313, Dean Finch: 76,980 and David Leeder: 65,753.
These awards will take the form of nil-cost options over shares which will, subject to satisfaction of the requirements of the plan, vest on 1 April 2011.
The number of shares under option will depend on the market price of shares at the close of business on 14 May 2008.
The closing price on the date of exercise was 808.5p.
The closing price on the date of exercise was 680.5p.
This report was approved by the Board of Directors, on the recommendation of the Remuneration Committee, on 8 May 2008 and signed on its behalf by James Forbes Chairman of the Remuneration Committee FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2008 41
