Directors Remuneration Report This report has been prepared in accordance with the performance and fairly rewarded for their Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002.
It individual contribution to the success of the also meets the relevant requirements of the Rules of Company: the UK Listing Authority and describes how the Board b to consider all elements of the remuneration has applied the Principles of Good Governance package i. e. base pay, short and long-term relating to Directors remuneration.
As required by the incentives, pension arrangements and Regulations, a resolution to receive and consider the termination provisions: report will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting c to review in general terms the remuneration of the Company at which the accounts will be packages for employees directly below Board approved.
level: d to ensure compliance with all relevant legal The members of the Remuneration Committee during requirements and take account of the provisions the year were: of the Combined Code and the UK Listing Rules: e to report formally to the Board as necessary on Struan Robertson Non-Executive Director its proceedings: and Chairman f to produce an annual report on the Companys Gerry Brown Non-Executive Director remuneration policy which forms part of the David Richardson Non-Executive Director Companys Annual Report to the shareholders at James Tuckey Non-Executive Director the Annual General Meeting.
The Group Chief Executive is in attendance at the During the year the Remuneration Committee Remuneration Committee meetings.
received advice from Watson Wyatt and Towers Perrin.
Watson Wyatt, an independent firm of The Group Company Secretary acts as Secretary Remuneration Consultants, provided advice in to the Committee.
relation to the 2002 Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP and calculated Total Shareholder Return TSR for Members of the Remuneration Committee serve for the Company in terms of the 2002 LTIP.
Towers Perrin, an initial period of up to three years with the option to an independent firm of Remuneration Consultants, extend for a further three years with, in exceptional were appointed by the Remuneration Committee to 58 circumstances, up to a further three years.
provide advice in relation to Executive and Senior Management remuneration and the 2006 LTIP.
During the year there were four meetings of the Committee.
Neither Watson Wyatt nor Towers Perrin has any other connection with the Company.
The Terms of Reference of the Committee may be summarised as follows: The Group Chief Executive and the Group Company Secretary take no part in determining their own a to determine and agree with the Board the policy remuneration.
for, and set, the remuneration of the Executive Directors and the Chairman.
In determining the The Non-Executive Directors fees are determined by policy the Committee should take into account all the Chairman in consultation with Executive factors it deems necessary with the objective of Directors.
ensuring that the Executive Directors are appropriately incentivised to encourage enhanced
