30 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS CONTINUED For the year ended 31 December 2008 4 Significant business acquisitions, disposals and developments continued In June 2008, the business and assets of Emirates International Security Services EST were acquired in the UAE.
In June 2008, G4S Sicherheitsdientse GmbH and G4S Alarm Solution GmbH were disposed of in Germany.
In July 2008, Progard Securitas d. o. o. was acquired in Serbia.
In July 2008, G4S Telesurveillance SAS and G4S Technologie SAS were disposed of in France.
In July 2008, MJM Investigations Australia Pty Limited was acquired in Australia.
In August 2008, Ahead Security Services Pty Ltd and Ferdi Fonics Pty Ltd t a Coastal Security were acquired in South Africa.
In August 2008, Filotto Falco Security Pty Limited was acquired in Botswana.
In October 2008, the business and assets of Coastal Security Services CC and Master Security Systems CC were acquired in Namibia.
In October 2008, Quantico Limited was acquired in Thailand.
In October 2008, Wackenhut Valores SA was disposed of in Guatemala.
In November 2008, the business and assets of Checkpoint Systems Israel Limited were acquired in Israel.
In November 2008, the business and assets of Armored Express Services, Inc. were acquired in Guam.
In December 2008, Secpoint Limited was acquired in Ghana.
In December 2008, a further 9.9% of Aktsiaselts G4S Baltics was acquired, bringing G4Ss total holding in this company to 99.9%.
In December 2008, CL Systems China Limited was acquired in China.
In January 2009, Wackenhut Valores SA was disposed of in Panama.
In January 2009, Gottschalk Feuerschutzanlagen GmbH & Co. KG was disposed of in Germany.
In February 2009, Secura Monde International Limited and Shiremoor International Engineering Limited were acquired in the UK.
In February 2009, G4S disposed of G4S Holdings France SAS, the holding company for the groups French security services businesses.
5 Capital The authorised and issued share capital of G4S plc at 31 December 2008 is set out on page 94 note 37 to the consolidated financial statements.
Information concerning the companys shares held under option is set out on page 94 note 37 to the consolidated financial statements.
Resolutions granting the directors power, subject to certain conditions, to allot and make market purchases of the companys shares will be proposed at the companys Annual General Meeting.
The resolutions are set out in the Notice of Meeting on pages 112 and 113 and further explanation is provided on pages 115 and 116.
The company does not hold any treasury shares as such.
However the 5,832,653 shares held within the G4S Employee Benefit Trust the Trust and referred to on page 95 note 38 to the consolidated financial statement are accounted for as treasury shares.
The Trust has waived its right to receive dividends in respect of the companys shares which it held during the period under review.
G4S plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2008 31 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS CONTINUED For the year ended 31 December 2008 6 Research and development expenditure Research in connection with the development of new services and products and the improvement of those currently provided by the group is carried out continuously.
Research and development written off to profit and loss during the year amounted to 3.5m 2007: 2.1m.
7 Payment of suppliers It is the companys and the groups policy to pay suppliers in accordance with the payment terms negotiated with them.
Thus, prompt payment is normally made to those suppliers meeting their obligations.
The company and the group do not follow any formal code or standard on payment practice.
At 31 December 2008 the trade creditors of the company represented 26 days 2007: 23 days of annual purchases.
At 31 December 2008 the consolidated trade creditors of the group represented 50 days 2007: 50 days of annual purchases.
8 Employees In 2008 the company signed an Ethical Employment Partnership with UNI, the global union, which sets out how the organisations will work together to raise employment standards in the group and the wider industry.
This landmark agreement provides further evidence of the groups commitment to engaging and involving employees and their representatives in the business, and helps to ensure that the group maintains its position as a leading global employer.
At a local level, group companies continue to use a range of mechanisms to ensure employees are involved in the business and their views are sought and considered as appropriate in the local culture and context, for example by using joint project teams or suggestions schemes to address specific business issues, or establishing employee forums and dialogue with local unions to discuss matters directly affecting employees.
The company remains committed to its Diversity & Inclusion policy and in 2008 the group appointed a Head of Talent & Diversity with responsibility for developing and implementing a cohesive approach to diversity and inclusion across its businesses around the world.
This policy is designed to ensure that the group continues to develop fair employment practices and creates a diverse workforce which is truly representative of all sections of society.
The group strives to create an environment in which differences can be acknowledged, respected, and valued so that all may realise their full potential and the talents and resources of the workforce are utilised fully to enable it to provide the best service to its customers globally.
This ensures that the group supports and develops employees regardless of any disability, and the company is proud to maintain an excellent record as a fair and inclusive employer.
Further details of the groups approach to employee engagement, social dialogue and diversity are included on pages 24 and 25 of this report and in the groups separate Corporate Responsibility Report.
9 Political and charitable contributions The group remains committed to the support of charities, the community, job creation and training.
Charitable contributions by the group during the year amounted to 313,000 2007: 311,000.
There were no political contributions requiring disclosure under the Companies Acts.
10 Substantial holdings The directors have been notified of the following substantial shareholdings at 31 March 2009 in the ordinary capital of G4S plc: Skagen Stichting Administratiekantoor 171,939,961 12.2% Legal & General Group Plc 51,880,641 3.68% 11 Auditor A resolution to re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc, chartered accountants, as auditor to the company and for their remuneration to be fixed by the directors will be submitted to the companys Annual General Meeting.
32 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS CONTINUED For the year ended 31 December 2008 12 Directors The directors, biographical details of whom are contained on page 27, held office throughout the year.
Sir Malcolm Williamson retired from the board on 30 May 2008.
The directors retiring by rotation are Trevor Dighton, Thorleif Krarup and Mark Seligman who, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
The board believes that they possess experience and expertise relevant to the companys operations, that they continue to be effective, that they are committed to the success of the company and that they should be re-elected at the companys Annual General Meeting.
Of those directors proposed for re-election, Messrs Krarup and Seligman do not have contracts of service and Mr Dightons contract of service has no unexpired term since it is not for a fixed term.
The contracts of service of the executive directors are terminable on 12 months notice.
None of the non-executive directors has a contract of service.
The company has executed deeds of indemnity for the benefit of each of the directors in respect of liabilities which may attach to them in their capacity as directors of the company.
These deeds are qualifying third party indemnity provisions as defined by S. 234 of the Companies Act 2006 and have been in effect since 3 November 2006.
A copy of the form of indemnity is available on the companys website.
In addition, indemnities have been granted by the company in favour of certain of the directors of certain of the groups subsidiaries in Germany.
The company has maintained a directors and officers liability insurance policy throughout the year under review.
Details of directors interests including their familys interests in the share capital of G4S plc and of the directors remuneration are set out on pages 36 to 43.
The directors who held office at the date of approval of this directors report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the companys auditor is unaware and each director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a director to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the companys auditor is aware of that information.
Each of the directors who held office at the date of approval of this directors report, further confirms that, to the best of his knowledge: the financial statements in this annual report have been prepared in accordance with the applicable accounting standards and give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the company and the group taken as whole: and this directors report, including the Operating and Financial Review on pages 8 to 25, includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the company and the group taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
None of the directors had a material interest in any contract significant to the business of the group during the financial year.
By order of the board Peter David The Manor Secretary Manor Royal 31 March 2009 Crawley West Sussex RH10 9UN G4S plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2008 33 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT The boards statement on the companys corporate governance performance is based on the Combined Code on Corporate Governance published in June 2006 the Combined Code.
The Combined Code requires companies to disclose how they apply the codes principles, and to confirm that they comply with the codes provisions or, where they do not comply, to provide an explanation.
a Application of Combined Code principles The board comprises the non-executive chairman Alf Duch-Pedersen, a non-executive deputy chairman Lord Condon, five other non-executive directors, the chief executive Nick Buckles, the chief financial officer Trevor Dighton and the chief operating officer Grahame Gibson.
The board considers all the non-executive directors to be independent.
The senior independent director is Lord Condon.
All continuing directors are subject to election by shareholders at the next Annual General Meeting following their appointment and will submit themselves for re-election at least every three years.
Membership of the three board committees is as follows: Audit Committee Thorleif Krarup chairman Bo Lerenius Mark Seligman Remuneration Committee Lord Condon chairman Mark Elliott Bo Lerenius Mark Seligman Nomination Committee Alf Duch-Pedersen chairman Lord Condon Mark Elliott joined May 2008 Sir Malcolm Williamson left the Audit and Nomination Committees when he retired from the board on 30 May 2008.
Mr Elliott joined the Nomination Committee on 30 May 2008.
Mr Seligman is the member of the Audit Committee with recent and relevant financial experience.
As previously announced, it is intended that Mr Seligman will become chairman of the Audit Committee following the companys Annual General Meeting in 2009.
Mr Krarup will remain a member of that committee.
The terms of reference of each of the above committees are available on the companys website.
It is intended that the chairmen of the three committees will be available to answer questions at the Annual General Meeting which is an important opportunity for communication between the board and shareholders, particularly private shareholders.
Following each resolution at the Annual General Meeting, the meeting is informed of the numbers of proxy votes cast and the same information is subsequently published on the companys website.
There were nine regularly scheduled board meetings during the year ended 31 December 2008.
Two additional meetings were called at short notice to consider specific transactions.
One of the meetings was also an extended board and strategy session, at which presentations on implementation of the companys strategy were made to the board by senior executives.
Another of the board meetings was held in Romania to enable the board to have greater inter-action with one of the groups rapidly developing businesses.
All members attended each of the board meetings except that Mark Elliott was absent from two of the regularly scheduled meetings and Grahame Gibson, Thorlief Krarup and Sir Malcolm Williamson were each unable to attend one of the meetings called at short notice.
At each meeting, the board receives reports from the chief executive, the chief financial officer and the company secretary, an HR report which includes summaries of developments on HR matters and an investor relations report which includes analysts reviews and any comments received from major shareholders since the previous board meeting.
After meetings of the board committees, the respective committee chairmen report to the board on the matters considered by each committee.
In addition, the board receives monthly management accounts.
There are nine board meetings scheduled for the current year, including an extended, two-day, strategy review session.
34 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT CONTINUED a Application of Combined Code principles continued There is a detailed schedule of matters reserved to the board which are set out under five separate categories: 1 Board and management: 2 Operations: 3 Finance: 4 Business control: and 5 Secretarial.
By way of example, board approval is required for a acquisitions, disposals, investments and capital projects exceeding 4m: b any changes to the groups business strategy: and c the annual trading, capital expenditure and cash flow budgets.
Each of the directors has disclosed to the board any situations which apply to them as a result of which they have or may have an interest which conflicts or may conflict with the interests of the company.
In accordance with the companys articles of association as amended in accordance with a resolution passed at the companys 2008 Annual General Meeting, the board has authorised such matters.
The affected directors did not vote when their own positions were considered.
Where the board deemed it appropriate, such authorisation was given subject to certain conditions.
The board will review such matters on a regular basis.
In the year under review, the Audit and Remuneration Committees both met four times and the Nomination Committee met twice.
All members attended each of the meetings except for Bo Lerenius who was absent from one meeting of the Remuneration Committee and Mark Elliott who was absent from two meetings of the Remuneration Committee.
An external consultancy was appointed by the board to conduct an evaluation of the performance of the board as a whole, each of the directors individually and the boards committees.
Reports from the consultancy have been considered by the board, the chairman and by each committee and a number of areas for improvement have been identified and actions agreed.
As a result the Remuneration Committee has scheduled an extra meeting, both the board and the Audit Committee will have greater contact with senior managers from around the group and the board will increase its focus on a number of matters including, amongst other things, oversight of risk management and executive succession management.
The chairman held meetings with the non-executive directors without the executives present and a review of the performance of the chairman by the non-executive directors, without the chairman present, was led by the senior independent director.
The chief executive and the chief financial officer hold regular meetings with individual institutional shareholders to discuss the groups strategy and financial performance, although price sensitive information is never divulged at these meetings.
It is intended that all the directors will attend the companys Annual General Meeting and will be available to answer questions from shareholders.
The Nomination Committee is responsible for making recommendations on board appointments and on maintaining a balance of skills and experience on the board and its committees.
Audit Committee meetings are attended by representatives of the group auditor, the chief financial officer, the head of internal audit and the company secretary.
The committee considers the groups annual and half-yearly financial statements and any questions raised by the auditor on the financial statements and financial systems.
It also reviews, amongst other matters, the groups internal auditing process, whistle-blowing arrangements, risk management procedures and internal controls.
The Audit Committee has established a policy on the provision by the external auditor of non-audit services, so as to ensure that the independence of the audit is not compromised.
Besides the formal audit function, the auditor is permitted to provide consultation and due diligence services related to mergers and acquisitions, audits of employee benefit plans, reviews of internal accounting and control policies, general advice on financial reporting standards and corporate tax services.
The auditor is prohibited from providing other services without specific permission from the Audit Committee.
The value of non-audit services provided by the auditor must not exceed the fees charged for the statutory audit, save in the event of a major transformation deal.
The auditor has written to the Audit Committee confirming that, in its opinion, it is independent.
The work of the Remuneration Committee is more fully described in the Directors Remuneration Report which appears on pages 36 to 43. b Compliance with provisions of Combined Code The company complied throughout the year under review with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code.
G4S plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2008 35 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT CONTINUED c Risk Management and Internal Control The directors acknowledge their responsibility for the groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The risks associated with the groups activities are reviewed regularly by the board, which considers major risks and evaluates their impact on the group.
Policies and procedures, which are reviewed and monitored by the head of internal audit, are in place to deal with any matters which may be considered by the board to present significant exposure.
The key features of the groups risk management process are: A common risk management framework is used to provide a profile of those risks which may have an impact on the achievement of business objectives.
Each significant risk is documented, showing an overview of the risk, how the risk is managed, and any improvement actions.
The risk profiles ensure that internal audit reviews of the adequacy, application and effectiveness of risk management and internal controls are targeted on the key risks.
Risk management committees have been established at regional, divisional and group level.
The regional committees meet at least annually and the divisional and group committees meet quarterly.
A standard agenda covering risk and control issues is considered at each meeting and risk profiles are reviewed and updated at each meeting.
Risk and control self-evaluation exercises are undertaken for each operating company, for most companies at least twice a year, and updated risk profiles are prepared.
Similar exercises are undertaken as part of the integration process for all major acquisitions.
The results of the company risk evaluations are assessed by the regional and divisional risk management committees.
The process, which is reviewed regularly by the board in accordance with the internal control guidance for directors in the Combined Code, is carried out under the overall supervision of the group risk management committee.
This committee, which reports to the Audit Committee, includes both the chief executive and the chief financial officer.
The Audit Committee undertakes a high level review of risk management and internal control.
Both the divisional risk management committees and the group risk management committee receive internal audit reports and regular reports on risks.
They monitor the actions taken to manage risks.
The internal control system includes clearly defined reporting lines and authorisation procedures, a comprehensive budgeting and monthly reporting system, and written policies and procedures.
In addition to a wide range of internal audit reports, senior management also receive assurance from other sources including security inspections, third party reviews, company financial control reviews, external audit reports, summaries of whistle-blowing activity, and risk and control self-evaluations.
The board has reviewed the groups risk management and internal control system for the year to 31 December 2008 by considering reports from the Audit Committee and has taken account of events since 31 December 2008.
Peter David Secretary 31 March 2009 Because Wackenhut Services, Inc. WSI is governed through a proxy agreement under which the group is excluded from access to certain information, it is not subject to the same risk management process as is applied to other group companies.
The board has however satisfied itself as to the adequacy of the internal control processes adopted by WSI.
36 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT At 31 December 2008 This report, prepared on behalf of and approved by the board, provides details of the remuneration of each of the directors and sets out the companys remuneration policies for the current financial year and, subject to ongoing review, for subsequent financial years.
The report will be put to the companys Annual General Meeting for approval by the shareholders.
The Remuneration Committee met four times during the period under review.
The members of the committee, all of whom are considered to be independent, are Lord Condon chairman, Mark Elliott, Bo Lerenius and Mark Seligman.
The committee is responsible for setting all aspects of the remuneration of the chairman, the executive directors, the three other members of the group executive committee and the company secretary.
It is also responsible for the operation of the companys share plans.
Its terms of reference are available on the companys website.
Towers, Perrin, Forster & Crosby, Inc.
Towers Perrin has been appointed by the committee to provide executive and senior management remuneration advice to the company.
Their terms of appointment are available on the companys website.
In addition Alithos Limited Alithos has been appointed by the committee to verify the calculation of certain elements of payments due under the companys performance share plan.
In addition to its work for the committee, Towers Perrin has also provided a small amount of management remuneration information to the company during the period under review.
Alithos has not provided any other services to the company during the period under review.
Nick Buckles, chief executive, provided guidance to the committee on remuneration packages for senior executives within the group.
Further guidance was received from the groups HR director, Irene Cowden.
Neither Mr Buckles nor Mrs Cowden participated in discussions regarding their own remuneration.
Remuneration policy The policy for the remuneration of the executive directors and the executive management team aims to achieve: the ability to attract, retain and motivate high calibre executives: a strong link between executive reward and the groups performance: alignment of the interests of the executives and the shareholders: and provision of incentive arrangements which focus on both annual and longer-term performance.
In terms of market positioning, the overall objective is to achieve remuneration levels which provide a market competitive base salary with the opportunity to earn above market norms on the delivery of superior performance through the companys incentive schemes.
A significant proportion of total remuneration is related to performance, through participation in both short-term and long-term incentive schemes.
On average, the performancerelated element of remuneration for executive directors amounts to around 45% of the total package for target performance and around 65% of the total package for stretch performance.
The committee believes that the current balance is appropriate, although it is kept under review.
The committee is satisfied that the incentive structure for the board does not raise environmental, social or governance risks by inadvertently motivating irresponsible behaviour.
Bonus payments do not form part of salary for pension purposes.
Elements of remuneration a Base salary and benefits The salaries of the executive directors are reviewed with effect from 1 January each year.
Interim salary reviews may be carried out following significant changes in responsibility.
The salaries take account of a benchmarking exercise based on similarly sized companies with a significant part of their business overseas and also reflect responsibility, individual performance, internal relativities and salary and other market information supplied by Towers Perrin.
Benefits include pension arrangements and the provision of a company car or a cash allowance in lieu of a car, health insurance and life assurance.
Notwithstanding the strong performance of the business, for 2009 the executive directors have requested that their base salaries are frozen at 2008 levels, given the current economic climate.
Similarly, the non-executive directors have asked that their fee levels are not changed in 2009.
Towers Perrin and Alithos have each given, and not withdrawn, their written consent to the issue of this document with the inclusion of the reference to their respective names in the form and content in which they appear.
Copies of the consent letters are available for inspection at the companys registered office.
G4S plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2008 37 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED At 31 December 2008 b Performance-related bonus scheme For the year under review, the executive directors participated in an annual performance-related bonus scheme, payments under which were dependent on the attainment of defined PBTA profit before tax and amortisation targets of the group, adjusted for the effect of any exceptional items and discontinued operations and using constant exchange rates.
The committee believes that PBTA best reflects the various key drivers of business success within the group.
For achievement of a threshold level of profits which is slightly below the budgeted profit target, a bonus payment of 25% of base salary was due.
40% of base salary was payable on achievement of the budgeted target and the amount of bonus increases on a straight line basis up to 80% of base salary for achievement of a stretch profit target.
A further 20% was payable on achievement of pre-defined key business objectives approved by the Remuneration Committee.
These objectives vary for each individual according to their responsibilities and support longerterm business development.
Any such bonus up to the value of 50% of the executive directors salary was payable in cash with any excess balance being awarded in the form of deferred shares.
Any deferred shares will normally only be transferred to the executive director if he remains in employment otherwise than where he leaves in certain specified circumstances for a period of three years from the date of the award of the shares.
The company performed well in 2008, with PBTA increased by 75.6m 53.3m at 2008 constant exchange rates materially exceeding target, but falling below maximum full stretch target performance.
As a result the Remuneration Committee agreed that the resulting payment for this component of the bonus should be at the 62.5% of base salary level.
In addition the committee agreed that the element of bonus dependent on achievement of pre-defined key business objectives, including objectives linked to strategic development and organisational development issues, should be paid at between 17% and 20% of base salary.
Following a review of the level of bonus opportunities offered by the company in comparison with those of its peers, the committee has agreed that for 2009, the bonus opportunity for executive directors will be changed so that they may receive an amount equal to 125% of base salary 150% in the case of the chief executive.
No specific element of bonus will be attributable to key business objectives as the committee believes it is preferable to concentrate on financial performance in the present economic conditions.
The executive directors will however still be set key business objectives which will be used to monitor performance.
Furthermore, any bonus due above 50% of the individuals maximum bonus entitlement will be awarded as deferred shares which will not vest for three years.
The bonus will be entirely based on the achievement of PBTA targets which would result in the payment of 60% of maximum bonus entitlement.
This amount of bonus would increase on a straight line basis up to 100% of maximum bonus entitlement for achievement of a stretch profit target.
35% of maximum bonus entitlement would be payable for achievement of a threshold level of profit which is at least 95% of the budgeted profit target.
No bonus would be payable for performance below threshold.
The committee believes that payment of at least part of the available bonus entitlement for a performance slightly below the PBTA target is justified because it would be desirable to incentivise the executives to push for the best result possible, even if it became apparent that the PBTA budget would not be met.
In addition, a claw-back provision has been included in the 2009 annual bonus rules.
Any deferred shares awarded and dividends arising from these shares could be clawed back if the 2009 profit figures are restated materially in line with a recommendation by the Audit Committee within two years of the year end.
The PBTA targets used for the above schemes are the same as the companys budgeted PBTA for the corresponding period assuming constant exchange rates.
The committee is satisfied that in order to achieve the 2009 PBTA targets, the company would have to achieve a tough budget in what are likely to be testing times.
The PBTA targets allow for adjustments in respect of any material, non-budgeted changes which take place during the year, such as acquisitions, disposals etc.
Thus, for example, should a planned disposal not be completed by the year end, the committee reserves the right to re-insert the operating profit or loss for the business in question in the actual and budgeted PBTA targets.
c Performance Share Plan long-term incentive plan The Performance Share Plan PSP was introduced in July 2004.
Under the plan, the executive directors and certain other senior executives receive conditional allocations of the companys shares which are released to them only on the achievement of demanding performance targets.
The maximum annual award of shares payable under the plan is two and a half times base salary.
The annual award approved by the committee for the year under review is two times base salary for the chief executive, one and a half times base salary for the other executive directors and one times salary for senior executives below board level.
The extent to which allocations of shares under the plan vest is determined, as to two thirds of the award, by the companys normalised earnings per share growth relative to the RPI over a single three-year period and, as to the remaining third of the award, by the companys ranking by reference to TSR total shareholder return: being share price growth plus dividends paid using a bespoke global group of 16 support services companies as a comparator group, again over a single three-year period.
In relation to awards made in years prior to 2007, the conditions subject to which allocations of shares vest under this plan differ in a number of respects: half of any award is determined by the companys normalised earnings per share growth relative to the RPI over a single three year period and the other half of the award by the companys ranking by reference to TSR using the FTSE 100 constituent companies as at the date of the award as a comparator group, again over a single three year period.
There is no provision for retesting.
38 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED At 31 December 2008 c Performance Share Plan long-term incentive plan continued The following targets will continue to apply to two-thirds of awards granted since 2007, with the three year EPS earnings per share period ending on 31 December in the third year so for awards granted in the year under review, the period ends on 31 December 2010 : Average annual growth in EPS Proportion of allocation vesting Less than RPI 6% per annum Nil RPI 6% per annum 18% over three years 25% RPI 6-11% per annum Pro rata between 25% and 100% RPI 11% per annum 33% over three years 100% The same targets apply to the first half of awards granted in years prior to 2007.
The following targets apply to the remaining one third of each award granted since 2007: Ranking of the company against the bespoke comparator group by reference to TSR Proportion of allocation vesting Below median Nil Median 25% Between median and upper quartile Pro rata between 25% and 100% Upper quartile 100% The same targets apply to the second half of each award granted in years prior to 2007, but the ranking applied is that of the company against the FTSE 100 constituent companies as at the date of the award.
In addition, participants in the PSP will receive a further share award with a value equivalent to the dividends which would have been paid in respect of PSP awards vesting at the end of the performance period.
In relation to awards made before 2007, there will only be a transfer of shares under the second half if the growth in EPS of the company has exceeded the growth in RPI by 10% over a performance period of three financial years.
Furthermore, there will only be a transfer of shares under the final third or second half in respect of awards made before 2007 if the Remuneration Committee is satisfied that the companys TSR performance is reflective of the companys underlying performance.
For the 2009 PSP awards, a claw-back provision has been applied so that, in the event of a re-calculation of EPS and or TSR within the two years of vesting, any over-payment must be returned.
The Remuneration Committee believes that a combination of earnings per share growth and total shareholder return targets is the most appropriate performance measure for the performance share plan, as it provides a transparent method of assessing the companys performance, both in terms of underlying financial performance and returns to shareholders.
The company calculates whether the EPS performance targets have been achieved by reference to the companys audited accounts which provide an accessible and objective measure of the companys earnings per share, whilst TSR ranking will be determined by Towers Perrin whose findings are verified by Alithos.
Awards will not normally vest where an employee ceases to be employed within the group unless cessation of employment is due to death, injury, disability, redundancy, retirement or following a change of control of, or sale outside the group of, his or her employing company.
In these situations, vesting will occur in the normal course and the performance targets will need to be satisfied pro rata to the time the allocation has been held.
Only a proportion of the award, based on the time which has elapsed from the award date to the end of the last complete month in which the employee was employed, will vest in these circumstances in most cases.
The Remuneration Committee does however retain the ability to allow for a greater award to vest if it considers it to be appropriate in exceptional circumstances.
The companys current policy is to use market purchased shares to satisfy performance share plan awards.
The Remuneration Committee believes that continued shareholding by executive directors will strengthen the alignment of their interests with shareholders interests.
Accordingly, executive directors of the company will be expected to retain shares to the value of 30% of the after-tax gains made on the vesting of performance share plan awards until they have built up a shareholding equivalent to one times base salary.
