22 THE GAME GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007-2008 Dividend X BUSINESS REVIEW CONTINUED The Board is recommending a final dividend of 2.97p per share, which will give a total dividend FINANCIAL RESULTS for the period of 4.40p compared to 2.93p last year an increase of 50 per cent.
The dividend profit and loss account will be paid on 18 July 2008, to shareholders on the register at the 30 May 2008.
Revenue During the year Group revenue increased by Balance sheet 86 per cent to 1,492 million from 801 million last year.
L sales increased by 41 per cent with Capital expenditure new store openings, excluding Gamestation, Capital expenditure in the period, excluding contributing a 14 per cent increase.
The Average sales per annum per sq ft majority of this expenditure was undertaken increased by 359 to 1,275. to open new stores in the UK, the rest of Europe and Australia.
Additionally we invested in the IT Gross margin infrastructure across the Group, enhanced our Overall gross margin was 24.8 per cent distribution facilities in the UK and France and compared to a prior year margin of relocated our Head Ofce and distribution 27.2 per cent.
This decline in gross margin centre in Australia.
In summary: was in line with our expectations.
It was caused by the increased participation of 2008 2007 hardware in our sales mix, the acquisition of Capital expenditure m m Gamestation, with its lower margin operating model, and the participation from our Stores 25 12 overseas businesses.
Rets 5 3 Operating expenses Web 4 1 Total operating costs have increased by Infrastructure 6 6 28 per cent from 184.8 million to 237.3 million, excluding Gamestation and non-recurring Total 40 22 costs, and as a percentage of sales were 20 per cent compared to 23 per cent last year.
On a cash basis our operating expenditure has Stock increased year on year but this is in line with Stock at the end of the period represented the increase in volumes traded across our 127,000 per owned store compared business.
The decrease in operating costs as to 108,000 for the same period last year.
a percentage of sales is a testament to our The increase in the average stock holding ability to control our expenditure across the per store reects the fact that we were holding operating chain.
higher levels of hardware product to meet ongoing consumer demand: and that the unit profit before tax cost of stock has increased with the launch of We achieved a profit before tax of 68.4 million PS3 in March 2007, a next generation product compared to a profit before tax of 29.5 million that commands a higher retail price point.
Cash ow Taxation Net cash generated by operations was The effective rate of Corporation Tax was 172 million compared to 35 million last year.
31.0 per cent 2007: 28.3 per cent and we The significant increase on the prior year can have continued to provide deferred taxation be attributed both to the strong operating in line with IAS 12. performance of the business and the timing of supplier payments at the year end.
With Earnings per share the GAME Group operating on a 52 week Basic earnings per share were 13.79p compared year, the year end payment to suppliers fell to 6.25p last year, an increase of 121 per cent.
after our year end date of 26 January 2008.
Diluted earnings per share were 13.65p Immediately following the year end the Group made payments to suppliers to compared to 6.20p last year, an increase of 120 per cent.
the value of approximately 90 million.
01 OUR PERFORMANCE 23 THE GAME GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007-2008 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY We recognise that the way we operate as a business has a direct impact on our reputation and brand.
Vivienne Hemming Company Secretary David Thomas Group Finance Director & Deputy Chief Executive at every stage of our operating chain.
In the CORPORATE AND SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CSR coming year the Committee plans to report CSR is right at the heart of the GAME Group.
quarterly to the Board of Directors on CSR issues and to publish a fuller report on the As a responsible retailer, we recognise that Company website.
the way we operate as a business has a direct impact on our reputation and our brand.
To be successful we must do more than just Key stakeholders maximise profits for our shareholders and Our suppliers, the environment, our customers, maintain product range and choice for our employees, our bankers and lenders, our our customers.
We combine these objectives shareholders and the community in which with first-class management of all our we live and operate are all stakeholders.
This is not an easy Our suppliers task.
Our stakeholders may have conicting Our operating chain begins with our suppliers expectations of what we should deliver.
and we need to seek reassurance that Dedicated committee they comply with our high ethical standards.
In the next 12 months we will be more During the coming year the Committee will co-ordinated and focused so as to improve be developing CSR questionnaires which we will use to evaluate our suppliers own our approach to CSR year on year.
a CSR Committee comprised of individuals in the business who represent our key stakeholders and ensure their needs and Distribution and the environment expectations are met.
This Committee reports We wish to make certain that our distribution to the GAME Board via David Thomas, who methods have the minimum impact on is its CSR representative.
We ensure that all of We recognise that CSR is not something our subsidiaries comply with any relevant environmental laws and standards.
We the Company can address in isolation.
To be are committed to reducing our impact effective, our CSR policy must be linked to on the environment with a particular focus the way we do business.
The Committee has determined exactly who our key stakeholders on energy consumption, waste reduction are and the best way we can serve them and recycling.
X 24 THE GAME GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007-2008 s It is our policy to do all that is reasonably X CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED practicable to ensure a safe and healthy environment.
We provide instructions, Our Group head ofce and GAME UK training, supervision and information to distribution centre opened in Basingstoke enable all employees to perform their in 2004.
The building is equipped with a work safely.
We comply with all laws of sophisticated building management system health and safety and take all possible that regulates temperature and switches off steps to ensure that everyone in our lights when not in use.
stores and places of work is safe.
We are We aim to recycle as much as possible committed to a system of monitoring across the business and in our distribution and recording our health and safety centre alone we recycled 406.7 metric tonnes performance so that we can continually of cardboard and 6.8 metric tonnes of plastic.
We are a member of a recycling programme s We offer a fully-serviced canteen and called Recycle More, implemented by Chill Out Zone a leisure room containing Valpack Limited, a packaging waste the latest hardware consoles and games compliance scheme company.
to allow the staff to enjoy breaks and A key feature of our operating processes free time outside ofce hours should is that we are able to repair damaged CDs, they wish.
through our own in-house operations, and we deal with damaged hardware by using Employee rewards third party sources.
Both these actions reduce We offer a variety of financial rewards across the level of electrical waste, a target for the the business to ensure that staff see a direct European Union Waste Directive.
benefit from the effort and commitment they put into our business.
The mainstream Stores and the environment rewards are: As we open new stores they are tted with the latest energy-saving technology, including s Long service awards: The Group has a digital inverter air conditioning, energyscheme of awards designed to recognise efficient lighting and single switch control and reward employees for length of service.
which minimises energy consumption when s Sharesave: The Group believes in its the store is closed.
employees sharing in the success of the business and operates a Sharesave Quality employees scheme for all employees.
Our employees play an important role in s Sales incentives and management bonus: every part of our operating chain.
We are The Group believes that sales incentives committed to equal opportunities for and bonus schemes will help focus our everyone.
All our employment decisions, people on the achievement of key policies and practices are made without objectives and reward them for contributing regard to an individuals gender, race, colour, to the success of the Group.
religion, creed, sexual preference or national origin.
We are also dedicated to the provision s Share Option scheme and Performance of equal opportunities for all disabled persons Share Plan: The Group operates a Share able to discharge job duties and functions Option scheme and Performance Share required as part of their employment in Plan which are designed to aid employee the Group.
retention and align the objectives of our senior management with those Our working environment of our shareholders.
The GAME Group places considerable emphasis on providing a relaxed, safe and healthy workplace for all of our employees.
s We do not tolerate any act of sexual or racial harassment for whatever reason at any level in the organisation.
01 OUR PERFORMANCE 25 THE GAME GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007-2008 Standards Council VSC and the We recognise the importance Entertainment Retailers Association ERA.
Our employees receive regular training of employee continuity in in the importance of complying with our own generating a knowledgeable internal policy and legislative requirements.
They are empowered and encouraged and driven workforce and are to challenge customers and demand proof committed to enhancing the of age.
To monitor the success of our training skills of our people.
we employ mystery shopper processes which help us sustain our track record in avoiding under-age selling.
Career development Business support We recognise the importance of employee The GAME business is supported by its continuity in generating a knowledgeable shareholders, its bankers and its lenders.
We and driven workforce and we are committed attach great importance to the effectiveness to enhancing the skills of our people.
We offer of our communications with these stakeholders external courses as well as our own bespoke and we aim to provide all the financial and training programme, EIP Excellence In People, strategic information they need on a regular as structured methods of training within basis.
We do this through presentations and by the business.
the publication of information on our website.
We are also keen to support our employees We are proud that our relationships with our in understanding the qualities of the latest financial partners go back many years.
technologies on the market, by offering them discounts on purchases and providing Our responsibility to the community a lending library.
This greater knowledge We want to be a positive inuence within of our products helps our teams to advise the communities in which we operate and, our customers on their purchases.
throughout 2007, we have donated a number of pc and video games to non-profit making Employee feedback bodies and ofcial charities in sectors s We positively encourage feedback from including education, community health our people and use an annual survey to and welfare and the environment.
We have measure our success as employers.
We donated to both Asthma UK and NCH.
have also introduced a Bright Ideas scheme, We do not donate to any political party which rewards employees for ideas that will or religious groups.
enhance our working environment or our operating performance.
s Our newsletter keeps employees up to date with business related activities.
This is supplemented by internal annual conferences, which give us a chance to communicate with our store management and eld teams and congratulate them face to face.
Customer relationships Our primary aim is to ensure that our customers are given the products, range, choices and offers that best suit their particular requirements.
However we are also mindful of the need to take great care to sell age-related games appropriately, only to the customers for whom they are intended.
We take our responsibility very seriously and we are actively engaged with the Entertainment and Leisure Software Publishers Association ELSPA, the Video 26 THE GAME GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007-2008 X CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED CASE STUDY: HELPING CHILDREN CASE STUDY: REWARDING EXCELLENCE With such talented people at GAME, we like to In August 2007 a team of 20 GAME employees reward and promote best practice.
In 2007 we contributed to the John Waterhouse Project in introduced Bonus Bonds vouchers awarded Kenilworth, a residential project run by leading on the spot by regional managers when an childrens charity NCH.
The project provides individual employee has delivered excellent short breaks for young people with severe customer service.
Over 20,000 of Bonus Bonds learning or physical disabilities.
The volunteers were handed out in 2007.
Team excellence redecorated and transformed bedrooms and is also rewarded.
Every month the best bathrooms, and donated a range of games performing store in each of the 22 GAME consoles and software.
The makeover was regions is given 200 to spend on a team part of a wider initiative that saw GAME night out.
We reward great ideas too, with employees raise over 30,000 for the charity.
a monthly 250 prize to the best Bright Idea Other events included a GAME team completing the Great North Run and submitted by a team member, and five runners-up prizes of 50. a summer fundraising fete at the GAME head ofce.
SALES OUTLETS EMPLOYEE NUMBERS 700 5,000 2006 2006 817 5,148 2007 2007 2008 1,161 2008 7,959 01 OUR PERFORMANCE 27 THE GAME GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007-2008 CASE STUDY: SAVING ENERGY CASE STUDY: PROTECTING CONSUMERS GAME Group is committed to enforcing age Reducing waste cuts costs.
The GAME Group ratings on video games to ensure the right ofce and distribution facilities in Basingstoke games are sold to the right customers.
In 2007 were purpose-built in 2004 using the latest the British Prime Minister commissioned energy-saving technologies.
Motion detectors are used throughout the buildings to switch off psychologist Dr Tanya Byron to review measures that protect children from mature content lights when they are not needed.
No heating in video games and on the internet.
GAME or light is used overnight when the buildings contributed by attending all of the relevant are empty.
All cardboard and pallets used consultations with the Byron team, both in the distribution centre are recycled.
to reinforce our support for age ratings and to see what we could do better.
Published in March 2008, the Byron Review recognised the critical role of specialist retailers to raise awareness of the rating systems and train staff appropriately.
GAME will continue to work with partners in the games industry and with customers to implement the Reviews recommendations and ensure that our measures to sell games responsibly are robust, well understood and frequently tested.
WAREHOUSE SIZE SQ FT 000 REWARD CARD MEMBERSHIP TOTALS M A UK & Ireland 196.0 E 7.5 2006 D B France 16.0 8.1 2007 C Iberia 31.2 C D Scandinavia 12.5 2008 10.1 E Australia 16.7 B A 28 THE GAME GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007-2008 INTERNATIONAL MANAGEMENT The strengths of the GAME Group are recognised in markets across the world.
Ensuring the Groups specialist services t the needs of local customers requires focused management and a detailed understanding of the market.
In each territory, GAME Group has a strong local team of retail experts who focus on building sales and increasing profitability.
TRICIA BRENNAN 41 MARTYN GIBBS 37 PHILIPPE WEHMEYER 39 MD, GAME UK & IRELAND MD, GAMESTATION MD, GAME FRANCE Tricia has been central to Martyn leads the Gamestation Philippe has driven GAMEs GAMEs evolution into a mass team in York and was growth in France since 2003, market retailer since she promoted to Managing overseeing the rebrand of joined the GAME UK team Director in 2008.
Previously the the original Scoregame stores, in 2005.
Formerly Commercial chains Commercial Director, the ongoing store opening Director, she was promoted he has played an instrumental programme, and the to Managing Director in role in the rapid growth of acquisition and rebrand of 2008.
Tricia has over 21 Gamestation in the UK.
He the former Maxi-Livres book years experience as an has over 19 years retail stores in 2007.
He has over entertainment retailer.
experience, 12 of which are in 17 years experience in high video games.
From left to right: Tricia Brennan, Martyn Gibbs, Philippe Wehmeyer, Pablo Crespo, Adolf Kristjansson, Rob Lukic, Mark Axon and Alex Croft.
02 DIRECTORS & GOVERNANCE 29 THE GAME GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007-2008 PABLO CRESPO 43 ADOLF KRISTJANSSON 35 ALEX CROFT 34 MD, GAME IBERIA MD, GAME SCANDINAVIA MD, GROUP ONLINE Pablo was Managing Director Adolf joined GAME in 2005, OPERATIONS Alex is charged with of the CentroMail store chain and accelerated the harnessing the opportunities when it was acquired by the Groups expansion in all of eCommerce and multiGAME Group in 2001.
Since three Scandinavian territories then he has continued to Sweden, Norway and channel retailing for the build the business, and in 2006 Denmark.
He oversaw the GAME became the leading experience of retailing relaunch of game.
co. uk in video games retailer in Spain.
entertainment and electrical 2007, generating significant increases in customer trafc, Pablo oversaw GAMEs entry products, as well as a degree sales and profitability.
The into the Portuguese market in in International Business success of this initiative is 2006, and the rapid expansion and an MBA in Finance.
being applied to other Group of the store portfolio in Spain continues.
eCommerce sites in 2008, and Alexs team continues to evaluate customer demand for digitally distributed video MARK AXON 44 ROB LUKIC 39 games and online play.
DIRECTOR OF GROUP MD, GAME AUSTRALIA Alex was formerly the Buying PLANNING & BUSINESS As the founder and Managing Director for GAME UK and DEVELOPMENT Director of The Games Wizards, has been a video games Mark joined the Group in 2007, Rob joined GAME in 2006 retailer for 12 years.
with 24 years experience in when the business was global retail at Wal-Mart and acquired by GAME Group.
As well as As well as rebranding the overseeing the integration of existing 16 stores, Rob led the Gamestation into the Group, expansion of the portfolio to his team ensure that best 51 stores in just over a year, practice is shared among and the growth continues.
all territories, and research He also moved his team future opportunities that into a new head ofce and will accelerate the growth distribution centre.
been a video games retailer for over 20 years.
