DIRECTORS REPORT Corporate governance continued Compliance with the Code of best practice Committees of the Board Throughout the financial year, the Company complied with the Code Halma has six committees of the Board: the Remuneration Committee, provisions set out in Section 1 of the July 2003 FRC Combined Code on the Audit Committee, the Nomination Committee, the Share Plans Corporate Governance, as amended in June 2006, except in respect of Committee, the Bank Facilities and Guarantees Committee and the provisions A3.2 and C3.1 which involve the composition of the Board and Acquisitions and Disposals Committee.
the Audit Committee and the number of members who are independent Each of these committees has terms of reference approved by the Board, non-executive Directors.
copies of which are available on the website or on request from the The Board reafrmed its decision to maintain the composition of the Company Secretary.
Board as a Chairman, three independent non-executive Directors and Internal control four executive Directors and recognises that this composition was not The Board of Directors has overall responsibility to the shareholders for achieved prior to Jane Aikmans appointment on 1 August 2007.
From the Groups system of internal control and responsibility for reviewing its 3 April 2008, the preferred composition is not possible due to Keith Roys effectiveness has been delegated to the Audit Committee.
Any system of and Adam Meyers directorships overlapping for reasons of succession internal control can provide only reasonable but not absolute assurance planning.
Prior to permitting this imbalance to occur, the Chairman and against material misstatement or loss.
non-executive Directors sought assurance from the Chief Executive that he was unaware of any significant matters to be brought to the Boards Following publication by the Turnbull Committee of the guidance for attention prior to Keith Roys retirement on 31 July 2008.
After Keith Roys directors on internal control Internal Control: Guidance for Directors retirement, the Board will be restored to its preferred composition.
The on the Combined Code, the Board confirms that there is an ongoing Board adjudged this composition as the most appropriate structure for process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks the Company providing valuable direct knowledge of operations and a faced by the Group, that this has been in place for the year under review robust debate surrounding the issues facing the Group in the present and up to the date of approval of the Annual report and accounts.
This and future as well as ensuring a good mix of skills and experience.
process has been reviewed by the Board, and the Group accords with In respect of the Audit Committee composition, the non-compliance the Turnbull guidance.
related to the period to 1 August 2007 when Jane Aikman was appointed The Groups external auditors, Deloitte & Touche LLP, have audited the to the Board and the Audit Committee.
Jane Aikman succeeded Andrew financial statements and have reviewed the internal financial control Walker who retired in March 2007. systems to the extent they consider necessary to support their audit report.
Application of the principles of good governance The Board meets regularly throughout the year and has adopted a The Group is controlled and directed by a Board consisting of a schedule of matters which are required to be brought to it for decision.
Chairman, four Directors five from 3 April 2008 to 31 July 2008 and three This procedure is intended to ensure that the Directors maintain full other non-executive Directors.
Their biographies appear on pages 36 and effective control over all significant strategic, financial and and 37.
The Nomination Committee returned to full membership in August 2007 following Jane Aikmans appointment.
The Board considers organisational issues.
the Chairman and each of the non-executive Directors to be Group risk is mitigated by means of an operating structure which independent.
In assessing independence, the Board considers that the spreads the Groups activities across a number of autonomous Chairman and non-executive Directors are independent of management subsidiary companies.
Each of these companies operates with a high and free from business and other relationships which could interfere quality board of directors including a finance executive.
with the exercise of independent judgment now and in the future.
The Board believes that any shareholdings of the Chairman and nonGroup companies operate under a system of controls which includes but executive Directors serve to align their interests with those of all is not limited to: shareholders.
Richard Stone is acknowledged as the Senior Independent a dened organisational structure with an appropriate delegation Director.
Upon appointment and at regular intervals, all Directors are of authority to operational management which ensures appropriate offered appropriate training.
Each Director is subject to re-election at segregation of key duties: least every three years.
The Chairman confirms that non-executive Directors standing for re-election continue to be effective and the identication and appraisal of risks both formally, through the demonstrate commitment to their roles.
annual process of preparing business plans and budgets, through an annual detailed risk assessment carried out at local level and The Directors retain responsibility for the formulation of corporate informally through close monitoring of operations: strategy, investment decisions, and treasury and risk management policies.
There is a formal schedule of matters reserved for the Boards a comprehensive financial reporting system within which actual decision and the Board meets at least six times each year with further and forecast results are compared with approved budgets and ad hoc meetings as required.
Directors are issued an agenda and the previous years gures on a monthly basis and reviewed at comprehensive board papers in the week preceding each Board both local and Group level: meeting.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the an investment evaluation procedure to ensure an appropriate level Company Secretary as well as there being an agreed procedure for of approval for all capital expenditure: obtaining independent professional advice.
self-certication by operating company management of compliance Board and Committee meeting attendance and control issues: During the year attendance by Directors at Board and Committee meetings was as follows: a prescribed robust structure under which it is appropriate to adopt means of electronic communication and to conduct e-commerce.
Board Remuneration Audit Nomination Committee Committee Committee The processes which the Board has applied in reviewing the effectiveness Total scheduled meetings 6 3 3 1 of the Groups system of internal control are summarised below.
Geoff Unwin 6 3 N A 1 Operating companies carry out a detailed risk assessment each year Andrew Williams 6 N A N A 1 and identify mitigating actions in place or proposed for each significant Kevin Thompson 5 N A N A N A risk.
A risk register is compiled from this information, against which Neil Quinn 6 N A N A N A action is monitored through to resolution.
Group management also compile a summary of significant Group risks, documenting existing Richard Stone 6 3 3 1 or planned actions to mitigate, manage or avoid the risk.
Keith Roy 6 N A N A N A Stephen Pettit 6 3 3 1 Each month the board of each operating company meets, discusses and reports on its operating performance, its opportunities, the risks Jane Aikman 2 2 2 N A facing it and the resultant actions.
The relevant Divisional Chief Executive Kevin Thompson was attending Harvard Business Schools Advanced Management Program at chairs this meeting.
Divisional Chief Executives meet regularly with the time he missed one Board meeting.
the Chief Executive and Finance Director and report progress to the Since her appointment on 1 August 2007, Jane Aikman has missed only one scheduled meeting Executive Board.
due to a prior commitment identied at the time of her appointment.
com BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS A set of warning signs is reported to Group and divisional Auditor independence management.
This report is designed to provide an early warning The Audit Committee has responsibility for reviewing auditor of potential risks and to direct appropriate action where necessary.
During 2003 04, the Committee set down the Policy on Auditor Independence and Services provided by The Chief Executive submits a report to each Halma p. l. c. Board the External Auditor.
This policy states that the Group will only use the meeting which includes financial information, the main features of appointed external auditor for non-audit services in cases where these Group operations and an analysis of the significant risks facing the services do not conict with the auditors independence.
The policy also Group at that time.
sets a fee level of 100,000 above which non-audit services are subject Cyclical internal control visits are carried out by senior finance staff to a tendering process.
The above fee levels for non-audit services resulting in actions fed back to each company and followed up by regarding the external auditors are also subject to an annual cap Divisional Finance Directors and Divisional Chief Executives.
Visit equal to the audit fee.
reports are coded in terms of risk and a summary of all such visits reported to the Audit Committee regularly with any significant control failings being reported directly to the Audit Committee: senior finance staff also carry out financial reviews at each operating company prior to publication of half year and year end gures.
The Finance Director and Chief Executive report to the Audit Committee on all aspects of internal control for its review.
The Board receives the papers and minutes of the Audit Committee meetings and uses these as a basis for its annual review of internal control.
During the year, actions to strengthen the control environment were taken centrally by Group management.
The duties and responsibilities of subsidiary management were claried and documented in a manual circulated to all subsidiary managing directors: further resources were dedicated to identify and investigate potential acquisitions and to ensure a rapid and successful integration following acquisition: and the scope of the Group's IT policies was extended, including a programme of compliance audits which commenced in early 2008.
As noted above, a programme of internal control visits is conducted.
Following its review of internal control activities in 2004, the Audit Committee established an internal audit function for independent reporting of the outcome of these visits to the Audit Committee.
During the year we implemented further improvements to our Internal Audit activities as the result of several benchmarking activities previously conducted.
As a result further improvements have been targeted for the coming year to enhance our processes including the appointing of a dedicated Internal Audit manager.
Going concern After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Investor relations In regular meetings with shareholders and analysts the Chief Executive and Finance Director communicate the Groups strategy and results, disclosing such information as is permitted within the guidelines of the Listing Rules.
Such meetings ensure that institutional shareholders representing over 50% of the Companys issued share capital meet with the Company on a regular basis.
Major shareholders are also offered the opportunity to meet with the Chairman and or Senior Independent Director.
All shareholders are encouraged to attend the annual general meeting, and major shareholders are also invited to briengs following the interim and annual results.
The content of presentations to shareholders and analysts at results announcements and all announcements are available on the Group website, www.
The Group website also contains electronic versions of the latest Annual report and accounts, Interim reports, biographical information on key Directors and Ofcers, share price information, and full subsidiary company contact details as well as hotlinks to their own websites.
The website also features the facility to request e-mail alerts relating to announcements made by the Group and contains information in Chinese, French, German and Spanish as well as English.
The Financial calendar is set out on page 90.
Halma p. l. c. Annual report and accounts 2008 41 DIRECTORS REPORT Nomination committee report Geoff Unwin Chairman of the Nomination Committee Members Governance Geoff Unwin Chairman The Nomination Committee was in place throughout the financial year.
Andrew Williams Chief Executive It is chaired by the Chairman of the Company who was deemed to be Richard Stone independent upon appointment to the Board.
Three of the five members Stephen Pettit of the Committee are independent non-executive Directors in Jane Aikman accordance with provision A.
Activities The Nomination Committee is appointed by the Board from the nonThe Committee is responsible for nominating appropriate executive and executive Directors of the Group and the Chief Executive.
The Nomination non-executive candidates for appointment to the Board.
During the past Committees terms of reference include all matters indicated by the year, two such appointments have been made: Jane Aikman as a nonCombined Code.
The terms of reference are considered annually by the executive Director and Adam Meyers as an executive Director.
Nomination Committee and are then referred to the Board for approval.
When the necessity to appoint a Director is identied, a candidate prole Responsibilities is developed indicating the ideal skills, knowledge and experience required regularly reviewing the structure, size and composition including the taking into account the Boards existing composition.
External search skills, knowledge and experience required of the Board compared to consultancies are retained when recruiting non-executive Directors and its current position and making recommendations to the Board with are used to evaluate internal and external candidates for succession regard to any changes: planning.
The Committee meets at least annually and more frequently giving full consideration to succession planning for directors and during times that a search is being conducted.
other senior executives in the course of its work, taking into account As noted on page 39, the process of appointments to the Board is the challenges and opportunities facing the company, and what skills paramount in ensuring the Companys performance is maintained and expertise are therefore needed on the Board in the future: and and continually improved upon.
The Committee is committed to identifying the right candidates to take Halma forward.
being responsible for identifying and nominating, for the approval of the Board, candidates to ll Board vacancies as and when they arise.
On behalf of the Nomination Committee The full terms of reference can be found on the Companys website or be obtained from the Company Secretary.
com BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS DIRECTORS REPORT Audit committee report Stephen Pettit Chairman of the Audit Committee Members Activities Stephen Pettit Chairman The Committee not only reviews the financial reporting of the Company, Richard Stone but spends a significant amount of its time reviewing the effectiveness Jane Aikman of the Groups internal control process.
Combined with the Committees review of the internal and external audit functions, it is able to obtain The Audit Committee is appointed by the Board from the non-executive sufficient information to discharge its responsibilities.
More specically, Directors of the Group.
The Audit Committees terms of reference include the Committee: all matters indicated by the Combined Code.
The terms of reference are considered annually by the Audit Committee and are then referred to reviewed the March 2008 report and financial statements, the the Board for approval.
September 2007 half-yearly report and the Interim Management Statements issued in August and February.
As part of this review the Responsibilities Committee received a report from the external auditors on their audit monitoring the integrity of the financial statements of the Group of the Annual report and financial statements: and any formal announcements relating to the Groups financial performance and reviewing significant financial reporting judgments considered the output from the Group-wide process used to identify, contained therein: evaluate and mitigate risks: reviewing the Groups internal financial controls and the Groups reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups internal controls and disclosures internal control and risk management systems including made in the annual report and financial statements on this matter: whistleblowing procedures: reviewed and agreed the scope of the audit work to be undertaken by monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups internal the auditors: audit function: agreed the fees to be paid to the external auditors for their audit of the making recommendations to the Board, for a resolution to be put March 2008 financial statements: to the shareholders for their approval in general meeting, on the appointment of the external auditors and the approval of the reviewed its own effectiveness: remuneration and terms of engagement of the external auditors: undertook an evaluation of the performance of the Internal Audit reviewing and monitoring the external auditors independence function: and objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit process, taking agreed a programme of work for the companys Internal Audit into consideration relevant UK professional and regulatory function: and requirements: and received reports from the Internal Audit Coordinator on the work developing and implementing a policy on the engagement of the undertaken by Internal Audit and management responses to proposals external auditors to supply non-audit services, taking into account made in the audit reports issued by the function during the year.
relevant guidance regarding the provision of non-audit services by the external audit rm.
The Groups policy on external audit sets out the categories of non-audit services which the external auditors will and will not be allowed to The full terms of reference can be found on the Companys website or provide to the Group, subject to fide minimis levels.
be obtained from the Company Secretary.
As a consequence of its satisfaction with the results of the external Governance The Audit Committee was in place throughout the financial year with auditor-related activities outlined above, the Audit Committee has Jane Aikmans appointment in August 2007 restoring the Committee recommended to the Board that the external auditors are re-appointed.
All three members are independent non-executive The Groups whistleblowing policy contains arrangements for the Group Directors in accordance with provision A.
Internal Audit Coordinator to receive, in confidence, complaints on The Chairman, Chief Executive, Finance Director and representatives accounting, risk issues, internal controls, auditing issues and related from the Auditors attend Committee meetings by invitation in order to matters for reporting to the Audit Committee as appropriate.
The Committee routinely meets with the On behalf of the Audit Committee Auditors without the involvement of the executive Directors: the Committee meets at least three times per year.
The Board has designated Jane Aikman formerly Richard Stone as Stephen Pettit the member of the Audit Committee with recent and relevant financial Chairman experience.
Her background is as a chartered accountant and finance director with listed company experience.
Halma p. l. c. Annual report and accounts 2008 43 DIRECTORS REPORT Remuneration report In addition the Committee has: agreed the performance targets on the granting of performance shares: agreed the award of bonuses in respect of 2007 08: approved the salary uplift on Adam Meyers promotion to the Board: and reviewed the Remuneration report.
The Companys remuneration strategy, policy and details of executive remuneration follow.
On behalf of the Remuneration Committee Richard Stone Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Richard Stone Chairman Members Richard Stone Chairman REPORT ON REMUNERATION STRATEGY AND POLICY Geoff Unwin Introduction Stephen Pettit This report has been prepared in accordance with Schedule 7A to the Jane Aikman Companies Act 1985.
The report also meets the relevant requirements of the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority and describes how REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT the Board has applied the principles relating to directors remuneration The Committee makes recommendations to the Board on the framework in the Combined Code.
As required by the Act, a resolution to approve for executive Directors and senior executives remuneration based on the report will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting of the proposals formulated by the Chief Executive.
company at which the financial statements will be approved.
Responsibilities The Act requires the auditors to report to the Companys members on determining and agreeing with the Board the policy and framework certain parts of the Directors Remuneration report and to state whether for the remuneration of the Chief Executive, the executive Directors, the in their opinion those parts of the report have been properly prepared in Company Secretary and such other members of the executive accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
The report has therefore been management as it is designated to consider: divided into separate sections for audited and unaudited information.
approving the design of, and determining targets for, any UNAUDITED INFORMATION performance related pay plans operated by the Company and Remuneration policy agreeing the total annual payments made under such plans: Executive remuneration packages are sensibly designed to attract, retain and motivate executives of the high calibre needed to run the reviewing the design of all share incentive plans for approval by the Group successfully, manage its businesses and align the interest of Board and shareholders, and determining, each year, whether the Directors with those of the shareholders by rewarding them for awards will be made, and if so, the overall amount of such awards, enhancing value to shareholders.
The performance measurement of the individual awards to executive Directors and other senior the executive Directors and key members of senior management and executives and the performance targets to be set: and the determination of their annual remuneration package are undertaken determining the policy for, and scope of, pension arrangements for by the Committee.
each executive Director and other senior executives.
There are five main elements of the remuneration package for executive The Committee also monitors and considers, with the Chief Executive, Directors and senior management: the framework of remuneration for subsidiary chief executives and basic annual salary: directors and ensures a consistent approach is applied.
benets-in-kind: The full terms of reference can be found on the Companys website annual bonus payments which cannot exceed 100% of basic salary: or be obtained from the Company Secretary.
share plan incentives: and Governance The Remuneration Committee was in place throughout the financial year pension arrangements.
with Jane Aikmans appointment in August 2007 restoring the Committee The Companys policy is that a substantial proportion of the remuneration to four members.
All three non-executive Director members are of the executive Directors should be performance-related.
As described independent in accordance with provision A.
below, executive Directors may earn annual incentive payments of up to 100% of their basic salary together with the benets of participation in None of the Committee has any personal financial interest other than as share plans.
shareholders, conicts of interests arising from cross-directorships or day-to-day involvement in running the business.
The Committee makes Basic salary recommendations to the Board.
No Director plays a part in any An executive Directors basic salary is reviewed by the Committee prior to discussion about his or her own remuneration.
the beginning of each year and when an individual changes position or responsibility.
The Chief Executive is responsible for assessing the In determining the Directors remuneration for the year, the Committee performance of each senior executive taking account of the complexity consulted Andrew Williams Chief Executive about his proposals.
The of the operations under their control, their opportunities for advancement Committee also consulted Watson Wyatt Limited to provide advice on with the Group, their remuneration relative to other executives in the structuring executive remuneration packages.
Watson Wyatt provides Group and their bonus earning potential.
He then formulates a limited independent pension advice to the Company as well.
remuneration proposal for the Committees consideration.
In deciding appropriate remuneration levels, the Committee also considers the The Committee meets at least twice per year.
Group as a whole and relies on objective research conducted by Watson Activities Wyatt which gives up-to-date information on a comparator group of During the year, the Committee reviewed the Companys remuneration companies.
Basic salaries are reviewed in January February of each strategy to ensure it remained appropriate.
As a result of this review year with increases taking effect from 1 April.
Executive Directors contracts of service which include details of remuneration will be adjustments will be made in 2008 09 to ensure executives remain available for inspection at the Annual General Meeting.
appropriately incentivised to meet the Groups objectives.
