Remuneration Report Introduction The central conclusion of the review was that the current executive reward policy and long-term incentive arrangements were This report has been prepared having regard to The Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 the regulations and inappropriate for the UK marketplace.
The market benchmarking exercise conducted by the Hay Group also indicated that overall meets the relevant requirements of the Financial Services Authoritys Listing Rules.
levels of reward were low compared to the international marketplace and that performance-related reward would need to increase if the In preparing this report consideration has also been given to the Company were to maintain the emphasis on the performancerelated components of reward appropriate for the UK.
Combined Code on Corporate Governance and the Guidelines of the Association of British Insurers on Executive Remuneration Furthermore the review found that the legacy share option Policies and Practices.
arrangement, approved by shareholders of HOC in 2004, was inappropriate for the UK marketplace because it allowed for A resolution to approve the report will be put to shareholders at the AGM on 18 June 2009. annual vesting of a proportion of the option grant, did not have a performance condition determining vesting and did not reflect Remuneration Committee current market practice in the UK.
The Remuneration Committee The members of the Remuneration Committee during the year were has determined that no further options will be issued, although John McLeod Chairman, General Sir Michael Wilkes and Michael existing arrangements will be honoured.
Hibberd who was replaced by Salim Hassan Macki in December New Executive Reward Policy 2008.
Independent advisers, the Chief Executive and the Chief Financial Officer may also attend meetings at the Remuneration The Remuneration Committee has addressed the findings of this review by ensuring that the levels of total reward are competitive Committees invitation except where matters associated with their own remuneration are being discussed.
and that the balance between fixed base package and benefits and variable reward shortand long-term incentives is appropriate The Remuneration Committees main responsibilities are to: see chart overleaf.
advise on remuneration policy for the Chairman, Executive Directors and Senior Executives: It is the Remuneration Committees opinion that an upper quartile level of reward is appropriate in light of the areas where the assess and determine total compensation packages available to the Executive and Non-Executive Directors: Company operates, the relatively small number of Executive Directors at the Company and the roles conducted by the Executive determine policy and scope for pension rights and any compensation payments and ensure compliance with the Directors.
However, upper quartile levels of reward are only available mainly through participation in the Long Term Incentive Plan Combined Code in this respect: and make recommendations to the Board for its approval, and that LTIP for truly exceptional levels of performance.
of shareholders, on the design of long-term incentive plans and make recommendations for the grant of awards to executives Overall levels of reward are benchmarked against three relevant comparator groups: under such plans.
UK listed oil and gas companies excluding those significantly larger than the Company : The Remuneration Committee has clearly defined terms of reference which are available on the Companys website.
No Director is an international comparator group comprising companies of a similar size and scale to Heritage: and involved in deciding his own remuneration.
During the year the Remuneration Committee appointed independent executive reward consultants, the Hay Group, to The Remuneration Committee determined that the current annual bonus structure for Executive Directors was appropriate for the advise on executive reward arrangements with particular reference to the UK marketplace and UK best practice.
No other services business and has also implemented a two year base package freeze for Executive Directors with effect from 31 March 2008. were provided to the Company by the Hay Group during the year.
In addition, a new LTIP was proposed by the Remuneration Executive Reward Policy Review Committee and approved by shareholders at the Companys AGM In conjunction with its independent executive reward consultants, on 19 June 2008 see page 42. the Hay Group, specifically appointed for the purpose, the Remuneration Committee conducted a review of the executive reward policy during the year.
The objectives of the review were: to ensure that the Company has an executive reward framework to help drive future value growth: to ensure the Company retains and, when necessary, recruits management talent of the required ability and experience: to ensure that the overall levels of reward were appropriate for the Company given its listing in London, international operations and the global nature of the oil and gas industry: and to ensure that any new arrangements required were in line with UK as well as Canadian standards of corporate governance in as much as that such standards support and enhance the Companys ability to generate value for shareholders.
Heritage Oil Limited Annual Report & Accounts 2008 41 Remuneration Report continued Balance Between Fixed and Performance-Related Reward none of the awards will vest until comparative TSR performance is close to the upper quartile level of the comparator group The charts below show the balance between fixed base package and benefits and variable bonus and long-term incentives detailed on page 43: and there is an additional holding period of one year following the elements of reward for each of the Executive Directors.
Awards vest according to the following schedule: CEO 36% 64% Proportion of award vesting Typical UK TSR performance vs comparator group of 18 companies Heritage practice 3rd place the Upper Decile and above 100% 100% 4th place 80% 100% 5th place the Upper Quartile 50% 100% 6th place 30% 85% CFO 43% 57% 7th place 0% 70% 8th place 0% 55% 9th place 0% 40% Fixed Reward Variable Reward 10th place the Median 0% 25% Below 10th place 0% 0% Fixed Reward includes 2008 base package and value of benefits including pension.
Long-term incentive award levels have been set with reference to Variable Reward includes 2008 bonus and the annualised fair value the upper quartile of the Companys comparator groups.
However, of long-term incentive awards apportioned over the life of the LTIP.
the vesting schedule is designed to only deliver the whole value of the award for truly exceptional performance, at a standard higher Components of Executive Directors Reward than that which is normal for the UK.
The additional performance Base Package condition, requiring the share price to increase by 20% or more, The table below shows the annual base packages of the Executive is also above and beyond what is common in both the UK Directors on listing on the main market of the London Stock and Canada.
Following the introduction of the LTIP the Remuneration Committee has implemented a two year base package freeze for In light of the performance conditions described above, the the Executive Directors and therefore salaries will not be increased Remuneration Committee believes that the award levels, which in 2009. reflect the equivalent of three years annual awards, are appropriate for the Executive Directors because: Name 2008 2009 Increase a one-off award provides better alignment of the Executive Anthony Buckingham 675,000 675,000 0% Directors with current and potential shareholders following the Paul Atherton 500,000 500,000 0% Companys reorganisation and listing on the main market of the London Stock Exchange than annual rolling awards: Annual bonus a one-off award encourages sustained performance over the Executive Directors are entitled to an annual performance related next three key years for the Company.
Annual awards can have bonus, determined by the Remuneration Committee.
In determining the effect of encouraging staggered or delayed performance the appropriate bonus level, the Remuneration Committee takes into e. g. not maximising investments and performance as soon as account progress made towards the Companys long-term goals, possible in any given year so as to ensure that new awards the level of commitment of the Chief Executive Officer and Chief benefit from any uplift such investments and performance will Financial Officer in advancing the interests of the Company and create.
The Remuneration Committee believes that it is in the share performance.
best possible interest of shareholders for maximum value to be accrued as soon as possible: Long Term Incentives a one-off award to cover three years of annual grant provides a 2008 Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP greater retentive effect than annual grants and ensures continuity The LTIP was approved by shareholders in June 2008.
The main in management following the Companys listing in London: and features of the awards to Executive Directors are: whilst the Remuneration Committee is keen to move to UK one-off awards of performance shares reflecting the equivalent of standard annual grant patterns as soon as practicable, provided three years of award: to do so is in the best interests of shareholders, providing a a face value of 1,200% of base package for the CEO and 800% one-off award equivalent to three years of annual awards of base package for the CFO, reflecting the equivalent of three counterbalances the Remuneration Committees decision to years annual awards: remove annual vesting for long-term incentives, replacing it the performance conditions, measured over the three-year with a three-year vesting period and an additional one year period starting with the date of the award, are relative total holding period.
shareholder return TSR versus a group of international oil companies and a requirement for the share-price to increase by at least 20% between the date of the award and the end of the vesting period: 42 Heritage Oil Limited Annual Report & Accounts 2008 The comparator group of companies was selected on the basis of their size and scale of operations, market capitalisation and geographic spread.
The comparator group comprises: Aminex plc Imperial Energy plc Premier Oil plc BowLeven plc JKX Oil & Gas plc SOCO International plc Dana Petroleum plc Mariner Energy Inc. Stone Energy Corp. Dominion Petroleum Ltd. McMoran Exploration Co Swift Energy Co. Gulf Keystone Petroleum Ltd. Melrose Resources plc Tullow Oil plc Hunting plc Oilexco Inc. Venture Production plc It is not planned to make any further awards to existing members of the LTIP scheme before 2011, although awards may be made to new senior members of staff between 2009 and 2011.
2008 Replacement Share Option Scheme HOC implemented The Heritage Oil Corporation Plan the Original Plan following approval by its shareholders in 2004 and granted options under the Original Plan to its Executive and Non-Executive Directors and other employees and consultants at that time.
The grant of options included all the then current Executive and Non-Executive Board members which excluded General Sir Michael Wilkes and Salim Hassan Macki.
As a result of the Group reorganisation and subsequent listing on the main market of the London Stock Exchange, all the Board members were entitled to retain their options under the Original Plan and exchange them for options to acquire 10 Ordinary Shares of the Company for every one Common Share they held under option consistent with the Companys 10-for-1 share split.
The Original Plan was then cancelled and on 18 March 2008, the Company adopted The Heritage Oil Limited 2008 Replacement Share Option Scheme Replacement Scheme which is substantially in the same form as the Original Plan.
The purpose of the Replacement Scheme is to act as a replacement to the Original Plan and to honour the options granted under it by granting holders the option to purchase Ordinary Shares.
The Replacement Scheme is administered by the Board and no further options will be granted under it.
The maximum number of Ordinary Shares that may be issued under the Replacement Scheme was 24,545,340, being the equivalent number of shares required to replace the options granted under the Original Plan that were still in existence prior to their cancellation.
The Company will not grant any further options under this share scheme.
Pensions Executive Directors receive pension contributions of an annual amount equal to 10% of their base package into a personal pension scheme nominated by the executive.
Other Benefits The Companys policy is to provide Executive Directors with certain benefits in kind including private medical insurance and life assurance.
In addition, both Executive Directors are entitled to allowances of 100,000 Anthony Buckingham and 77,500 Paul Atherton to cover their living expenses.
Service Agreements The Executive Directors service agreements with the Company are for no fixed term.
In normal circumstances, the agreements may be terminated by the Company giving no less than 24 months notice and the Executive Director giving six months notice.
These arrangements were in place during their time as Executive Directors of HOC and were inherited by the Company on listing in London.
The Board feels that these notice periods were appropriate to recruit and retain the Executive Directors, and whilst it has no present intention of changing them, it will continue to keep them under review.
Executive Director Date of contract Unexpired term Notice period by Company Notice period by Director Anthony Buckingham 28 March 2008 Rolling Contract 24 months 6 months Paul Atherton 28 March 2008 Rolling Contract 24 months 6 months In the event of a change of control of the Company, if the Executive Directors resign or the Company terminates their appointment within 24 months of such an event, they will each be entitled to an immediate payment in lieu of notice of a sum equivalent to three times their annual base package.
In addition, they will be entitled to a payment of $75,000 in the event they are asked to resign from the Board of HOC in any event other than as a result of a change of control.
The Company also may terminate the agreements and make payments in lieu of notice.
Currently the Executive Directors service contracts do not provide for mitigation in the event of early termination.
The Executive Directors do not have service contracts with any Group subsidiary.
Heritage Oil Limited Annual Report & Accounts 2008 43 Remuneration Report continued Non-Executive Directors The remuneration of Non-Executive Directors is a matter for the Remuneration Committee.
The Companys policy is to set levels for Non-Executive Directors remuneration so as to ensure that they are sufficient to attract, retain and motivate high quality Directors.
Non-Executive Directors annual fee levels for 2008 and 2009 are set out below.
Fees were paid from 28 March 2008, the date of the Companys reorganisation and listing on the Main Market of the London Stock Exchange, or the date of appointment if later.
Actual fees paid or accrued for the year ended 31 December 2008 are shown in the Directors Emoluments table on page 45.
2008 2009 Michael Hibberd 80,000 80,000 Salim Hassan Macki 80,000 80,000 General Sir Michael Wilkes 80,000 80,000 Gregory Turnbull 50,000 50,000 John McLeod 50,000 50,000 Additional fee for each day worked in excess of the agreed 20 days per annum 2,000 2,000 Michael Hibberd, Gregory Turnbull and John McLeod also receive fees of Cdn$22,500 per annum from HOC for acting as Directors of that company.
Messrs. Hibberd, Turnbull, McLeod and Wilkes are entitled to additional fees of 20,000 in 2008 for the work they undertook in connection with the Companys reorganisation and listing on the London Stock Exchange.
The Non-Executive Directors terms of appointment may be terminated by each party giving three months notice in writing.
Michael Hibberd and Gregory Turnbull will be entitled to a change of control bonus of $75,000 plus a pro-rata amount of their previous years bonus multiplied by a stock price performance factor in the event that HOC changes control.
With the exception of General Sir Michael Wilkes and Salim Hassan Macki all the Non-Executive Directors will be entitled to a payment of $75,000 in the event they are asked to resign from the Board of HOC in any event other than as a result of a change of control.
General Sir Michael Wilkes received a payment of 50,000 on joining the Board of the Company.
No other Director received this form of payment on joining the Board of the Company.
Initial term of Subsequent term Non-Executive Director Date of contract Notice period appointment of appointment Michael Hibberd 28 March 2008 3 months 2010 AGM 3 years Gregory Turnbull 28 March 2008 3 months 2009 AGM 3 years John McLeod 28 March 2008 3 months 2009 AGM 3 years General Sir Michael Wilkes 28 March 2008 3 months 2011 AGM 3 years Salim Hassan Macki 12 August 2008 3 months 2009 AGM 3 years Non-Executive Directors do not participate in the Companys pension arrangements.
Although some of these Directors have previously received grants of options, they will not receive any further grants or participate in any other long-term incentive arrangements.
44 Heritage Oil Limited Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Performance Graph The following graph shows the Companys TSR since trading of the Companys shares began on the London Stock Exchange on 31 March 2008 against the FTSE 250 Index.
The Remuneration Committee has selected the FTSE 250 Index as it represents a broad equity market index which includes the Company and therefore provides a good indication of the Companys general performance.
The figures also include living allowances of 100,000 Anthony Buckingham and 77,500 Paul Atherton but exclude pension contributions.
2 The Directors became entitled to emoluments payable by the Company from 28 March 2008.
Prior to this date the Directors were only entitled to emoluments payable by HOC which was then the parent company of the Group.
3 Michael Hibberd, Gregory Turnbull and John McLeod receive fees of Cdn$22,500 per annum paid by HOC as Directors of that company.
These fees have been included in the above table.
4 General Sir Michael Wilkes received a payment of 50,000 on joining the board in 2008.
5 Mr. Macki was appointed on 12 August 2008.
6 Michael Hibberd, Gregory Turnbull, John McLeod and General Sir Michael Wilkes are entitled to an additional fee of 20,000 in 2008 for the work they undertook in connection with the Companys reorganisation and listing on the London Stock Exchange.
7 The difference from the base package of 500,000 mentioned above is due to the foreign exchange differences.
Heritage Oil Limited Annual Report & Accounts 2008 45 Remuneration Report continued Performance Shares Conditional awards of Performance Shares were granted to Executive Directors on 19 June 2008 under the LTIP, subsequent to the Plans approval at the Companys AGM, as shown below.
1 The share price on the date of exercise was 1.72 No options were granted or lapsed during 2008.
The closing share price on 31 December 2008 was 2.05.
During the period the highest share price was 3.50 and the lowest was 1.38.
This report was approved by the Board on 28 April 2009 and signed on its behalf by: John McLeod Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 28 April 2009 46 Heritage Oil Limited Annual Report & Accounts 2008
