DIRECTORS REPORT: GOVERNANCE Directors Remuneration Report Mr G Davis Chief Executive and Mr R Dyrbus Finance Director Remuneration Committee Report are invited to attend to respond to questions raised by the Committee.
Mr M R Phillips Company Secretary also attends Members meetings as secretary to the Committee.
They are, however, all Dr P H Jungels Chairman : specifically excluded from any matter concerning the details of Mr M H C Herlihy: their own remuneration.
Mr C F Knott: Advisers to the Remuneration Committee Ms S E Murray: The Committee sets the remuneration package for each Mr I J G Napier: Executive Director and member of the Chief Executives Mr M D Williamson: and Committee after taking advice principally from external sources, including remuneration consultants Hewitts Limited and Towers Mr M R Phillips, Company Secretary, acts as Secretary Perrin, both of whom are engaged by the Committee as required.
Hewitts Limited also reviews the Groups remuneration principles and practices against corporate governance best practice.
Responsibilities Neither provides any other services for the Group.
The responsibilities of the Committee include:- Executive remuneration data provided by Towers Perrin and determination of the Remuneration Policy for Boardex have also been used to assist in benchmarking Executive Directors and members of the Chief processes ensuring the consistent application of the executive Executives Committee: remuneration policy.
recommendations to the Board in respect of Chairmans remuneration: Mrs K A Turner Group Human Resources Director and the Group Compensation and Benefits Manager also provide internal determination of targets for performance-related support and advice to the Committee.
pay elements: policy for Directors pensions and contracts: Solicitors Allen & Overy LLP have been retained by the Company oversight of the overall policy for senior management to provide legal advice in respect of the Groups share plans and remuneration: to provide services to the Committee as and when required.
The oversight of disclosures in the Remuneration Report: and firm also provides other legal services to the Group as a whole.
oversight of the Groups share incentive plans.
The Company has appointed Alithos Limited to undertake Total Shareholder Return TSR calculations and provide advice on all TSR related matters, including advice in respect of the bespoke This Report has been prepared by the Remuneration Committee comparator group.
Alithos Limited provides no other services for in accordance with schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 and the Group.
to meet the relevant requirements of the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority.
In particular, it describes how the Board has  LLP, the Groups Auditors, perform applied the principles of good governance relating to Directors agreed upon procedures on Earnings Per Share EPS calculations remuneration set out in the Code.
used in the Groups share plans prior to awards vesting.
The Companies Act 1985 requires the Auditors to report to the Overview Companys shareholders on the audited information within this The Board is ultimately responsible for the framework and cost Report and to state whether, in their opinion: those parts of the of executive remuneration but has delegated to the Remuneration Report have been prepared in accordance with the Companies Committee, within its terms of reference, responsibility for Act 1985.
The Auditors opinion is set out on page 72 and those certain activities.
aspects of this Report which have been subject to audit have In discharging its responsibilities the most significant issues been clearly marked.
addressed by the Committee during the year were: The Remuneration Committee, which met six times during annual review of Executive Directors and Chief Executives the year and operates under clear written terms of reference Committee members remuneration: available on the Companys website www.
com, review of the standard Chief Executives Committee confirms formally that throughout the year it has been service contract: in compliance with the governance rules and best practice review of the executive bonus arrangements including provisions relating to remuneration as set out in section determination of bonus performance criteria, and review 1 of the Code.
of performance against the selected criteria prior to bonus Following the Remuneration Committees recommendation, payment, while ensuring the criteria remain appropriate commencing with the Committees September 2008 meeting, following the Altadis acquisition: a standing item has been added to the Committees agenda approving adjustment to outstanding share plan awards allowing the members of the Committee to meet without the to reflect the Rights Issue: Company Chairman, any Executive Director or other manager approval of minor amendments to share plan rules: being present.
extension of share plans to acquired companies: Membership annual review of the operation, performance conditions, The Remuneration Committee comprises five independent vesting schedules, comparator groups and grant levels of Non-Executive Directors together with the Company Chairman, awards under the Groups share plans, to ensure that they Mr I J G Napier who is excluded from any matter concerning his remain appropriate in light of the Groups current performance own remuneration and or conditions of service, who have no and prospects and aligned with the strategy and objectives of the Group and the Groups overall remuneration strategy: and personal financial interest, other than as shareholders, in the matters to be decided.
annual review of the Committee Terms of Reference.
com 55 DIRECTORS REPORT: GOVERNANCE Directors Remuneration Report continued The Committees approach is fully consistent with the Groups The Remuneration Committee has the discretion to consider overall remuneration strategy and philosophy that all employees corporate performance of environmental, social and governance should be competitively rewarded to attract and retain their issues when setting remuneration for the Executive Directors.
valued skills in the business, as well as supporting corporate strategy, by directly aligning executive management reward with the Groups strategic business goals.
Remuneration Strategy Imperial Tobacco Group PLC operates in a highly competitive, international environment.
For the Group to continue to compete successfully it is essential that the level of remuneration and benefits offered achieves the objectives of attracting, developing, retaining and motivating the necessary high quality pool of talented employees at all levels across the Group while ensuring that there is a clear link between reward and performance.
The Group, therefore, sets out to provide competitive remuneration to all its employees, appropriate to the business environment in the countries in which it operates.
The Remuneration Committee oversees the remuneration policy for all employees.
The Groups remuneration arrangements not only align with the Groups fundamental values of fairness, competitiveness and equity but also support the Groups corporate strategy.
The Group continues to relocate employees internationally to facilitate their development, and thus enhance the Companys pool of talent, and to achieve the optimum balance of experience within the Group.
A cohesive reward structure across the Group is critical in ensuring that all employees can associate with, and strive for, the Groups strategic goals.
During the year this structure was consistently applied and communicated to ensure each element of the package is understood and the links to corporate performance recognised.
To assist in this communication senior employees were issued with total reward statements.
The Group strives to align the interests of shareholders and employees at all levels by giving employees the opportunity to build a shareholding in Imperial Tobacco Group PLC.
The majority of employees of the Company and its subsidiaries have been offered participation in one or more equity-based plans, with in excess of 32 per cent of eligible employees participating in one or more of those plans.
To ensure the interests of management are aligned with those of shareholders, Executive Directors and senior management are required to meet minimum shareholding guidelines.
Executive Remuneration Policy The Remuneration Committee determines the remuneration package for Executive Directors and members of the Chief Executives Committee.
The package is designed to attract and retain high quality executives, induce loyalty and motivate them to achieve a high level of corporate performance in line with the best interests of shareholders, while not being excessive.
Notwithstanding the Companys continued outperformance of the FTSE 100 as shown in the graph on page 64 the executive remuneration policy continues to be set to provide base salary at around the median level of the comparator group, as set out below, while providing the Executive Directors and Chief Executives Committee members with the capacity to earn upper quartile total compensation on achievement of superior business performance.
The executive remuneration policy combines short-term and longterm rewards focusing on, and significantly weighted towards, performance-related elements that take into account individual, functional and corporate performance.
The main components are base salary, annual cash bonus, share matching scheme SMS, long term incentive plan LTIP and pension benefits.
56 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2008 Percentage of Total Remuneration for the financial year to 30 September 2008 Salary Mr G Davis Bonus Pension Salary Supplement Mr R Dyrbus Benets SMS LTIP Mr G L Blashill Mrs A J Cooper 010 20 30405060708090 100 From the financial year ended September 2004, following a comprehensive remuneration review carried out during that year, more stringent performance criteria have been and continue to be applied to the performance-related elements, as detailed in the annual cash bonus and LTIP sections below and on pages 58 and 61 to 64, both of which form part of this policy statement.
In September 2008, the Remuneration Committee reviewed the executive remuneration policy including award policies, performance criteria, relevant comparator groups and vesting schedules.
Following the review of the bonus scheme detailed below the Committee is satisfied that these remain appropriate and support the strategy and objectives of the Group, including the creation of shareholder value.
It was, however, agreed that the constituents of the bespoke comparator group for the third element of the LTIP described below should be reviewed following the demerger of Altria and the acquisition of Scottish & Newcastle PLC by Heineken N. V. Executive Directors Remuneration Package Performance Element Objective Award level Performance criteria period Base salary Attract and retain high performing Median of FTSE 50 excluding N A N A individuals reflecting market value companies in the Financial and of role and executives skills Pharmaceutical sectors with and experience.
reference to the FTSE 30 excluding companies in the Financial and Pharmaceutical sectors.
Annual bonus Incentivise delivery of Maximum percentage of Financial Targets 1 year Group objectives.
base salary: 100% base salary Chief Executive Chief Executive and Finance and Finance Director 125%, other Executive Director, 75% other Directors 100%.
Strategic Targets 25% base salary for all Executive Directors.
Share matching Incentivise delivery of improved May elect to invest some or all Adjusted EPS growth.
3 years scheme Group adjusted EPS and align of gross cash element of the with interests of shareholders.
These can be matched on a 1:1 basis.
Long term Incentivise long term delivery Percentage of base salary: 3 elements 3 years incentive plan of TSR and EPS adjusted for Chief Executive 200%, Finance 50% adjusted certain items and align with Director 150%, other Executive EPS growth interests of shareholders.
25% TSR vs. FTSE 100 25% TSR vs. comparator group.
com 57 DIRECTORS REPORT: GOVERNANCE Directors Remuneration Report continued Base Salary Base salary is reviewed annually and is determined by the Remuneration Committee following detailed consideration of a number of factors including individual responsibilities, performance and external market data.
It is set within a range around the market median of the comparator group to reflect the experience, responsibility, effectiveness and market value of the relevant executive.
The comparator group of companies chosen remains the FTSE 50 excluding companies in the Financial and Pharmaceutical sectors with reference to the FTSE 30 excluding companies in the Financial and Pharmaceutical sectors.
Base salary is the only element of the package used to determine pensionable earnings.
Annual Bonus For the financial year ended 30 September 2008 the potential maximum bonus was 125 per cent of base salary for the Chief Executive and Finance Director and 100 per cent for other Executive Directors.
The targets for the year were related to adjusted EPS growth and stringent, quantifiable strategic elements including volume growth and integration-related criteria, however, they are not disclosed as they are considered to be commercially confidential.
During the year the Company achieved adjusted EPS of 136.9 pence.
In addition the strategic targets were met in part resulting in bonuses, as detailed in the table on page 60, being awarded to the Executive Directors.
These payments represented 112.8 per cent of base salary in respect of the Chief Executive and Finance Director and 90.1 per cent in respect of the other Executive Directors.
Cash bonuses were also earned by other senior management for achieving relevant performance targets for the financial year to 30 September 2008.
For the financial year ending 30 September 2009 the Remuneration Committee has determined that the potential maximum bonus will remain unchanged.
The performance criteria continue to be based on financial targets in respect of 100 per cent of base salary for the Chief Executive and Finance Director and 75 per cent for other Executive Directors.
The performance criteria for 25 per cent of base salary will be based on stringent, quantifiable strategic targets which are set each year and are subject to the achievement of the minimum threshold in respect of the financial targets.
Any bonus earned up to 100 per cent of base salary for the Chief Executive and Finance Director and 75 per cent for other Executive Directors is paid in cash and is eligible for investment into the Share Matching Scheme as detailed on page 65.
Any bonus payable in excess of this level is paid in shares which the Director is required to retain for a minimum of three years.
These shares are not eligible for investment in the Share Matching Scheme.
In support of the Groups key performance indicators, as set out on page 17, the Remuneration Committee has determined that the financial performance criteria for the financial year ended 30 September 2009 will be based on a matrix comprising Adjusted EPS and Group debt and that the strategic targets will be based on measures including volume growth and delivery of synergies from the Altadis integration.
No element of the bonus is guaranteed.
58 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2008 Directors Emoluments for the Year Ended 30 September 2008 Audited 2008 2007 000 000 Executive Directors Base Salary 2,460 2,515 Benefits 85 93 Pension Salary Supplement 230 239 Bonus 2,560 2,140 1 LTIP annual vesting 2,576 2,866 2 SMS vesting 1,877 2,092 9,788 9,945 Non-Executive Directors Fees 846 660 Benefits 1 3 Subsidiary Board Fees 32 Consultancy fees 119 998 663 Former Executive Directors Salary of former Executive Director 283 96 Bonus of former Executive Director 68 Pension Salary Supplement of former Executive Director 16 16 Consultancy fees to former Executive Director 100 103 Subsidiary Board Fees 58 22 1 LTIP vesting 893 2 SMS vesting 676 6 Benefits 11 4 2,037 315 Fees of former Non-Executive Directors Subsidiary Board Fees 66 22 66 22 Total remuneration 12,889 10,945 Chief Executives Committee Salary 906 725 Benefits 29 25 Pension Salary Supplement 43 48 Bonus 572 487 1 LTIP annual vesting 282 469 2 SMS annual vesting 215 396 2,047 2,150 1 Value of LTIP shares vesting in the year based on the prevailing closing share price on the day of exercise.
2 Value of SMS shares vesting on maturity based on the prevailing closing share price on the day of vesting.
Key Management Compensation for the Year Ended 30 September 2008 Audited 2008 2007 000 000 Short term employee benefits 7,609 6,648 Post-employment benefits 364 312 Other long term benefits Termination benefits Share-based payment 3,265 2,669 11,238 9,629 www.
2 Benefits in kind principally include the provision of a company car and health insurance.
3 LTIP and SMS represent the value of awards vesting and LTIP options exercised in the year.
4 Mr D Cresswell retired from the Board on 31 December 2007.
5 Dr F A Rogerson resigned from the Board on 27 June 2007.
Dr F A Rogerson completed a handover period and his employment terminated on 27 June 2008.
6 Mr J-D Comolli was appointed on 15 July 2008 and in addition to his Directors fees receives consultancy fees for services provided to the Group.
7 Mr A G L Alexander retired from the Board on 29 January 2008.
8 Messrs D C Bonham and C R Day retired from the Board on 2 January 2007 and resigned from the Board on 16 February 2007 respectively.
9 Messrs B F Bich and B Setrakian were appointed on 25 April 2008 and 25 June 2008 respectively.
10 Includes payment in respect of chairmanship of Board Committees at an annual rate of 10,000.
11 Mr S Huismans retired from the Board on 31 January 2006.
However, Mr S Huismans received fees in connection with his Non-Executive Director appointments to Subsidiary Boards within the Reemtsma and Altadis Groups.
12 Mr S T Painter retired from the Board on 31 May 2000 but received fees on a consultancy basis and in connection with his Non-Executive Director appointments to Subsidiary Boards within the Reemtsma and Altadis Groups.
13 No sums were paid to any Director by way of taxable expenses allowances and no Directors waived their fees.
2 Or date of retirement if earlier.
3 All Directors took up their rights in respect of the Rights Issue and the Contingent Rights have been adjusted to reflect the bonus element of the Rights Issue.
5 Messrs B F Bich, B Setrakian and J-D Comolli were appointed on 25 April 2008, 25 June 2008 and 15 July 2008 respectively.
6 Mr A G L Alexander retired from the Board on 29 January 2008.
7 Includes 377 ordinary shares and 209 American Depositary Shares ADSs, each ADS representing two ordinary shares.
There have been no changes in these holdings since 30 September 2008, other than the share purchases by Mr B Bich pursuant to an irrevocable mandate given by Mr Bich to his brokers under which they purchase American Depositary Shares each month equivalent in value to his net Directors fees.
Executive Share Retention To ensure the interests of management are aligned with those of shareholders, Executive Directors and senior management are required to meet minimum shareholding guidelines.
Over a period of five years from appointment they are required to build a holding in the Groups shares to a current minimum value broadly equivalent to three times base salary for the Chief Executive and Finance Director and twice base salary in respect of the other Executive Directors.
Other senior management are expected to invest at a level equivalent to between once and twice base salary, dependent upon grade.
Failure to meet the minimum shareholding is taken into account when determining eligibility for future LTIP awards.
All Executive Directors currently exceed their required shareholding.
Effects of the Rights Issue To take account of the effects of the Rights Issue completed in June 2008, adjustments were made to awards under the Groups share plans.
In respect of the Share Matching Scheme, the Trustee sold sufficient rights nil paid to enable the balance of the rights to be taken up, using the proceeds of the sale.
The newly acquired shares were allocated pro-rata to the relevant participants and will be released on the same basis as the awards to which they relate.
In the case of the savings-related Sharesave Plan and the LTIP, the Remuneration Committee adjusted the number of shares under option, or subject to awards, and in the case of the savings-related Sharesave Plan, the price at which the shares may be acquired was also adjusted.
These adjustments were made in accordance with the scheme or plan rules.
The Groups Auditors performed their agreed upon procedures on the adjustments as required by those rules.
Where appropriate the adjustments were approved by the relevant tax authorities.
Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP Annual awards are made under the LTIP to Executive Directors and other senior management.
These awards vest three years after grant, subject to the satisfaction of performance criteria over the relevant three year performance period.
All grants are at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee and no employee has a right to receive any such grant.
Awards granted prior to November 2005 were equivalent to 75 per cent of base salary for all Executive Directors and at a lower level for other senior management.
Following a comprehensive remuneration review in 2004, and subsequent shareholder approval at the 2005 AGM, awards made in November 2005, November 2006 and October 2007 were equivalent to 200 per cent of base salary for the Chief Executive, 150 per cent for the Finance Director and 100 per cent for the other Executive Directors with awards at a lower level for other senior management.
com 61 DIRECTORS REPORT: GOVERNANCE Directors Remuneration Report continued Current Structure From November 2005 the performance criteria for all awards were split into three elements as follows: First Element Fifty per cent of the award with a performance criterion based on average growth in adjusted Earnings Per Share based on an agreed protocol EPS, after adjusting for inflation over the period of the award.
At the Remuneration Committees request the Auditors performed agreed upon procedures on the calculations.
12.5 per cent of this element i. e. 6.25 per cent of the total award vests if average annual EPS growth, after adjusting for UK inflation Real Annual EPS Growth, equals 3 per cent and 100 per cent of this element i. e. 50 per cent of the total award vests if Real Annual EPS Growth equals or exceeds 10 per cent.
Between these two points this element vests on a straight-line basis.
Second Element Twenty five per cent of the award with a performance criterion based on Total Shareholder Return TSR relative to the FTSE 100 Index as described below.
The performance criterion for this element is based on a sliding scale depending on TSR achieved over the relevant period.
No vesting of this element occurs unless the Companys TSR ranks it in the top 50 of the companies constituting the FTSE 100 Index.
At this performance threshold 30 per cent of this element i. e. 7.5 per cent of the total award vests.
If the return ranks the Company in the top 25 of the Index, this element i. e. 25 per cent of the total award vests in full.
Between these thresholds this element vests on a straight-line basis.
Third Element Twenty five per cent of the award with a performance criterion based on TSR relative to a bespoke comparator group as described below.
The performance criterion for this element is also based on a sliding scale depending on TSR achieved over the relevant period.
No vesting of this element occurs unless the Companys TSR exceeds that of the bottom six companies constituting the comparator group comprising 12 tobacco and alcohol companies as detailed below.
At this performance threshold, 30 per cent of this element i. e. 7.5 per cent of the total award vests.
If the return ranks the Company in the top three of the comparator group, this element i. e. 25 per cent of the total award vests in full.
The proposed comparator group for the November 2008 award is: Altria Group Inc. British American Tobacco PLC Carlsberg A S Diageo PLC Heineken N. V. Imperial Tobacco Group PLC Interbrew S. A. Japan Tobacco Inc. Philip Morris International Inc Pernod Ricard S. A. Reynolds American Inc. SABMiller PLC If one of the comparator group companies is acquired prior to the granting of an award a suitable replacement will be made.
For any corporate actions affecting a comparator group company during an award period the intention would be to mirror the actions of a passive investor, e. g. for an equity bid the new shares offered in exchange for the original company would be held for the remainder of the award period.
The TSR calculations use share prices averaged over a period of three months to determine the initial and closing prices rather than those ruling on a single day.
It is assumed that the cash flow of dividend payments is recognised on the date the shares are declared ex-dividend.
This method is considered to give a fairer and less volatile result as improved performance has to be sustained for several weeks before it effectively impacts on the TSR calculations.
All share prices and dividend flows are converted to sterling on the applicable date to ensure that the calculations reflect the return achievable by a UK based investor.
The TSR calculations themselves are performed independently by Alithos Limited.
Each element operates independently and is capable of vesting regardless of the Companys performance in respect of the other elements.
During the year the Remuneration Committee reviewed the performance criteria, award policy, comparator groups and vesting schedules for LTIP awards and decided that, notwithstanding the current conditions in financial markets, the three elements remain the most important measures that drive and measure sustainable improvement in shareholder value.
The TSR criteria reflect comparative performance against the appropriate FTSE sector and the bespoke comparator group of companies.
The EPS criterion reflects a key part of the Groups strategy to create sustainable shareholder value.
Awards Under the Historical Structure For awards granted between December 2000 and November 2004, EPS growth was the sole performance criterion.
This was seen as focusing on the financial performance of the business, over which Directors and senior management could exercise influence.
These awards vested on a sliding scale depending on average growth in basic EPS adjusted under the terms of the relevant protocol.
The EPS calculations were confirmed by the Auditors.
For awards granted between 2000 and 2002 no vesting occurred unless the Companys Real Annual EPS Growth was positive.
For awards granted in 2003 and 2004 no vesting occurred unless the Companys Real Annual EPS Growth exceeded 3 per cent.
Full vesting occurred if Real Annual EPS Growth was equal to or exceeded 10 per cent.
Between these two points the award vested on a straight-line basis.
62 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2008 Vesting of Awards On vesting a participant is granted an option to acquire the relevant number of shares.
The option may be exercised at any time up to the seventh anniversary of its date of grant.
Within this framework, for senior managers based outside the UK, the vesting process may be amended to conform to local tax and securities legislation.
There is no opportunity to re-test if any of the performance criteria are not achieved.
The Remuneration Committee has absolute discretion to vary, but not increase, the extent to which any awards vest.
This ensures that they only vest, and vest at an appropriate level, if there has been an improvement in the underlying financial performance of the Company, including the maintenance of long-term return on capital employed.
Under the LTIP Rules, in the event that Imperial Tobacco Group PLC is acquired the relevant performance period would come to an end on the date of acquisition.
Any outstanding awards would vest on a time pro-rata basis, subject to the achievement of the applicable performance criteria.
2 Mr D Cresswell retired from the Board on 31 December 2007.
There have been no changes in any Directors awards since 30 September 2008, other than the vesting of the November 2005 November 2008 award detailed below.
com 63 DIRECTORS REPORT: GOVERNANCE Directors Remuneration Report continued During the year, the November 2004 November 2007 award vested partially.
Real Annual EPS Growth over the period averaged 9.42 per cent, resulting in partial vesting of the award.
The remaining shares under award therefore lapsed.
In respect of the November 2005 November 2008 award, the first to be granted under the current structure described above, based on EPS and TSR performance to the end of the financial year, partial vesting of 93.9 per cent of the first element, 77.6 per cent of the second element and none of the third element vested on 25 November 2008.
For illustrative purposes only, the share price on 24 November 2008, being the latest practicable date prior to publication, was 15.77 valuing the awards as follows: Award vesting Award vesting Award lapsing No.
of shares over Illustrative value No.
of shares which option granted 000 Mr G Davis 37,436 73,734 1,163 Mr R Dyrbus 17,818 35,094 553 Mr G L Blashill 8,519 16,778 265 Mrs A J Cooper 5,039 9,926 157 The value of any options exercised could vary significantly from that shown due to share price movements.
The Remuneration Committee regards the November 2006 November 2009 and the November 2007 November 2010 awards to be too distant from maturity to be included in the value projected above.
However, in respect of the 2006 2009 award, based upon interim measurement calculations prepared as at 30 September 2008 full vesting of the first element, partial vesting of 72.0 per cent of the second element and none of the third element would occur if this performance were maintained over the relevant performance period.
In respect of the 2007 2010 award based upon interim measurement calculations prepared as at 30 September 2008 partial vesting of 97.0 per cent of the first element, 63.6 per cent of the second element and 53.3 per cent of the third element would occur if this performance were maintained over the relevant performance period.
The illustrative values based on the above share price and performance criteria are as follows: Potential awards vesting November 2009 November 2010 Illustrative value Illustrative value No.
of shares 000 Mr G Davis 70,380 1,110 68,631 1,082 Mr R Dyrbus 33,505 528 31,527 497 Mr G L Blashill 16,436 259 15,350 242 Mrs A J Cooper 10,748 169 15,534 245 Evidence of the Groups sustained performance on a TSR basis when compared with the FTSE 100 Index is set out below.
Total Return Indices Imperial Tobacco and FTSE 100 350 Imperial Tobacco FTSE 100 300 250 200 150 100 Sep 03 Sep 04 Sep 05 Sep 06 Sep 07 Sep 08 The FTSE 100 Index is seen to provide the most appropriate and widely recognised index for benchmarking the corporate performance of the Company, which is a constituent of that index and reflects the benchmark index used as an LTIP performance criterion.
64 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2008 Share Matching Schemes SMS Under the SMS the Remuneration Committee at its absolute discretion invites Executive Directors and the majority of the Groups management to invest any proportion of their gross bonus capped at 100 per cent of base salary for the Chief Executive and Finance Director and 75 per cent for other Executive Directors in Imperial Tobacco Group PLC ordinary shares to be held by a nominee managed by the Employee Benefit Trust.
Provided that the shares lodged are left with the nominee for three years and the participant remains an employee in the Group, they will be matched on a one for one basis.
Employees can vote shares held in the nominee by giving written instructions to the nominee.
In respect of investments made by Executive Directors under the SMS a performance criterion is applied to the matched shares such that matching only occurs if the Group has achieved Real Average EPS Growth in excess of 3 per cent after adjusting for UK inflation over the three year retention period, being an indicator of sustained ongoing profit delivery.
Achievement measurement is based on the same protocol as that applying to the LTIP.
There is no opportunity to re-test if this performance criterion is not met.
In setting the performance criterion for SMS awards, the Remuneration Committee decided that EPS reflects a key part of the Groups strategy to create sustainable shareholder value.
Under the SMS Rules, should Imperial Tobacco Group PLC be acquired, the performance period would come to an end on the date of acquisition.
There have been no changes in any Directors contingent rights since 30 September 2008.
During January 2008, annual bonuses earned in the financial year to 30 September 2004 and lodged under the SMS for a three year period matured, providing matched shares for participants on a one for one basis.
In respect of annual bonuses earned in the financial year to 30 September 2007 and paid in December 2007, the Executive Directors elected, in February 2008, to invest their entire bonus in the form of Imperial Tobacco Group PLC ordinary shares under the SMS.
These will be matched on a one for one basis provided they are left in the SMS for three years, the participant remains an employee in the Group and the Company has achieved in excess of 3 per cent Real Annual EPS Growth over the retention period.
This performance criterion and the award policy and vesting schedules were reviewed by the Committee during the year and deemed to remain appropriate.
These matching shares are shown within contingent rights arising above.
com 65 DIRECTORS REPORT: GOVERNANCE Directors Remuneration Report continued It is anticipated that, in February 2009, the Executive Directors will again invest their entire Financial Targets element of annual cash bonus earned in the financial year to 30 September 2008 in the form of Imperial Tobacco Group PLC ordinary shares under the SMS.
Share Options The Company does not operate an executive share option scheme.
However, Executive Directors are eligible along with all employees of the Company and participating subsidiaries of the Group, where possible to participate in Imperial Tobacco Group PLCs savings-related Sharesave Plan.
Under this Plan options are granted, at a discount of up to 20 per cent to the closing mid-market price of an Imperial Tobacco Group PLC ordinary share on the London Stock Exchange on the day prior to invitation, to participants who have contracted to save up to 250 per month over a period of three or five years.
2 Any option not exercised by the end of the range of exercisable dates will expire.
3 Gains made on exercise, calculated as the difference between the exercise price and the market price on the date of exercise.
Aggregate gains during the year were 10,226 2007: 47,557.
There have been no changes in any Directors share options since 30 September 2008.
The Companys middle market share price at the close of business on 30 September 2008, being the last trading day of the financial year, was 17.97 and the range of the middle market price during the year was 16.27 to 23.95 27.52 unadjusted for the rights issue.
Full details of the Directors share interests are available for inspection in the Register of Directors Interests at the Companys registered office.
Award Dates It is the Groups policy to grant awards under all its employee share plans on predetermined dates based on an annual cycle.
66 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2008 Employee Benefit Trusts The Imperial Tobacco Group Employee and Executive Benefit Trust the Executive Trust and the Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2001 Employee Benefit Trust the 2001 Trust have been established to acquire ordinary shares and American Depositary Shares in the Company, by subscription or purchase, from funds provided by the Group to satisfy rights to shares and American Depositary Shares arising on the exercise of share options and on the vesting of the SMS and LTIP awards.
Details of the shareholdings by the Employee Benefit Trusts are as follows: Shares under Balance at Purchased Distributed Balance at Award at Surplus 1 10 2007 during year during year 30 9 2008 30 9 2008 Shortfall Executive Trust 994,613 407,854 301,080 1,101,387 938,945 162,442 2001 Trust 3,761,126 1,245,014 1,201,443 3,804,697 4,523,942 719,245 As at 30 September 2008, the Company also held 51,717,000 shares in Treasury which may be used to satisfy options and awards under its share plans.
Options and awards may also be satisfied by the issue of new shares directly from the Company.
Share Plan Flow Rates The Companys policy has always been to satisfy all awards under its share plans from market purchased shares through the Trusts.
The Trust Deeds and the Rules of all plans contain provisions limiting awards to 5 per cent in five years and 10 per cent in ten years for all employee share plans with an additional restriction to 5 per cent in ten years for executive plans.
Currently an aggregate total of only 0.51 per cent of the Companys issued share capital is subject to awards under all the Groups executive and all employee share plans.
In future the Trusts may also be provided with shares held by the Company in Treasury in order to satisfy vesting awards.
Since demerger in 1996 the cumulative awards under all of the Companys share plans total 2.4 per cent of its issued share capital.
Following initial grants on demerger, subsequent annual grants have averaged 0.3 per cent of issued share capital.
Summary of Awards Granted Cumulative Awards granted as a Awards granted during the year as a Limit on awards percentage of issued share capital percentage of issued share capital 10% in 10 years 1.9 0.2 5% in 5 years 0.9 0.2 5% in 10 years executive schemes 1.1 0.1 Executive Directors Pensions Post 6 April 2006 A day the Groups UK pension policy, which applies to all current Executive Directors, provides the option to maintain membership of or join new employees the UK Imperial Tobacco Pension Fund or receive a salary supplement in lieu of membership of the Fund.
The Executive Directors are all members of the Imperial Tobacco Pension Fund, the principal defined benefit scheme operated by the Group.
For members who joined prior to 1 April 2002 the fund is largely non-contributory with a normal retirement age of 60.
The fund allows members to achieve the maximum pension of two-thirds of their salary at normal retirement age usually after 32 years service.
Pension commutation to enable participants to receive a lump sum on retirement is permitted.
For death before retirement a capital sum equal to four times salary is payable together with a spouses pension of two-thirds of the members expected pension at retirement.
For death in retirement, a spouses pension of two-thirds of the members pre-commutation pension is payable.
Dependent children will also receive allowances.
Pensions increase annually by the lesser of 10 per cent and the increase in the Retail Prices Index, together with an option under the rules to surrender part of a pension in order for the annual increase to be in line with the increase in the Retail Prices Index to 15 per cent.
From 6 April 2006 a new tax regime was introduced by HM Revenue & Customs HMRC which abolished most of the detailed limits previously imposed on pension schemes and replaced them with a more simplified approach.
Each member now has a Lifetime Allowance LTA, 1.65 million for retirements in the tax year 2008 2009 and a tax, called the lifetime allowance charge, is levied at retirement if the value of their pension benefit from all sources exceeds this amount.
For any member whose total benefit value on 6 April 2006 exceeded the LTA, transitional arrangements allowed them to register the higher value so that they would not be subject to a large retrospective lifetime allowance charge.
To qualify for this enhanced protection the member was required to opt out of fund membership as regards future service accrual in order to retain a final salary linked pension entitlement in respect of past service.
All Executive Directors earn benefits on the standard scale with a normal retirement age of 60.
Other than Mrs A J Cooper, each of the current Executive Directors has opted out of fund membership as regards future service accrual as a result of registering for enhanced protection with HMRC.
The detailed HMRC rules governing enhanced protection mean that it may not be permissible in some rare circumstances for the full final salary linked pension based on service up to 6 April 2006 to be paid from the fund.
In this event an additional pension will be paid by the Company through an unfunded unapproved retirement benefit scheme UURBS so that the full accrued benefit may be provided.
com 67 DIRECTORS REPORT: GOVERNANCE Directors Remuneration Report continued Mr R Dyrbus is in receipt of a salary supplement of 35 per cent of salary, which is in lieu of future pensionable service accrual and arises because his accrued pension on 6 April 2006 was well below the maximum pension of two-thirds of salary.
Mrs A J Cooper is also in receipt of a salary supplement.
Prior to 6 April 2006 her pension benefits were limited by the effect of HMRCs earnings cap.
Although this cap was removed as from 6 April 2006, the Imperial Tobacco Pension Fund did not disapply it in respect of past pensionable service but maintained its own earnings cap going forward.
For service from 6 April 2006 onwards and for pensionable salary in excess of the Funds earnings cap, the standard Fund benefit is a pension at the lower accrual rate of 1 60ths with a 50 per cent spouses pension and member contributions of 5 per cent of this top slice of salary are payable.
As an alternative to extra pension accrual on this top slice of salary through the UURBS, Mrs Cooper receives a salary supplement of 12 per cent of this amount.
In each case these salary supplements have been calculated by the independent actuaries to reflect the value of the benefits of which they are in lieu and are discounted for early payment and for employers National Insurance contributions.
The supplements are non-compensatory and non-pensionable.
The following table provides the information required by both the Listing Rules and schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 and gives details for each Director of: the annual accrued pension payable on retirement calculated as if he had left service at the year end any potential UURBS entitlement is included : the increase in accrued pension during the year, excluding any increases for inflation in respect of the disclosure required under the Listing Rules: and the transfer value of the increase in accrued pension calculated in accordance with the actuarial guidance note GN11.
None of the Directors has made additional voluntary contributions.
Executive Directors Pension Disclosures Audited Disclosures required under Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 Listing Rules Increase in Accrued pension 000 Transfer value of accrued pension 000 accrued Increase pension Transfer decrease value of net of Pensionable during the inflation increase Age at service at Increase year net of during the net of 30 9 2008 30 9 2008 At during the At At Directors Directors At inflation year Years Years 1 10 2007 year 30 9 2008 1 10 2007 contributions contribution 30 9 2008 000 000 Mr G Davis 58 36 557 69 626 10,061 467 9,594 47 715 Mr R Dyrbus 55 26 268 23 291 4,185 213 3,972 12 164 Mrs A J Cooper 42 9 37 11 48 317 23 12 352 9 68 1 Mr G L Blashill 61 40 260 20 2805,206 401 4,805 9 151 Former Director 1 Mr D Cresswell 63 45 253 4 2574,799 650 4,149 4 64 1 Mr Cresswell retired from the Board on 31 December 2007.
Mr Cresswell and Mr Blashill drew pension during the course of the year, as is permitted under the fund rules.
Mr Cresswell left employment on 31 December 2007, and Mr Blashill was still in employment as at 30 September 2008.
The transfer value figures in the table above incorporate allowance for the benefits paid out in order to provide a relevant comparison with the start of the year figures and have been calculated consistently with those disclosed at 30 September 2007.
As at 30 September 2007, a slightly different methodology was used to calculate transfer values for pensioner members and this gave transfer values at 30 September 2007 of 5,161,000 for Mr Cresswell and 5,728,000 for Mr Blashill.
The accrued pensions at 30 September 2008 represent the benefits accrued, assuming that they first started to draw pension from that date 31 December 2007 for Mr Cresswell.
This is consistent with those figures disclosed at 30 September 2007.
The transfer values disclosed at 30 September 2008 have been calculated using the amended transfer value basis introduced in July 2008 following a review by the Scheme Actuary.
The combined effect of changing market conditions over the course of the year and the revised basis has been to reduce transfer values, leading to some negative changes under the Directors' Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 despite the increase in accrued pensions.
Other than including an allowance for the benefits drawn by Mr Cresswell and Mr Blashill during the year, the transfer values disclosed above do not represent the value of a potential liability of the pension scheme.
Benefits The principal taxable benefits for Executive Directors are the provision of company cars and health insurance.
Remuneration from other Non-Executive Directorships The Company recognises that external non-executive directorships are beneficial for both the Executive Director concerned and the Company.
At the discretion of the Board, Executive Directors are permitted to retain fees received in respect of any such non-executive directorship.
Each serving Executive Director is restricted to one external non-executive directorship and may not serve as chairman of a FTSE 100 company.
Mr G Davis serves on the Board of Wolseley plc and received fees of 70,300.
68 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2008 Executive Directors Service Agreements The service agreements for Mr G Davis and Mr R Dyrbus were entered into at the time of the demerger of the Company from Hanson Group and the provisions dealing with compensation on termination following a change of control in their service agreements reflect that.
The service agreements for the other Executive Directors reflect the Companys established policy that Executive Directors have service agreements which are terminable on no more than one years notice and that there is no entitlement to the payment of a predetermined amount on termination of employment in any circumstances.
There are no liquidated damages provisions for compensation on termination within Executive Directors service agreements, save as set out in the table below.
The Executive Directors service agreements do contain payment in lieu of notice provisions but these are at the Companys sole discretion.
The Group is unequivocally against rewards for failure and, save in the limited respects referred to above, the circumstances of the termination and an individuals duty and opportunity to mitigate loss are taken into account in every case.
The Groups policy is to stop or reduce compensatory payments to former Directors to the extent that they receive remuneration from other employment during the compensation period and that any such payments should be paid monthly in arrears.
Under the Rules of the LTIP and SMS outstanding awards vest on termination for certain reasons, such as death, retirement, redundancy, the business or company in which the participant is employed ceasing to be part of the Group or on a change of control, on a time-related pro-rata basis and subject to satisfaction of the relevant performance criteria.
If, however, the termination of employment is for a reason other than one of those specified in the Rules an individuals full award lapses.
Executive Directors Service Agreements Executive Directors Date of contract Expiry date Compensation on termination following a change of control Payment of a liquidated sum calculated by reference to benefits receivable Mr G Davis 21 August 1996 Terminable on 52 weeks notice during the notice period Payment of a liquidated sum calculated by reference to benefits receivable Mr R Dyrbus 21 August 1996 Terminable on 52 weeks notice during the notice period Mr G L Blashill 28 October 2005 Terminable on 52 weeks notice No provisions Mrs A J Cooper 1 July 2007 Terminable on 52 weeks notice No provisions Remuneration Policy for Non-Executive Directors Fees for Non-Executive Directors are determined by the Board as a whole with regard to market practice and within the restrictions contained in the Companys Articles of Association.
The remuneration of the Chairman is determined by the Board following recommendation from the Remuneration Committee.
The Non-Executive Directors and the Chairman do not take part in discussions relating to their own remuneration.
They receive no other material pay or benefits with the exception of reimbursement of expenses incurred in connection with their directorship of the Company and provision of administrative support including the use of Company offices by the Vice Chairman Mr A G L Alexander until his retirement on 29 January 2008, do not participate in the Companys share plans, bonus schemes or incentive plans and are not eligible for pension scheme membership.
To align further the interests of the Non-Executive Directors with those of shareholders, it was agreed that a proportion of their fees be applied, after statutory deductions, to purchase shares in Imperial Tobacco Group PLC.
These shares are to be held by a nominee during the term of each Non-Executive Directorship.
Exceptionally, in respect of Mr A G L Alexander up to the date of his retirement, this requirement was waived due to his continued level of investment, as detailed above.
Following his retirement from the Board in January 2006, Mr S Huismans remains a member of Supervisory Boards within the Reemtsma group.
He was also appointed as a non-executive director of Altadis, S. A. upon its acquisition by the Group in January 2008 until 5 November 2008.
Mr S Huismans receives additional remuneration for fulfilling such non-executive roles.
Non-Executive Directors Letters of Appointment The Non-Executive Directors do not have service agreements with the Company.
The terms of their appointments are reviewed annually.
These terms were reviewed for all Non-Executive Directors and confirmed on 29 January 2008.
The letters of appointment are available for viewing at the Companys registered office during normal business hours, and prior to and at the AGM.
Under the terms of the Articles of Association of the Company, Non-Executive Directors stand for election at the first AGM following appointment and are subject to triennial re-election by shareholders.
There are no provisions regarding notice periods in their letters of appointment which state that the Non-Executive Director will only receive payment until the date their appointment ends and, therefore, no compensation is payable on termination.
The letters of appointment detail the time commitment expected of each Non-Executive Director.
com 69 DIRECTORS REPORT: GOVERNANCE Directors Remuneration Report continued Although currently there is no maximum term of appointment for Non-Executive Directors, the Board is supportive of the best practice provisions contained in the Code.
However, where the Board considers a Non-Executive Director is making a particularly valuable contribution, they may be invited to remain on the Board in excess of nine years.
In such instances the length of tenure of the Non-Executive Director would be relevant to the Companys deliberations as to the independence of the Non-Executive Director and he she would also be subject to annual re-election at the AGM.
Consultancy Agreement with Non-Executive Director Mr J-D Comolli In addition to his appointment as Non-Executive Deputy Chairman Mr Comolli has entered into an agreement with Imperial Tobacco Limited, the Groups principal operating company.
Under this agreement he provides consultancy services to the Group and receives fees up to a maximum of 850,000 per annum.
The agreement terminates on 31 January 2009 but may be renewed by mutual consent for further one year periods.
In the event that Mr Comolli ceases to be Deputy Chairman, the agreement terminates with immediate effect but Mr Comolli would receive fees for the remainder of the relevant one year period.
Remuneration Arrangements for Former Executive Directors Dr F A Rogerson Dr F A Rogerson resigned as a director on 27 June 2007 for personal and private reasons.
Under his contract of employment, Dr Rogerson was required to give 12 months notice to terminate his employment.
Dr Rogerson completed a handover period and was on compassionate leave until 27 June 2008, when his employment terminated.
Dr Rogerson was excluded from the 2007 2008 bonus scheme and did not receive any bonus payment in respect of that bonus year.
He was also excluded from any invitations to the LTIP and SMS from his Board resignation date.
The Remuneration Committee agreed that the awards granted to Dr Rogerson under the LTIP and the shares awarded to him under the SMS would vest, to the extent that the applicable performance conditions were satisfied, pro rata for the period up to 31 December 2007.
No compensation has been paid to Dr Rogerson in connection with the termination of his employment.
Dr Rogerson opted out of pension fund membership as regards future service accrual as a result of registering for enhanced protection with HMRC from 6 April 2006.
Dr Rogerson was in receipt of a salary supplement in lieu of future pension service accrual of 16.4 per cent of salary.
This amount was a non-pensionable payment.
It was agreed with Dr Rogerson that this salary supplement ceased to be paid on 30 December 2007 and that no salary supplement would be paid for the remainder of his notice period.
Mr S T Painter Following his retirement in May 2000, Mr S T Painter entered into a consultancy agreement with Imperial Tobacco Limited, the Groups principal operating company.
The agreement, as amended in October 2001 and May 2004, ran until March 2007.
Under the terms of the agreement he provided consultancy services as required and received fees at a day rate of 1,000 with a minimum fee based on 100 days service for each 12 month period ending on 30 June, and 67 days for the period 1 July 2006 to 6 March 2007.
Mr S T Painter is still providing consultancy services as required and receives fees at a day rate of 1,000.
However, there is now no minimum fee.
He is entitled to reimbursement for the use of his car.
Mr S T Painter is also a member of Supervisory Boards within the Reemtsma and, between January and October 2008, Altadis groups for which he receives additional remuneration for fulfilling such non-executive roles.
Mr M A Hussler Mr M A Hussler is currently in receipt of a retirement pension that has been reduced because it has been taken before he reached his normal retirement age.
His service agreement with the Group provided that he would receive similar overall pension benefits to those that he would have received had he remained in the Reemtsma Cigarettenfabriken GmbH pension arrangement.
This was a pension for life equivalent to 42 per cent of his fixed annual salary at age 63.
For death in retirement, a spouses pension for life of 60 per cent of that amount would be payable.
The pension is made up of two parts: one part payable from the unfunded pension arrangement of Reemtsma Cigarettenfabriken GmbH, the other part payable from the separately funded Imperial Tobacco Pension Fund.
The pension payable under the Reemtsma arrangement and from the Imperial Tobacco Pension Fund may be increased annually in accordance with the Rules of those arrangements, or as required by law.
For the Board P H Jungels Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 26 November 2008 70 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2008 In this section: Independent Auditors Report Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Imperial to the Members of Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 72 Tobacco Group PLC 127 Consolidated Income Statement 74 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC Balance Sheet 128 Consolidated Balance Sheet 75 Notes to the Imperial Tobacco Consolidated Statement of Group PLC Balance Sheet 129 Recognised Income and Expense 76 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 76 Accounting Policies 77 Critical Accounting Estimates and Judgements 83 Notes to the Financial Statements 85 Financial Statements
