Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 01-37 38-57 58-120 Inside back cover 51 Governance Remuneration report Remuneration Committee report Award of bonuses: Members From To Policy and scope of pension arrangements for Executive Directors: Michael Wemms Chairman 13 May 2004 To date Executive Directorsand senior executivessalaries: and Will Samuel 26 January 2005 To date Chairmans fees and terms and conditions of employment.
Ken Hanna 27 September 2001 To date Compliance This report complies with the  Report David Scotland 24 February 2005 To date Regulations 2002 and other relevant requirements of the FSA Listing Karen Guerra 1 January 2006 To date Rules.
The Remuneration Committee believes that the Company has complied with the provisions regarding the remuneration matters Governance contained within the Code.
Michael Wemms is the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Remuneration policy Throughout the year the Committee comprised wholly of In establishing its remuneration policy, the Remuneration Committee independent Non-executive Directors and continues to do so.
is guided by the following principles: The Chairman, Group Chief Executive and Group Human Resources Director advise the Remuneration Committee internally and attend The package should be competitive i. e. at or around median meetings upon invitation.
No Director or Executive is involved in when compared with those organisations of similar size, deciding his or her own remuneration.
complexity and type: During 2008, the Remuneration Committee held two scheduled There should be a link between the level of remuneration and meetings.
Attendance at these meetings is shown in the table the performance of the Group and the individual to the extent on page 46. that performance related elements should form a significant part of  packages: To ensure that the Remuneration Committee receives independent advice, Towers Perrin was appointed by the Remuneration Committee The interests of shareholders should be safeguarded by as its external advisor.
aligning the remuneration package of the executives with shareholders interests: Towers Perrin also provides advice to the Board on Non-executive Directorsfees and to the Group in connection with IFRS 2 ShareThe package as a whole should be easy to understand and Based Payments.
Towers Perrin has no other connection with the motivating for the individual: and Company other than as remuneration consultants.
The composition of the package should reect best practice Responsibilities among comparable companies.
Determining and agreeing the Companys policy and The Remuneration Committee also has regard for the need to framework for executive remuneration with the Board: continue to align with and support the Companys business strategy Determining the elements of remuneration for Executive and reviews the mix of xed and performance linked remuneration, Directors and other certain senior executives: including share incentive schemes, on an annual basis.
Where applicable, shareholders are invited to approve new long-term Determining where to position the Group relative to other incentive schemes and changes to existing schemes at the AGM.
companies when reviewing comparative remuneration levels: The Remuneration Committee has been carefully monitoring the Determining the remuneration of the Chairman: Companys remuneration policy to ensure that pay is appropriate Agreeing the terms and conditions of service agreements in the current difficult environment.
Further details of specic actions for Executive Directors, including termination payments: are set out below, but the key points to note regarding Executive Director pay in 2008 09 are that: Approving share-based incentive schemes and performance conditions: and Base salaries have been frozen for 2009: Approving share-scheme performance targets.
No bonuses were earned in respect of 2008 performance: The Remuneration Committee is satisfied it discharged its Long-term incentive awards maturing in 2008 did not vest due responsibilities as set out in its Terms of Reference during the year.
to the impact of the 2008 actuals: The full Terms of Reference can be found at Special incentive awards made to both the Group Chief Executive www.
and the Group Finance Director on recruitment did not vest due to the impact of 2008 actuals on the performance criteria: Activities The Remuneration Committee undertakes an annual review of Executive Directors have committed substantial personal the remuneration policy to ensure that it remains relevant and investment into the Company over the past few years through competitive.
In addition, the Remuneration Committee reviews: the regular purchase of shares, the co-investment plan and the deferred bonus plan.
These investments have fallen in value in Policy for all employee share schemes: line with the investments of other shareholders and are unlikely Policy for long-term incentive plans, including the level to earn matching awards in the future.
of individual grants and performance conditions: www.
com 52 Governance Remuneration report continued Looking forward, the Committee is committed to ensuring that the Andr Lacroix and Barbara Richmond bonus plan 2009 remuneration arrangements in place are suitably structured to help drive the Companys recovery and to support the current business priorities.
In particular, the following decisions have been made Maximum bonus regarding the pay arrangements in 2009: The economic profit element of the 2009 bonus plan is now focused on operating cash ow: The performance condition attaching to the 2009 executive Target performance share option grant will also be based on longer term operating cash ow: and.
Base salary Long-term incentive award levels in 2009 will be signicantly reduced due to the suspension of the co-investment plan.
Executive share option plan Base salary Under the plan, share options are granted to Executive Directors Base salaries are set by the Remuneration Committee, taking and senior executives throughout the Group.
Options are normally into account the individuals level of responsibility, experience granted following the announcement of preliminary annual results.
Base salary is the only element of remuneration During 2008, the Remuneration Committee made annual grants of that is pensionable.
two times base salary, taking into account the Executive Directors and Company performance.
Details of executive share options In setting base salary levels, the Remuneration Committee also takes granted to Executive Directors are shown in note 3 on page 56. account of levels in comparable companies.
The comparator group has a retail focus and includes companies with a strong consumer As in previous years, executive share options granted in 2008 will vest if the Companys earnings per share EPS exceeds the increase on emphasis.
This is in line with the Companys strategic aim of customer centricity and its desire to attract retail talent.
the UK Retail Price Index RPI, over a three year period, according to the scale set below.
During 2008, the Executive Directors received a salary increase of EPS growth per annum Vesting percentage 8.0%.
With the increase, the Executive Directorsbase salary levels were slightly below comparator group median.
The Executive Less than RPI 3.0% 0.0% Directors will not receive a salary increase during 2009.
RPI 3.0% 25% Annual bonus RPI 8.0% 100% The Remuneration Committee sets annual bonus plans for the Executive Directors including performance measures, targets and Between RPI 3.0% and RPI 8.0% Straight line basis the maximum levels of individual bonus opportunities.
In 2008, the There will be no retesting bonus plan was based on 70% Economic profit, 20% Net Promoter Score NPS and 10% achievement of personal objectives.
As outlined in the Chairmans statement on page 5, the Company announced a Rights Issue on 19 March 2009.
Clearly this will have During 2008, the Company achieved the NPS target set at the start an impact on the number of executive share option awards that of the year and both the Executive Directors fully achieved their the Company will grant during 2009 after the Rights Issue has taken personal objectives.
However, the Company did not meet the place.
As such the Remuneration Committee is not in a position performance target set for Economic profit and therefore no to detail the number of executive share options to be awarded bonuses were paid in respect of 2008. with shareholders at this stage.
However, outlined below are the For 2009, the Remuneration Committee has decided to change performance conditions the Remuneration Committee intends to the financial performance criteria for the annual bonus plan from use with regard to the 2009 award.
The Company will consult, as Economic profit to Cash Flow from Operating Activities CFOA as appropriate, with its shareholders and institutional bodies before this is more aligned to the Companys current strategic priorities.
As final decisions are made.
in previous years, NPS, our customer service measure, and personal The Remuneration Committee intends to set performance objectives will be the other criteria used to calculate bonus.
conditions that are specically tailored to the Companys current For 2009, bonus plans will be based on 70% CFOA, 20% NPS and business strategy and reect the focus on cash ow.
If all of these targets are achieved in full the measure that will be used will be growth in Cash Flow from the Executive Directors will receive 50% of their base salary and Operating Activities CFOA, according to the scale set out below.
higher payments will be received for performance above target The Remuneration Committee has set CFOA targets that it considers to a maximum of 120% of base salary.
at least as challenging as the previous EPS hurdle.
Options awarded in 2009 will vest to the following sliding scale: CFOA growth Vesting percentage Less than 70% of target 0.0% 70% of target 25% 100% of target 100% Between 70% and 100% of target Straight line basis Inchcape plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 50% 120% Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 01-37 38-57 58-120 Inside back cover 53 Co-investment plan The UK Scheme requires members who join after March 2005 to The co-investment plan was introduced during 2008 after receiving contribute 7.0% of base salary up to the scheme-specic ceiling shareholder approval in 2007.
Andr Lacroix can invest up to 50% of 117,600 in the 08 09 tax year.
and Barbara Richmond can invest up to 40% of post tax annual Executive Directors, whose base salary is higher than 117,600, salary to obtain ordinary shares in the Company.
In exceptional are paid a monthly cash supplement to enable them to make circumstances, the Remuneration Committee may determine that additional pension arrangements.
Barbara Richmond received circumstances justify that up to 100% of post tax annual salary can such supplements in 2008.
Details of the amounts paid are shown be invested.
No such exceptional circumstances have arisen to date.
Andr Lacroix received a cash supplement of 40 % Details of awards are shown in note 4 on page 57.
The plan has of his base salary in lieu of a formal pension provision.
He is not a been extended to certain other senior executives below Board level.
member of the UK Scheme except in respect of the life assurance The shares acquired will be matched at the end of the three year benefit for death in service.
The match will be determined by performance A lump sum life assurance benefit of four times full base salary against the cumulative Economic profit EP target.
is provided on death in service.
For pension scheme members, Awards will vest according to the following sliding scale: a spouses pension of either half or two thirds of the prospective members pension may also be payable.
Childrens pensions EP growth over three years Matching shares may also be payable of up to one-third of the members pension.
Less than RPI 3.0% 0 Taxable and other benets RPI 3.0% 1:1 These include items such as company cars, medical care and life assurance premiums.
These benets are in line with the RPI 12.0% 2:1 remuneration policy framework.
Between RPI 3.0% and RPI 12.0% Straight line basis Total Shareholder Return The following graph illustrates the Groups Total Shareholder Return As noted previously, the Remuneration Committee has decided to TSR over a five year period, relative to the performance of the total suspend the co-investment plan for 2009. return index of the FTSE mid-250 group of companies excluding investment trusts.
TSR is essentially share price growth plus re-invested Deferred bonus plan dividends.
The FTSE mid-250 has been chosen as the most suitable The deferred bonus plan was a voluntary plan for Executive Directors comparator group as it is the general market index in which and certain other senior executives.
Final awards under this plan Inchcape plc appears.
Details of these awards are shown in note 4 on page 56.
Historical TSR performance 300 Save as you earn SAYE Executive Directors are eligible to participate in the Companys SAYE scheme on the same terms as other employees.
Participants make 200 monthly savings, to a maximum of 250 per month, over a three year period.
At the end of the savings period the funds are used to purchase shares under option.
The acquisition of shares under this 100 scheme is not subject to the satisfaction of a performance target.
Executive share ownership 0 To emphasise the importance the Remuneration Committee places in executive share ownership, Executive Directors are required to Dec 03 Dec 04 Dec 05 Dec 06 Dec 07 Dec 08 hold a xed number of shares equivalent to 200% of base salary.
Each Executive Director has five years from 2007, or date of Growth in the Value of a Hypothetical 100 Holding Over FiveYears FTSE 250 excluding appointment if later, to reach this shareholding target.
investment companies Comparison Based on 30 Trading Day Average Values The shares held by the Executive Directors is shown on page 41.
Inchcape FTSE mid 250 excluding investment trust Retirement benets The Inchcape Group UK Pension Scheme UK Scheme provides Service contracts benets for Executive Directors and certain senior executives at The Companys policy is for Executive Directorsservice contract normal retirement age of 65.
The benefit is equal to a maximum of two-thirds of final base salary, where salary has a scheme-specic notice periods to be no longer than 12 months, except in ceiling of 117,600 in the 2008 09 tax year, subject to completion exceptional circumstances.
Both current contracts contain notice periods of 12 months.
In the event of termination, the Company will of between 20 and 40 yearsservice.
Pensions in payment are guaranteed to increase in line with the lesser of 5.0% and the seek fair mitigation of contractual rights.
Within legal constraints, the increase in the UK Retail Price Index RPI.
This will be reviewed Remuneration Committee tailors its approach, in the event of early in 2009 in light of recent changes to guidelines.
termination, to the circumstances of each individual case.
com 54 Governance Remuneration report continued The contracts of Executive Directors do not provide for any Non-executive Directorsfees report enhanced payments in the event of a change of control in the Chairmans remuneration Company upon which vesting of outstanding long-term incentive The Chairmans remuneration was determined by the Remuneration awards would be on a time-related pro-rata basis, subject to the Committee, taking advice from Towers Perrin on best practice and satisfaction of the relevant performance criteria.
competitive levels and taking into account responsibilities and time commitment.
Life assurance is provided under the Inchcape Group There have been no payments made during the year in relation UK Pension Scheme but the appointment is not pensionable, nor to compensation for loss of ofce.
is the Chairman eligible for pension scheme membership or Name Date of contract Notice period Unexpired term participation in the Companys bonus, share option or other incentive plan.
Andr 01 September 05 12 months from To normal Lacroix the Director: retirement age Non-executive  12 months from The remuneration for Non-executive Directors consists of fees the Company for services in connection with Board and Committee meetings.
Fees for Non-executive Directors are determined by the Board, Barbara 03 April 06 12 months from To normal within the restrictions contained in the articles of association.
Richmond the Director: retirement age Non-executive Directorsfees are reviewed annually, taking advice 12 months from fromTowers Perrin on best practice and competitive levels.
The levels the Company of remuneration for the Non-executive Directors reect the time commitment and responsibilities of the role.
Non-executive Directors are appointed for an initial period of three years, which may be extended by agreement with the Board.
The Non-executive Directors are not involved in deciding their fees.
No Non-executive Director is engaged on a service contract with Non-executive Directors are not eligible for pension scheme the Company.
membership or participation in the Companys bonus, share option or other incentive schemes.
Policy on external appointments The Company recognises that its Executive Directors may be invited Details of the fees paid to the Chairman and Non-executive to become Non-executive Directors of other companies and that Directors are shown on page 55. this additional experience is likely to benefit the Company.
Executive By order of the Board Directors are generally allowed to accept one Non-executive appointment as long as it is not likely to lead to conicts of interest or undue time commitments.
The Group Chief Executive is permitted to hold two such appointments.
The policy in respect of Executive Directorscommitments is kept under review by the Nominations Committee.
Any fees received for these duties may be retained by the Executive Director.
Michael Wemms Andr Lacroix is the Non-executive Chairman of Good Restaurants Chairman of the Remuneration Committee AG, for which he does not receive a fee and a Non-executive 19 March 2009 Director of Reckitt Benckiser for which he received a fee of 14,500 plus Reckitt Benckiser shares to the value of 3,000.
Barbara Richmond is a Non-executive Director of Scarborough Building Society for which she received a fee of 38,000.
Inchcape plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 01-37 38-57 58-120 Inside back cover 55 Governance Notes to the Remuneration report audited 1.
Individual emoluments for the year The table below shows a breakdown of remuneration, including taxable and other benets for each Director.
Details of pension entitlements, share options and other long term incentive plans are shown in notes 2,3, 4 and 5.
This payment was subject to tax.
b The sum of 97,515 2007 88,905 was paid to Barbara Richmond to allow her to make her own pension arrangements outside the Companys plan.
c The details shown include fees at the rate of 10,000 per annum for the Audit Committee and Remuneration Committee Chairmanships and at the rate of 4,000 per annum for each of the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committee memberships.
d The emoluments shown for Raymond Chien include those in respect of services provided in Asia Pacic.
e Taxable and other benets comprise such items as company cars, medical care, life assurance premiums and petrol allowance.
Both Executive Directors are entitled to such benets.
No Directors waived emoluments in respect of the year ended 31 December 2008 2007 none.
Directorspension entitlements Transfer value Increase in Increase in less directors Difference in accrued accrued Accumulated Accumulated contributions transfer value pension pension total of total of of the increase Transfer value Transfer value less any during during accrued accrued in accrued of accrued of accrued contributions the year the year pension at pension at benefit net benets at benets at made in 000 net of ination 31.12.07 31.12.08 of ination 31.12.08 01.01.08 the year Barbara Richmond 4.0 4.0 6.3 10.3 34.7 108.6 54.0 46.5 The transfer value has been calculated in accordance with the Occupational Pension Schemes Transfer Values Regulations 1996 as amended with effect from 1 October 2008.
The transfer values of the accrued benets represent the value of assets that the pension scheme would need to transfer to another pension provider on transferring the schemes liability in respect of the Directors pension benets.
The transfer values do not represent sums payable or due to the individual Directors and therefore cannot be added meaningfully to annual remuneration.
com 56 Governance Notes to the Remuneration report audited continued 3.
Notes on share options: a Under the executive share option plan.
Exercise prices are determined in accordance with the rules of the relevant share option scheme.
All options were granted for nil consideration.
The table shows Directorsoptions over ordinary shares of 25.0p at 1 January 2008 and 31 December 2008.
The mid-market price for shares at the close of business on 31 December was 36.75p.
The price range during 2008 was 451.0p to 36.75p.
Options under the executive share option plan are granted on a discretionary basis to certain full time senior executives based within and outside the UK, including Executive Directors of the Company.
Such options are normally exercisable between three and ten years of grant.
Options may normally be exercised if the performance target has been met.
For all options granted between 1999 and 2003 under the executive share option plan, growth in the Companys earnings per share EPS over a three year period must exceed the increase on the UK Retail Price Index RPI over the same period by 3.0% per annum.
Options granted after the 2004 AGM vest according to a sliding scale: 25% of the shares vest if EPS growth of RPI 3.0% per annum is achieved over the initial three year period with all the shares vesting if EPS growth is RPI 8.0% per annum over three years.
Shares will vest on a straight-line basis between these points and there is no opportunity to retest.
The SAYE scheme is open to employees in the UK with at least three monthsservice.
Participants make monthly savings for a three year period.
At the end of the savings period options become exercisable within a six month period.
Deferred bonus plan Ordinary Ordinary Ordinary Awarded shares shares shares Awarded Market ordinary lapsed exercised awarded ordinary value of shares during the during the during the shares shares 31.12.08 year year year 01.01.08 awarded Exercise period Andr Lacroix 13,825 13,825 434.0p Jan 2009 Jun 2009 88,636 88,636 578.0p Jan 2010 Jun 2010 Barbara Richmond 30,303 30,303 578.0p Jan 2010 Jun 2010 Awards granted in 2006 did not meet the performance target set at the time of grant and will lapse in full.
Inchcape plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 01-37 38-57 58-120 Inside back cover 57 Notes on the deferred bonus plan: Participants were able to invest a minimum of 10% and a maximum of 75% post-tax annual bonus to acquire ordinary shares in the Company.
The shares are matched on a one to one basis provided the Executive Directors remain employed by the Company for three years and retain the shares purchased with their bonus throughout that period and the performance target is met.
Growth in the Companys EPS over a three year period must exceed the increase on RPI over the same period by 3.0% per annum with no opportunity to retest in order for the awarded ordinary shares to vest.
Special rules apply on termination of employment and change of control.
Co-investment plan Ordinary Ordinary Ordinary Awarded shares shares shares Awarded Market ordinary lapsed exercised awarded ordinary value of shares during the during the during the shares shares 31.12.08 year year year 01.01.08 awarded Exercise period Andr Lacroix 190,524 190,524 396.8p Jan 2011 Jun 2011 Barbara Richmond 84,005 84,005 396.8p Jan 2011 Jun 2011 Notes on the co-investment plan: Directors will be entitled to matching shares if they remain employed by the Company for three years, retain the shares they have purchased under the plan throughout that period and the performance target is met.
The Companys Economic profit EP must exceed the increase on RPI over the same period by 3.0% per annum to receive a one for one match.
If the Companys EP exceeds the increase on RPI over the same period by 12.0% per annum the match is two for one.
Andr Lacroix can invest up to 50% and Barbara Richmond can invest up to 40% of post-tax annual salary to obtain ordinary shares in the co-investment plan.
The shares purchased are held in trust for the Executives.
Provided the performance target is met, the matching shares will vest and the Executive may exercise his or her rights under the plan at any time during the six month exercise period.
Incentive plans Awarded ordinary Awarded ordinary Awarded ordinary shares lapsed shares exercised Awarded ordinary Market value of shares at 31.12.08 during year during year shares at 01.01.08 shares awarded Vesting period AL incentive plan 39,000 39,000 78,000 357.5p 2008 BR incentive plan 59,612 21,996 81,608 428.7p 2008 Notes on the incentive plans: As reported last year, Andr Lacroix is the sole participant in the AL incentive plan.
The award is subject to his continuing employment and the percentage growth in the Companys EPS over the relevant performance period exceeding the rate of ination over the same period by at least 3.0% per annum.
The final tranche of the AL incentive plan did not meet the performance target set at the time of grant and will therefore lapse in full.
As reported last year, Barbara Richmond is the sole participant in the BR incentive plan.
The award is subject to her continuing employment and the percentage growth in the Companys EPS over the relevant performance period exceeding the rate of ination over the same period by at least 3.0% per annum.
The final tranche of the BR incentive plan did not meet the performance target set at the time of grant and will therefore lapse in full.
By order of the Board Michael Wemms Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 19 March 2009 www.
