com Directors Report Governance Remuneration Report Letter from the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 9 March 2009 Dear Shareholder The ongoing economic upheavals have not made the task of the Remuneration Committee any easier.
As well as the usual deliberations that the Committee carries out each year, we have spent some time considering how the Groups senior executive reward policies should reflect the business environment.
We have debated the appropriate performance targets for future cash bonuses and performance-related share bonus awards.
We have considered the effect of our policies on retention of key staff without adversely affecting the Companys flexibility or shareholders interests.
We have tried to take into account the disparities in outlook and performance between our many geographical and business areas.
The considerable growth that has taken place in the Group over the last few years has also been a factor that we have included in our deliberations.
The detail about our reward structures and the results of our discussions is given below, but I felt it might be helpful to highlight to you here the main changes that occurred during 2008.
The Committee has: based on benchmarking information, increased the cash bonus potential for the most senior employees.
The targets are heavily weighted towards financial growth to ensure that the interests of these senior employees are aligned with our shareholders: proposed a revised Deferred Bonus Share Plan to the shareholders because independent global benchmarking indicated that the performance-related share-based element of packages was somewhat light.
The adoption of the new limits, which were agreed at the AGM in 2008, will enable higher awards in 2009 for the most senior employees and a more flexible approach for other middle-ranking staff: agreed the payment in shares of a proportion of the non-executive directors fees: agreed to redefine the constituency of the second-tier management group to include a greater proportion of key business-line managers so as to reward those people appropriately.
We expect this group to form the basis of succession for the most senior managers: and increased the emphasis on directing rewards to key staff, in the interests of keeping competitive advantage in a difficult market through retention of high achievers.
We believe that these efforts to keep an appropriate balance in our executives rewards, to drive our business strategy and to continue to tailor policies to fit with the market are all in our shareholders interest.
Each of these points is described in more detail in the report that follows.
indd 42 5 3 09 23:57:02 43 Annual Report 2008 43 This report sets out the Groups policy and disclosures in relation to Directors remuneration for the year ended 31 December 2008.
It will be subject to shareholder vote at the forthcoming AGM.
The report has been prepared on behalf of the Executive share ownership Board and complies fully with the requirements We believe that share ownership should form of the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations a significant element in senior executives 2002 the Regulations and the 2006 Combined compensation so that total remuneration will Code on Corporate Governance the Code and has depend on the future success of the Group.
The been audited by KPMG Audit Plc to the extent number of shares owned by Executive Directors required by the Regulations.
and the shares that they may receive through our incentive plans in future are shown in the tables The Group has applied the Principles of Good on pages 53 and 55.
Corporate Governance relating to the remuneration of its Directors and this report outlines how the Linking performance to strategy Group has complied with the provisions of the Our Remuneration Committee considers the link Code as well as some of the guidelines issued by between performance and strategy by assessing institutional shareholder bodies.
individual and divisional performance, contribution to the Group as a whole, level of experience and Our peer group scope of responsibility against the strategy as Our remuneration policy requires us to take account developed in the annual planning process.
of both local and international markets when Consideration of prevailing economic conditions deciding on pay and benefits.
Our peer group for forms part of this planning process.
the majority of group employees, therefore, is composed of international industrial organisations The Committee also reviews and benchmarks and similar-sized businesses in each local area.
the balance between base salary and short and long-term performance-related benefits when In respect of our more senior employees, we base our pay comparison information on a blend of setting each individuals performance-related factors, including the fact that the Company is a arrangements.
It aims to achieve alignment of UK-based FTSE 250 company, job location and rewards with shareholder interests through a responsibility of the role based on revenue.
balance between the following elements: Performance short-term The cash bonus serves to recognise short-term performance against pre-set annual cash performance bonus targets which are a mix relative to shareholder, business, team and personal objectives.
The criteria and targets are reviewed each year to tie in with changing business objectives and the economic environment.
Performance long-term Both for the purposes of retention and to link reward clearly to our awards made under the Intertek shareholders experience, a significant element of reward is determined Deferred Bonus Share Plan by business targets, but has a value dependent on our share price at the end of the deferral period.
The Intertek Deferred Bonus Share Plan is in place to retain and to reward executives, managers and key specialists crucial for the future of the business and to align Group and shareholder goals.
Fixed The annual base salary takes account of the size of the job and the base salary sustainable competence and contribution of the job holder.
We target annual base salary for fully competent performance at the market median.
Fixed Provision for retirement varies amongst Executive Directors but is regarded as pension an essential element in attracting high-calibre executives.
Fixed These may include travel, school fees, car allowances, life and private medical other benefits insurance and annual medicals, as typically provided for the executive directors of a FTSE 250 company.
com Directors Report Governance Remuneration Report Total compensation Composition Total remuneration for our Executive Directors and For the whole of 2008 the Committee comprised the balance between the elements for 2008 was: the following Non-Executive Directors of the Company: Total compensation % David Allvey Chairman Wolfhart Hauser Christopher Knight 29 5 27 620 13 Vanni Treves Mark Loughead David Allvey and Christopher Knight are independent in accordance with the Code.
36 2 20 920 13 Vanni Treves was independent at the time of his Bill Spencer appointment as Chairman of the Board.
The 32 2 19 1619 12 Committee members have no personal financial interest, other than as shareholders, in the matters Salary and fees Benefits to be decided and any Director in attendance Cash bonus absents himself from meetings for matters relating Pension to his own remuneration.
Deferred share bonus Matching share bonus Advisors Salary, fees and benefits are the actual amounts received during To ensure that the Groups remuneration practices 2008: pension for those directors in the defined benefit scheme are market competitive and to help achieve its Mark Loughead and Bill Spencer is the increase in actual transfer objectives, the Committee obtains information from value for 2008: pension for Wolfhart Hauser is the actual amount various independent sources.
The Committee has of the contribution made by the Company to a personal pension arrangement: deferred share bonus is based on the cash value of appointed and taken independent advice on the deferred shares as outlined in the table on page 50, and the remuneration matters and share incentive Matching share bonus is the estimated value of half of the arrangements from Hewitt New Bridge Street maximum potential number of matching shares that may vest subject to performance.
Details of how the fair values have been Hewitt, on remuneration benchmarking from calculated are set out in note 27 of the financial statements.
Towers Perrin TP and on UK pension matters from Premier Pensions Management Limited PPM.
PPM, The Remuneration Committee the Committee TP and Hewitt have no other connection with the Responsibilities Company or its senior officers.
On behalf of the Board, the Committee: Remuneration of executives determines the Companys policy on the Policy remuneration of, and incentives for, the Chairman, The Group is an international service business Executive Directors and other senior executives deriving its revenue from the Americas 34%, mainly the Intertek Operations Committee IOC Europe, Middle East and Africa 29% and Asia which comprises the Group and Executive Vice Pacific 37%.
The international nature and Presidents : complexity of the Group are reflected in salary determines their remuneration packages, including policy, requiring account to be taken of both the any compensation on termination of office: relevant local and international markets in order to provides advice to, and consults with, the Chief attract and retain the right people.
Because it is a Executive Officer on major policy issues affecting service business, success is critically dependent on the remuneration of senior executives: and the performance and retention of key people.
keeps the remuneration policy under review in the Employee costs represent a significant proportion light of regulatory and best practice developments of Group operating costs, but there is considerable and shareholder expectations.
Due regard is given managed variation amongst businesses.
For this to the interests of shareholders and the reason there is in place a Remuneration Policy requirements of the Listing Rules and associated Framework with each operation retaining the guidance.
freedom to navigate, within that framework, to find The Committee met five times during 2008.
Its the best local solution.
Given the diversity and speed terms of reference are available on our website of development across Intertek, standard answers at www.
do not fit all circumstances.
There is, for example, no single rate of inflation agreed when salary increases are considered.
Local variations are to be expected to innovate, adapt and fit with the specifics of the business while conforming with local culture and legal constraints.
indd 44 6 3 09 13:17:10 45 Annual Report 2008 45 industry sector excluding property and financial Our remuneration strategy in short: and geographical benchmarks, the Committee attract, engage, motivate and retain the best made changes to increase the performance-related available people by positioning total pay and element of remuneration for the Executive Directors benefits to be competitive in the local market and some senior executives.
In 2008 the maximum and in line with the ability of the business potential cash bonus was increased in the case of to pay: the Chief Executive Officer from 75% to 100% of reward people equitably for the size of their base salary.
Mark Loughead joined the Board on responsibilities, performance and potential: his promotion to the new role of Chief Operating align and recognise the individuals Officer on 1 January 2008, to drive cross-business contribution to success in our business goals: synergies.
In his case and that of the Chief Financial engage motivated high performers and, Officer, the maximum potential cash bonus was through variable bonus schemes, share the increased from 60% to 70% of base salary.
The success with those who build and lead Intertek 2008 bonus targets were set to ensure that they as a world class business.
were sufficiently stretching to align the interests of the Executive Directors and senior executives with the interests of the Companys shareholders.
The Committee considers that the Companys long-term success is dependent on its ability to Components attract, retain, motivate and reward high-calibre Base salary individuals to deliver superior performance both in Salary from Salary from % 1 April 2008 1 April 2009 Increase the short and long-term.
It aims to promote a Wolfhart Hauser 550,000 577,500 5% balanced performance-driven culture by maintaining 1 a competitive package of pay and benefits Mark Loughead US$500,000 US$535,000 7% commensurate with packages of pay and benefits Bill Spencer 275,166 286,173 4% provided by other global companies of comparable 1.
I n addition to his base salary Mark Loughead received 43,000 size and complexity.
For overseas executives the objective is to provide Where a decision is made to increase base salary a competitive package that is commensurate the Committee will expect the individual, taking into with comparable packages paid to employees of account levels of experience, to have demonstrated other organisations overseas doing a similar job in exceptional leadership within the business and a that region.
When the Committee Performance-related rewards are a balanced mix takes benchmarking information into account it of Group financial targets and tailored personal reviews the performance of the individual concerned objectives.
Exceptional performance on the part of against the above measures to ensure that there is both the Group and individual can deliver upper no unjustified upward ratchet in remuneration.
This direct alignment with When determining salary increases for Executive performance is considered by the Committee to be Directors, the Committee takes account of pay and clearly in the interests of shareholders and provides employment conditions elsewhere in the Group as the executives with unambiguous signals about the well as the general market.
This is achieved by importance of delivering success to the Companys reviewing detailed information on the top four shareholders in both the short and long-term.
employing countries within the Group.
In January 2008 the Committee reviewed the Groups remuneration policy for its Executive Salaries are reviewed annually.
Increases in base Directors and senior executives to take into account salary are linked to: the new larger and restructured organisation, the the growth in size and complexity of the Groups sustained growth and performance and business: also to ensure that the policy, including the balance demonstrable efforts and contribution of an between fixed and variable rewards, remained individual to the development of Intertek appropriate and competitive in the light of the Group strategy, synergy and efficiency: Groups business needs, future strategy and the retention: wider market.
Following the review, which involved market movement.
component benchmarking against the general 28653 pp042-055.
com Directors Report Governance Remuneration Report Annual incentives Bonus elements 2009 Cash bonus CEO, COO & CFO The Executive Directors and senior executives are 80% 20% eligible for annual cash bonus payments for the Group and Divisional EVP achievement of the financial and strategic goals of the Group and its businesses.
40% 40% 20% Group Function VP The maximum annual cash bonus potential for 2008 and 2009 are: 50% 30% 20% Percentage of base salary 2008 2009 Group Wolfhart Hauser 100% 100% Divisional and Personal Mark Loughead 70% 70% Discretionary Bill Spencer 70% 70% Executive Vice Presidents 60% 60% Group bonus breakdown 2009 50% 25% 15% 10% The bonus potential that was agreed for 2008 was increased over the 2007 potential following the Diluted adjusted earnings per share benchmarking exercise carried out at the beginning Adjusted operating profit Operating cash flow adjusted operating profit of 2008, with similar growth measures but far more Return on invested capital challenging target levels.
Based on the performance measures for 2008, cash The sum to be paid under the discretionary element, bonuses of 90.6%, 63.4% and 59.2% of salary will of up to 20% of total bonus, is determined by be paid to Wolfhart Hauser, Mark Loughead and taking into account the overall personal contribution Bill Spencer respectively in March 2009. of the executive to the goals and results of the Targets are established and reviewed by the Group for the year, the development of the Committee each year with the intention of ensuring medium-term strategy of the Group, the links to current business goals, taking full account of achievement over the year of strategic objectives economic conditions.
This year the Committee has and demonstrable efforts and results in teamtaken into account the unusual economic situation building and leadership.
The Committee recognises when setting the 2009 targets, which remain its responsibility to shareholders to use its discretion challenging.
in a reasonable and informed manner and in the Groups interests, and to be accountable and The link between cash bonus and awards under the transparent in the exercise of that discretion.
Intertek Deferred Bonus Share Plan is described on The Committee can additionally award a page 47.
discretionary payment where circumstances have Senior executives bonus criteria comprise the occurred which were beyond the direct following: i Group performance elements: responsibility of the executive and the executive ii divisional performance elements and personal has managed and mitigated the impact of any loss, objectives: and iii discretionary elements.
The goals or where circumstances have arisen outside the derive from the annual planning process for the Groups control and the Committee feels that Group, which forms the cornerstone of the Groups payment is necessary to retain and motivate the results-focused culture.
The target level is typically set at half the total The Committee has the discretion to reduce bonus opportunity to encourage and reward upside payments if it believes that short-term performance performance.
has been achieved at the expense of the Groups The divisional elements of bonus are based upon long-term future.
The Committee also retains the consistent financial performance indicators but with discretion to reclaim payments if the performance targets appropriate to that division.
achievements are subsequently found to have been significantly misstated.
Neither of these discretions was exercised in respect of the bonuses paid in 2008.
indd 46 6 3 09 13:20:43 47 Annual Report 2008 47 Share incentives In its consideration of share plan incentives in 2008 The Company believes that share ownership by the Committee undertook to review the performance employees is an integral part of its programme criteria for future Matching Share awards taking full to incentivise, reward and retain employees as it account of the economy and business climate at the strengthens the link between employees personal time of the award.
The Committee has reached the decision that in respect of awards to be granted in interests and those of shareholders and enables 2009, the performance criteria should remain based them to benefit from the growth of the Company.
on Total Shareholder Return TSR.
The vesting The Committee regularly reviews the schedule will also remain unchanged from last year.
appropriateness of the Companys share incentive The Committee will continue to keep the arrangements and targets to ensure that they performance criteria under review.
remain both competitive and challenging.
The Company has undertaken to limit the number Executive Directors and other key employees are of awards satisfied by newly issued shares under the eligible to participate in our share plans, NonPlan in the ten-year period from the time the plan was Executive Directors are not.
adopted to 5% of the Companys issued share capital.
As at 31 December 2008 awards represented 0.89% Share retention of the Companys issued share capital.
A shareholding retention requirement has been The Committee has decided not to publish the set by the Committee.
Executive Directors and the part-way achievement of performance conditions members of the IOC are expected, within five applicable to outstanding awards, or the expected years, to build up a shareholding in the Company value of the anticipated vested awards, as it worth at least 100% of base salary.
To assist in considers this information would be misleading the building of this holding, it is expected that, to a greater extent than it is informative.
after allowing for tax and similar liabilities, all the shares subject to each vested award under the The Company had established a share option Intertek Deferred Bonus Share Plan will be scheme for executives in March 1997.
This scheme retained by the executive until the ownership was discontinued and replaced by the Intertek target is attained.
Group 2002 Share Option Plan and the Intertek Group 2002 Approved Share Option Plan on 9 May 2002, under which options were granted by either The only long-term incentive plan currently in use the Company or the Employee Share Ownership is the Intertek Deferred Bonus Share Plan the Plan.
Trust on the recommendation of the Committee.
This was approved in 2005 and supersedes all All awards were discretionary.
No options have previous Executive Share Option Plans, creating been granted since 2005.
Information about these more effective rewards for executives throughout schemes and the Directors participation in them is the Groups global operations by linking their share given on page 55 and in note 27 to the financial rewards to the achievement of the bonus targets statements.
which are directly relevant to them.
Awards have been made annually since 2006.
Information about Pensions the Plan, awards granted under the Plan and the Wolfhart Hauser Directors participation in them is given on pages 53 Wolfhart Hauser is not a member of a Group and 54. company pension scheme.
Instead the Group contributes an amount equal to 20% of his base The purposes of the Plan are the retention of senior salary to a personal pension arrangement.
For 2008 executives and the alignment of their interests with this amounted to 106,700 2007: 94,600. shareholders by linking rewards to Interteks share Wolfhart Hauser is entitled to life cover benefit price performance.
In early 2008 a benchmarking comprising a lump sum payment equivalent to four exercise suggested that for a number of senior times his base salary.
executives and managers the level of awards had Mark Loughead and Bill Spencer not been competitive.
Accordingly some adjustments Mark Loughead and Bill Spencer are both members to the levels of award available under the Plan were of the defined benefit section of the Intertek UK put to the shareholders at the 2008 AGM and Company Pension Scheme.
This is a defined benefit approved.
The effect of the changes was to allow and defined contribution occupational pension amounts of up to 100% of annual cash bonus to be scheme approved by the Inland Revenue.
The main deferred and matched.
However, initially grants of features of the defined benefit section of the deferred shares to senior executives would be scheme are shown on page 51. capped at 70% of salary.
com Directors Report Governance Remuneration Report Non-Executive Directors Each letter of engagement states that should the The Board determines the remuneration of the Group terminate the appointment, on such Non-Executive Directors of the Company, for their termination the Non-Executive Director will not be work as Directors and as members of committees.
entitled to any compensation for loss of office.
Their remuneration is assessed relative to the Groups Vanni Treves and David Allvey are each engaged by peer groups and was increased with effect from the Group as Non-Executive Directors under the terms March 2008.
Remuneration is neither pensionable of a letter of appointment commencing 29 May 2002. nor eligible for annual incentive payments and the Both appointments were renewed for three years at Non-Executive Directors are not allowed to the end of their second three-year period.
participate in the Companys share incentive plan.
Richard Nelson was originally engaged by the Group Pursuant to the policy of aligning directors interests as a Non-Executive Director under the terms of a with those of shareholders, in 2008 a proportion of letter of appointment for an initial period of three the fees due to the Non-Executive Directors was years commencing 8 April 2005.
Under the terms of used to purchase shares in the Company.
Below is a his letter of appointment Richard Nelson is entitled summary of the Non-Executive Directors fees and to remuneration of 1,000 per working day for any the pre-tax amounts of those fees used to purchase special project work agreed in advance by the shares in the Company in 2008.
On 7 March 2008 Richard Nelsons Other than Vanni Treves, who has the benefit appointment was further extended for another of a company car, and Richard Nelson, for whom two years, until 7 April 2010. the Group maintains a life insurance policy in Debra Rade was engaged by the Group as a accordance with the terms of his previous Non-Executive Director under the terms of a letter employment contract with the Company, of appointment for an initial period of three years no other benefits-in-kind are provided.
This appointment was The Non-Executive Directors do not have service renewed for a further three years with effect from contracts with the Company.
The letter of 1 January 2009. engagement for each Non-Executive Director states Christopher Knight was engaged by the Group as a that they are appointed for an initial period of three Non-Executive Director under the terms of a letter years and all appointments are terminable by one of appointment for an initial period of three years months notice on either side.
At the end of the commencing 30 March 2006.
The Committee has initial period, the appointment may be renewed for agreed that this appointment be renewed for a a further period, if the Company and the Director further three years, effective from 30 March 2009. agree, subject to reappointment at the AGM.
Basic Fee From Audit Additional Fees used to 1 March 2008 Remuneration and Risk Nominations committee Total purchase shares Committee Committee Committee fee fees in 2008 David Allvey 50,000 Chairman Chairman 3 37,500 87,500 10,000 Christopher Knight 50,000 3 3 3 15,000 65,000 10,000 Richard Nelson 65,000 n a 65,000 10,000 Debra Rade 50,000 n a 50,000 7,000 Vanni Treves 170,000 3 3 Chairman 170,000 20,000 28653 pp042-055.
indd 48 5 3 09 23:57:05 49 Annual Report 2008 49 Service contracts by either party giving one-months notice, Details of the service contracts currently in place for is not dependent upon his continued executive Executive Directors who have served during the year appointment and provides for an annual fee of are as follows: 43,000.
Neither the service contract nor the letter Date of contract of appointment contain provisions regarding a Wolfhart Hauser 1 March 2005 change of control.
Mark Loughead 1 January 2008 Policy on external appointments Bill Spencer 24 May 2002 The Company recognises that, during their employment with the Company, Executive Directors Wolfhart Hausers and Bill Spencers contracts are may be invited to become Non-Executive Directors 12-month rolling contracts terminable by either of other companies and that such duties can party on 12 months notice and contain provisions broaden their experience and knowledge.
Executive by way of compensation for loss of office, limited Directors may, with the written consent of the to payment of salary and bonus over a 12-month Company, accept such appointments outside the period, and benefits in lieu of notice.
Wolfhart Company, and the policy is that any fees may be Hausers contract permits payments in lieu of notice to be made, at the Companys election, either i in retained by the Director.
Wolfhart Hauser is a full on termination or ii on a monthly basis, but only Non-Executive Director of LogicaCMG plc.
His for so long as he receives no remuneration from any earnings for this appointment for 2008, which he other business.
If Wolfhart Hauser does receive any retained, were 55,000. such remuneration, the monthly amount payable Performance graph will be reduced by that remuneration, determined Total Shareholder Return TSR, comprising the on a monthly basis.
Neither service contract contains changes in value of a share and dividends provisions regarding a change of control.
distributed, can be represented by the value of a Mark Loughead has both an executive service notional 100 invested at the beginning of a period contract and a letter of appointment in respect of and its change over that period.
his directorship of Intertek Group plc.
The executive The graph below shows the TSR in respect of the contract is subject to 12 months notice on either Company over five years.
The TSR for the Company side and contains provisions for Mark Loughead to is compared with the TSR for the FTSE 250 Index.
continue to receive an amount equal to salary The FTSE 250 Index was selected as it is a broad during the period of notice in accordance with his market index of which the Group is a member.
In normal payroll schedule unless he receives addition, the Group uses that group of companies, remuneration from any other business.
Bonuses not amongst others, for comparison of pay and benefit already received will not be paid unless pro rata levels and as its TSR comparator group in assessing payment formed part of the bonus criteria.
The appointment as Director of Intertek Group plc is for performance for the vesting of Matching Shares an initial term of three years, but can be terminated under the Intertek Deferred Bonus Share Plan.
Intertek Group vs FTSE 250 TSR 250 200 150 100 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 Intertek Group Information provided by JPMorgan Cazenove and calculated according to methodology that is compliant FTSE 250 with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
The performance of the Company, as indicated by the graph, is not indicative of vesting levels under the Companys Deferred Bonus Share Plan.
com Directors Report Governance Remuneration Report Information required to be audited The table below summarises Directors remuneration The auditors are required to report on the and pension contributions for 2008 and the prior information contained in the following section year for comparison.
No payments for loss of of the Report.
office were made during the year or the prior year and no other awards were made to any Director.
Directors remuneration summary 2008 2007 Base Pension Total Total Deferred Deferred salary Cash Other  bonus 3 4 4 and fees bonuses benefits butions ments ments 2008 2007 Notes 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 Executive Directors Wolfhart Hauser 534 498 88 107 1,227 1,019 374 242 Mark Loughead 1 310 170 16 496 n a 170 n a Bill Spencer 270 163 16 449 394 163 126 Non-Executive Directors David Allvey 86 86 66 Christopher Knight 65 65 54 Raymond Kong 2 19 Richard Nelson 65 51 116 106 Debra Rade 50 50 43 Vanni Treves 168 13 181 148 Total 1,548 831 184 107 2,670 1,849 707 368 1.
M ark Loughead was appointed to the board of Intertek Group plc on 1 January 2008.
His remuneration for the year comprised US$500,000 in respect of his executive appointment and 43,000 by way of directors fee.
The USD component of his remuneration was translated into Sterling using 1 $1.87 which was the cumulative average exchange rate applicable during 2008.
Raymond Kong resigned on 11 May 2007, and his remuneration is reported up to the date of his resignation.
As Mark Loughead and Bill Spencer are members of the Intertek Defined Benefit Plan see page 51, contributions to that plan are not included in this table.
Wolfhart Hauser is not a member of any Group pension plan.
The contributions in this table are the amounts the Group pays to a personal pension arrangement.
These figures exclude amounts relating to Matching Awards granted under the Intertek Deferred Bonus Share Plan.
Details of these awards and their performance criteria are given on pages 53 and 54.
Other benefits Pensions Executive Directors are entitled to the use of a The Committee continues to review the liabilities company car or the cash equivalent, life assurance, under the defined benefit section of the UK pension disability insurance, an annual medical and private scheme and to monitor the effect of changes to medical insurance.
In addition, until the end of future mortality rates and investment returns and 2008, Wolfhart Hauser was entitled to private consider how to limit the potential liability created school fees for his children.
Richard Nelson is by pension commitments.
entitled to life assurance in accordance with the The majority of the Groups employees are non-UK terms of his previous employment contract with the based and are therefore unaffected.
Further details Company, for 1.0m to be maintained for the whole of the Groups pension schemes, including the of his life and payable to his beneficiaries on his funding position, are disclosed in note 24 to the death.
Vanni Treves is entitled to a company car.
Details of the pension Transactions with Directors arrangements for those who have served as These are disclosed in note 30 to the Executive Directors during the financial year are financial statements.
indd 50 6 3 09 14:42:51 51 Annual Report 2008 51 Mark Loughead and Bill Spencer Intertek Defined Benefit Pension Scheme Normal retirement age 65 Annual pension at normal retirement age 1 60 of final pensionable salary highest base salary in any 12-month period during the five years immediately preceding retirement date for each year of pensionable service, except, for those members who wer e active members of the Scheme on 5 April 1996, the accrual rate is 1 45 for pensionable service in the period after 5 April 1996 and before 6 April 1999.
Members may exchange part of their pension for a tax-fr ee cash sum.
This will reduce their pension but not that of their spouse.
Spouses or dependants pension Half of members pension.
payable on death of member Early retirement From age 50 onwards with the consent of the Company and the Trustees, based on accrued entitlement currently reduced by 4% for each year of retirement prior to age 65.
With effect from 6 April 2010, the minimum retirement age will increase to age 55.
Pension increases in payment Increases in deferment revaluation is in two parts: or deferment i The part that represents the Guaranteed Minimum Pension GMP will be increased at the rate of 4% for each complete tax year between date of leaving and State Pension Age.
ii The balance of the pension will increase at the rate of 5% per annum or in line with the Retail Price Index if lower, for each completed year between the date of leaving and the Normal Retirement Date.
Increases in retirement or payment : i Pre 6 April 1997, excess pension benefits will increase at the rate of 3% per annum.
ii 6 April 1997 to 5 April 2005, excess pension benefits will increase at the rate of the lower of 5% per annum or the increase in the Retail Price Index.
iii Post 5 April 2005 excess pension benefits will increase at the rate of the lower of 2.5% per annum or the increase in the Retail Price Index.
iv Pre 1988 GMP will not increase.
v Post 1988 GMP will increase at the rate of 3% per annum or the increase in the Retail Price Index, if lower.
Employee contributions As determined by the Company and the Trustees: currently 8.5% of base salary excluding incentive payments up to the Company-set earnings cap which is 115,949 for the 08 09 tax year 112,028 for 07 08.
Employer contributions As determined by the Company and the Trustees: currently 16% of base salary excluding incentive payments up to the Company-set earnings cap.
Ill health or incapacity In the case of ill health, the pension is calculated as for early retirement but without the 4% reduction.
In the case of incapacity, the pension is calculated as if pensionable service had continued to normal retirement date.
Death in service Death in service leads to a refund of the members own contributions plus either: i a lump sum of four times pensionable salary plus spouses pension which is 50% of the members prospective pension at normal retirement date based on prospective pensionable service to normal retirement date and final pensionable salary immediately prior to the members death : or ii lump sum of eight times pensionable salary, but with no spouses pension except for the contracting-out requirements.
com Directors Report Governance Remuneration Report Details of the accrued pension to which Mark Loughead and Bill Spencer are entitled on leaving service and the changes during the year are shown in the table below.
Increase in Contributions Increase in transfer value made by accrued in year less Age at the Director entitlement Accrued Transfer Transfer contributions 1 3 3 31 December during during entitlement value value made by 2 2008 the year the year 2008 2007 2008 Director Name 4 Mark Loughead 49 9,772 1,396 25,070 191,109 273,634 72,753 Bill Spencer 49 9,772 1,387 33,213 303,124 445,044 132,148 1.
T he accrued pension entitlement is the amount that would be paid each year on retirement at 65 based on service to 31 December 2008, excluding the effect of inflation.
Including inflation, the increase during the year for Mark Loughead was 2,524 and for Bill Spencer was 2,903.
The transfer value has been calculated using the Cash Equivalent Transfer Value Basis adopted by the Trustees with effect from 1 October 2008, in accordance with The Occupational Pension Schemes Transfer Values Amendment Regulations 2008 SI2008 1050.
The transfer value disclosed above does not represent a sum paid or payable to the individual Director, instead it represents a potential liability of the Pension Scheme.
The value represents the full transfer value without reduction for any shortfall in scheme funding.
Mark Loughead joined the Board on 1 January 2008.
Directors interests in ordinary shares the ordinary share capital of the Company or any The interests of the Directors in the shares of the of its subsidiaries.
Company as at the year end are set out below.
No changes in the above Directors interests have Save as stated in this report, during the course of taken place between 31 December 2008 and the the year, no Director, nor any member of his or her immediate family, had any other interest in date of this report.
Directors interests in ordinary shares 31 December 2007 31 December Number of ordinary shares of 1p or on appointment Acquired Disposed 2008 David Allvey 5,270 627 5,897 Wolfhart Hauser 1,336 1,336 Christopher Knight 5,000 627 5,627 Mark Loughead 11,985 2,500 14,485 Richard Nelson 500,000 637 500,637 Debra Rade 1,445 1,445 Bill Spencer 132,000 132,000 Vanni Treves 50,000 1,276 51,276 28653 pp042-055.
indd 52 6 3 09 14:37:42 53 Annual Report 2008 53 Directors interests in Long Term Incentive Share Plan and options granted to the Executive Plan and share options Directors under the 2002 Plan and the Approved Non-Executive Directors are not allowed to Plan are shown below.
No options have been participate in the Companys share incentive plans.
granted to the Executive Directors under the Awards made under the Intertek Deferred Bonus 1997 Plan.
Awards are made based on a share price obtained by averaging the closing share prices for the five dealing days before the date of grant.
At date of grant in 2008 the share price was 9.595.
No payment is made by participants in the Plan.
Awards normally vest three years after grant.
The vesting of Matching Awards is subject to additional performance conditions described on page 54.
com Directors Report Governance Remuneration Report Additional information about the Intertek The Committee can set different performance Deferred Bonus Share Plan conditions from those described above for future awards.
Any such new targets will not, in the The Plan reasonable opinion of the Committee, be materially The Plan has two elements: less challenging in the circumstances than those Deferred Shares are awarded to executives based described above.
For the Executive Directors and IOC the value of Deferred Shares will Deferred Awards will normally vest on the third be equal to the cash bonus, subject, currently, to a anniversary of grant provided the participant is still maximum of 70% of salary formerly the limit had employed in the Group.
The Committee believes that Matching Awards will normally vest on the third this provides a simple and well-targeted form of anniversary of grant once the Committee has reward.
The awards normally vest three years after determined the extent to which the applicable grant subject to continued employment.
performance conditions have been satisfied Matching Share awards, which are subject to and provided the participant is still employed long-term performance requirements, are, at the in the Group.
discretion of the Committee, awarded to the most It is the current intention of the Company to satisfy senior executives.
Awards of Matching Shares are all vested awards by the issue of new shares.
linked to awards of Deferred Shares, and for the Executive Directors and IOC are granted at the If a participant leaves employment for certain maximum ratio of two Matching Shares for every reasons beyond the participants control or for any Deferred Share.
Matching Shares vest after three other reason at the discretion of the Committee, years depending on the Companys relative Total then the awards vest as follows: i Deferred Awards Shareholder Return TSR measured against the will vest on a pro-rata basis on the date of cessation, FTSE 250 Index excluding investment trusts.
TSR although the Committee may decide not to pro-rate calculations are conducted independently by Hewitt.
an award if it regards it as inappropriate to do so in Awards vest as follows: the particular circumstances: ii Matching Awards will vest at the end of the period over which the TSR Ranking % of Matching Award that vests performance conditions are measured, or the Below median None Committee may decide that the Matching Award Median 25% will vest on cessation of employment.
The extent to Between median Pro-rata on a straight line between and upper quartile 25% and 100% which a Matching Award will vest will depend upon Upper quartile 100% the extent to which the performance conditions have been satisfied over the full performance period In addition, irrespective of the Companys TSR or up to the date of cessation as appropriate.
In the performance, no part of a Matching Award will event of a change of control, vesting of Matching vest unless the Companys normalised EPS growth Awards will occur on the same basis as for leaving over the performance period is, on average, at least employment, described above.
Deferred Awards 2% per annum above the growth in the UK Retail will vest in full.
A ll outstanding option awards have now vested as they met their performance targets and so are fully exercisable, whereas the performance targets were not met in the year, for the options which have lapsed.
Performance targets were based on Interteks EPS growth over a three-year period, which was required to be at least 5% per annum higher than RPI 25% vesting up to 11% higher than RPI full vesting.
Share information Approval of the Remuneration Report Exercise prices were determined by the average of The Remuneration Report was approved by the closing middle market quotations of an ordinary the Board on 9 March 2009. share in the Company on the five days immediately prior to the date of grant.
No payment was made by participants in the plan.
David Allvey Chairman, Remuneration Committee On 31 December 2008 the closing market price of Intertek ordinary shares was 784p.
The highest and lowest prices of the shares during the year were 1050p and 635p respectively.
