REMUNERATION REPORT Dear Shareholder Meetings It gives me pleasure to present the report by the Remuneration The Committee held six scheduled meetings and six unscheduled Committee the Committee on directors remuneration meetings during the year under review.
Individual members Remuneration report for the year to 31 March 2008. attendance records at the scheduled meetings is given on page 45.
As set out in the Chairmans statement on page 12, Invensys has The adoption of this Remuneration report is subject to a separate continued the considerable progress of recent years with another shareholder resolution at the Annual General Meeting.
year of high activity and significant achievement.
This has been an important year of transition for the Committee as we implemented The principal matters considered during the year under review the results of the comprehensive 2007 Remuneration Strategy included amongst others: Review in support of our business strategy.
In the evolution of this remuneration strategy, the Committee is guided by the principle review of executive remuneration, including base salary and that a high proportion of executive directors remuneration is linked incentive arrangements: to the ongoing creation of shareholder value at this critical stage in approval of revised Share Ownership Guidelines in light of the the resurgence of your Company.
changed retention levels agreed in 2007 08: approval of rules for the Executive Bonus Plan including The Committee believes that the remuneration policy detailed in deferred share arrangement, 2007 Long Term Incentive Plan this Remuneration report is appropriate to enable Invensys to and the 2007 CEO Special Award: recruit the people we need, and retain and motivate those already assessment of performance conditions relating to executive with us at this critical time.
share awards vesting during the year: review and update of the Committees terms of reference: The Committee considers that the individual elements of the review and approval of termination packages for executives remuneration package that will apply in 2008 09 constitute an of divested businesses: appropriate balance between fixed and variable remuneration.
review of delegated authorities and adoption of framework for approval of share awards and leaver guidelines: and The Remuneration report was approved by the Board of directors consideration and approval of an international launch of the on 14 May 2008 and signed on its behalf by: Savings Related Share Option Scheme in 2008 09.
Role The Committee is a committee of the Board and its principal duties are to: Jean-Claude Guez determine and agree with the Board the framework or broad Chairman of the Remuneration Committee policy for the remuneration of the Chairman, executive directors, Company Secretary and first layer of management Remuneration Committee below Board level the Executive Leadership Team taking into Membership account all factors which it deems necessary to ensure that the The Committee comprised at the end of the year five noninterests of executives are aligned with those of shareholders.
executive directors, and the table below provides details of the The remuneration of non-executive directors will be a matter members of the Committee during the year under review: for the Chairman and the executive members of the Board.
No director or manager will be involved in any decisions as to Name Date of appointment their own remuneration: Current members review the ongoing appropriateness and relevance of the Jean-Claude Guez Appointed 21 January 2003: appointed remuneration policy, review and note annually the Chairman of the Committee 9 January 2004 remuneration trends across the Company and obtain up to date Bay Green Appointed 13 December 2006 information about remuneration structures in other companies: Martin Jay Appointed 2 August 2006 approve the design of, and determine targets for, any Michael Parker Appointed 2 August 2006 performance-related pay schemes operated by the Company Pat Zito Appointed 23 May 2007 and approve the total annual payments made under such schemes: They are all independent non-executive directors save for Mr Jay review the design of all share incentive plans for approval by who, as Chairman of the Company, is permitted by the Combined the Board and shareholders and, for any such plans, determine Code on Corporate Governance issued by the Financial Reporting each year whether awards will be made, and if so the overall Council in 2006 the Combined Code to be a member of the level of such awards, the individual awards to executive Committee.
directors and other senior executives and the performance targets to be used: No non-Committee member may attend other than by invitation ensure that contractual terms on termination, and any of the Committee Chairman.
At the request of the Committee payments made, are fair to the individual and the Company, Chairman the Chief Executive, Chief Financial Officer, EVP Human that failure is not rewarded and that the duty to mitigate loss Resources and VP Total Reward are invited to attend and speak at is fully recognised: meetings, except when their own remuneration is being considered.
The terms of reference of the Committee, a copy of which can be found on the Companys website at www.
com, are reviewed annually to ensure that they meet best practice.
Invensys plc Annual report accounts 2008 49 REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED determine, within the terms of the agreed policy and in remuneration and directors interests over shares and all share consultation with the Chairman and or Chief Executive as incentive plans.
appropriate, the total individual remuneration package of each executive director and other senior executives including 2007 Remuneration Strategy Review bonuses, incentive payments and share awards, pension To take account of the ongoing development of the Company arrangements and expatriation allowances, giving due regard and of its strategic plan, during 2007 the Committee undertook to any relevant legal requirements, the provisions and a comprehensive review of all aspects of reward for executive recommendations in the Combined Code and the UK Listing directors and senior executives.
Authoritys Listing Rules and associated guidance: oversee any major changes in employee benefits structures The results of the Remuneration Strategy Review were supported throughout the Company: by shareholders at the 2007 Annual General Meeting.
The 2007 08 ensure that all provisions regarding disclosure of remuneration financial year was, therefore, the first year for the implementation including pensions, as set out in the relevant provisions of the of this strategy, and the 2008 09 financial year will reflect some Companies Act and the Combined Code, are fulfilled: evolution of this reward strategy in order to strengthen our be exclusively responsible for establishing the selection criteria, competitive market position and create greater success for our selecting, appointing and setting the terms of reference for shareholders.
any remuneration consultants who advise the Committee: and consider any other matters as referred to the Committee by These key elements of our remuneration strategy, the the Board.
improvements to be introduced for 2008 09, and the relevant circumstances which exist in the Company at this current time The Committee will not determine any matters reserved for are described in detail below.
Base salary The Committee Chairman attends the Annual General Meeting The Committee determines the level of base salary for each and is available to answer questions from shareholders on executive director annually.
For 2007 08 and 2008 09, base salaries remuneration matters.
were set within a market competitive range based on analysis of salaries paid in FTSE 350 companies, taking account of the relative Committee performance evaluation complexity, international scope and size of comparator companies.
As detailed in the Corporate governance report on page 46, the The Committee additionally takes into account salaries in relevant Committees performance is reviewed annually both by the Board key competitor companies, specific factors relating to the as a whole and by the Committee itself, with the emphasis on individual including personal performance, internal relativities, continued improvement and effectiveness.
wage inflation elsewhere in the Group, and overall affordability.
In establishing individual salary levels, the Committee is conscious Advice that it should pay no more than is necessary to retain and motivate To ensure that the Groups remuneration practices remain market the executive whilst ensuring business objectives are fulfilled.
competitive and compliant, during the year advice was received There is no automatic adjustment in respect of inflation.
from: Taking account of the factors above, with effect from 1 April 2008, Deloitte & Touche LLP, who were the principal source of the Chief Executives base salary is 820,000 2007: 750,000 and external advice as independent remuneration consultants to the the Chief Financial Officers base salary is 490,000 2007: Committee on issues relating to the review of remuneration 430,000.
The Committee considers these base salary levels are arrangements for the executive directors.
A copy of the terms necessary and appropriate to meet its objective of retaining the of reference in relation to the appointment of Deloitte & executive directors and maintaining competitive pay levels, having Touche LLP is available on the Companys website.
In addition, taken full account of the performance of the directors and the Deloitte & Touche LLP undertook tax compliance work for business criticality of their contribution.
certain members of the Executive Leadership Team, provided advice in relation to some corporate tax matters and provided The next review date for base salaries will be 1 April 2009. internal audit services: Hewitt New Bridge Street, who provided data in relation Annual incentive arrangements to total shareholder return TSR and ranking information Performance-related bonuses may be paid under the Executive for the various incentive schemes: Bonus Plan, which provides annual incentives for the executive Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP in their capacity as lawyers directors in order to encourage the achievement of predefined to the Company: and annual financial objectives and focus on the most important internally, the Chief Executive, the Chief Financial Officer, measures of business success, whilst rewarding them for the EVP Human Resources and the VP Total Reward.
In this way, the Executive Bonus Plan seeks to align the interests of shareholders and those Compliance participating in it.
The Remuneration report has been prepared in accordance with the requirements of Schedule 7A of the Companies Act 1985 the For 2007 08 the annual bonus targets related to free cash flow Companies Act and the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority.
after legacy items calculated on a per share basis accounting for It also describes how the principles set out in the Combined Code 40%, EPS accounting for 40% and revenue accounting for 20%.
have been applied in relation to remuneration for the current and Bonus payments were also influenced, through exercise of forthcoming financial years.
Ernst & Young LLP has audited the discretion by the Committee, by the achievement of personal contents of the report to the extent required by the Companies Act objectives.
the tabular information on pages 57 to 58 relating to directors 50 Invensys plc Annual report accounts 2008 For executive directors and certain nominated senior leaders the The Committee will review the case for the application of a superpay-out levels for the plan for 2007 08 were capped at 150% of stretch incentive opportunity in subsequent years, depending on base salary for maximum performance, with 100% of salary payable the prevailing business circumstances at that time.
Below this level, lower pay-out rates are set.
Any bonus earned in excess of target is paid in deferred shares.
Any bonus earned in excess of target 100% of salary for executive Deferred shares will only be transferred at the end of a three-year directors is paid in deferred shares which will only be transferred period for executive directors or two years in the case of other at the end of a three year period.
Deferred shares will only be participants and are only forfeitable in the event of dismissal forfeitable in the event of dismissal for cause.
Long-term incentive arrangements Each year, the Committee sets out in its Remuneration report the As part of the Remuneration Strategy Review, the Committee basis on which bonuses have been paid in relation to the targets set determined that a new share-based long-term incentive plan, at the beginning of the financial year under review.
This ensures known as the 2007 Long Term Incentive Plan 2007 LTIP, should be that shareholders are able to assess the bonus targets and the link established.
The 2007 LTIP was approved by shareholders at the between bonuses payable and the performance of the business.
Awards were made in 2007 08 and will be made thereafter.
A separate award was implemented for the The bonuses paid to the executive directors in relation to the year Chief Executive as detailed below.
under review are set out on page 57.
In line with the Executive Bonus Plan rules, the salary used for bonus calculation purposes is The maximum annual award level for executive directors and other the salary effective from 1 April 2007.
In respect of 2007 08 actual participants will normally be 200% of base salary although the performance the bonus payments reflect the fact that the preCommittee has discretion to make awards in excess of this level in determined maximum level of performance was achieved for both exceptional circumstances.
Vesting of awards is based on meeting EPS and free cash flow, with revenue performance at around target stretching performance targets over a three-year performance level.
The aggregate out-turn was, therefore, a bonus payment of period and, subject to meeting all relevant conditions, shares will 136.6% of the predetermined target.
Bonus in excess of 100% of normally be released to participants as soon as possible following target i. e. 100% of salary for executive directors is paid in deferred the third anniversary of the award.
The satisfaction of all performance shares which will be transferred to the individual after three years.
targets will be subject to external third-party verification.
Having rigorously reviewed the results achieved against the For 50% of an award, the performance measure is relative TSR performance targets set for 2007 08, the Committee is satisfied performance measured against that of the constituents of the that the targets it set upfront were challenging and that the Standard & Poors Global 1200 Capital Goods Index.
This measure bonuses awarded were earned by actual performance that was very was chosen to provide a focus on delivering high levels of returns strong given general market conditions.
The Standard & Poors Global 1200 Capital Goods Index was selected as the comparator group because its For 2008 09, there is no revenue target for executive directors and constituents represent a wide grouping of over 100 companies 1 underlying EPS and free cash flow per share are weighted 50% 50%.
that have businesses that are, in whole or in part, similar to or in Bonus payments may also be influenced, through exercise of competition with some or all of those operated by Invensys, and discretion by the Committee, by the achievement of personal cover a wide geographic range including the Americas, Europe and objectives and broader contextual factors such as performance on Asia Pacific.
In establishing personal objectives and financial targets for bonus, the Committee ensures 25% of the TSR part of an award will vest for performance equal to that no environmental, health, safety and sustainability risks the unweighted mean of the index constituents, excluding outliers.
are raised by inadvertently motivating irresponsible behaviour.
The calculation will not be weighted by reference to market The Committee considers these measures of performance are capitalisation of index constituents to avoid any single large appropriate to support continued delivery of the Groups strategy.
company unduly influencing the results.
For similar reasons, an equal number of outliers at the top and bottom of the TSR range For 2008 09, in order to better support the drive for truly will be excluded.
exceptional performance, the maximum bonus opportunity under the Executive Bonus Plan has been set at 200% of target i. e. 200% 100% of the TSR part of an award will vest for outperformance of salary for executive directors, whereby any bonus in excess of of the mean of index constituents excluding outliers equivalent 150% of target i. e. up to 200% of target will only be earned for the to upper quartile performance.
For 2007 08 awards this has achievement of super-stretch performance.
Performance targets been calculated by the Committees remuneration advisers as are set such that, in the view of the Committee, the level of outperformance by a factor of 1.3 i. e. 30% over the three-year performance required to achieve bonus of 150% of target in performance period.
For 2008 09 awards this calculation remains 2008 09 is no less stretching than that required to achieve 150% of unchanged.
For awards made in 2007 08, the TSR performance period for The Committee considers the increased maximum bonus the Company and each constituent of the index was based on opportunity to be in the best interests of shareholders since the nine-month average to 31 March 2010 compared to the additional rewards are only available if the Company delivers the nine-month average to 31 March 2007.
This period was chosen to super-stretch levels of underlying EPS and free cash flow per share include the 2006 Refinancing of the Company in the base period.
performance over and above that relating to bonus of 150% of For awards made in 2008 09, the TSR performance period for target.
Furthermore, the targets that must be met in order to earn the Company and each constituent of the index will be based on any bonus in excess of 150% of target are harder to achieve the three-month average to 31 March 2011 compared to the compared to those that apply between 100% and 150% of target.
1 Underlying earnings per share comprise earnings before exceptional finance costs and foreign exchange gains and losses.
Invensys plc Annual report accounts 2008 51 REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED For the other 50% of an award, the performance target will be In the event of a change of control during the performance period, the compound annual growth rate CAGR in underlying EPS.
performance will be measured at the latest possible date before This measure was chosen to provide a focus on delivering the change of control to assess the proportion vesting based on stretching internal financial targets.
The proportion of the award that may be released will then be time pro rated.
25% of the EPS part of the 2007 08 award will vest for EPS CAGR of 12.4%.
100% of the EPS part of the award will vest for EPS CAGR of The Committee will have discretion to disapply the impact of time 1 26.3%.
Growth will be measured from a base of 14.5p being the pro rating and to permit up to 100% of awards to vest on a change 2006 07 underlying EPS.
of control if, due to exceptional business circumstances to be assessed by the Committee, returns to shareholders are considered For the 2008 09 award, 25% of the EPS part of the award will vest to be at a superior level.
100% of the EPS part of the award will vest for EPS CAGR of 22.4%.
Growth will be measured from a base of Chief Executives long-term incentive arrangements 17.0p being the 2007 08 underlying EPS.
For 2007 08 and thereafter, the Chief Executive is entitled to participate in the 2007 LTIP.
However, after careful consideration The Committee will have discretion to exclude from the calculation including a specific review of companies that have undertaken matters such as one-off items of a non-recurring nature, to ensure similarly challenging business turnarounds and thorough that the focus is on underlying growth in EPS.
consultation with major shareholders and shareholder representative bodies, culminating in shareholder approval at the The Committee will in all cases retain discretion to ensure that, 2007 Annual General Meeting, the Committee concluded that Ulf as a condition for the vesting of shares, the underlying overall Henriksson should be granted a special one-off long-term incentive performance of the Company has been satisfactory.
For the TSR award, known as the 2007 CEO Special Award Special Award, in part of the award, factors that will be taken into account will addition to his normal annual award under the 2007 LTIP.
include EPS growth and the Groups cash position.
Vested awards will include an additional number of shares representing the value Subject to meeting very demanding performance conditions, the of any dividends that would have been paid on those vested shares Special Award entitles Mr Henriksson to 1,608,554 shares, being had they been held throughout the vesting period.
The performance conditions do not apply to 30% of an award for In conjunction with the introduction of the Special Award, the executive participants below executive director level.
This is to Chief Executive will build up to an increased level of shareholding address specific recruitment and retention issues facing the Group.
This increased requirement will continue to apply until May 2010.
Thereafter, the normal 200% of base salary Under the 2007 LTIP, the usual maximum annual award level for an under the Share Ownership Guidelines will apply.
executive director is 200% of salary.
The Committee has discretion to make awards above this level in exceptional circumstances.
The performance measures applying to the Special Award reflect For the reasons set out below, the Committee determined that those applying to the 2007 LTIP, with some elements being more exceptional circumstances existed justifying an additional award to demanding as described below.
Additionally, the Special Award is Steve Hare in 2008 09 of 100% of salary, making a total award of split into two layers, each of which vests on a different basis.
For the first layer, being 200% of base salary, 20% of the Special As was set out in the Chairmans statement last year, Invensys has Award will vest for threshold performance and 100% for maximum a clear strategy in place that will enable the Company to become a performance.
For the second layer, being the balance of 500% high performing, sustainable and cohesive business.
To enable us to of base salary, 0% of the Special Award will vest for threshold best deliver our strategic goals, it is important that your Company performance and 100% for maximum performance.
Vesting in retains the services of Mr Hare.
Therefore, in recognition of the each layer will be on a straight-line basis between these points.
importance of Mr Hares contribution to growing value in our business, and to strengthen the retention element of his package, the Committee determined that it was appropriate to make an additional award under the Companys 2007 LTIP of 100% of salary.
The performance conditions applying to this additional award will reflect those applying to awards made in 2008 09 under the 2007 LTIP.
If a participant resigns or is dismissed for cause before shares are released, they will be forfeited.
If their employment ceases due to ill health or disability, performance will be measured at the normal vesting date and the award will then be pro rated based on the period of service, save that the Committee may moderate the application of the pro rata reduction if it considers that the participants contribution to the business would not be properly recognised if the award was scaled down.
The Committee will have discretion to accelerate vesting in compassionate circumstances.
1 See Note 11 to the Financial statements.
52 Invensys plc Annual report accounts 2008 For each layer of the Special Award 50% will vest based on TSR and The Committee in all cases retains discretion to ensure that as 50% based on underlying EPS growth, as for the 2007 LTIP.
However, a condition for the vesting of shares the underlying overall for the TSR part of the Special Award, maximum vesting will performance of the Company has been satisfactory.
In the case of require more stretching performance equivalent to upper quintile.
the TSR part of the award, factors that will be taken into account This has been calculated by the Committees remuneration advisers will include EPS growth and the Companys cash position.
as outperformance of the mean of the Standard & Poors Global 1200 Capital Goods Index constituents by a factor of 1.4 i. e. 40%.
If Mr Henriksson resigns or is dismissed for cause before shares The calculation of TSR will follow that as described for the 2007 are released, they will be forfeited.
If his employment ceases due LTIP.
Vesting can be summarised as follows: to ill health or disability, performance will be measured at the normal vesting date and the award will then be pro rated based EPS part of TSR part of on the period of service save that the Committee may moderate Special Award 50% Special Award 50% the application of the pro rata reduction if it considers that Target for EPS CAGR of 12.4% Performance equal to Mr Henrikssons contribution to the business would otherwise threshold vesting mean of Index constituents not be properly recognised.
The Committee will have discretion excluding outliers to accelerate vesting in compassionate circumstances.
Target for EPS CAGR of 26.3% Equivalent to upper quintile maximum vesting outperformance of mean In the event of a change of control in the performance period, of Index constituents performance will be measured at the latest possible date before excluding outliers by the change of control to assess the proportion vesting based on factor of 1.4 i. e. 40% performance.
Performance will be measured over a three-year period ending 31 March 2010 as for the 2007 LTIP.
50% of vested shares will be In the event of a change of control in the holding period, all vested released at the end of the performance period or as soon as shares will be released.
practicable thereafter and the balance of 50% will be released after a 12-month holding period.
Shares released will include an The Committee will have discretion to disapply the impact of time additional number of shares representing the value of any pro rating and to permit up to 100% of awards to vest on a change dividends that would have been paid on those released shares had of control if, due to exceptional business circumstances to be they been held throughout the vesting holding periods.
assessed by them, returns to shareholders are considered to be at a superior level.
An increased level of shareholding over and above that set out under the Share Ownership Guidelines will apply until May 2010.
Remuneration policy for executive directors 2008 09 The table below summarises the key elements of the executive directors remuneration as they will apply for 2008 09: Element of remuneration package Purpose Policy Summary of operation Base salary Provide a market competitive To set pay in a competitive Paid monthly in cash salary to help recruit and range by reference to Reviewed annually and fixed for the 12 months retain key employees relevant comparator commencing 1 April companies and groups The Chief Executives base salary rose to 820,000 from Reflect the individuals 1 April 2008 role within the Group and The Chief Financial Officers base salary rose to 490,000 have regard to skills and from 1 April 2008 experience and other relevant factors such as personal performance Annual bonus Incentivise key executives to Bonus determined by The Committee sets a threshold performance level achieve specific, stretching reference to financial targets, where 10% of salary is paid, a target level where 100% predetermined goals over a influenced by personal of salary is paid increasing on a straight-line basis to a short-term period objectives stretch level where 150% of salary is paid.
For levels of Reward ongoing contribution Stretch bonus potential set performance above stretch, the targets are harder to to core values by reference to UK and achieve to a level of super-stretch performance at which Focus executives on targets international market the maximum annual bonus payment is 200% of salary relevant to the Groups comparators currently 150% Bonus payments are determined by the Committee after current strategic goals of base salary year end, based on targets set at the start of the year.
For the achievement of The bonus amount up to target performance level is super-stretch performance, paid in cash.
Any bonus earned in excess of the target a maximum annual bonus performance level will be paid in deferred shares payment of 200% of salary is which will be released after three years subject to the available for 2008 09 executive director not being dismissed for cause Invensys plc Annual report accounts 2008 53 REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Remuneration policy for executive directors 2008 09 continued Element of remuneration package Purpose Policy Summary of operation Long Term Incentivise executives to meet Maximum usual annual grant Awards of shares made annually, conditional on Incentive Plan truly stretching financial of 200% of base salary, actual performance measured over the three subsequent years targets and achieve superior award levels determined by ending 31 March 2011 for awards in 2008 09 returns to shareholders individual performance For 50% of the award the performance condition will Align interests of executives The award level to the Chief relate to the Companys TSR performance relative to and shareholders through Executive in 2008 09 will be the constituents of the Standard & Poors Global 1200 building a shareholding 200% of base salary Capital Goods Index.
25% will vest for performance Retain key executives over The award level to the Chief equal to the mean of the index constituents and 100% three-year performance Financial Officer in 2008 09 will vest for outperformance of the mean of the index period will be 300% of salary in constituents representing upper quartile excluding light of the exceptional outliers in each case circumstances outlined above For 50% of the award the performance condition will relate to the CAGR of the Groups underlying EPS.
25% will vest for 10.7% CAGR and 100% will vest for 22.4% CAGR Shares will only vest to participants if the Committee is satisfied that the underlying performance of the Company has been sufficient to justify this Pension Reward ongoing contribution Facilitate the accumulation of The Chief Executive is entitled to a pension allowance during Invensys career an appropriate level of postequal to 35% of base salary in lieu of pension retirement benefits entitlement, part of which is paid as a contribution to a personal pension scheme The Chief Financial Officer is entitled to a pension allowance equal to 30% of base salary in lieu of pension entitlement, all of which is paid as a contribution to a personal pension scheme The Company bears no additional costs to the executive directors arising from changes to pension taxation legislation in April 2006 Share To align the interests of Executive directors required Executive directors are expected to retain shares net of Ownership executive directors and other to build and maintain a taxes acquired through the vesting of shares under the Guidelines senior executives with those shareholding of 200% of Groups share incentive plans until the target holding is of shareholders base salary achieved.
Existing shareholdings and shares acquired in A more stringent the market are also taken into account shareholding requirement Exceptionally, in conjunction with the Special Award an applies to the Chief Executive increased shareholding requirement of 300% of base until May 2010 salary will apply to the Chief Executive until May 2010 Service To provide suitable protection Notice periods not to exceed The Chief Executives and Chief Financial Officers contracts to both the executives and 12 months except, where contracts provide for 12 months notice.
The Chief the Company necessary, for a transitional Executives contract permits any termination payment to period on joining be made on a phased basis To provide for mitigation and or phasing of any payment Other share schemes 1998 Senior Executive Long Term Incentive Plan Turnaround Bonus Overlay Plan 1998 LTIP TBOP For awards made during 2005 06 and 2006 07 under the 1998 LTIP, On a transitional basis, the Committee operated the TBOP in vesting is conditional on the Companys TSR relative to a basket of 2005 06 and in 2006 07.
The TBOP was subject to the same 12 global comparators over a three-year performance period, and performance targets as the Executive Bonus Plan but only on meeting specific underpin targets.
25% of an award vests for commenced payment where an above target level of performance median performance with full vesting requiring upper decile was achieved.
At target, no payment was due with the potential performance.
50% of vested shares are released at the end of the bonus increasing, on a straight-line basis, to 100% of salary if the performance period and the remainder after one year, subject to maximum bonus was earned.
The usual annual award level for executive directors was 200% of base salary per annum.
No further awards can be granted under the 1998 LTIP and awards are now made under the 2007 LTIP.
54 Invensys plc Annual report accounts 2008 To align the interests of executive directors and shareholders, any Share Ownership Guidelines SOGs bonuses earned under the TBOP are paid in shares, with 50% of the The SOGs, requiring executives to build up and maintain a shares awarded being released following the first anniversary of shareholding over time, were introduced in 2004 05 and were those shares being awarded and the other 50% being released amended with effect from 2007 08 and thereafter such that, following the second anniversary.
except as required to meet tax obligations, executives have to retain at least 50% of the shares 100% of shares for executive Executive Share Option Scheme directors which vest under all executive share incentive plans or The Company has in the past operated its Executive Share Option the payment of annual incentives in shares, until the minimum Scheme and received shareholder approval for a deferred bonus level of shareholding is achieved.
However, the Company does not propose using these plans in relation to executive directors.
The following requirements as to the minimum level of retention will apply: Restricted Share Plan RSP The Company also operates an RSP that grants executive management Executive directors 200% of base salary participants restricted share awards, nominal nil price options or Executive Leadership Team 50% of base salary cash awards over Invensys shares.
Release of the shares is generally Other participants 25% of base salary subject to continued employment at the relevant date, although shares may be released early in defined good leaver cases or with As noted above, a further requirement applies to the Chief the consent of the Committee.
Executive to retain shares over and above these levels until May 2010.
The executive directors did not receive RSP awards during the financial year.
Service contracts i Policy Savings Related Share Option Scheme The Combined Code and guidelines issued by institutional investors The Company has a Savings Related Share Option Scheme for recommend that notice periods of no more than one year be set operation in the UK and other countries.
The Scheme enables as an objective for executive directors and that any payments to employees to purchase shares in the Company at a favourable a departing executive director should be determined having full price, using the proceeds of a savings account to which they make regard to the duty of mitigation.
It is the Companys policy to monthly contributions for a three, five or seven-year period.
achieve these objectives, wherever possible.
Executive directors are eligible to participate in this Scheme, which operates in the UK within specific tax legislation and is therefore ii Specific contracts not subject to performance conditions.
Set out below is a summary of the main provisions of the service contracts of those executive directors who served during the year: The last invitation under this Scheme was in 2005 although Date of Unexpired Notice following a review by the Committee it has been agreed that a Director Notes contract term period further invitation will be offered in 2008 09.
Ulf Henriksson 1, 2, 3 28 April 12 months 12 months 2004 Dilution limits Steve Hare 1, 3, 4 20 April 12 months 12 months The Company has, at all times, complied with the dilution limits 2006 contained within its share plans principally a limit of 10% in 10 years.
In the 10-year period to 31 March 2008 awards made under Notes the Companys share schemes represented 2.89% 2007: 2.77% of 1.
In the event of early termination of the directors service contract other than where the Companys issued ordinary share capital.
summary dismissal is appropriate the Company has the right to pay, in lieu of notice, the salary and contractual benefits which he would have received during the relevant notice period.
Alternatively, in the case of Mr Hare, the Company may continue to Shares to satisfy the TBOP, the deferred share element of Executive provide such benefits during that period.
Bonus Plan and the RSP will be purchased in the market.
The Company may elect to pay the amount due in lieu of notice as a single lump sum or pay the first six months worth on departure and then on a phased basis at six-monthly intervals with appropriate reduction in the event that Mr Henriksson Employee benefit trust finds alternative employment.
The Committee approved during the year changes to Mr Henrikssons and Mr Hares During 2007 08 the Company established two employee benefit contracts entitling them, in the event of a material adverse change to their titles, trusts which are administered by an independent trustee, one of responsibilities or status following a change of control of the Company to terminate which holds ordinary shares in the Company to meet the various their employment and receive a payment equal to the termination payment set out in Note 1. obligations under its executive share schemes, as appropriate.
Mr Hares service contract will terminate automatically on his 70th birthday.
Trust held 1,766,545 ordinary shares at 31 March 2008 2007: nil.
Pension The Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer received pension allowances, as detailed in the remuneration table on page 57.
Other benefits Other benefits provided for executive directors comprise the provision of a cash allowance in place of a company car, typical life assurance permanent health insurance benefits, private medical insurance and annual health checks.
Invensys plc Annual report accounts 2008 55 REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Chairman and non-executive directors External directorships Chairman The executive directors are encouraged to hold not more than one Martin Jay was appointed non-executive Chairman in July 2003 for external non-executive directorship in order to broaden their an initial period of three years.
This appointment was extended by experience for the benefit of the Company.
Such appointments are the Board and approved by shareholders in 2006. subject to approval by the Board and the director may retain any fees paid in respect of such directorship.
Mr Henriksson joined the Mr Jays letter of appointment dated 28 May 2003 requires, except board of Hexagon AB as a non-executive director in 2007 from in the case of dismissal for cause, 12 months notice by either which he retains the fees payable of SEK 350,000 approximately party: on early termination at the request of the Company any 26,576 per annum.
compensation will be subject to mitigation.
Performance graph The Committee is responsible for reviewing the Chairmans The Company is required to include a graph indicating their TSR fees.
The Chairman is not involved in any decision on his own performance that is, share price assuming reinvestment of any remuneration.
The fees currently paid to the Chairman and the dividends over the last five years relative to a recognised equity other non-executive directors are subject to the limits set in the index.
Accordingly the graph below shows the Companys Articles of Association.
The Chairmans fee was set on appointment performance relative to the FTSE 250, which the Committee at 250,000 per annum.
During 2007 08 the Chairman elected to considers an appropriate index for comparison purposes as the join the same arrangement as the other non-executive directors Company had been a constituent during all of that period.
as set out below whereby 8,000 of his fee per annum is paid in shares.
Total shareholder return Source: Thomson Financial Mr Jay has informed the other members of the Board that he is 350 intending to retire as Chairman and a director of the Company 300 at the 2009 Annual General Meeting.
By then, he will have been 250 Chairman for six years and believes that it will be an appropriate 200 time to hand over to a successor.
He has made his intentions clear now so that the Board can put in place a thorough and orderly 150 Invensys plc FTSE 250 Index process to appoint a new Chairman and ensure that a smooth 100 transfer of responsibilities can take place.
50 0 Non-executive directors 31-Mar-03 31-Mar-04 31-Mar-05 31-Mar-06 31-Mar-07 31-Mar-08 The non-executive directors do not have service contracts with the This graph shows the value, by 31 March 2008, of 100 invested in Invensys plc on 31 March 2003 Company.
All non-executive directors including the Chairman are compared with the value of 100 invested in the FTSE 250 Index.
appointed under the Companys Articles of Association, under The other points plotted are the values at intervening financial year ends.
which they are required to seek re-election not later than the third Annual General Meeting following their last election, are subject to review by the Nominating Committee prior to being considered Total shareholder return Source: Thomson Financial for election or re-election by shareholders and serve the Company 250 under letters of appointment that do not contain any notice period.
They do not participate in any bonus or performance related plans or any of the Groups share incentive, option or 200 pension schemes.
150 Fees for non-executive directors other than the Chairman are determined by a committee of the Board comprising the Chairman and the executive directors.
Fee levels are determined taking Invensys plc 100 FTSE 250 Index account of time commitments and responsibilities, together with comparative market rates and benchmarking data.
The fees 50 currently paid to non-executive directors are subject to the limits 31-Mar-05 31-Mar-06 31-Mar-07 31-Mar-08 set in the Articles of Association.
This graph shows the value, by 31 March 2008, of 100 invested in Invensys plc on 31 March 2005 compared with the value of 100 invested in the FTSE 250 Index.
To ensure that the interests of the non-executive directors are The other points plotted are the values at intervening financial year ends.
aligned with those of shareholders, the current fee structure for the non-executive directors is a basic fee of 50,000 per annum, with 8,000 to be paid in shares.
Mr Zito has elected to use his entire The graph above highlights the movement in TSR since March 2005. non-executive directors basic fee after tax to acquire shares on a quarterly basis.
Each non-executive director has committed to retain these shares for the period of their directorship.
The remuneration table on page 57 includes that part of the fee used to purchase shares and the shares are included in the table of directors interests also on page 57.
Additional payments of 10,000 are paid to the chairman of the Audit Committee and 8,000 to the chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
The comparative figure for Mr Hare relates to the period from his date of appointment on 21 July 2006 to 31 March 2007.
The 2007 figure includes 50,000 paid to Mr Hare as a one-off payment on joining the Company to cover transitional costs and relocation.
The emoluments of the highest-paid director, Mr Henriksson, excluding pension rights were 2,052,854 2007: 1,562,738.
The fee structure for the non-executives including the Chairman from 9 November 2007 includes 8,000 per annum or, in the case of Mr Zito, all of his fee which, after tax, is used to buy shares in the Company for each non-executive director as described on page 56.
The shares purchased on their behalf are included in the table of directors interests set out below.
The comparative figure for Mr Parker relates to the period from his date of appointment on 24 May 2006 to 31 March 2007.
Mr Zito was appointed on 23 May 2007 and therefore his emoluments for 2008 relate to the period from this date to 31 March 2008.
As disclosed in the 2006 Remuneration report, the Committee exercised its discretion and agreed to make a bonus payment of 75,000 to Mr Hennah as a result of successful completion of personal objectives during the period of his 2006 07 employment.
Taxable and other benefits comprise items such as cash allowances in lieu of a company car, life assurance permanent health assurance, medical care and annual health check.
All executive directors are entitled to such benefits.
Any payment due in excess of 100% of salary is paid in ordinary shares in the Company the vesting of which is deferred for executive directors for a period of three years.
Included in the bonus column above are the amounts of 274,500 and 157,380, to be granted as deferred shares to Mr Henriksson and Mr Hare respectively in respect of their annual bonus for 2007 08.
No directors waived emoluments in respect of the year ended 31 March 2008 2007: none.
Directors interests Ordinary shares The interests of the directors and their families in the shares of the Company are set out below: At 1 April 2007 Notes At 31 March 2008 or at date of appointment if later 1, 2 ordinary shares of 10p each ordinary shares of 10p each Bay Green 3 10,488 9,317 Jean-Claude Guez 3 27,573 26,026 Steve Hare Ulf Henriksson 566,819 305,200 Martin Jay 3 13,746 9,538 Michael Parker 3 2,653 1,639 Pat Zito 3 6,359 Notes 1.
The mid-market price of an ordinary share on 31 March 2008 was 225p.
Between 1 April 2007 and 31 March 2008, the highest mid-market price was 428.25p and the lowest mid-market price was 185.75p.
All interests referred to are beneficial.
As described on page 56, as part of the non-executive directors fee arrangements, a proportion or all, in the case of Mr Zito of their fee including the Chairmans is used to acquire ordinary shares in the Company.
On 1 April 2008 Mr Jay, Mr Green, Mr Guez, Mr Parker and Mr Zito acquired 465, 459, 609, 398 and 2,895 ordinary shares respectively at 251p per share as part of the non-executive directors fee arrangement.
There have been no further changes in the interests of directors in ordinary shares between 1 April 2008 and 14 May 2008.
Invensys plc Annual report accounts 2008 57 REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Long-term incentive awards Details of the ordinary shares in the Company which have been conditionally awarded to executive directors under various executive plans and arrangements are set out below.
The relevant performance conditions relating to these conditional awards are set out on pages 51 to 55 of this Report and in Note 29 to the Financial Statements.
The conditional awards shown in the table are the maximum number of ordinary shares that can vest subject to satisfaction of the relevant performance conditions.
Mid-market ordinary share prices adjusted for variations in share capital since the date of grant.
On 24 June 2007 37% of the conditional award granted in 2004 was converted into a deferred right to acquire the relevant number of ordinary shares.
Subject to the rules of the 1998 LTIP these deferred shares will become eligible for release at the end of a two-year retention period.
Under the terms under which the Restricted Share Award was granted, Mr Henriksson remains subject to an obligation to retain the shares released except any sold to satisfy tax liabilities until 20 May 2009.
Share options The following option over ordinary shares in the Company was granted to the named director under an individual arrangement pursuant to the UK Listing Authority Listing Rules: Date from As at 1 April As at 31 March Option price which first Expiry Notes 2007 2008 per share p exerciseable date Ulf Henriksson 1, 2 535,290 535,290 154.59 50% 21 Nov 2005 31 May 2014 50% 21 May 2007 Notes: 1.
The option is not subject to performance conditions.
The exercise of the option is contingent on continued employment or, at the discretion of the Committee, leaving in certain compassionate circumstances.
No options were granted, lapsed or exercised during the year.
58 Invensys plc Annual report accounts 2008
