Directors Report: Governance Directors Remuneration Report This report is submitted to shareholders by the Remuneration The terms of reference of the Remuneration Committee are Committee on behalf of the Board.
The report is in a number available on the Companys website www.
com of sections, the first of which deals with the Committee and or on request from the Company Secretarys department at the its remit.
The second part provides details of the Companys Companys registered ofce.
The terms of engagement between remuneration policy for executive Directors and senior executives.
the Committee and Hewitt are also available on request.
The third part describes the elements of remuneration for the year ended 31 December 2008 and the fourth addresses miscellaneous Remuneration policy matters such as service agreements, non-executive Director fees The Committee seeks to ensure that the Companys remuneration and policy on external appointments.
The last part provides policies and practices facilitate the recruitment and motivation details of the remuneration and interests in ordinary shares and of high calibre personnel with the appropriate skills to implement performance share awards for the year ended 31 December 2008. the Groups business objectives, while also relating reward to performance and aligning the interests of executive Directors and This report has been prepared in accordance with Schedule 7A senior executives with those of shareholders.
It aims to follow best to the Companies Act 1985.
The report also meets the relevant practice in relation to its remuneration policy and, in particular, requirements of the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority and complies with the Combined Code.
describes how the Board has applied the Principles of Good Governance relating to Directors remuneration as set out in the In constructing and reviewing remuneration packages, the Combined Code on Corporate Governance.
As required by the emphasis is on rewarding executive Directors competitively Companies Act 1985, a resolution to approve this report will be for their contribution to the Companys performance and for proposed at the Companys Annual General Meeting on 15 May enhancing value to shareholders, taking into account market 2009 and will be subject to an advisory shareholder vote.
comparisons, the competitive pressures in the mining sector, internal relativities and sound risk management practices.
External Ernst & Young LLP has audited the report to the extent required comparisons, including annual assessments of the relevant senior by the Companies Act 1985, being the sections headed executive remuneration market, look at comparable roles in similar Directors emoluments and the related notes under the heading, organisations in terms of operations and market capitalisation.
Remuneration for the year to 31 December 2008, and the table The Committee continues to take a responsible approach toward entitled Directors interests in ordinary shares under the heading benchmarking and aims to set reward opportunity for executive of the same name.
Directors within the market competitive range, but with a balanced overall positioning.
The Committee and its remit Remuneration Committee The strategy for executive Director remuneration, in general The Remuneration Committee members are Lord Renwick terms, is to provide a balanced package around the relevant chairman, Philip Aiken and Simon Heale all of whom are mid-market level for comparable mining companies, with regarded by the Board as independent non-executive Directors a high proportion of total remuneration being awarded through and served throughout the year: they all bring a wide range of performance-related elements.
In addition to consideration experience from other organisations and their biographies are of market data, when setting salaries, individual judgement is shown on page 53. exercised by the Committee, having regard to an individuals experience and responsibilities.
Remuneration arrangements and The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee and performance targets are reviewed on a regular basis to achieve the Chairman and Chief Executive are normally invited by the these objectives.
Committee to attend meetings to provide information and advice.
No executive participated in any discussion relating to his own The Committee strives to ensure that the remuneration policy remuneration.
The Committee has authority to obtain the advice provides a strong and demonstrable link between incentives and of external independent remuneration consultants.
It is solely the Groups strategy, and sets a performance-biased framework responsible for their appointment, retention and termination and for remuneration which is consistent with the Groups scale and for approval of the basis of their fees and other terms.
In the year unique circumstances, and which motivates its executive Directors to 31 December 2008, the Committee received advice on and senior executives and enables them to share in the long-term executive compensation and equity-based incentive schemes success of the Group, without delivering excessive benets or from Hewitt New Bridge Street Hewitt previously New Bridge encouraging excessive risk taking.
Hewitt also provides advice to the Company on remuneration matters for senior employees including The Committee intends to continue with the remuneration policy for 2009 and subsequent years, and will continue to consult on equity-based incentives.
material changes with major institutional shareholders.
Role of the Remuneration Committee Executive Director remuneration policy The Remuneration Committees principal responsibilities are: The Remuneration Committee has determined that those determining and recommending to the Board the framework executive Directors who are major shareholders in the Company for executive remuneration: should not be eligible to participate in any share plans or other within the agreed framework, setting, reviewing and long-term incentive arrangements.
For Vladimir Kim and Oleg Novachuk, who are both major shareholders, this recognises determining individual remuneration arrangements for that they already have a very strong alignment with the success executive Directors and certain senior managers: of the business, and will benefit directly from any uplift in the designing and approving the rules of share incentive plans value of the business.
operated by the Company, and for overseeing the administration of such plans, including deciding on the The new contract arrangements for David Munro are set allocation and issue of shares to executives under long-term out below.
incentive and deferred share bonus plans: and Executive Directors are responsible for their own pension approving the service agreements of each executive Director, arrangements so that no part of their pension cost is borne including termination arrangements.
60 Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Directors Report: Governance Senior executive remuneration policy The current policy for senior executive participation in the Companys equity incentive plans is that participants do not The Company operates two share plans for below Board senior participate in both plans.
The LTIP is reserved for the most senior executives, the Kazakhmys Long Term Incentive Plan 2007 LTIP employees, with the DSBP being operated for the tier below.
and the Kazakhmys Deferred Share Bonus Plan 2007 DSBP.
Selected senior executives are eligible to participate depending Performance graph on seniority.
Both plans will be funded through the purchase of The graph below shows the value, at 31 December 2008, of 100 existing shares thereby avoiding any dilution of shareholders.
invested in Kazakhmys PLC shares on 6 October 2005 compared with an equivalent investment in the FTSE 100 Index and FTSE The policy in relation to base salaries aims to target base salaries 350 Mining Sector Index.
These indices were chosen as they at or around market median.
The strategy for incentive pay is are broad-based indices of which the Company is a member and intended to increase the expected value to make the package are widely recognised performance comparisons for large UK market competitive for senior executives, but to retain as mining companies.
its aim the achievement of a market median value, subject to the achievement of stretching targets.
Total shareholder return This structure provides a balanced, performance-biased executive remuneration package which takes into account current best practice on corporate governance, ts with Kazakhmys need to 300 269 motivate its senior executives and enables them to share in the long-term success of the Group, without delivering excessive 250 benets or encouraging excessive risk taking.
221 210 200 Key features of senior executive equity incentive plans 143 144 The key elements of the equity incentive plans are set out below: 150 129 115 LTIP 100 120 100 Under the plan, awards are granted to below Board senior 105 100 93 executives over Company shares worth up to a maximum of one 50 and a half times base salary each year.
Vesting of the awards is 46 subject to the achievement of demanding performance criteria based on Kazakhmys relative total shareholder return TSR 0 performance.
A xed three year performance period normally 6 Oct 05 31 Dec 05 31 Dec 06 31 Dec 07 31 Dec 08 applies to awards.
Under the TSR performance condition, Kazakhmys performance Kazakhmys PLC FTSE 350 Mining sector index is compared to a comparator group of UK and international mining FTSE 100 Index companies, with no vesting below median TSR, 30% vesting for Source: Thomson Financial median performance and full vesting for upper quartile performance: a sliding scale of vesting will be applied for Elements of remuneration for executive Directors performance between median and upper quartile.
The principal components of remuneration for executive Directors The composition of the comparator group is reviewed annually are base salary, benets in kind and an annual bonus opportunity.
The current group of comparator companies Base salary and benets in kind applicable for awards granted in 2008 comprises Alcoa Inc, Base salaries are reviewed each year and are effective from Anglo American plc, Antofagasta plc, Aquarius Platinum plc, BHP 1 January each year.
The Committee seeks to establish a base Billiton plc, Boliden AB, Eurasian Natural Resources Corporation salary for each executive Director, determined by individual PLC, First Quantum Minerals Ltd, Freeport-McMoran Copper & performance and experience, the size and nature of the role, Gold Inc, Korea Zinc Inc, Lonmin plc, Lundin Mining Corporation, comparator group relativities, internal relativities and Kazakhmys Rio Tinto plc, Sumitomo Metal Mining Co. Ltd, Teck Cominco Ltd, performance.
Base salaries paid to executive Directors are Vedanta Resources plc, Xstrata plc and Zinifex Ltd. adjusted to take account of the absence of any pension provision.
Since executive Directors are not eligible to participate in the LTIP Benets include use of a car for business purposes for Vladimir and awards may only be satisfied using existing shares sourced via Kim and Oleg Novachuk and medical insurance.
the Companys employee benefit trust, shareholder approval has Vladimir Kim and Oleg Novachuk have both elected to have their not been sought for the plan.
However, approval will be sought salaries reduced with effect from 31 March 2009 to 930,000 and at such time as an executive Director is selected to participate or 750,000, respectively.
Their remuneration consists entirely of the Company wishes to satisfy awards using newly issued shares base salary, benets in kind and an annual bonus opportunity, and or treasury shares.
they are required to make their own pension provision.
For David DSBP Munro who entered into a new contract on 30 March 2009, his Deferred share bonus allocations are awarded under the plan, salary in his new role will be 600,000 per annum reecting the under which each year one half of the total bonus earned by more active direct role he will play in modernising and improving eligible below Board senior executives is deferred and invested the Companys operations in Kazakhstan.
Provided the executive remains in employment the shares will normally be released after two years.
The first deferral took place in April 2008, in respect of the 2007 bonus awards.
The next deferral will take place in April 2009. www.
com 61 Directors Report: Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued Annual bonus opportunity Satisfying the Option At the beginning of each year, the Committee reviews the annual It is intended that the Option will be satisfied using existing shares performance bonus scheme to ensure it remains competitive, acquired by the trustees of the Companys employee benefit trust continues to incentivise the executive Directors and aligns their in the open market.
interests with those of shareholders.
The Option may, on exercise, be satisfied as a share appreciation The annual bonus opportunity comprises four discrete elements: right, in which circumstance David Munro will not be required to a financial performance component, an operational performance pay the aggregate option price on exercise and only shares worth component including safety, a strategic development measure an amount on exercise equal to the gross gain will be transferred including execution of new projects and a shareholder return to David Munro.
The Committee may also determine to satisfy measure.
In determining the actual bonus payments, the the Option in whole or part in cash.
Committee takes into consideration such factors as performance Vesting period and performance conditions related to the Groups financial KPIs, operational performance The Option may normally be exercised during the 12 month period against budget, safety performance, business development commencing on the third anniversary of the date of grant, subject activities and performance against industry peers.
Payments are to the extent that the performance condition has been satisfied and made in return for the achievement of stretching objectives.
the Committee has determined that in his new role David Munro Bonuses which for executive Directors are payable wholly in cash has made a significant contribution to an uplift in the share price.
are disclosed for the year in which they are earned although they To focus David Munros interests on creating shareholder value, are not due and payable until the following March April after the the performance condition will measure growth in share price on release of the audited financial results.
The maximum an end to end basis over a xed three year period commencing performance-related bonus payable to executive Directors is on the date of grant.
The base share price will be equal to the 120% of base salary, and has been set by reference to the bonus option price and the required share price will be calculated using potential of those executives performing similar roles in the same method used to determine the option price i. e. the comparable mining and metals companies quoted on the London middle market quotation immediately prior to the end of the Stock Exchange.
Lower limits are, in general, applicable to other performance period.
The vesting schedule will be as follows: senior staff.
For the achievement of target performance, 60% of maximum entitlement is payable.
No element of the bonus Percentage increase Percentage of the is guaranteed.
in share price over Option that will the performance period become exercisable In 2008, for Vladimir Kim and Oleg Novachuk the operational performance component including safety was 40 percentage Equal to or greater than 50% 100% points of the maximum bonus entitlement with the other three elements making up the remainder in equal proportions.
For Between 30% and 50% Between 33% and 100% David Munro, the strategic development measure was on a straight-line basis 60 percentage points, the operational performance element 30% 33% including safety 30 percentage points and the remaining two measures 15 percentage points each.
Less than 30% Nil Bonuses earned by executive Directors in 2008 were 35% of base salary for Vladimir Kim and Oleg Novachuk, and 40% of base To the extent that the above targets are not satisfied on the salary for David Munro.
These payments reected poor total third anniversary of grant, the Option will lapse i. e. there will shareholder return and safety performance but satisfactory be no retesting.
The Committee may, in its discretion, vary the performance David Munro Terms of New Contract conditions if an event has occurred which causes the Committee David Munro is a highly talented, sought-after and experienced to consider that it would be appropriate to amend the mining executive and his new role is of key importance to the performance conditions, provided the Committee considers the Group in terms of the design and implementation of a major varied conditions are fair and reasonable and not materially less programme of change in Kazakhstan.
Accordingly, as part of challenging in the circumstances than the original conditions the negotiations on David Munros new contract, to facilitate his would have been but for the event in question.
retention and to create a strong alignment with shareholders Rights of early exercise interests, the Committee has agreed, following consultation with The Option will normally lapse upon David Munro ceasing to be a the Companys major institutional shareholders and the main Director or employee within the Kazakhmys Group.
However, in the shareholder bodies over the terms of his new contract, to make event that David Munro is a good leaver e. g. death, disability, David Munro, in his case only, a special once-only share option ill-health, retirement or any other reason the Committee permits grant under Listing Rule 9.4.
prior to the first anniversary of the date of grant or ceases for any The terms of the Option are: reason other than for cause or gross misconduct on or after the first anniversary of the date of grant the Committee will, in its the Option will be granted by deed over eight times his salary discretion, determine whether or not the Option may be capable worth of the Companys shares at an option price per share set of being exercised from either the date of early cessation or the by the Committee on grant, and equal to the middle market third anniversary of the date of grant.
In these circumstances, quotation of a share immediately prior to the date of grant.
the Option will only become exercisable to the extent that the The Option will be granted as soon as reasonably practicable performance condition has, in the opinion of the Committee, following the commencement of David Munros new contract: been satisfied at the time of cessation having regard to the the option is not transferable, except on death, and is shortened performance period or, to the extent that the Option not pensionable.
may be exercised from the third anniversary of grant, over the 62 Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Directors Report: Governance full three year performance period, and the Committee has up to six months notice of termination.
The contracts of Vladimir determined he has made a significant contribution to an uplift in Kim and Oleg Novachuk are terminable by either the Company the share price.
The Committee may, in its discretion, reduce the or the executive on three months notice.
These were granted total number of shares over which the Option may be exercised to them on 26 September 2005.
The contract of David Munro in the event that David Munro ceases to be a Director or employee is terminable by either the Company or him giving six months within the Kazakhmys Group.
The contract was granted to him on 30 March 2009.
In the event of a takeover, scheme of arrangement or demerger The Committee continues to believe that, in the event of early of the Company the Option will become capable of exercise early, termination, it is more appropriate to consider the specic but only to the extent that the performance conditions have been circumstances of each case.
This includes, where appropriate, satisfied at that time or, in the opinion of the Remuneration phased payment of compensation over a xed period or until Committee, would have been satisfied had the event in question the executive Director nds a new position, if earlier, and not occurred.
mitigation of payment of compensation through providing a legal obligation on the part of the outgoing executive Director to seek In the event of an internal corporate reorganisation the Option new employment, rather than explicitly provide for compensation will be replaced by an equivalent new option over shares in a new payments in service contracts.
holding company unless the Committee decides that the Option should become exercisable on the basis which would apply in the Policy on external appointments case of a takeover.
The Committee believes that the Company can benefit from executive Directors holding one approved non-executive Other directorship of another company, offering Directors the Any shares allotted or transferred when the Option is exercised opportunity to broaden their experience and knowledge.
will rank equally with shares then in issue except for rights arising Company policy is to allow Directors to retain fees paid from any by reference to a record date prior to their allotment or transfer.
David Munro is a non-executive director of In the event of any variation of the Companys share capital or in Lonmin plc and is a member of its Remuneration Committee and the event of a demerger, payment of a special dividend or similar Safety and Sustainability Committee.
In this capacity he receives event which materially affects the market price of the shares, the a total annual fee of 67,500 which he retains.
Committee may make such adjustment as it considers appropriate to the number of shares subject to the Option and or the option Non-executive Directors price payable.
The Option will not confer any shareholder rights Non-executive Directors do not have service contracts but until the Option has been exercised and shares have been each has a letter of appointment with the Company.
Each letter transferred to David Munro.
The Committee will not amend the of appointment provides for a one-month notice period.
arrangement in any respect to the advantage of the recipient Non-executive Directors are normally appointed for two other than a minor alteration made to benefit the administration consecutive three-year terms with any third term of three years of the arrangement, to take account of a change in legislation being subject to rigorous review and taking into account the need or to obtain or maintain favourable tax, exchange control or progressively to refresh the Board.
They are subject to re-election regulatory treatment for David Munro or for any company in the at the AGM following their appointment and subsequently at Kazakhmys Group.
intervals of no more than three years.
Their dates of appointment are shown in their respective biographies on page 53.
Change management plan During the negotiations on David Munros new contract, Fees for the non-executive Directors are approved by the Board, it was agreed that a key part of the programme of change upon the recommendation of the executive Directors.
to be developed and implemented by him across the Groups Reduction of non-executive Director fees businesses in Kazakhstan would be a plan to deliver a percentage Fees for the non-executive Directors were set at the time of the up to 10% of the net cost savings based on the cost of sales for IPO at 120,000 per annum, taking account of the need to attract these businesses of approximately $900 million over the next individuals of the right calibre and reecting the time commitment three years to around 600 managers in the Group.
This plan is required from them, including attending Board and Committee designed to drive the right behaviour and identify efficiencies meetings in Kazakhstan and regularly visiting the operations there.
It was also agreed that David The Board has considered further the fees for the non-executive Munro would be entitled to participate in the rewards generated Directors and has approved that, with effect from 31 March 2009, from this change process of which he is the lead architect.
the base fee for non-executive Directors should be reduced to However, any annual bonuses David Munro receives over the next 84,000 per annum, with an additional 12,000 per annum for three years will be deducted from any eventual pay-out under the the Senior Independent Director and the Chairmen of the Audit change management plan.
and Remuneration Committees and 6,000 per annum for any Full details of any payments made under the change management members of the GHSE and Audit Committees who are not paid plan will be disclosed in the Directors Remuneration Report.
as the Senior Independent Director or Committee chairmen.
No additional fee will be paid to the Chairman or members of the Pensions Nomination Committee.
Except for Vladimir Ni see note 3 in the The Company does not provide pension benets on behalf of any table below, non-executive Directors receive no benets other executive Directors.
The absence of any pension provision is taken than their fees and are not eligible to participate in either the into account when setting base salaries.
annual bonus plan or in any share incentive plan, nor receive any pension benets from the Company.
Other remuneration matters Service agreements The Companys policy is that executive Directors will be employed on a contract that can be terminated by the Company on giving no more than one years notice, with the Director required to give www.
com 63 Directors Report: Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued Remuneration for the year to 31 December 2008 The total emoluments of the Directors who held ofce at 31 December 2008 for the year to that date were as shown in the table below.
Annual Base performance Total Total 1 salary fees Benets bonus 2008 2007 Directors emoluments 000 000 000 000 000 Chairman 2 Vladimir Kim 1,029 34 360 1,423 1,699 Chief Executive Oleg Novachuk 819 35 287 1,141 1,295 Executive Director David Munro 525 1 210 736 901 Non-executive Directors Philip Aiken 120 120 120 Simon Heale 120 120 120 3 Vladimir Ni 385 385 370 Lord Renwick 120 120 120 4 James Rutland 120 120 120 5 Daulet Yergozhin 14 14 Former Directors 6 Yong Keu Cha 436 Total 3,252 70 857 4,179 5,181 1 Benets include all taxable benets arising from employment by the Company, including provision of a car for business purposes for Vladimir Kim and Oleg Novachuk and medical insurance.
2 Vladimir Kim received an aggregate salary of 1,029,000 per annum.
Of this salary, $1,006,054 was paid by Kazakhmys Corporation LLC and the balance was paid by the Company.
An adjustment is made to his salary each year to ensure that his aggregate salary for the year equates to his salary denominated in UK pounds sterling as a result of exchange rate differences.
3 Vladimir Nis salary consists of two components: a non-executive Directors fee of 120,000 per annum in respect of his duties as a non-executive Director of the Company and a salary of $500,000 265,000 per annum in respect of his duties as chairman of Kazakhmys Corporation LLC.
4 Jim Rutland ceased to be a Director on 5 December 2008.
5 Daulet Yergozhin was appointed a non-executive Director on 19 November 2008.
As a minister of the Government of Kazakhstan, he is not permitted to receive fees personally.
6 Yong Keu Cha stood down as Special Adviser to the Board on 31 December 2007.
In 2007, he received a base salary of 400,000 and benets in kind.
No compensation payments were made to him when he stood down.
No payments were made to him in 2008.
Payments made to Yong Keu Cha are disclosed under former directors.
64 Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Directors Report: Governance Senior managers remuneration The emoluments for the year ended 31 December 2008 of Matthew Hird, Chief Financial officer, and Eduard Ogay, Chief Executive officer of Kazakhmys Corporation LLC, the Groups senior managers, were as shown in the table below.
Annual Base performance Total salary bonus 2008 Senior managers emoluments 000 000 000 1 Matthew Hird 409 163 572 Eduard Ogay 523 523 Total emoluments 932 163 1,095 1 Matthew Hird has waived any increase in base salary for 2009.
Matthew Hird, Chief Financial officer, is entitled to participate in a dened contribution pension scheme operated for all UK-based staff excluding executive Directors.
Eduard Ogay, Chief Executive officer of Kazakhmys Corporation LLC, is a member of a dened contribution pension scheme operated for the majority of Kazakhstan-based employees to allow them to contribute the required pension amounts under Kazakh law.
LTIP awards for senior executives Senior executives, excluding executive Directors, are entitled to participate in the Kazakhmys Long Term Incentive Plan 2007.
Awards under this plan were granted for nil consideration over a total of 66,202 shares on 7 April 2008, when the prevailing market price was 1,697p: these awards will vest on 7 April 2011 to the extent that the performance condition set out on page 61 is satisfied.
Awards granted under the plan included 19,208 awards to Matthew Hird.
Further details of the Companys senior executive equity incentive plans are given in note 27 on page 112.
Directors interests in ordinary shares The interests of the Directors who held ofce at 31 December 2008 in the Companys ordinary shares as at that date and 1 January 2008 are shown in table below.
Directors interests Ordinary shares at Ordinary shares at in ordinary shares 1 January 2008 31 December 2008 Philip Aiken 4,000 Simon Heale 5,000 Vladimir Kim 208,183,588 208,183,588 David Munro 41,211 41,211 Vladimir Ni 11,686,855 11,686,855 Oleg Novachuk 34,923,423 34,923,423 Lord Renwick 4,000 4,000 1 No changes in Directors interests occurred in the period between 1 January 2009 and 30 March 2009.
2 The market value of the Companys shares in the year was in the range of 173.8p to 1,943p.
On behalf of the Board Lord Renwick Chairman, Remuneration Committee 30 March 2009 www.
