Melrose Industries PLC 48 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Corporate Social Responsibility The Group recognises its responsibilities for the fair treatment of all its current and potential employees.
Melrose seeks to be a good Employment policies Any concerns or adverse trends are The Group recognises its responsibilities responded to in a timely manner.
Further, corporate citizen wherever it for the fair treatment of all its current and as a Group-wide policy and so far as conducts business, to observe potential employees in accordance with particular disabilities permit, the Company all national and local laws and legislation applicable to the territories and each of its businesses will give take into account regional within which it operates, together with employees disabled during their period relevant guidance on good practice where ofemployment continued employment in and local concerns, customs applicable.
Due to the diverse nature of the same job or, if this is not practicable, and traditions.
One of the the Groups activities, businesses are asuitable alternative job, together with fundamental principles of required to manage their employment appropriate training and or re-training.
Melrose is to conduct all of its matters on a decentralised basis: therefore, responsibility for the adoption Equal opportunities for appropriate business in an open, honest ofemployment policies and practices sits training, career development and andethical manner.
at a local business unit level.
This position promotion are also available to all ensures that rigorous and targeted employees within the Group regardless policiesand procedures are implemented ofany physical disability, gender, religion, that meet both site and local regulatory race, nationality, sexual orientation or age.
requirements, taking into account the sizeand nature of the businesses.
Applications for employment by disabledpersons are always fully and As part of this decentralised approach, fairlyconsidered by the Group and are each business is responsible for setting considered on merit, with regard only and measuring its own employment and tothe job-specific requirements and the employee-related KPIs and, as such, relevant applicants aptitude and ability to these vary throughout the Group.
carry out the role, and where reasonable However, such measurements will todo so, arrangements to enable disabled generally include absenteeism, punctuality, persons to carry out a specific role will be headcount and employee relations issues.
It is the policy of the Group that in recruitment, training, career development and promotion, the treatment of disabled persons should, as far as possible, be identical to that of other employees.
Strategic Report Governance Financials Shareholder information Melrose Industries PLC 49 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report In March 2013, Bridon Employee initiatives Within Elster Electricity there were During 2013, the Groups businesses various employee related initiatives in established the Bridon implemented a range of employee-related 2013, including an employee satisfaction Academy, a virtual initiatives.
Some of these are listed below: survey in Brazil, a management 360degree evaluation in Romania, framework for all the Within Bridon over 1,400 employees, health checks for employees in Russia which represents 85% of its global learning and development and a series of knowledge transfer workforce, completed the second training sessions, including topics such that takes place worldwide Bridon Employee Opinion Survey in as pensions and health insurance.
The survey was designed across its business.
to highlight areas for improvement but The Elster Gas Leadership Conference the results for 2013 also confirmed that was established in 2013 to introduce the The Group regards employee training and positive progress in engaging the new vision, goals and future strategy for advancement as an essential element of workforce has been made since the first the business and to align management industrial relations.
Disputes and days lost survey in 2011.
For instance, employees and business priorities with this new through strike action are negligible.
reported a better understanding of the strategy.
Two conferences were held link between the Bridon strategy and in 2013 and senior management team Employee involvement, consultation their personal objectives and daily work members, Managing Directors and and development activities.
It was also acknowledged other executives were invited from The Group attaches great importance togood that there were better opportunities to Elster Gas businesses in Europe, labour relations, employee engagement learn new skills and that management North America and Asia.
The diverse coaching and feedback had improved.
nature of the Groups activitiesplaces the responsibility for theimplementation and In March 2013, Bridon established the management ofemployment practices with Bridon Academy, a virtual framework local management, in a manner appropriate for all the learning and development toeach business.
that takes place worldwide across its business.
The Academy offers learning A culture of clear communication and solutions in the areas of Management employee consultation and engagement and Leadership, Personal Effectiveness, 350 employees globally have isinherent in the Groups businesses.
Technical Skills and Ethical Compliance benefitted so far from elements Employee briefing sessions with employee and has adopted the 70 20 10 principle of the Bridon Academy representatives are held on a regular basis of learning 70% on the job, 20% coaching to communicate strategy, key changes, and 10% formal training.
Although the financial results, achievements and other majority of training is delivered by internal important issues to employees, and receive experts and facilitators, external trainers feedback from them on these issues.
are used in specialist areas.
Participants Regular appraisals, employee surveys, are from a variety of functions including notice boards, team meetings, suggestion Sales, Technical, Finance, Supply Chain boxes and newsletters are also used to and Operations.
Over 350 employees communicate and engage with employees, globally have benefitted so far from and to solicit their feedback on issues of internal learning solutions, as part of the concern to them as employees.
coaching and formal training elements of the Academy.
Extensive training is available to all staff The Brush Czech Talent Academy and is actively encouraged to ensure a was officially launched in 2013.
This high standard of skill is maintained across is a four year training programme for the Group.
Cross-training programmes are selected employees with high potential also in place at a number of the Groups and is divided into two parts.
The importance of training first three years, the courses focus extends beyond on-the-job training and on the development of managers also focuses on enhancing personal competences and leadership skills.
Apprenticeship The fourth year is focused on practice: programmes are in place, which help the first six months in finance and sales to assist with succession planning in training and the next six months in locations where there is an ageing developing operational and technical workforce.
Employees are encouraged to skills.
The training is provided by an think in an innovative manner across the external company.
Group and have regard for both financial and economic factors affecting the Group.
Melrose Industries PLC 50 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Corporate Social Responsibility continued Gender diversity Health & safety The chart below shows the total number The total number of women employed The Directors of the Company are of males and females working within the represents 21% of the Groups workforce.
committed to minimising the health and Group as at 31 December 2013. safety risks that each of the Groups employees are exposed to by promoting the effective use and management of business specific policies and procedures.
Total Group employees Melrose Industries PLC Board The Group has a policy to ensure that theDirectors are made aware of any Male 8,224 Male 8 2 Female 2,190 Female 1 serious health and safety incidents, wherever theyoccur in the world, without delay to ensure that suitable investigations and corrective action can be organised.
Current events and issues relating to health and safety matters are also discussed within the Group at quarterly Board meetings of theCompany.
Each business is responsible for setting its own detailed arrangements concerning health and safety policies and procedures, in accordance with local health and safety 1 Senior managers Other employees legislation.
As a general rule, businesses strive to achieve best practice, in terms of Male 7 Male 8,209 what is suitable and practical for the size Female 0 Female 2,189 and nature of their operations.
The use of defined and business specific health and safety key performance indicators are also used within the Groups businesses, which are specific to the exact nature of their businesses and allow for focus, analysis and improvement at local levels, often on a location by location basis.
Many manufacturing locations within the Group hold ISO 18001 certification, the internationally recognised assessment 1 Defined as senior head office employees of Melrose Industries PLC, located in the London and Birmingham offices.
standard for occupational health and 2 Liz Hewitt was appointed to the Board of Melrose Industries PLC on 8 October 2013. safety management systems.
This certification includes several of the major manufacturing locations within the Group.
21% The total number of women employed represents 21% of the Groups workforce Strategic Report Governance Financials Shareholder information Melrose Industries PLC 51 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Divisional managers within each business Health and safety initiatives Elster Electricity carried out numerous unit have responsibility to ensure that During 2013, many of the Groups Health & Safety training courses in health and safety remains a key focus businesses implemented a range of health 2013, including the prevention of andto ensure that active procedures and safety initiatives.
Some of these are accidents and occupational diseases andmonitoring systems are in place to listed below: inArgentina, training on firefighting providesubstance to written procedures.
equipment and fire safety in China, Within Elster Water, a global Detailed health and safety plans are set working at height inRussia and occupational Health & Safety audit bybusinesses each year to determine electricity safety and newhazardous wascarried out in 2013.
All sites with annual targets and improvement initiatives.
communication standardisation assembly and or test activities were trainingin the US.
reviewed by independent professional All businesses have Health and Safety auditors for compliance with national, In 2013, a new work process was Committees H&S Committees, which Elster and best practice standards.
introduced at the Bridon site in meet on a regular basis and are made up Theintention is to provide safe and Doncaster, known as a Mission Directed of representatives from both management secure work environments for all Work stream, for Safety, Health and the and shop floor level personnel.
Each of employees worldwide and to motivate Environment: this aims to assist shift theH&S Committees has wide-ranging employees and management to maintain managers, team leaders and their teams responsibilities which vary from business these standards.
The audit focused on in creating a work environment that is to business and include the review of workplace regulations, provision and safe, healthy and where environmental reported incidents and the monitoring of use of work equipment, machine safety, risks are managed.
These H&S Committees lifting operation and lifting equipment include enabling employees to are also responsible for ensuring that regulations, manual handling operations understand and apply health, safety and corrective measures are implemented and personal protective equipment environmental policies and procedures, when accidents occur and that all regulations.
The implementation of to set up and use visual controls, to incidents, whether or not they are deemed identified improvement opportunities identify and control hazards, to develop reportable under local legislation, are was initiated immediately.
No significant and implement a health, safety and given due attention.
shortfall for immediate attention was environmental audit and to continually highlighted by the auditors.
improve risk management in the work One of the key responsibilities for these place.
This has been implemented in H&S Committees is to carry out regular In 2013, Brush Czech focused on all areas of the Doncaster site and tours of the premises in which they work, working at height, which represents assessment takes place on a monthly in order to ensure compliance with local aserious potential workplace risk.
basis to ensure continual improvement.
These tours Newmeasures were introduced also identify potential hazards, for which whichimproved safety and additionally counter-measures can be identified to helpedto ensure compliance with prevent accidents from happening.
Each H&S Committee recommendation is followed up at the next Board meeting to ensure that issues are resolved.
Divisional managers within each business Additionally, operations are audited by unit have responsibility to ensure that the H&S Committee at least annually and reports of performance and health and safety remains a key focus.
recommended improvements are prepared and circulated to the divisional senior management teams.
Divisional managers are provided with detailed health and safety reports on a frequent basis to ensure that such matters are given high visibility and that improvements are authorised and implemented quickly.
Melrose Industries PLC 52 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Corporate Social Responsibility continued The environment At Bridon Hangzhou, China, the Greenhouse gas emissions The Directors of the Company fully Maintenance Department suggested This greenhouse gas GHG report has understand the importance of the Groups ways to save water, following an been prepared for the reporting period of environmental responsibilities.
Each of inspection of the cooling water circulation 1 January 2013 to 31 December 2013. theCompanys businesses is committed system and monitoring the water usage to ensuring that their operations have in the wire drawing and extrusion The data has been prepared in aminimum adverse effect on the processes.
By reusing cooling water accordance with the principles and environment and that ongoing reductions wherever possible and introducing a requirements of the Greenhouse Gas in both energy usage and CO emissions water cooling system, the site was able Protocol, Revised Edition, ISO 14064 2 are achieved, wherever practicable.
Part1 and the UK Governments Department for Environment, Food and At the Brush Czech facility, heating Although there are no standardised Rural Affairs DEFRA guidance on how and lighting consumption is the major environmental KPIs currently used within tomeasure and report on Greenhouse source of CO emissions and represents 2 the Group, each business understands gas emissions 2013. a substantial production cost.
In order the importance of monitoring the impact to decrease this cost, the company is of its operations on the environment.
The Group has reported on all of the renovating a different part of the building Arange of KPIs are used as environmental emission sources required under the insulation each year, in particular measures, including energy consumption, Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report windows and doors.
They are also using CO emissions, water consumption, water and Directors Reports Regulations 43 2 sophisticated heating software which contamination, waste disposal, solid and see Companies Act 2006 Strategic allows them to monitor and regulate the liquid waste generation, recycling and Report and Directors Reports interior temperature during the colder volatile organic compound emissions.
Regulations 2013 paragraph 18. times of the year.
The temperature is Environmental performance is measured also monitored daily and evaluated and via the use of KPIs in order that each The Group does not have responsibility adapted to current requirements of of the businesses can plan for for any emission sources that are not individual workplaces.
included in the consolidated statement.
heating temperature in the production The Group has used the GHG Protocol buildings was optimised, which reduced A number of the Groups businesses have Corporate Accounting and Reporting the heating consumption by 17%.
achieved, or are currently in the process Standard revised edition, data gathered ofachieving, the high standards required In 2013, a 74% saving was made in in accordance with the GHG reporting to obtain ISO 14001 Environmental water usage at the Brush Loughborough, procedure and emission factors from UK Management Systems certification.
The main water saving across Governments GHG Conversion Factors the site came from the introduction of for Company Reporting 2014.
During the year, the Company continued anewurinal outlet system called Ureco.
to comply with the ongoing annual This accounted for a 97% saving in The financial reporting year of 2013 is the reporting requirements of the UKs 2013 on water consumption for all of the first year in which the Company has been Carbon Reduction Commitment Energy mains water-fed urinals throughout the required to disclose its GHG emissions Efficiency Scheme.
data within the Annual Report.
Therefore, the 2013 data represents the baseline At Elster Electricity in Mexico, a Green Environmental initiatives against which reduction targets will be set.
Day was held in 2013 to promote the During 2013, many of the Groups care of the environment, which included businesses implemented a range of The reported emissions cover all entities workshops on recycling, reforestation environmental improvement initiatives.
over which the organisation had financial and water saving.
This was attended Some of these are listed below: control as at 31 December 2013. by both employees and their families.
Emissions from entities acquired or Investment in state-of-the-art energy The three largest facilities in Elster disposed of during the reporting period efficient production and test equipment Gas North America Nebraska City, i. e. disposed on or before 31 December for water meters continues to reduce Nebraska, Perfection in Geneva, 2013 or acquired after 1 January 2013 are carbon emissions during the production Ohio, and Hauck Manufacturing in not accounted for in the report.
Therefore, process of the meters.
Elster Water Lebanon, Pennsylvania completed data from Crosby, Acco, Truth, Marelli and introduced two further rapid test rigs in their first ever registration with Harris businesses has not been included Luton and Brussels.
These rigs, which ISO14001, Environmental Management within the reported GHG data, as these are specifically designed for volumetric Systems and attained certification in businesses were divested during 2013. meters, reduce test time and required 2013.
The two facilities in Germany No businesses were acquired during the water volume significantly compared to atMainz and Lotte of Elster GmbH reporting period.
standard test rigs for other product arenotyet registered with ISO 14001 lines.
This reduces energy and water but certification is expected to be consumption considerably.
Strategic Report Governance Financials Shareholder information Melrose Industries PLC 53 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report The Strategic Report, Global GHG Emissions data for period 1 January 2013 31December 2013 asset out onpages 2 to53, has been approved 1 Emissions sources: Tonnes CO e 2 by the Board.
Combustion of fuel & operation of facilities 41,182 Electricity, heat and steam purchased for own use 29,678 2 On behalf of the Board Overseas electricity 46,158 Companys chosen intensity measurement: Emissions reported above normalised to tonnes per 1,000 turnover 0.068 1 CO e carbon dioxide equivalent, this figure includes greenhouse gases in addition to carbon dioxide.
2 2 T he emissions associated with overseas electricity are presented in tonnes carbon dioxide only as per the DEFRA guidance.
All material emissions from within the Human rights and ethical standards Simon Peckham organisational and operational scope As is stated within the employee policies Chief Executive andboundaries of the Group are reported.
and supply chain assurance sections 5March 2014 The emissions from owned vehicle above, the decentralised nature of the transport i. e. Group owned cars and Group means there is no single overvans, lorries and fork lift trucks and the arching policy currently in place with emissions associated with refrigeration regard to human rights.
However, sound have been excluded from the report on business ethics and integrity are core to ade minimis basis.
The GHG emissions the Groups values and each business from these sources have been estimated places a high importance on its dealings to account for less than 1% of the total with all employees, customers, suppliers Melrose emissions reported on an and other stakeholders and is committed individual basis and as a combined total to good practice in respect of human toaccount for less than 2% of the total rights.
Employees within each Group Melrose GHG emissions reported.
business are required, at all times, to exhibit the highest Ievels of integrity and Supply chain assurance to maintain the highest ethical standards Owing to the geographical and operational in business affairs.
diversity of the Groups businesses, and therefore its supplier base, there is no Each of the Groups businesses will have single over-arching Group policy currently their own code of ethics in dealing with in use in relation to suppliers.
However, matters such as human rights, with all the security, assurance and ethical employee policies also being set locally compliance of business supply chains is within each business in order to ensure very important to Melrose.
Responsibility compliance with local laws and standards for the implementation and management as a minimum.
Responsibility for the of all supplier-related policies rests with communication and implementation of local management in each business.
such policies rests with the relevant senior Such policies are used in a manner divisional managers.
appropriate to the size and complexity of each business and also take into account the nature and geographical representation of key suppliers.
A supplier approval process exists within the businesses, which is linked to specific and tailored supplier assessments and due diligence requirements.
Melrose Industries PLC 54 Annual Report 2013 Governance Governance overview Introduction from theChairman Christopher Miller Board composition Dear Shareholder A number of changes are planned for the Executive Chairman 1 The Board remains committed to Melrose Board during 2014.
As we have 1 Executive Directors 3 maintaining the high standards of previously announced, Miles Templeman Non-executive corporate governance required to ensure will be retiring from his role as Senior Directors 5 that the Company can continue to deliver non-executive Director at the conclusion 5 3 on its strategic goals and to achieve of this years Annual General Meeting long-term success for the benefit of its AGM, to be held on 13May 2014. shareholders.
As part of this approach, MilesTempleman has held a nonthe Board supports, applies and complies executive position on the Melrose Board with the Main Principles, the Supporting since the original flotation in 2003.
His Principles and the respective related advice and experience have been provisions of corporate governance invaluable to Melrose over the last Industry background contained in the 2012 UK Corporate 10years: he has contributed in many Finance 6 Governance Code the UK Code issued ways to the Companys success over this Industry 3 by the Financial Reporting Council and period and we wish him all the very best 3 available to view on the Financial for the future.
Miles will be replaced as the Reporting Councils website at: Senior non-executive Director by Perry www.
uk Our-Work CodesCrosthwaite, who will simultaneously 6 Standards Corporate-governance.
relinquish his position as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, a role that will In support of this commitment, the be filled by Justin Dowley, following the Board carried out a number of actions conclusion of this years AGM.
Liz Hewitt, during 2013 designed to ensure that the who joined the Melrose Board on Company remains compliant with the 8October 2013, will chair the Nomination Board diversity provisions of the UK Code and also Committee with effect from the end of the to enable continuous improvement 2014 AGM.
Lizhas already made a Male 8 1 in line with best practice corporate significant contribution since joining the Female 1 governance guidelines.
Board and we are confident that her long-established and pertinent experience An externally facilitated Board evaluation will be of considerable benefit to Melrose process was completed towards the end as we continue to grow the business.
This is the first time that an 8 external evaluation has been carried out inrelation to the Melrose Board.
This evaluation focused on the composition and performance of the Board and its Committees and the performance of the Christopher Miller Chairman and the Senior non-executive Executive Chairman Director.
This evaluation process proved 5March 2014 tobe a valuable exercise from both a corporate governance and wider business perspective.
Further details on this evaluation process can be found on pages 63 and 64 of this Corporate Governancereport.
Strategic Report Governance Financials Shareholder information Strategic Report Governance Financials Shareholder information Strategic Report Governance Financials Shareholder information Strategic Report Governance Financials Shareholder information Melrose Industries PLC 55 Annual Report 2013 Governance Board structure The main responsibilities: effectively manage and control the The Board Company via a formal schedule of Christopher Miller Executive Chairman matters reserved for its decision: David Roper Executive Vice-Chairman determine and review Company Simon Peckham Chief Executive strategy and policy: Geoffrey Martin Group Finance Director consider acquisitions, disposals and 1 Miles Templeman Senior non-executive Director asset requests for major capital 2 expenditure: Perry Crosthwaite Non-executive Director Justin Dowley Non-executive Director review trading performance: John Grant Non-executive Director ensure that adequate funding and 3 Liz Hewitt Non-executive Director personnel are in place: maintain sound internal control systems: report to shareholders and give Audit Remuneration Nomination consideration to all other significant Committee Committee Committee financial matters: 4 1 John Grant Chairman Perry Crosthwaite Chairman Miles Templeman Chairman agree Board succession plans and 4 consider the evaluation of the Boards Perry Crosthwaite Justin Dowley Perry Crosthwaite performance over the preceding year: Justin Dowley John Grant Justin Dowley 1 1 review the Groups risk management Miles Templeman Miles Templeman John Grant and internal control systems: and 3 3 3, 5 Liz Hewitt Liz Hewitt Liz Hewitt agree the Groups governance Christopher Miller framework and approve the Standards of Business Conduct and other 1 Miles Templeman will be retiring from the Board at the conclusion of the 2014 AGM.
2 Perry Crosthwaite will assume the position of Senior non-executive Director at the conclusion of the 2014 AGM.
3 Liz Hewitt was appointed to the Board on 8October 2013 and shortly after also joined each of the Board Committees.
4 Perry Crosthwaite will be replaced by Justin Dowley as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee at the conclusion of the 2014 AGM.
5 Liz Hewitt will become the Chair of the Nomination Committee at the conclusion of the 2014 AGM.
66 Annual Report 2013 Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2013 Melrose Industries PLC 67 68 Annual Report 2013 Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2013 Melrose Industries PLC 69 70 Annual Report 2013 Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2013 Melrose Industries PLC 71 Governance Governance Governance Governance Governance Governance Audit Audit Committee report Nomination Directors Committee report continued Committee report remuneration report Composition In addition to these matters, the Committee considered the following significant issues in relation to the External audit During 2013, the main non-audit services provided by Diversity Performance in 2013 Annual bonus: The maximum bonus payable is set at 100% Annual bonuses for executive Directors are based on diluted John Grant Each member of the Committee is deemed to be independent by financial statements during the year: Appointment, re-appointment and assessment Deloitte LLP were in relation to taxation advisory, compliance Miles Templeman The Committee currently takes into account a variety of factors Perry Crosthwaite 2013 was a strong year for Melrose and marked another of base salary.
All Directors who participate in the annual earnings per share growth and a discretionary element based on Audit Committee the Company and brings recent and relevant financial experience ofeffectiveness and planning services.
Nomination Committee before recommending any new appointments to the Board, Remuneration milestone in our buy, improve, sell strategy: bonus scheme receive the same percentage bonus.
In the the achievement of a range of operational deliverables.
Bonuses from senior executive and non-executive positions as described The Committee reviews and makes recommendations with An analysis of the fees earned by the external auditors for including relevant skills to perform the role, experience, We crystallised more than three times the original shareholder last five years, the average percentage of base salary payable of 100% of maximum were awarded to the executive Directors in Chairman iq n th uale ifiic r b ati io og nrs a apn hd r ies o ele n p van at e gex s 56 a perien nc d 5 e, th 7.
G e B ive on h ard c er fi on nc aln uc die ad th l at The Audit Committees activities during 2013 r the egs ae rd t reo th comme e rea np da po tiion ntm s, t en he t o C f th omm e ex itt te er en c aon l au sid die to rr ss a. I un m ditoa rk ing audit and non-audit services can be found in note 7 to the Chairman k on fifth ow e C ledg om e, m eitthn tee ic, h ity o a wn ed v g er, h end as b er.
T ee hn a e mo nd w st iim ll c por onttiannu te t pro b iorit ey Committee Chairman value in five of the FKI businesses acquired in 2008. h pa os b sitio en ee n 8 d b 4% elo.
T wh te m he m ae xid m ia un m o map xp im or utu mn oppor ity is dte ulnit ibe yr f aor tely respect of 2013.
Liz Hewitt should be invited to join the Committee.
Significant issue considered by the Audit Committee How the issue was addressed by the Audit Committee effectiveness and independence, partner rotation and any other consolidated financial statements.
ensuring that the best candidate is selected to join the Board These five disposals yielded a total consideration of FTSE100 companies.
In line with increases in previous years, an inflationary increase of The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee.
Provisions for legal and environmental claims factors which may impact the external auditors reappointment.
Auditor objectivity and independence and this approach will remain in place going forward.
approximately 950million, together more than tripling Long-term incentives: The only long-term incentive 3 1J % w anu aa s m ry 2 ad 01 e t 3, th o th e s e e ax m ec e a utis f five D or o ire th ce to r h rse s ad o alar ffi iecs w e eim th e plo ffe ye ce t f s. r om The Board has delegated to the Audit Committee and other provisions The external auditor is required to rotate the audit signing partner The Committee carries out regular reviews to ensure that auditor The Nomination Committee has overall responsibility Whilst the Committee will endeavour to pursue diversity, including The Board has delegated to the Remuneration Committee shareholder value in respect of these businesses during five arrangement in which the executive Directors participate is responsibility for overseeing the financial reporting and T Fih na e C nco ia m l R me itpor tee i tin nv gi a ten s th d se G enior ro r up F eprie ns ae nn cte D ativie re sc o to f t r, th he e e H xte era na d o l f T cla he l ime sv a en l o df p otrhe ovri p sio ro nv in isi g f on os r l re eg qau l a ire n si d e gn nifi vic ro an nm t judg entae l ment.
T of t heh C es omm e legit atl a een c d e onn sivd ire orn em d ma enta na l cgla eim me s a ntn sd o prop the or p serd ov pirso io vn isi s i on nic nlg ud in in r g t esh pe k ecte y every five years.
The Groups audit signing partner changed as o se bn je io cr p tivia ty a rtnn ed i r on vd ee rs p ee en s th den e t ce i ax s m atioa n a intu aid nie t o d a f th t a e C ll tio m m ep s. A d any ifferent for ensuring that the Board and its Committees have gender diversity throughout the Melrose Group and concurs with the responsibility for overseeing the remuneration of the years of Melrose ownership.
the2012 Incentive Plan which was approved by shareholders A an w d a ard re d s un ud e t er th o cre 2 yst0 a1 ll2 I ise i nc n M entiavy 2 e P 0l1 a7 n w : ac ec re m ordia nd ge i ly n n A o e px rie l 2 cu 0ti 1v 2e internal control review and reporting and for making and internal auditors to attend meetings where appropriate to the judgements made and relevant legal advice.
part of that rotation process in 2010 and therefore partner compared to those working on the non-audit taxation services.
the appropriate balance of skills, experience, recommendations of Lord Davies review, Women on Boards, Companys Directors, Company Secretary and other In accordance with our strategy, the Board has returned by special resolution in a General Meeting held on 11April Director received any pay-out under a long-term incentive plan recommendations to the Board in relation to the business being considered.
The Committee has the right to invite A ba ltsi ho sugh and p ardj ovus isiton eds f a orr ma e rena vieg w ee m fide on nt a s b re eg su t c laur r rent The external auditor also reported on all material provisions to the Committee.
rotation is due in the financial year ending 31December 2015.
No fees were paid to Deloitte LLP on a contingent basis.
Based independence and knowledge of the Company to t ch oem C m om ittimit ng t te oe, a do ny s esp n eo cti t fic d hink iv it er a sppr ity topr argia ets i te t n r o ha elav tie o, n t nor o th wie ll it be senior employees.
0 p xim ea ntc ee p ly e 6r e 00m xistiiln lio g o n ird n c ina as rh t y so s harh ea.
T reh he b olda elra sn, e ce o quif th vale en t 2 w0 h1 ic 2h a.
En re p titlerm oveid ne ts u d o nn p der th age 7 e 2 40, w 12 I ern e a cew nti av rd e P ed i lan n A, dp ertia l 2 ils o 012 f. in2013.
Any payment made will be dependent upon shareholder appointment ofthe Companys internal and external auditors.
any other Directors and or employees to attend meetings where estimates, the judgemental nature of these items Having considered the matter and sought guidance from the external auditor, The Committee has reviewed the external auditors performance on these strict procedures the Committee remains confident that e an na db rle es the pon m s t ib oil d itie iss ch ef afre gc etiv the eliy r. respective duties composition of the Board, or the wider businesses within net proceeds has been used to pay down existing borrowings Anypayment made will be dependent upon shareholder value created by May 2017.
While potential value attributable to t ahi t lse ia ss c t o on ns cie p dere er y d a eppr ar w opr ith b iato eth th.
In ae e ddx itt io en rn, t ah l a e C nd i om ntmit ernta el a e m udeite otrss m froem t ans t hoh sa e p t fu rov turid e a edm.
ounts settled may be different the Committee concluded that managements proposed provisioning and the a to ng d e eth ffe er w ctiv ith fe enes es t db a akc in k f g i ro nm th to ac e P cou un bt i lic R npu et f po ro rt o m m n th an e A agu ed m it Q entu ality auditor objectivity and independence has been maintained but theGroup.
valuegenerated over a five year time period.
th thie 2 sis i 01 n2 I clu nd ce ed f ntiv oe P r illu lasn i tra s i tiv ne p cluu dre pd i osn th es o e c nly h. T arh ts o e vn p alua e u ge 8 ltim 1, a tely without management present.
Refer to notes 3 and 20 associated disclosures in the Annual Report were appropriate.
Inspection of Deloitte LLP, issued by the Financial Reporting Council accepts that non-audit work should be controlled to ensure that Member No.
of meetings The Elster improvement plan is ahead of schedule, with The Remuneration Committee strongly believes that this simple delivered under this plan will be determined by reference to the Me John mbe G r rant Chairman N 3o 3. of meetings in May 2013.
In making its assessment, the Committee focused on it does not compromise the auditors position.
Mi Pele rrs y C Termple osthw ma aitn e Chairman 2 2 2 2 Succession planning P Mi ele rrs y T Cr emple osthw ma aitn e Chairman 2 1 2 2 operating margin increased by 5 percentage points to 17.4% and transparent incentive framework is aligned with the value delivered to shareholders over the period to crystallisation, Perry Crosthwaite 3 3 Summary of meetings in the year Classification of exceptional items the robustness of the audit, the quality of delivery of audit services At each year end, Deloitte LLP submits a letter setting out how it Justin Dowley 2 2 IC no lim ne m w ittite he t, th he s e d uc ec ce issio sin w on p as t lanan kin en i g rn e esp aon rly 2 sib 0i1 lit 3 t ies o r oe f t che rui t Justin Dowley 2 2 and operating profit up 37%.
We believe that this remuneration such that the value shown in those charts is unlikely to reflect Justin Dowley 3 3 The Committee is expected to meet not less than three times The reporting, classification and consistency of The Committee considered the nature, classification and consistency of exceptional and the quality of the auditors staff.
Based on this information, the believes its independence and objectivity have been maintained.
John Grant 2 2 another non-executive Director to the Board, in order to take John Grant 2 2 Headline diluted earnings per share from continuing operations strategy has also directly driven historical out-performance, thevalue ultimately delivered.
Liz Hewitt 1 1 1 a y Noe five am r. Ib n 2 er.
T 01h 3e s, thc e C hed ou m lin m g o itte f th e m es ee m t in M eea tirn cg hs i, A s d uge us sit a gnn ed d t o be e faxic r v ep altu iona e rel it lee am sess, w, spe ercifi e a cn a allyr r ee a o strf f uct ocur us f ing o a r nd it Te he m C s. T omm hesit et it ee e c mon s w sie dre er d ed e t ta hile is i ds is nu te he a e nd x c teon rna cl l a ud ud ed it t or ha s p t ta he ps ee r t e ox tche ep C tion omm al itit etm ee s. C efo fe m cti m vie ttle y a e c nd D once lu lo die ttd th e LL a P c t tho e e ntix ntu ee rn s t ao p l aurd oiv t p e e ro fc fe e c stis i five i s o n i pts r erao tiln eg A res n spo on tesd a ible f bo o vr th e, th e G ey a rou re a p a ls uo r dit e eqvu eir re y fi d t vo r e yo eta arts a e th ne a d su ig dn it p ifica arn tn t er Liz Hewitt 1 account of the impending retirement of Miles Templeman from Liz Hewitt 1 1 1 of 12.8p 2012: 9.4p, an increase of 36%.
s inu cp re pa os rt eed s d th ha e C reh oo m ldp ea r v nyas s lueu.
I cn th cesis a s re ng d h ard a, o s c ule r r ae rlm y lu en d t ero a tion Remuneration policy for 2014 Miles Templeman 3 3 aligned with the financial reporting timetable thereby enabling the theCommittee.
were appropriately captured and disclosed.
As detailed below, the Committee regularly subsidiary audits every seven years.
Christopher Miller 2 2 the position of Senior non-executive Director, at the conclusion 1 Following her appointment to the Board on 8October 2013.
Group revenue for continuing operations during the year was arrangements are tailored to the culture and strategy of the The remuneration policy is set out for shareholder approval in the 1 Following her appointment to the Board on 8October 2013.
Committee to review the Annual Report and financial statements, Refer to note 6 monitors the objectivity and independence of the external auditor.
1 Following her appointment to the Board on 8October 2013. o ad f th diti e 2 on0 a1 l n 4 A on GM ex.
I ec t w utia vs a e D ls iro fe ecto lt b r sy th ervie C ng o om n th me M ittee th elroast a e B n oard 1,732.8m 2012: 1,051.1m.
Company, take account of the current and forecast economic policy report on pages 77 to 84.
Details of how the policy will be the interim financial report and the audit plan ahead of the year Deloitte LLP was appointed in 2003 when the Company Internal audit would further complement the skill set of the Board.
Group headline profit for continuing operations before tax was climate and provide a strong platform for the ongoing long-term applied in practice for 2014 are set out in the Annual Report on Role and responsibilities e pn ro d a ceu sd se it a s th nd m roug ah ino ta uit t nin hg a v e yeaie r. w o f the internal controls and Taxation risks and recognition of deferred tax assets commenced trading and the external audit has not been D fou r a e t n i o th nte e s rna izl a e a ud nd c it pr o o m gp rale m xm ity o e tf th o be G e us ro eu d w p, iith t is a in th pp e b rou ps riia nte es s. C Th om e N mit omi te na e r tio en s C pons omimit bilit teie e sthe Committee discharges these The Committee undertook a formal and rigorous recruitment Dear Shareholder, 226.1m 2012: 117.9m.
R ha ev m e b uneeern i atin oc n o rea n p sea d b ge 7 y 3 6% w. Exe ith e cutifv fe e D ct f irre oc m J tors a b nua as ry 2 e s0 a1 la4 r, th ies e The Audit Committees the Committee role and responsibilities J pu rov dgis eim on f eno t i r i s r nc eo qm uie t red i axn d es ientc elru m diin nig e ng t sh tie G matrio nu g t pa sx M of t an aa x d geis m ce lo ns tu s t rea s h xaav tioe b n ju ed eg n r em eveie nw ts, a ed b ccy t ou hn e C ting t om re m aittm tee en.
t and the appropriateness formally tendered since then.
The Committee is satisfied that the BM Howarth, an external firm, provides internal audit services responsibilities through: exercise to find a suitable non-executive Director to join the On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present our report on Full year dividend of 7.75p per share 2012: 7.6p per share.
The remuneration policy has also enabled the executive Directors same as for other head office employees.
Non-executive are set out in its terms of reference.
These are available on the T sh how e an tte an bd oa five nc.
e of its members at these meetings is provisions where additional current tax may become The Committee considered whether, from an accounting perspective, an update was e im ffe pc ati irv ee d i ne n a ss a ny w nd i an y. T deh pe ern e a dern e n ce o o lf th ega e e l ox r c teo rn na trl a acu tu da itl o ors i blis n gati oo t ns to the Group.
A rotation programme is in place, such that every regular review of the size, structure and composition of the Melrose Board see What the Committee did in 2013, below, Directors remuneration at the end of yet another highly It is with this in mind and in line with Melroses remuneration t Fo u bu rthie ld r d ue pt a aind l is g reitva ein n o sig n p nia fic ga e 7 nt4 s: h hao rw eho evldi er, th ngs e t ina tb hle b e Ce olo m w p any.
Directors basic fees increased by 3% with effect from January Companys website and from the Company Secretary at the p au ay th aor blit e i ien t s o hfe f pru etv uio re f usl oyll fi ow leid n t g t ax h r e a etur ud nit b s. J y t udg he t em axe nt required to the tax provisions previously recorded in respect of specific exposures that restrict the Groups capacity to recommend a particular firm business unit will have an internal audit at least once every Board and by providing recommendations to the Board of any for further details.
Following this process, the Committee successful year.
The Directors remuneration report sets out the philosophy of pay for performance, that the Remuneration shows the number of Ordinary Shares held by the executive 2014.
The additional fees payable to the Committee Chairmen Registered Office.
In discharging its duties, the Committee Significant issues related to the financial statements is also required as to whether a deferred tax asset identified.
In addition the Committee reviewed the tax implications of corporate for appointment as auditor and therefore a resolution proposing th evre ere y y tw ea o y rs, w earith th s. The l e r ao rg ta eti so t s n p ite ro s b gre aim ng r me a evie llo w w es d d ait l vie sia os nt o al nce adjustments that may be necessary from time to time: r 8O eco cm tom be er 2 nd0 e1 d t 3.
I o th n ae B cco ord ard th ance w e ap ith th poine A tme rti nc t o les f L, M iz H s H ew ew ittit, o t w ni ll amounts earned in respect of the year ended 31December 2013 Committee has taken its decisions in respect of executive Directors as at 31December 2013 and the value of each and Senior Independent Director which have been unchanged e re m sp be ra cc t t eo th s its r e i o n le o tegf p rity o rotf fi ecn tia nn g th ciae i l in n fo terrm es ats o tion p f su hb alrie sh ho ed b ldery th s we ith In discharging its duties under its terms of reference, the should be recognised based on the availability of tdre afn esra re ct d t ion ax a s un ss fide etrs s tak he onu d ld b urie b ng t ro he u y gh et o ar.
n T to t heh C e B omm alait ntcee S e dh ee be at a ted s a c whe otn he serq aud ed nit ciona e of, l the reappointment of Deloitte LLP as external auditors will be put managements actions and responses to be followed up on a giving full consideration to succession planning in order to stand for election as a Director of the Company at the 2014 AGM.
and the remuneration policy for the Directors of Melrose.
Directors remuneration arrangements for 2013 and 2014. executive Directors shareholding at that date as a multiple s cio nn cs e 2 ide 0r0 e6 d t h o b ave b e be ele on r w th eve m iewe ad rk.
T et c he a om dp fide iti tio tin five r al fe an eg s w e aen rd h e ave, Company and the effectiveness of the audit.
Specifically, the Committee undertook the following recurring activities that future taxable profits.
for example, the expected timing of future corporate transactions.
to the shareholders at the 2014 Annual General Meeting.
The internal audit programme of planned visits is ensure an optimum balance of executive and non-executive New regulations have come into effect which impact the of his 2013 base salary.
therefore, been increased, with effect from the 2014 AGM, to Committee is responsible for: receive annual scrutiny: Refer to notes 3, 8 and 21 Having taken input from the external auditor, the Committee agreed with Audit tendering discussed and agreed with the Committee during the year.
Directors in terms of skills, experience and diversity: A Mi t th lese c Teo mp ncle luma sion o n as f th Ch e 2 ai0 rma 14 A n o GfM the, L C iz H omm ewititt w teeil.
l replace p larye-s oe un t o tafti t ohi n a s rn ed d poris t r ce lo fle su ct re o s th f D osir ee n ce to w rs r r egula emutn io en rs a. ti T on a his nd the O Mu er lr r oe smu es r ne em rati uno en ra s tio trn p ucth u ilro es f oo prh e y i xs th ecua tiv t e ex D ecir ue tic vt e r ore smuneration Value of shares bring them more in line with the market: the previous and new reviewing and monitoring the integrity of the financial reviewed the Annual Report and financial statements and managements proposed treatment of tax risks and deferred tax assets.
The Committee is mindful of the recommendations of the UK The internal auditors remit includes assessment of the effectiveness keeping under review the leadership needs of the business: and reportis, therefore, presented in two sections: the Annual should be simple and transparent, support the delivery of the Number of shares Value of shares 31Decembe hr 2 eld a 013 t fee levels are set out in the table on page 76.
No other changes statements of the Group, including the Annual Report and irn etc ee riim fi ved a r nane cp ia ol r rt f ep ro om th rt.
Ae e s px atre t o rnf th al a is r ude itv oie r o w th n th e C eir a om ud m it o itte f th e e C pu or t o por ut t ato t e G en od five er e rna vn ec ry 1 e C 0 y ode ea trha s. T t th he C e ex otm erp na an l a y w udilit l c so hm oul pld y w be ith of internal control systems, compliance with the Groups Policies keeping up to date and fully informed about strategic issues What the Committee did in 2013 ReportonRemuneration and the Directors remuneration policy.
business strategy and pay for performance.
Executive Director 31Decembe hre 2 ld a 013 t 31Decemberh 2 e0 ld a 13 1 t 20 a1 s a m 3 base ult s ipalla e o ry f h re am five b une ere an m tion f ad oe t r th o th e ce s omtr in ug y ctuera e o r. f our executive Director interim report: Annual Report and the financial statements and review of the Iom th pe airm r fixe en d a t o sfs g eo ts odwill, intangible assets and the Competition Commission Order relating to the statutory audit and Procedures Manual and a review of the businesses Balance and commercial changes affecting the Company and the The main focus of the Committee during 2013, as described TheAnnual Report on Remuneration provides details on the The Remuneration Committee feels strongly that rewards should Christopher Miller 17,300,343 2 52,887,149 125 keeping under review the effectiveness of the Groups financial interim report: The judgements in relation to goodwill impairment Business plans prepared by management supporting future performance market for FTSE350 companies, which is expected to come into S to th hee e G ts.
A r roue p F poir nt o anf k ce D ey fi irn ed ctin og r, th s ae H nd r ee ac d o om f F min ea nn dc aiti ao l R ns i ep s p orti re ns g a enn te dd markets in which it operates.
a th be B ove o, w ard a. s th e recruitment of a new non-executive Director to a am nd w oun ilts e l be s aru nb ejd i ecn r t to a esp n a ecd t o vif th sore y y five oa te a r et th ndee A d 3G 1D M. T ech ee D mbie re r 2 ct0 o1 r3 s be linked to generation and delivery of real returns to shareholders.
David Roper 9,584,633 29,300,223 69 Shareholder engagement reporting, internal audit and controls, risk management considered the processes in place to generate forecasts of tte hs e v tinaglu re i ela n u te t so e o the f t a he c ssump ash-tg ion ense a ra ptpl inie g u d i nn it c s b ale ciu nla g ting ex rec pe eiv ce ta d a d tions u eta sie led i d r n t ep ho e c rt o an t lcuh la e o tion w utco em re a e o pf t prhov e iem d b pay t irm he B ent r oe av rd ie.
T w p he C erfo orm mm ed b ittey e effect from 1October 2014.
Under the proposed transitional the Group Operations Controller, followed by a meeting to discuss The Committee is expected to meet not less than twice a year remuneration policy sets out the forward-looking remuneration Base salary: Base salaries for all executive Directors are Simon Peckham 9,664,068 29,543,056 69 We remain committed to maintaining an open and transparent systems and compliance controls: cash flows and accounting valuation information, including the tested for impairment.
The key assumptions applied management.
The impairment review was also an area of focus for the external a to b rrae h nge em ld n eno l ts, th atee C r tha on t mm wio y ttee e earx s f pe ro cm th ts a fe e orm nd o al te f th nde c er p urrro ec ne t ss these key findings and to agree on resulting actions.
and during 2013 the Committee met twice.
The attendance of its A us fte th er th e s e d eris vc ic uess o siof S n o to f a ne lte hran va eti n E ves x, th ecu e C tive S ome m airtc te he d, an e ecix dte ed t rna ol policy that will be subject to a binding vote at the AGM and shall deliberately set at or below the lower end of a market Geoffrey Martin 4,758,797 14,547,642 43 e on fifth gae D gem ire ec ntt w orsi r th o em uu r i nn evre as tito on r rs.
W epo e b rt ie s t lie o c five th om am t a k uniey o cate c bje le ca tirvly e focusing and challenging the consistency of accounting reasonableness and consistent use of assumptions: in the calculation relate to the future performance auditor, who reported their findings to the Committee.
audit engagement partner rotation period which is due in the year BM Howarth present their key findings to the Committee twice members at these Committee meetings is shown above.
recruitment firm who have no other connection with the take binding effect from the conclusion of that meeting.
competitive range compared to companies of similar size and 1 F po rir t ce o hen 3 se p 1u D rp ec oe sm esb, t eh r 2 e v 01 a3 lu.
e of a share is 305.7 pence, being the closing mid-market how much our executive Directors are earning and how this is p trol an icie sac sti, me ons a tho nd d c s us om ep dl t ia on a cc e w coiun th a t fc oc r si ougn ntiin fic g s antta o nd r un ard us s:ual reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups internal controls and expectations of the cash-generating units.
The Committee considered managements approach, the assumptions applied in ending 31December 2015.
This matter will be kept under review.
These presentations include details of the site The Committees full terms of reference are available to view on Company, to conduct an extensive search exercise.
Since flotation in 2003 Melrose has always obtained special c Do irm ec ptlo erx s h ity.
S ave r inc ee fl ceo ivte ad th tion i e s n 2 am 00 e a 3 a nln l c uu arl i re nn ct e rea xs ee cs t utio b five ase 2 As at 31December 2013, the interest of Christopher Miller included 6,760,000 Ordinary clearly linked to performance.
I trust that you will find the new disclosures made in the Annual Report and financial T dhe iscl C os omm uresit w teiteh ha in tshe a fi lso na cnon cia sil s fide ta re te dm the en r tse.
lated r re ella atte iod d n to t isch lo e i su m re ps a airm nd e, h nt o avf g ing t ooa dk w ein i ll, in np ta un t f grio bm t le ah se ex sets a ternnd o al a th ue dr fi itox r, a ed a gre se se d w ts a itn h d Non-audit services coverage for the previous year and an outline of the planned visits the Companys website at: www.
net about-us Following a formal and rigorous recruitment process, the resolution support requiring 75% shareholder approval, rather salary: in the last five years these increases have averaged 3%.
S wh ita h C res h hrie stld b oph y H er M arirlils & S er with he in t ldo hn I e m nveeasn tim ng o entf s s L eic m tiio ten 2 d, a c 52 o of t mh pe C any w om hp ic ah i nie s c s A oc nt 2 ne0 c0 te 6d.
reviewing the Groups arrangements for its employees to statements on this matter: Refer to notes 3 and 12 managements assessment that there were no indicators of impairment for any of The Committee has a policy on the engagement of the external for the current year.
A review of the internal audit process and scope governance nomination-committee Committee recommended to the Board that Ms Hewitts longthan the simple majority approval required for an ordinary r fia nia se n c cia ol r nc ee pro nrsti in ng c, io n a nfid cc eo nc rd ea a nb cou e w t p ith th osse C ibleo w m ro png and yo si ng in considered the Annual Report and financial statements in the the Groups business units during the year.
auditor for the supply of non-audit services.
This is to ensure that o Cf w om om rk c itte oe v, t ero e ed b ns y th ure th e ine te ir o rna bl a jec uti dv ite os r i, l s th evee r l oe f a sp uo th no sirb itiy a lity o nd f th e Further details regarding the composition, diversity policy and the established and highly pertinent experience would be of r fr eo sm s oluti ho an re f ho or i ldts D ers, i ire nc ctlu od rsin lg i on n r g-e te srp m i ecn t o ce f th ntie 2 five a 0r1 r2 I ann gc ee m ne tin five P ts lan P ex ee nc si uon tiv:e D Pein re si con tor c s a on re p triba uy tia on bls e a sa t th lare l y s eup vep l o lef 1 me 5% o nts ff b or ase 2013 key decisions and incentive pay-outs whistleblowing policy: context of being fair, balanced and understandable and the provision of non-audit services does not impair the external resources are appropriate for the nature of the businesses under 2013 activities of the Committee are shown below.
significant benefit to Melrose as the business continues to grow.
the LTIP that was established in 2012.
Your Board understands salary, which is considered modest for a business of the size The Remuneration Committee remains committed to a developing, implementing and monitoring the Groups policy r re ev gia erd t wed th o the c is po rn intc ein pt o le if a p n rela ap tie or p n tr o th epae 2 red b 013 A y mnan nu aa gl R em ee pn ot w rt ith V Th ae c luat alic on ula o tio f p n o ens f th ion e a l cia co builnittiin eg p s osition at the year The Committee has considered the appropriateness of the actuarial assumptions a pu ra dc itti ocre F s in Rd C g epe un id fide elin nc ee o s, th r o e C bje ocm tiv pit ayn.
I y p n a oc lic cy i ord n r an ec lae w tion t ith b o neo sn t - review.
The Committee also reviews BM Howarths performance Composition A 20 s s 13 a ucn hd s, Mu s H bse ew qu ite t w ntla y a s a ls po b poie nc te ad t me a m o the B em ob ae rd o r of th n 8O e A cu to db it, e r that these arrangements are fundamental to achieving the strong and complexity of Melrose.
No executive Director participates responsible approach to executive pay.
As described in the Perry Crosthwaite on external audit and for overseeing the objectivity and and financial statements.
Advised the Board that in its view, the end of the Groups pension liabilities is based on applied by management to the valuation of the Groups retirement plans at the audit services is kept under regular review: the policy outlines against the agreed internal audit programme.
A report of significant In compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
returns for shareholders since flotation and closely align the in, or has ever participated in, any Melrose defined benefit business review section of this Annual Report and highlighted Chairman of the Remuneration Committee effectiveness of the auditor: and 2013 Annual Report and financial statements when taken as a material judgemental estimates.
which non-audit services are pre-approved being those which fi en ad cih m ngs i ee s p tinrg a ese nn d i tem d b ply th eme e i nn ta te tio rn n o al a f r ue dc ito om r tm o th ene C datio om ns b mity th tee a e t majority of the members of the Committee were independent is nh te ar re es hts o olde f D rs.
B irec ats oe s rs a aln ad s ries a enin od a r em nn pu lo ay l b ee os t nu o th ses a osre o e dfe liberately pension scheme.
T ph ae e ny d xe ec liu five tiv re e D d sirtr eo cn to g fi rs r naen m ciu an l a ern ad o tion r pee ra w tia ord na sl 5 March 2014 reviewing and considering the Annual Report and whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the Refer to notes 3 and 23 T as he sis se ta a ns cs eump from ti e onmpl s wo eyre ee r b eveie ne wfit ed e w xp ite hr t ts he.
T ehe xt C erna ommit l audte itor e s, w up itp hor intp eu dt t a he nd are routine in nature, with a fee that is not significant in the Board is followed up at the subsequent Committee meeting.
During the year, the set at or below the lower end of a market competitive range that performance.
financial statements to ensure that it is fair, balanced and ip ne fo rfro m rm atiao nn n ce, b ecu es ss ina ers y f s m or s od he al a reh no d s lde trra s t teo a gy: a ssn ed ss th e Groups assumptions and judgements applied by management.
c re oqui nterx et t o hfe t pr hei a orud appr it or o a va ud l o itft rh ee la C teom d se mi rv titc ee es a, n w dhi w chi h s ch e s rv eic rv eis c es C Cr o os mm thw itta eie te w, J as oh c nh G air ra en dt b ay nd Mi Ju les s T tin e D mp ow lema ley a n, lso w se ith P rve ing rry t hroughout compared to companies of similar size and complexity to ensure understandable and advising the Board that the statement the auditor is excluded from providing.
The general principle is the year.
Liz Hewitt became a member of the Committee upon her a clear focus on generation of long-term value through the LTIP.
can be made by the Board that this is the case.
r ue nvd ie ew rte ad a ken b nd a y th gre a eed th udite s or.
cope of the audit work to be that the audit firm should not be requested to carry out non-audit appointment to the Board on 8October 2013 see Succession Mi Chla eis r T ma empl n, No em ma in nation Committee T un hde e le r t five hl o e L f r Te IP w wi ard e ll be a fide rnepe d b ny D denirte u cp to orn s a sh na d s reh eo nlide or m r va aln ue ag cr em ea etn etd.
services on any activity of the Company where they may, in the John Grant planning and What the Committee did in 2013, below, for further 5March 2014 future, be required to give an audit opinion.
Chairman, Audit Committee d ale sto a m ails.
C em hrb ise to r o ph f th er M e C illo em r, E m xie ttc eu e th tive C rouh ga hio rm ut th an o e y f th ea e B r. oard, was p. 66 5March 2014 p. 69 assuming a full years ownership of Elster in 2012, as explained in the Finance Directors review.
p. 70 Audit Committee Nomination Committee Directors remuneration report report report
