CORPORATE GOVERNANCE MERLIN PEOPLE CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY MERLIN IS PASSIONATE ABOUT THE WAY IT CONDUCTS ITS BUSINESS AND ARTICULATES THIS THROUGH THE MERLIN WAY.
THESE VALUES ARE COMMUNICATED TO ALL EMPLOYEES AND, ALONGSIDE THEIR COMMERCIAL RESULTS, ARE HOW THE PERFORMANCE OF MANAGEMENT AND EMPLOYEES IS EVALUATED.
WE ALSO BELIEVE IN HAVING A PROACTIVE INVOLVEMENT WITH THE COMMUNITIES IN WHICH WE OPERATE AND WITH THE MARINE ENVIRONMENT AROUND WHICH THE SEA LIFE BRAND HAS BEEN BUILT.
OUR PEOPLE ARE KEY PARTICIPANTS IN THESE INITIATIVES - AND DO SO WITH A PASSION.
Conservation and wildlife Busan Aquarium successfully bred second generation Weedy As well as being the worlds premier operator of aquariums Sea Dragons - a world first!
through our SEA LIFE brand, Merlin also operates world standard zoos in the UK and Australia and cares for marine mammals SEA LIFE were very successful in breeding seven Gentoo around the world.
The Company has an excellent reputation for Penguins at Billund which is excellent for a first breeding the ethical and responsible care, preservation and conservation of season, while twelve Gentoo chicks are currently being raised animals and the marine environment.
This reputation is widely in SEA LIFE Melbourne, Australia and Kelly Tarltons SEA LIFE acknowledged by expert organisations around the world.
In 2013 we launched the SEA LIFE Marine Conservation Trust.
Rescue The Trust has been set up to fund global marine conservation We have rescued more than 120 injured or orphaned seal pups campaigns utilising the scale and network of SEA LIFE to maximise through our European seal sanctuaries and successfully returned the efficiency of the funds raised.
A calendar of fundraising events many of them back to the wild after a period of rehabilitation and and campaigns is planned for 2014 across the SEA LIFE estate and care.
SEA LIFE Blankenberge alone rescued 22 seal pups.
we are aiming to raise more funds and awareness of marine threats than ever before.
Globally across SEA LIFE sites, 83 turtles were rescued with the majority of these being cared for by our Australia and New Breed, Rescue, Protect Zealand sites.
Eleven of these were then satellite tagged and can Breed, Rescue, Protect is a global initiative that actively engages be tracked on www.
Australasian sites alone our guests and employees in our conservation and welfare work.
rescued 34 different species and 135 animals, with 59 releases back to the wild.
Breed This was a great year for successful breeding of many marine The USA SEA LIFE Centres provided homes to four additional species across the SEA LIFE network, with over 70 different rescued but non-releasable sea turtles and continue to provide species and over 6,200 individual animals bred.
Key highlights have homes to unwanted pet reptiles, fish and sharks wherever possible.
included significant breeding of seahorses, tropical sharks and penguins.
Some of the most notable successes have been: In July, two Finless Porpoises were released back to their ocean home after being cared for at our Busan Aquarium in South Tropical sharks, with Chang Feng Ocean World Shanghai Korea.
This species is under significant pressure in the breeding three White Tip Reef Sharks and SEA LIFE wild with the main threats being as a result of by-catch during Scheveningen with the birth and rearing of a Black Tip Reef Shark.
This was a great opportunity for the Busan Aquarium to take part in an ongoing Rescue, Rehabilitation The first ever successful fertilisation of a bamboo shark in and Release programme in partnership with the South SEA LIFE Melbourne through artificial insemination.
40 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and accounts 2013 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Merlin has an excellent reputation for the ethical and responsible care, preservation and conservation of animals and the marine environment Protect We continue to campaign alongside the Whale and Dolphin Conservation Society in the pursuit of global protection for all cetaceans and, most importantly, for the banning of mass culls and capture from the wild.
Our UK SEA LIFE teams have been working alongside the Marine Conservation Society to secure Marine Protection Zones around the UK coastline.
Again, local teams around the world have reported their own successes, most notably: SEA LIFE Centres in the USA continued to develop local conservation programmes and supported the Whale and Dolphin Societys Right Whale Conservation programme, assisting in the collection of over 75,000 signatures to support The zoo at Chessington World of Adventures Resort the extension of the boat strike rule in US waters.
In partnership with the Scottish Sea Angling Conservation It was a successful year for the translocation of animal stock.
We Network, SEA LIFE Loch Lomond successfully tagged and have imported three male White Rhinos, four male Giraffes, four released 107 sharks including Tope, Spurdog, Bullhuss, Rays Blesbok and five Nile Lechwe: and have moved two Gorillas out and Common Skate.
of the collection to participate in breeding programmes at ZooParc fide Beauval and Leipzig in Europe.
Chang Feng Ocean World Shanghai hosted Running for the Yangtze River Porpoise during December.
This event was in The Chessington Conservation Fund continues to grow and has collaboration with WWF and the Wuhan Baiji Conservation built on the partnership with the World Land Trust which is now Fund to raise public awareness about the endangered supporting a ranger in Equador to oversee the 128 acres of porpoise and about protecting our aquatic environments rainforest equivalent in size to Chessington Resort secured last and their animals.
year to protect the area from illegal logging.
Chessington provided significant support to the European Association of Zoos and Also of note is the accreditation of SEA LIFE Kansas City to Aquaria, ending the year as their second biggest donor 20,000, the American Association of Zoos and Aquariums, putting it out of over 300 zoos across Europe.
among the top ten per cent.
of the over 2,000 animal attractions in North America.
Zoos WILD LIFE Sydney has raised donations with all funds going directly to Koala and Bilby habitat preservation and conservation.
They also launched the WILD LIFE Conservation fund National Threatened Species Day and have launched Adopt a Koala and Adopt a Bilby programmes.
The zoo at Chessington World of Adventures Resort continues its successful breeding programmes with three Scimitar Horned Oryx, two Gentle Lemurs and two Golden Headed Tamarins all being bred this year.
We now house over ten per cent.
of the entire European collection of Gentle Lemurs which is a critically endangered species.
41 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and accounts 2013 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Human rights and social responsibility Environmental policy and greenhouse gas In addition to taking the time to understand the real needs of our emissions reporting visitors in order to provide them with attractions and experiences The Company meets all of its legal obligations in respect of waste which combine safe, quality environments with exciting, often management and recycling in each of the jurisdictions in which we educational experiences, we also: operate.
In the UK, Merlin is registered for the Governments Carbon Reduction Commitment CRC Energy Efficiency Scheme Develop our products in line with broad environmental under which the Company surrendered 44,380 CRC allowances needs.
This is reflected in our choice of location and our in October 2013.
The CRC scheme requires the Company to efforts to respect local social and environmental issues: our collect information on the CO emissions from use of electricity 2 responsible care and choice of the animals and marine life we and gas in the UK.
exhibit: our worldwide campaigning and rescue activities: and our choice and management of suppliers.
During the year, the UK Government introduced a requirement that UK listed companies should report their global levels of Work in partnership with the communities in which we Greenhouse Gas GHG emissions in their Annual Reports and operate.
We seek to develop attractions that reflect the accounts.
The mandatory requirement is for disclosure of direct culture, locale and environment in which they are situated, not emissions defined as scope 1, for example from heating, cooling, to impose a one size fits all solution on them.
transport fuel, and indirect emissions scope 2, for example from purchased electricity, and only to the extent that such emissions Apply The Merlin Way in our dealings with our workforce, are the responsibility of the Company.
with equal opportunities in all areas including recruitment, promotion, development and benefits.
We work as one team Prior to the IPO in November 2013 Merlin had over a number of supporting and trusting one another, encouraging and years been undertaking a number of initiatives in this area.
This recognising individual initiative and responsibility as well as has included engaging with the Carbon Trust to identify our UK respecting individual contributions.
Our aim is to ensure all carbon footprint and to identify opportunities to reduce it, for our colleagues enjoy their work, develop their full potential, example, by replacing old technology bulbs with low energy or celebrate success and learn from experience.
Other initiatives have included provision of capital expenditure budgets for sites to test and or implement Extend that respect and team approach to all our business environmentally focused initiatives such as outdoor swimming dealings with our business partners and advisors.
pool covers: power correction: power limitation: and solar power for signage.
We have also introduced an annual Environmental Insist that all of our retail suppliers sign our ethical terms and Award to encourage sites to identify and implement conditions before we place any orders with them.
We have an relevant initiatives.
independent Far East audit company in place that audits our suppliers factories in the areas of child labour, working At a Group level Merlin has not in the past collected the global conditions and environmental impact.
data necessary to meet these GHG emissions reporting requirements and therefore is unable to comply with these new Merlin does not have a specific human rights policy at present but reporting requirements as at 28 December 2013.
Subsequent to we believe that through the actions we take as outlined above, we the IPO in November 2013 the Groups intention is to establish adhere to internationally proclaimed human rights principles.
We processes for the capture of the relevant data.
The Company will give careful consideration to whether a specific human rights should therefore be able to meet these requirements when it policy is needed in the future.
42 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and accounts 2013 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY In 2013, more attractions than ever before have hosted visits from Merlin Magic Wand children Merlins Magic Wand childrens charity Corporate partners turned out in force to raise money at our Our childrens charity, Merlins Magic Wand, puts the magic back annual cricket day: over 25,000 was raised.
CVC has confirmed into the childhoods of seriously ill, disabled and disadvantaged its continued support for Merlins Magic Wand this year, providing children across the world by arranging great days out at our support through events, partnership activity and an ongoing attractions.
For those children faced with conditions and financial commitment to the charity.
circumstances that prevent them from having a day out, the charity delivers Taking the Magic to the Children projects, a local With ever increasing support, we are confident that Merlins outreach initiative designed to take Merlins Magic to severely ill Magic Wand will make an even greater difference in 2014. children that live within the localities of Merlin attractions.
Local attraction community involvement 2013 has been the biggest year yet for Merlins Magic Wand, Our attractions around the world are active in local community providing over 36,000 tickets to enable disadvantaged children projects and initiatives.
and their families to have magical days out at Merlin attractions all over the world.
In 2013, more attractions than ever before have These can range from supporting local projects to find a way to hosted visits from Magic Wand children rising from 47 replace copper in the fishing nets used by local fishing teams, to attractions in 2012 to 77 attractions in 2013. sponsoring a local canal to clean up every quarter and running an annual ethical fishing morning, teaching people what they can We have also continued our Taking the Magic to the Children catch while fishing and how to do this responsibly.
This year saw the opening of our Alton Towers themed playroom at the University Hospital in In another local initiative, nearly 2,500 guests made up of children North Staffordshire: the opening of a unique Merlin playroom at suffering from cancer and heart diseases and their families came Kupferhof Childrens Centre in Hamburg: and projects in progress for an unforgettable day at LEGOLAND Billund.
in Blackpool, Berlin and Hunstanton.
We also support local community initiatives in and around the Merlin Entertainments provides funding to the charity and South Bank and London generally, including funding a community supports the day to day operation by providing office chest pot for local charities and ticket and out of hours accommodation and facilities at no cost and by subsidising the event donations.
employment costs of the small charity team.
In addition to this, the Company donates the tickets distributed by the charity and which have a retail value of over 1 million.
This enables the charity to use fundraising to provide travel grants, without which many of the children that we help would not be able to visit, and to deliver the Taking the Magic to the Children projects.
2013 has been a great year for fundraising.
We have received tremendous support from the network of attractions across the globe.
Merlin teams worldwide have shown dedication, commitment and creativity raising over 274,000 through fundraisers, ranging from abseiling down the dome of Madame Tussauds London to a Food Truck Wars event in Florida.
Merlin visitors around the world have also rallied behind the charity, dropping their change into collection tins at attractions and getting involved with events such as the Halloween themed Alton Towers themed playroom at the University Hospital in raffle at the Hamburg Dungeon.
