Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and accounts 2013 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT 4 Notes to table: Performance measures - PSP.
The PSP performance measures are chosen to provide 1 The Committee may vary or waive any performance condition s if circumstances alignment with our longer term strategy of growing the business in a sustainable occur which cause it to determine that the original condition s have ceased to be manner that will be in the best interests of shareholders and other key stakeholders in appropriate, provided that any such variation or waiver is fair, reasonable and not the Company.
In particular, our use of earnings and return on total investment materially less difficult to satisfy than the original condition in its opinion.
In the event measures is designed to reward management for delivery of key financial measures of that the Committee was to make an adjustment of this sort, a full explanation would Company success that should result in sustainable value creation.
Targets are be provided in the next Remuneration Report.
considered ahead of each PSP grant by the Remuneration Committee taking into 2 Performance measures - annual bonus.
The annual bonus measures are reviewed account relevant external and internal reference points and are designed to be annually and chosen to focus executive rewards on delivery of key financial targets for appropriately stretching.
5 the forthcoming year in addition to key strategic or operational goals relevant to an Broadly equivalent versions of the UK Sharesave Scheme operate for USA employees individual.
Precise targets for bonus measures are set at the start of each year by the US Employee Stock Purchase Plan and overseas employees Overseas Sharesave Remuneration Committee based on relevant reference points, including, for Scheme.
An Executive Director based in the USA or overseas may be eligible to Group financial targets, the Companys business plan and are designed to be participate in one of these schemes instead of the UK Sharesave Scheme.
monthly contribution limit for the US Employee Stock Purchase Plan would be 3 The Committee may: a in the event of a variation of the Companys share capital specified by the Remuneration Committee before each grant.
6 and with the exception of HMRC approved options demerger, super dividend or The Committee reserves the right to make any remuneration payments and dividend in specie or any other corporate event which it reasonably determines payments for loss of office notwithstanding that they are not in line with the policy set justifies such an adjustment, adjust: and b amend the terms of awards granted under out above where the terms of the payment were agreed: a before the policy came the share schemes referred to above in accordance with the rules of the relevant into effect: or b at a time when the relevant individual was not a Director of the plans which were summarised for shareholders in the Companys IPO Prospectus.
Company and, in the opinion of the Committee, the payment was not in Share awards may be settled by the issue of new shares or by the transfer of existing consideration for the individual becoming a Director of the Company.
In line with prevailing best practice at the time this Policy Report is approved, purposes payments includes the Committee satisfying awards of variable any issuance of new shares is limited to five per cent.
of share capital over a rolling ten remuneration and, in relation to an award over shares, the terms of the payment year period in relation to discretionary employee share schemes and ten per cent.
of are agreed at the time the award is granted.
7 share capital over a rolling ten year period in relation to all employee share schemes.
The Committee may make minor amendments to the policy set out in this Policy Report for regulatory, exchange control, tax or administrative purposes or to take account of a change in legislation without obtaining shareholder approval for that amendment.
Differences in policy from broader employee population There are differences in the precise components within the pay policy for Executive Directors and for our employees generally and a greater proportion of Executive Directors pay is at risk and determined by performance than for our employees generally.
However, as outlined in the Committee Chairmans statement, common principles underlie the pay policy through the Company including for the Executive Directors.
In particular, we place great emphasis throughout the Company on reward being linked to performance either Group performance or of an employees particular attraction and on encouraging share ownership through participation in the PSP, CSOP or the All Employee Share Plan.
Non-executive Directors Purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Non-executive Director NED fees other than NEDs whose appointment is in Fees are set at an appropriate level that is NED fees respect of their position as representatives of the pre-IPO market competitive and reflective of the To appropriately recognise major shareholders comprise payment of an annual basic responsibilities and time commitment responsibilities by ensuring fee and additional fees for further Board responsibilities associated with specific roles.
such as: No absolute maximum has been set for Senior Independent Director.
Current fee levels Audit Committee Chairman.
are set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration Committee Chairman.
Remuneration section of this The Chairman of the Board receives an all-inclusive fee.
The Companys Articles of Association No NED participates in the Groups incentive provide that the total aggregate fees paid arrangements or pension plan or receives any other to the Chairman and NEDs will not benefits other than where travel to the Companys exceed 1,000,000. registered office is recognised as a taxable benefit in which case a NED may receive the grossed-up costs of travel as a benefit.
Fees are generally reviewed annually.
NEDs whose appointment is in respect of their position as shareholder representatives do not receive a fee.
