MERLIN PEOPLE MERLIN MERLIN PEOPLE PEOPLE WE DESCRIBE OUR COMPANYS CULTURE AND VALUES AS THE MERLIN WAY.
IT CAPTURES THE ESSENCE OF HOW OUR EMPLOYEES ARE ALIGNED WITH THE ONE ULTIMATE GOAL OF DELIVERING MEMORABLE EXPERIENCES TO OUR GUESTS.
OUR PEOPLE STRATEGY IS SUPPORTED BY THREE PILLARS: EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT: TALENT AND DEVELOPMENT: AND COMPENSATION AND BENEFITS.
IT ENABLES US TO ACHIEVE OUR AMBITIONS TO BE THE BEST COMPANY TO WORK FOR IN OUR INDUSTRY, NURTURE OUR GLOBAL LEADERS AND REWARD PERFORMANCE.
THE MEASURE OF OUR SUCCESS IS SHOWN IN OUR OUTSTANDING EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT SCORE FROM OUR ANNUAL EMPLOYEE SURVEY.
Employee engagement The traditional methods of newsletters, team briefs and The Wizard Wants to Know, our annual online employee survey, noticeboards are still vitally important to ensure the messages is distributed to more than 20,000 global employees.
It is our are received by all our front line employees.
opportunity to measure engagement and receive feedback on what its like to work for this unique company.
An amazing 97 per STAR is our online global recognition scheme.
of our employees completed the survey and 95 per cent.
employees to celebrate success by nominating colleagues with a told us that they enjoy working here.
Our overall engagement Star for outstanding contribution or a Thank You to recognise increased once again and was way above our 80 per cent.
target, the little things they do.
With over 87,000 Stars sent to a score we are all proud of.
The results are a key mechanism to employees worldwide this year, and over 200,000 since the launch continually drive improvements.
in April 2011, this great initiative has been really embraced by our global employee population.
Spark an Idea is our online initiative that allows employees the opportunity to share their ideas, however big or small.
Employees can view the ideas on the website: search: like ideas: or simply look for inspiration.
Spark an Idea also allows us to give feedback, thanking staff for their contribution and letting them know how it will be taken forward.
Local Creativity and Innovation Forums review ideas and can escalate the truly outstanding ones.
These are shared with other attractions and passed to Merlins Creativity Board, who can support and fund exceptional ideas.
More than 2,500 ideas have been submitted since we launched the initiative in 2012, with many being implemented within our attractions.
Recruitment Delivering memorable experiences to our LEGOLAND guests Our aim is to attract the best talent and our recruitment strategy We care about our people and this year we asked over 200 sets out our approach to technology, candidate experience and employees around the world what they wanted from their staff diversity.
The introduction of our online recruitment system has areas.
We developed guidelines The Magic Touch to help seen an increase in the usage of social media platforms, giving a managers create the inspirational space our people deserve.
more structured and positive candidate experience and a We provided guidance on safety, cleanliness, creating a relaxing consistent selection process to reflect The Merlin Way.
Fairness environment and providing a place for sharing all Merlin news.
and equality remain key priorities and we ensure our approach to recruitment is transparent to all our applicants.
Where they need In order to gain staff commitment it is essential that we inform support we will do as much as we can to give everyone the our teams of Merlins goals and objectives so all our employees opportunity to demonstrate their skills and capabilities.
The intranet provides an effective platform where attraction newsfeeds are published.
32 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and accounts 2013 MERLIN PEOPLE Diversity XLR8 is our graduate programme tailored to fast track high We constantly strive to make a positive difference to life at Merlin academic achievers to marketing and general management and are promoting gender diversity with a number of initiatives to positions.
Now in its eighth year, its success continues to grow, support our female employees in achieving their ambitions and with graduates from top universities around the world being career progression.
Our strategy is designed to ensure we have recruited in the UK, USA, Germany, Australia and China.
the best people for the right roles, with equality of opportunity We are committed to the long term career development of our for both men and women.
Research shows that companies with a XLR8 graduates, supporting their tailored career path from entry more gender diverse workforce perform better.
Our objective is into Merlin, up through the business and on to senior leadership to achieve a more inclusive working environment, particularly with positions.
Over the last three years we have climbed the Guardian respect to gender balance, whilst promoting females on merit.
Top 300 graduate employers list, coming second for our With the appointment of Fru Hazlitt to the Board in 2014, industry in 2013. females will then be represented at all levels of the business.
Of our entire permanent workforce, approximately 4,000 Compensation and benefits 48 per cent.
are female and ten women leaders occupy We are committed to providing competitive compensation and 20 per cent.
of senior leadership roles within the Company.
benefit programmes which reflect the diverse needs of our global employees and support the culture and business needs.
Talent and development The opportunity for our employees to learn and develop is Share plans paramount.
In the past year we have introduced several new The CEO Award Plan was aimed at extending equity participation concepts to enhance our virtual training and to complement our to employees as recognition for long service and or outstanding existing face to face learning.
contribution and was extended to more than 1,700 employees.
With the flotation of Merlin on the London Stock Exchange this We launched Merlins School of Magic, our new online collection plan came to an end but the essence of the scheme, wanting all of learning materials, provided by the renowned Ashridge Business employees to own a part of Merlin, is represented in our new School.
Wherever they are located, our employees are able to share plans.
access resources designed to enhance their personal and professional development.
These include learning guides, As described elsewhere in this report, a number of long term pocketbooks, audios, videos, books and knowledge maps.
We have incentive plans have been introduced to align share incentives to also rolled out webinars to focus on a variety of leadership topics.
long term goals and performance.
These include an All Employee Sharesave Plan which provides all permanent employees with the opportunity to make savings over a three year period and buy shares in Merlin.
This is a key step to further enhance the engagement of our employees with the success of the Group.
Benefits We continue to harmonise local benefit programmes on a territory by territory basis.
Within the UK we held benefits fairs at all of our attractions to increase awareness and understanding of our benefit offering, resulting in a considerable uptake in the Growing our leadership pipeline is a priority, so we can provide voluntary benefit schemes.
It was also an ideal opportunity to the right people with the right experience at the right time.
2013 start communicating about the implementation of workplace initiatives to further strengthen this pipeline included: pensions to our UK workforce.
Our objective is to develop the benefits fair package and make this globally available over the Launching virtual training through Merlins School of coming years.
Magic and subject specific webinars.
Delivering leadership training locally within Asia, USA, Australia Mobility and across Europe, enabling different languages and cultures to We have made significant advances in refining our international be taken into consideration.
mobility programme which allows us to continue to support both Driving a global succession planning programme for all senior the global expansion of our attractions as well as succession, managers, and revitalising induction programmes for new through the ability of our people to gain international experience.
Reviewing our global mobility policy to better support country to country moves.
Delivering high potential training and development programmes for individuals identified as future leaders.
