CORPORATE DIRECTORS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTICE OF AGM Environmental matters Promoting efficient procurement, which will both minimise We fully recognise our responsibilities in relation to the waste and allow materials to be recycled where appropriate environment and our carbon footprint.
As an office-based business, our main environmental impact comes from the Employing sound waste management practices and generation of carbon emissions through the consumption of encouraging re-use and recycling gas and electricity in order to heat, cool and light our offices Putting in place procedures and supporting information and from business travel by road, rail or air, as well as that enables compliance with the law, regulation and code office-based waste such as paper and toners.
of practice relating to environmental issues Our Board is committed to improving the way in which our Adopting a systematic energy use data collection procedure activities affect the environment by: and audit across all sites with annual monitoring Minimising the extent of the environmental impacts of Deploying an environmental monitoring system across operations within the Groups sphere of influence PageGroup operations which will ensure systematic, robust, Striving to minimise any emissions of effluents in our effective environmental data collection properties that may cause environmental damage Conserving energy through minimising consumption and waste and maximising efficiency CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Total Emissions CO2e in 2013 from global operations Greenhouse gas emissions We commissioned Trucost, a specialist company working in the area of environmental risk, to analyse energy use and Natural Gas business travel data collected by PageGroup in order to Business travel provide an overview of the carbon performance and 5% OUR CORPORATE efficiency of our global operations.
Trucost identifies GHG 12% emissions to air in line with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol, an RESPONSIBILITY VISION international corporate accounting and reporting framework Electricity Refrigerants developed by the World Resources Institute and the World 12% 39% To engage, encourage and equip all Business Council for Sustainable Development.
our people to make a positive impact The overall, global GHG footprint of PageGroups operations on the clients and communities with in 2013 was calculated to be 12,472 tonnes of carbon dioxide which we work.
39% of emissions resulted from electricity use, 32% from the groups vehicle fleet, 12% from the use of refrigerants, 12% from business travel by rail and air and Vehicle Fleet 5% from the use of natural gas for operations.
As we have only recorded similar GHG data in respect of the UK in previous years, we are not able to provide a global Ethical, responsible practices and total commitment to minimising This hard work and dedication to give back saw our 5,130 comparative for 2012.
In future years a comparative will our impact on the environment are the key motivators behind our employees globally raise around 123,000 in 2013, and the be shown.
Group donated a further 134,000 so making a total close to 257,000 donated to charitable causes during the year.
Communities and Charities % of measured Greenhouse Gas Protocol 2013 Tonnes CO2e Human rights emissions As a company we pride ourselves on our integrity and we take our corporate responsibility very seriously.
Throughout the world, Our policy with regard to human rights is included in our Group Fuel use for operations 626 5% Scope 1 direct emissions from sources we seek to work closely with local communities, looking to give Code of Conduct which is communicated to all new employees Vehicle Fleet 3,939 32% which a company owns something back to the societies in which we operate.
To achieve as part of the induction process.
We require that all staff treat Total scope 1 direct emissions 4,565 37% this, we encourage our staff to be pro-active in seeking projects colleagues, candidates, clients and business partners with equality, within their own communities.
Projects include consultants going fairness and respect, regardless of their gender, race, colour, Other direct emissions not included in scope 1 Refrigerants 1,559 12% into schools and giving CV and interview advice, volunteers ethnic or national origins, marital status, family circumstances, by the Kyoto Protocol helping out on community and environmental projects and raising age, disability, sexual orientation, political or religious belief.
We Electricity 4,842 funds for charitable causes.
For example, in the UK we have uphold the right of our employees and candidates to work in a safe Scope 2 indirect emissions District heating 1 committed to a two year partnership with Alzheimers Research environment, free from discrimination, bullying and harassment.
re-generation of purchased electricity UK Association and aim to raise 200,000 over the two year We are supportive of upholding human rights principles and take Total scope 2 indirect emissions 4,843 39% period to provide two three year PhD scholarships for work on into account internationally accepted human rights standards.
Rail Travel 181 key research projects related to the prevention or cure of this We will not engage in or support the use of forced labour and do Scope 3 other indirect emissions including Air travel 1,324 debilitating disease.
To this end, during the year, our employees not tolerate the use of child labour.
business travel have participated enthusiastically in a variety of fund raising events Total scope 3 other indirect emissions 1,505 12% Further information on our approach to corporate responsibility including, triathlons, cake sales, pub quizzes, and the Yorkshire Total GHG emissions 12,472 100% can be found in our Corporate Responsibility Report at: Three Peaks Challenge.
In addition, our CEO and 100 employees Total tonnes CO2e per employee 5,130 employees 2.43 participated in the Great Wall of China marathon in Beijing in 2013. www.
com investors PageGroup Annual Report And Accounts 2013 PageGroup Annual Report And Accounts 2013 43 44 Strategic Report Strategic Report
