CORPORATE DIRECTORS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTICE OF AGM THE PEOPLE BEHIND THE PLAN DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION OUR EMPLOYEES Women@Page Since 2012 we have operated the Women@Page initiative Hiring the best Employee engagement Inclusion for all to help us achieve better gender diversity across all levels of Sourcing and retaining the highest calibre employees from a At the heart of our company is the camaraderie of team work, Pursuing an agenda of diversity and inclusion in the workplace our global business.
We aim to create an inclusive working wide range of backgrounds is key to our strategy.
The service we so much so that team work is also one of our company values.
is not only ethically right but, given its importance to the environment by developing the pipeline of female talent provide to all our customers is only as good as the people who We are a very sociable company, with regular team activities in liberation of the full potential of the labour market, it is also and retaining that talent.
The first tangible step for represent our brand.
Our strategy to grow organically by promoting and out of the office including quarterly team building events critical to our strategy as a leading global recruitment company.
Women@Page was a Global Mentoring Programme to support from within presents enormous opportunities for employees who and premium international trips to reward our high performing PageGroup is an equal opportunities employer and a strong talented women at management level.
Mentors include senior range from new graduates to experienced professionals from other consultants and managers.
Our way of rewarding consultants advocate in the industry encouraging other businesses to give managers within the Group who undergo external training to disciplines normally from the disciplines we recruit for.
It is also through bonuses is different to the rest of the industry.
every individual the same opportunities for employment and better equip them to provide key guidance to their mentees.
extremely important to us to recognise that when we recruit we At PageGroup we reward teams with profit share which is promotion based on their ability, qualifications and suitability In particular, mentors challenge their mentees to think are hiring our senior management of the future.
We aspire to help then allocated to the individuals based on their total contribution for the position.
differently, consider their options and honestly analyse their people maximise their potential.
This programme was initially Inclusion in recruitment and employment is about recognising introduced in the UK and France in 2012 and has now We run several initiatives worldwide to monitor employee and appreciating that every individual is different.
It is about Learning and Development been rolled out across ten countries.
We have also set clear engagement.
For example, in the UK, we participate, in the ensuring that everyone, whether they are a candidate seeking maternity guidelines for all managers to better support staff It is visible both inside and out, that at PageGroup we are Sunday Times Best 100 Companies to Work For survey, and have work through PageGroup or one of our own employees, is during their maternity period including during their return passionate about developing our people.
We support our been recognised for the last nine consecutive years as valued and respected.
Regardless of individual characteristics, to work.
employees to develop in their roles, and build a solid foundation one of the top 100 companies to work for in the UK.
In 2013 we suitability for recruitment, training or promotion is always based for their future career with us, through a diverse range of education were also recognised in Crains Best places to work in New York on professional merit.
In addition to the global initiatives run by Women@Page, and experience opportunities.
This includes encouraging City, and in Apertura Magazines Best employers in Argentina.
there are also a large number of initiatives being driven At PageGroup, we are committed to promoting inclusion international assignments within PageGroup.
From their first day We were delighted to be recognised in the Recruitment locally.
For example, in South Africa, Michael Page has and continually developing our understanding and approach with us, our people continuously undertake development and International Awards 2013 as the best recruitment company to continued its learning scheme for women, the Michael Page to upholding an inclusive working environment.
We are succession planning programmes including induction training, work for in the 100m category.
South Africa Learnership Programme, to show its commitment determined to lead the way on inclusion within the recruitment quarterly appraisals, coaching, and people management training to skills development and female empowerment in South In 2013, we also undertook an employee engagement and diversity industry and we work closely with our clients to support their using 360 degree feedback.
Our focus on the provision of a Africa.
In 2013, the 12 month programme offered five survey which was externally managed to allow employees an diversity strategies, from consultation through to delivery.
specialised service has led us to establish dedicated Learning women from disadvantaged backgrounds the opportunity opportunity to provide candid feedback in the knowledge that their & Development teams across the Group who customise our To further our insight into inclusion issues we work to gain professional hands-on experience across Michael views and opinions were confidential and anonymous.
programmes to ensure training is appropriate for different cultures with a number of external organisations such as Race for Page disciplines and to attend a fully funded course in and working environments across the world.
Opportunity, the Business Disability Forum and the Employers Business Administration.
Network for Equality and Inclusion.
Our senior staff are actively Retaining the most talented people involved with these and many other organisations through work-streams and joint initiatives, ensuring we are constantly With a solid strategy of organic growth and using existing expertise learning from their experience and using our own resources to as a platform for growing into new markets, we have a strong share best practice and ideas.
commitment to internal promotion, international career moves and employee empowerment which has continually helped us retain our very best people.
At the highest level, we want people who are immersed thoroughly in our company culture and understand Gender diversity the intricacies of our business.
Retaining our best people is At 31 December 2013 fundamental to our long-term success and continuity.
Due to this philosophy of nurturing our own talent, succession planning Male % Female % Total is an inherent part of the business process.
It is one of the key Number of people on Board of Directors 5 71% 2 29% 7 responsibilities of all levels of management to have a clear plan of development for their direct reports and for themselves.
Number of senior managers excluding Directors 276 77% 83 23% 359 Total number of employees in PageGroup 2,520 49% 2,610 51% 5,130 At 31 December 2012 Male % Female % Total Number of people on Board of Directors 6 86% 1 14% 7 Number of senior managers excluding Directors 273 82% 58 18% 331 Total number of employees in PageGroup 2,548 50% 2,551 50% 5,099 Further diversity statistics and information regarding our approach to diversity and corporate social responsibility can be found in our 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report which can be found on our website at www.
com investors PageGroup Annual Report And Accounts 2013 PageGroup Annual Report And Accounts 2013 41 42 Strategic Report Strategic Report
