Corporate social responsibility Creating a better business www.
com about responsibility Micro Focus continues to be a member During the year ended 30 April 2013 the corporate social responsibility CSR to read our full Corporate Responsibility Policy.
of the FTSE4Good Index, the responsible committee met seven times to agree investment index calculated by global index priorities and progress activities, and the Micro Focus monitors all relevant CSR provider FTSE Group.
legislation across its global operations in CSR programme was reviewed at two board meetings during the year.
Karen Slatford, 29 countries and is committed to raising During the year, Micro Focus was awarded a non-executive director, is responsible at standards to the highest levels.
Employees Carbon Trust Standard certification as a board level for CSR and also participates in regularly participate in CSR initiatives and result of continued progress to reduce committee meetings.
internal communications frequently feature environmental emissions.
Increasingly, customers, partners CSR activities are monitored and planned and suppliers recognize and are reminded of in four key areas at Micro Focus the the CSR benefits that Micro Focus products environment, charity & community support, can deliver, particularly in reducing their IT the marketplace & suppliers, and employees carbon footprint.
Please visit our website Our CSR progress CSR progress in the year ended 30 April 2013 across the four key focus areas.
Environment Micro Focus products and services help Fourth year of commitment to the Carbon New LEED Leadership in Energy and customers to reduce their carbon footprint Disclosure Project CDP, further promoting Environmental Design certified Platinum and adopt carbon friendly IT strategies by and managing emission reductions across standard office location in Santa Clara, enabling greater efficiency and longer life our globally located facilities: California, USA: from existing technology and equipment.
In addition to offering organizations alternative Increased electronic product distribution to Continued landlord performance strategies to rip and replace IT strategies, 93% of all distribution, with only 7% monitoring in all viable locations: Micro Focus continues to develop its own physical distribution of products: policies to record, monitor and achieve Redeployed and consolidated data-centre improvements in its own carbon footprint, Initiated a programme of positive global power optimization thereby improving including: procurement in sourcing, replacing and efficiencies and reducing cost and refurbishing facility energy systems in consumption: and Continued progress towards reducing accordance with energy efficiency standards environmental emissions, resulting in the EN656 : Achieved annual increase in office waste award of the Carbon Trust Standard recycling capabilities by almost 20%.
certification: Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 12 2013 overview Management and governance Company financial statements and notes Business review Consolidated financial statements and notes Additional information Charity and community support Micro Focus employees actively support their All initiatives follow core themes of Global charity fundraising incorporated into local communities, encouraged by the Group, education and local community support policy document: selected charity during along agreed criteria and guidelines.
Two last 12 months was the International Red global charities are selected each year by the Total level of funds raised and contributed Cross Hurricane Sandy Disaster Relief Fund: Micro Focus charity committee, in addition was more than $65,000: a number of local project grants achieve a Ongoing employee communications balance between international and country Local project grants initiative was launched through a Charity page on the Companys level fundraising initiatives.
Corporate support in prior year and has developed in last Intranet and regular front page articles on is provided on two levels.
Firstly, on a 12 months to support 10 charity or the Intranet.
funds-matching basis for selected charity community organizations with wide initiatives.
Secondly, by allocating a number geographic spread across Micro Focus of employee days per month by teams or Group operations around the world: individuals to directly benefit a chosen charity or community initiative.
Marketplace and Suppliers Micro Focus products and services can help Suppliers to the Group continue to be sent Marketplace customers increasingly organizations lower their energy impact.
For Micro Focus Corporate Social Responsibility recognize benefits provided by using example, during FY13, products provided to charter and are encouraged to follow Micro Focus products: and customer Kansas City Southern Railway carbon responsible practices.
enabled the Companys data centre to benefit Suppliers CSR charter included in from a smaller carbon footprint.
Employees and ethics During the year ended 30 April 2013, Micro 466 leadership development training Launch of online On-boarding tool is Focus has further developed its recruitment days conducted during the year ended enhancing new employee integration, and retention programmes through 30 April 2013: induction training and engagement: strengthened training and performance A half year bonus was paid to 707 eligible management initiatives across the Set up new pension and benefits provision employees.
A full year bonus will be paid to organization.
The Group continues to develop in Ireland following the acquisition of the 750 eligible employees: a culture that provides a rewarding and CORBA assets from Progress Software: enjoyable working environment for employees Comprehensive six monthly and full year who in turn are able to develop their careers Set up new Group Life and Medical benefit performance management reviews of all in a professional and successful organization.
provision in Spain: non sales employees.
More than 82% of employee population completed a half year Key HR Metrics 30 April 2013 : Maintained excellent record in health performance management plan PMP and and safety matters for all employees no t 5PUBM VNCFS PG &NQMPZFFT more than 92% completed a full year PMP reportable incidents in last 12 months : and Worldwide 1,221 1,212 Full Time for the year ended 30 April 2013: Equivalent FTE Launched two online training courses t 5PUBM 8PSLGPSDF 8PSMEXJEF o Following extended roll out of the to staff worldwide one on Anti-Bribery, including temporary contractors International Share Save Scheme in the another on Data Protection.
Ongoing 1,310 FTE previous year, 30% of eligible employees compliance with anti-bribery, data t 8PNFO o &NQMPZFFT 8PSMEXJEF in 23 countries worldwide chose to protection and market abuse and 27.9% up from 27.8% at end of participate up from 25.7% at the end insider dealing laws and regulation FY12 of the year ended 30 April 2012 : is monitored continually.
BOBHFNFOU 17.1% Regular employee communications through t 8PNFO o PWFSOBODF #PEZ o intranet, video, email, and monthly town 2 out of 7 including Company Secretary hall meetings: Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 13
