Corporate social responsibility 2013 Highlights, 500 4 450 The number of new jobs we Food waste recycling has generated have created enough electricity to power 4,450 UK households 300k 59 Around 300,000 donated and raised Tonnes of salt removed from our menus through corporate, brand, employee and guest fundraising activities 33k The number of employees who had their say in our annual engagement survey Introduction Whats in our food?
Mitchells & Butlers believes that social Nutrition responsibility is all about how our practices We have made excellent progress in analysing impact on: the nutritional content of our menus.
This information is currently available online for our people: core menu items in Harvester, Toby Carvery our guests: and Crown Carveries.
the communities in which we operate: and the environment.
In All Bar One, Ember Inns and a number of our Heartland pubs, meals that contain fewer In this section, we focus on the highlights than 700 calories are highlighted on the from 2013.
More information and case studies main menus.
In Harvester, we print calorific can be found in our Social Responsibility values on all our menus, including the Young Review 2013 which can be found at Guests menu.
com responsibility Chefs in any of our businesses will happily Good food respond to a guests requests to swap, for As the largest on-trade caterer in the country example, potatoes for a side salad and, the quality of the food we serve is of paramount wherever possible, serve dressings and importance to us.
Our guests trust us to serve sauces separately.
good food that represents good value for money, which is safely prepared and cooked.
Allergens They also trust us to source food that is both We are making good progress in meeting the sustainable and ethical, with due regard December 2014 deadline when new EU for high standards of both workers and legislation comes into effect concerning the animal welfare.
availability of information about 14 common food allergens.
Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 28 Company overview 01 05 Strategic and business review 07 34 Governance 35 64 Financial statements 65 106 Shareholder information 107 108 Salt Food safety We are committed to the Public Health We have made significant progress in Responsibility Deal Salt Pledge for Caterers and increasing the number of our retail businesses have made good progress towards meeting our that achieved a 4 or 5 star food hygiene rating.
ambition to reduce the overall salt content of We take a zero tolerance approach to any the dishes we serve.
of our businesses that achieve a score of 3 or below.
We continue to strive for a score of 5 First, we have been working closely with our in each business and conduct independently suppliers to reduce salt levels in 27 products commissioned audits in all of our businesses at for example bacon that contribute the highest least twice per year.
We have rigorous checks amount of salt to the dishes we serve.
As a and policies in place to ensure we do things result of this work 59 tonnes of salt per annum right and we consult regularly with government has now been removed from our menus.
and local authorities to ensure we maintain the Harvester prints the calorific value of all dishes highest standards in food safety.
on its menus and Young Guests menus.
Secondly, a trial has been running in 240 of our businesses using a salt blend where a The responsible retailing of alcohol percentage of the refined salt is replaced with Serving around 410 million drinks each year natural minerals.
In the trial businesses this in a responsible way is a fundamental part of product is being used in our kitchens during the how we operate our businesses.
We recently cooking process and it also replaces standard updated our Alcohol and Social Responsibility table salt should our guests have a personal Policy which highlights best practice in the preference to add more salt to their meal.
following areas: Harvester, Toby Carvery and Crown Carveries promoting responsible drinking: all display the salt content of core menu items responsible pricing and promotions: online, including Young Guests meals.
preventing underage drinking: working in partnership with local Food sourcing authorities, government and Pubwatch: We take into account a number of factors investing in training our teams: and We have made significant progress in when buying food: the health and safety of our creating a safe and secure environment increasing the number of our retail businesses guests, the quality, the provenance and price.
for our guests and employees.
that achieved a 4 or 5 star food hygiene rating.
All of our food suppliers are required to comply The Policy has been communicated to with the British Retail Consortiums technical all our frontline teams and is a key tool in standard which requires their staff to be understanding and promoting the high properly trained and supervised and for the standards of responsible retailing we want supplier to meet high standards of food safety.
We have made progress in our ambition to Mitchells & Butlers donated a substantial shorten the supply chain route and our buyers sum of money to the charity Drinkaware last now deal with many suppliers directly.
Our donation assisted the charity example, we now deal direct with growers in their aims to promote responsible drinking, in the UK for potatoes, carrots, onions and find innovative ways to challenge the national mushrooms: removing the wholesalers margin drinking culture, help reduce alcohol misuse and delivering fresher products to our kitchens.
We recently updated our Alcohol and This year saw the launch of our Quality Cattle People love to work with us Social Responsibility Policy which highlights Scheme, a new and exciting initiative offering Last year saw the creation of our three-year best practice.
direct contracts with British beef farmers.
The People Strategy: People love to work with us.
scheme creates a secure, quality beef supply In a growth industry that historically has high for Mitchells & Butlers restaurants and pubs, levels of employee turnover, the strategy lays through a model which guarantees a margin out our long-term plan to attract the best and market for the farmer.
people and to provide effective training and development and a fair reward and recognition We also joined forces with a group of farmers framework.
We believe that this strategy located in the National Parks to rear lamb for will result in increased levels of employee selected Mitchells & Butlers brands.
The engagement and in reduced employee farmers receive an agreed margin per animal turnover.
Last financial year our hourly paid and have a guaranteed market for their lambs.
retail staff turnover was 4% lower, meaning This means we will be able to offer British lamb fewer people left Mitchells & Butlers than in that is fully traceable.
Mitchells & Butlers was crowned Foodservice Creating jobs Operator of the Year 2013 at the British Turkey Last year we created 500 new jobs by opening Awards.
The award was presented for our new retail sites across the UK.
long-term support and year round commitment Mitchells & Butlers was crowned Foodservice to UK turkey production.
Toby Carvery alone Operator of the Year 2013 at the British uses around 68 tonnes of fresh British turkey Turkey Awards.
Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 29 Corporate social responsibility continued Vocational Learning Diversity We have around 1,600 apprentices on Mitchells & Butlers is committed to providing vocational learning programmes across the UK.
equal opportunities for all of our employees.
After working together for a decade, Mitchells Our Diversity Policy ensures that every 1 600 & Butlers and its training provider partner, employee, without exception, is treated equally Apprentices on vocational learning Babcock International Group, were recognised and fairly and that all employees are aware of programmes across the UK at the Hospitality Guild Apprenticeship Awards their responsibilities.
in the Partnership of the Year category.
The partnership is now considered to be a best The Policy confirms that there will be no direct practice model within the hospitality industry.
or indirect discrimination in respect of age, disability, religious belief, gender, sexual Careers and learning orientation, race, colour, marital status, All of our employees have access to information political belief and nationality, or any other about how they can progress their career with category defined by law in all aspects of us.
We have a number of learning and employment including recruitment, promotion, development programmes in place across opportunities for training, pay and benefits.
Mitchells & Butlers, from a chefs induction to executive coaching.
The table below provides a breakdown of the gender of Directors and employees at the end Listening to our people of the financial year: We continue to encourage feedback from our Men Women 1 employees about their working relationship Company Directors 8 1 2 with the Company, their managers and their Other senior managers 10 3 colleagues.
In July 2013 83% 33,000 of our All employees 19,431 20,194 employees responded to our in-depth annual Notes: employee survey, Your Say.
Company Directors consists of the Companys Board, member and general manager engagement as detailed on pages 36 and 37.
Listening to our people: 83% of our employees levels remained relatively high and stable and had their say in our annual engagement survey.
our central retail support team engagement 2.
Other senior managers is as defined in The Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Report scores reached an all-time high.
Regulations 2013, and includes: i persons responsible for planning, directing or controlling the activities of Fair reward and recognition the company, or a strategically significant part of the We believe in fair rewards and recognising company, other than Company Directors: and ii any other Directors of undertakings included in the our people for their contribution.
All of our consolidated accounts.
employees have access to a wide range of Company benefits, such as Sharesave, Free Shares, employee discount, pension for eligible entitled workers, dental plans and childcare vouchers.
On 1 January 2013, we became fully Giving something back compliant with the Workplace Pensions We place a high importance on building strong Reform Regulations to enrol automatically all relationships with our guests, our neighbours Vocational learning: a partnership that eligible workers into a Qualifying Workplace and our communities by encouraging our is now considered a model within the Pension Plan.
employees to support and fundraise for hospitality industry.
In February 2013 we launched a new employee benefits platform called pickaperk which offers The Good Cause Fund our employees exclusive savings and discounts This fund exists to help our pubs boost their on millions of products and services from local fundraising.
Last financial year we thousands of retailers.
Last financial year our donated over 19,000 to a number of pickaperk our new employee employees took advantage of discounted deserving local charities and groups.
goods to the value of over 350,000.
Employee donations programme There was widespread media coverage earlier This fund exists to help individual Mitchells & this year about companies that employ people Butlers employees and retired employees on a zero hours contract.
Company policy is to support a personal charity event or challenge state clearly on a contract the minimum hours of their choice.
Last financial year we made an employee is required to work.
donations of around 25,000 to a large number of local and national causes including Cancer Research UK, Birmingham Childrens Hospital and Air Ambulance.
Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 30 Company overview 01 05 Strategic and business review 07 34 Governance 35 64 Financial statements 65 106 Shareholder information 107 108 Supporting the Princes Trust benefits to our business.
During the last year We continue to support the Princes Trust and our electricity consumption has reduced by last financial year made a corporate donation over 4% through a combination of behavioural of 15,000.
Additionally, a team of employees change programmes and investment in making took part in the Princes Trust Million Makers our buildings and equipment more energy 44k fundraising initiative, where teams compete to efficient.
The harsh winter made managing our Last financial year we donated over raise as much money as possible by setting up gas consumption particularly challenging whilst 44,000 to a number of deserving mini-enterprises.
The Mitchells & Butlers team, keeping our restaurants and pubs warm and Team Pride, raised over 75,000 in a variety of cosy for our guests.
This resulted in a small local charities and groups through innovative ways.
The Princes Trust named increase in our overall emissions by 3.5% our Good Cause Fund and Employee Mitchells & Butlers top fundraiser at their CO tonnes.
2 donations programme see page 30 West Midlands annual recognition event, in recognition of Team Prides outstanding LED lighting installation achievement.
We have successfully completed the installation of LED lighting in guest-facing areas Big-hearted brands, pubs and people in all of our businesses.
In total, we changed Last year, Harvester continued their support 237,000 lamps which helped us to make for Make-A-Wish and raised around 65,000 considerable savings on energy consumption by donating 10p from every special charity as well as enhancing the ambience in our pubs.
sundae sold and holding individual restaurant fundraising events.
This has brought Insulation and draught proofing Harvesters total donation to Make-A-Wish We have improved insulation and draught so far to a staggering 105,000. proofing, wherever possible, across the estate.
This means more of the energy we use to heat Our restaurants and pubs once again our pubs was retained within the building supported the Royal British Legion Poppy which subsequently reduced our energy Appeal in November 2012 selling thousands consumption.
of poppies to raise funds for thousands of serving and ex-Service people.
Energy Managers Association In recognition of the energy savings achieved In March, ONeills danced its way into by Mitchells & Butlers, our Head of Energy, fundraising by holding its nationwide Join the Environment and Sustainability has been Jig event to fundraise for worthwhile national elected Chairman of the Energy Managers and local causes.
Their Join the Jig World Association.
The EMA is an organisation which Record Attempt was part of the St Patricks Day works alongside Government and industry to celebrations and raised over 59,000 for a promote reductions in energy consumption in variety of good causes.
In May, 12 brave souls from across Mitchells Water consumption & Butlers completed Tough Mudder 2013: We are working with manufacturers and our a challenging 12 mile-long obstacle course suppliers to reduce the amount of water we designed by the Special Forces to test use.
We have begun the installation of AMR all-around strength, stamina, mental grit and automatic meter reading equipment into our camaraderie.
The team raised over 6,000 businesses to allow us to control our water The Longhorn celebrates winning Best for Birmingham Childrens Hospital, Help consumption to even greater levels.
Charitable Pub at the Publicans Morning For Heroes and LATCH.
Advertiser Pub of the Year Awards.
Less is more waste management In June, Crown Carveries offered armed forces We have established a solid waste disposal personnel and veterans a free carvery meal or strategy to reduce, re-use and effectively breakfast, for the fifth year running, to mark recycle the waste generated by our restaurants Armed Forces Day.
The brand donated a total and pubs.
Based on current activity we are of 6,967 meals.
recycling the equivalent of 13,000 tonnes of cardboard, 19,500 tonnes of glass and 3,000 In September, The Longhorn in Walsall tonnes of aluminium per annum.
Recycling this Ember Inns was crowned Best Charitable waste would save approximately 200,000 trees Pub at the Publicans Morning Advertiser and thousands of tonnes of raw materials used Pub of the Year Awards.
in the manufacture of these items.
Our current food waste recycling initiative would divert Environmental awareness around 58,000 tonnes of food waste to energy We continue to manage successfully our from waste facilities, generating enough energy, waste and water in a manner which electricity to power 4,450 UK households and We effectively reduce, re-use and recycle the is not only cost effective for the business but save around 700,000kg of CO every month.
2 waste generated by our restaurants and pubs.
reduces our impact on the environment.
These combined initiatives would divert over 90,000 tonnes of material from being sent Carbon emissions to landfill.
Our proactive management of energy consumption, procurement and carbon More information can be found emissions continues to deliver significant online at mbplc.
com responsibility Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 31
