We recruit, motivate, develop and retain the best people to make sure we have the right talent pipeline to fulfil all the business future needs.
People New markets We look to expand our capabilities in complementary markets, making sure none of our sustainability ambitions are left behind: and we engage with our stakeholders every step of the way.
A strategy to deliver stakeholder value through a focus on sustainable, profitable growth lies at the heart of our business, which is why our sustainability strategy is consistent with our corporate strategy.
Aligning sustainability approach We look after our clients properly, delivering a directly with group strategy world-class service to create long-term, mutually Weve always said that everything we beneficial relationships.
do to make MITIE a more successful business should also help make it a more sustainable one and vice versa.
So weve decided to change the way Clients we talk about sustainability so that it is exactly the same as how we talk about our business strategy.
We now have asimple, clear, one and only strategy forMITIE.
Our integrated Why do we have a separate report, youmight ask?
Well, we think theres sustainability stilladifferent story to be told when it approach  its not just about numbers and strategy, theres a lot more totell and were really keen to engage ourstakeholders every step of the way.
Wehave a clear set of targets for 2020 andeveryone at MITIE is Responsibility responsible for achieving them.
Our sustainability approach has six We act responsibly in respect focusareas, each with clear targets of the planet, people and partners we work with andmilestones.
The six areas have reducing our environmental changed a little since our last report impacts and engaging with our suppliers and the somake sure you check out communities we work in.
com sustainability for all the details.
2009-10 full year % change Environmental data Resource Units restated baseline 2012-13 against baseline Scope 1 Gas and Fleet transport fuel Tonnes of CO2e 42,779 42,764 -0.04 Scope 2 Electricity Tonnes of CO2e 3,879 3,479 -10.3 Scope 1 2 Intensity Tonnes of CO2e employee 0.87 0.71 -18.4 Intensity Tonnes CO2e m 27.13 21.81 -19.6 Scope 3 Upstream Energy and business car travel Tonnes of CO e 13,425 14,031 4.5 2 Water Tonnes of CO2e 10 11 10 Intensity Tonnes CO2e employee 0.0002 0.0002 0 Created waste Tonnes 1,436 1,204 -16.2 Intensity Created waste per employee Kg 27 19 -29.6 General waste Tonnes 989 607 -38.6 Recycled waste Tonnes 447 597 33.6 % Recycled 31 50 61.3 This table is an extract from our full environmental report, available on our website www.
MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 We aim to improve the operational efficiency of, r everything we do rewa ding people for fresh thinking and maximising value for all stakeholders.
Operational efficiency Risk The health and safety of our people is a significant risk to our business.
So we look after our people, making their wellbeing a priority while at work so they can all go home safe at the end of the day.
Marketplace Strategy and and sustainable Overview performance operations Finance Governance Accounts 25 What we achieved What are we doing about it?
1 We continue to build strong relationships 12% with our clients, through great customer Clients Our Net Promoter Score is 12% 3% on last year service, constant innovation and community engagement programmes.
75% Were keen to share best practice when What weve focused on 75% of Real Apprentices received a job offer it comes to innovation on client sites and Client satisfaction as a direct result of the programme well be concentrating on fresh thinking.
Real Apprentice programme 16 FM Academies We recruited 16 Facilities Services Apprentices in association with our client Essex County Council Looking ahead Target to 2020 Milestones The best way to measure how well Were already implementing were looking after our clients is to formalised customer satisfaction measure how happy they are.
programmes in some areas of the business, and through knowledge By 2020, we want to improve client sharing forums which well be rolling satisfaction across all divisions and out more consistently across MITIE.
sectorsto achieve a Net Promoter Wewill also ensure all customer facing Score of 25%.
teams have the tools to update their clients on MITIE news, especially the kind of news that could create efficiencies or savings.
com sustainability for more on our milestones What we achieved What are we doing about it?
2 Ultimately our aim is to develop and 2,500 sustain the successful MITIE people People More than 2,500 MITIE managers have viewed culture from performance our Guide to being a MITIE manager management, to leadership, training and development: it is critical that our What weve focused on 1,148 people are engaged with what were Performance management With 1,148 apprentices currently at MITIE, trying to achieve and the values that weve increased our numbers by 36% Leadership underpin our business.
Thats why we Engagement focus on performance, potential, 38% diversity and engagement.
Weve increased our community investment by 38% 1,276 We beat our target by 28% with 1,276 volunteering days Looking ahead Target to 2020 toturn up the performance dial by 1.
Achieve 90% employee engagement recognising and rewarding great based on MITIEs proprietary model.
E mbed diversity in all our practices even better at spotting and knowing and achieve 90% diversity score based how to realise potential.
Diversity as a differentiator: Diversity of Milestones skills and thinking as well as diversity of Good is the enemy of great and our background and gender will set us apart people have to keep on upping their from our competitors by giving us a game if we are to deliver sustainable visceral and sustainable understanding Check out www.
We will therefore actively seek of the markets in which we operate.
sustainability for more on our milestones MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 26 Sustainability What we achieved What are we doing about it?
employee 22% engagement programme continues Risk Weve reduced our major injury rate by 22% tobe successful.
Were pleased with the level of awareness weve maintained 92% throughout the business and with the What weve focused on 92% of surveyed employees are fully aware results of the survey which tell us our Performance management of our Work Safe Home Safe!
programme management teams have the right Leadership attitude to health and safety.
Were on Gold the right track and looking forward to Engagement We successfully achieved RoSPA embedding our Work Safe Home Safe!
GoldCertification culture in the new parts of the business.
Looking ahead Target to 2020 Milestones By 2020 we will have embedded our key We will continue to develop our risk Work Safe Home Safe!
behaviours and management programmes and look will strive to ensure that all those who to positively manage risk through a focus may be impacted by our activities go on three areas: home safely at the end of the day.
Business: Rationalisation of our policy framework and supporting processes.
People: Embed the core Work Safe Home Safe!
behaviours to drive down health and safety risk.
Environment: Identify best practice in environmental management and share across operations to reduce risk.
4 Were redefining this area of our 17.4% sustainability approach to encompass Responsibility Weve achieved 17.4% fuel reduction responsibility in the broader sense iewhat does it mean to be a 18.3% responsible business.
Weve broken What weve focused on Weve achieved 18.3% reduction in office down this area into three categories: Transport optimisation energy consumption Planet: Environmental impact: Utility management People: Community engagement: and 72% Waste management Partners: Sustainability in the supply chain.
Weve increased our tracking ability to 72% of our fleet Looking ahead Planet People Partners Target to 2020 Target to 2020 Target to 2020 We will reduce our carbon footprint by35% Dedicate 1% pre-tax profit to Embed our values and beliefs into our community investment, through supply chain.
As we continue to consolidate our Milestones property portfolio across the country, Milestones Weve outlined a supplier engagement we will concentrate on buildings with With the launch of the MITIE Foundation, programme on sustainable activities favourable EPC ratings.
We will look at we will be doubling our efforts in the through our annual supplier forum: implementing automatic readers on as RealApprentice and Skills Centre meet the buyer events and fresh many of our sites as possible and focus programmes as well as encouraging thinking forums.
We will be continuing our efforts to reduce emissions on our more people than ever to volunteer.
our partnership with Ecodesk to ensure largest contributing sites.
all supplier audits are done online.
com sustainability for more on our milestones MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Marketplace Strategy and and sustainable Overview performance operations Finance Governance Accounts 27 What we achieved What are we doing about it?
5 Whilst a section of our employee 63% population is well aware of all our New markets 63% of our clients see MITIE as a green brand capabilities weve noticed a gap in knowledge within our workforce and 350 well be looking to close that gap What weve focused on Over 350 MITIE employees have completed our and ensure everyone at MITIE knows Client awareness sustainability e-learning module the full extent of our capabilities.
Employee awareness Externally, we have refreshed our 59% energy proposition and well be 59% of our employees have a good focusing on communicating to all understanding of our sustainability strategy 3% on last year our stakeholders.
Looking ahead Target to 2020 Milestones Constantly review our decisions We will continue to communicate toenter new markets or acquire our capabilities extensively to all businesses with our sustainability our stakeholders, concentrating on framework in mind, and make sure employees and clients particularly.
ourstakeholders are aware of all We will use social media and ourcapabilities.
e-learning to raise awareness and educate our audiences about ouroffering: in particular services thatcanhelp clients achieve their sustainability ambitions.
6 We decided to incorporate Project 510,000 Exodus into our comprehensive Operational We printed 510,000 fewer sheets of paper per SmartWorking initiative to help month efficiency Exoduspaperreduction aims integratebetter with thefull spectrum 150 ofprojects beingundertaken across We received over 150 suggestions from MITIE What weve focused on thegroup.
TheSmart Working initiative people to improve efficiency Employee participation currently has a 60% awareness rate across MITIE.
Supply chain management 170 We invited more than 170 SMEs to our annual MITIE supplier forum Looking ahead Target to 2020 Milestones In 2010, we launched Lean FM, a Six Were going to incentivise and reward Sigma based approach to contract fresh thinking, especially within the cleaning.
Its been very successful management teams that have the which is why: mostinfluence on our operations.
Wewant to grow and develop our By 2020 we will implement formalised LeanFM team to be able to assist Smart Working programmes across onalllarge mobilisations.
importantly, we will embed our Smart Working campaign across the whole business toimprove efficiencies in our offices, notjust our client sites.
com sustainability for more on our milestones MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013
