STRATEGIC REPORT Corporate Responsibility Report 1 The Board considers that the management Over the course of the year the Group has Environment of safety, health, environment, social and supported over 40 charities and community The Group has established a team called ethical matters forms a key element of groups including: the Green Team which comprises a effective corporate governance which in Kingsley Cricket Club volunteer group of employees who meet turn supports the strategy, long-term Royal British Legion regularly and whose aim is to reduce performance and sustainability of Flintshire Citizens Advice Bureau energy and raw material usage throughout the business.
Claire House the Group to support environmental and Bagillt Playgroup financial performance.
Communities and charities Daffodils The Groups.
Community initiative was The Green Team have implemented a launched in 2008 and has continued to In addition to the.
Community initiative, the number of initiatives in 2013 to support develop during 2013.
The initiative is Group and its employees continue to select this aim including the installation of solar focused on providing support to charities and support a Charity of the Year on an powered thermal heating reducing the and community groups located within a annual basis.
Groups reliance on natural gas and the few miles of the Groups offices in Ewloe, installation of LED lighting at the Groups so support is targeted primarily in The 2013 Charity of the Year was Mind.
The Group estimates that Flintshire and Cheshire.
The charity provides help and support to during 2013 it recycled on average over those affected by mental health problems.
A volunteer group of employees meet each Over the course of the year the Groups month to review requests for donations employees raised 27,008 for Mind with the Greenhouse gas GHG emissions and to allocate funds according to agreed Group also donating 27,224 bringing the This section includes our mandatory donation guidelines.
Employees are also total donated to Mind during the year reporting of greenhouse gas emissions active in researching and seeking out local to 54,232. pursuant to the Companies Act 2006 good causes that the Group can help Strategic Report and Directors Report support.
The initiative has been effective The Group launched a volunteering scheme Regulations 2013.
The methodology used at harnessing the energy and enthusiasm in October 2011 through which the Group to calculate our emissions is based on the of the Groups employees to benefit the supports a total of 60 volunteering days per GHG Protocol Corporate Standard.
communities in which it operates.
year to help those who are less fortunate, Emissions reported correspond with our and thereby make a valuable contribution financial year.
We have included emissions In 2013 the Group made 2,000 per month to our local community.
During the year from both our owned and leased assets for available for the.
employees volunteered in a diverse range which we are responsible.
Emissions are This funding has been channelled via the of activities including answering telephone predominantly from gas combustion and Charities Aid Foundation, enabling the calls for Comic Relief, a sponsored bike ride electricity use at our offices and data Group to make gross donations to and a sponsored Three Peaks Challenge.
We have reported on all material registered charities.
emission sources which we deem ourselves to be responsible for.
Emission factors are from UK government conversion factor guidance current for the year reported.
com Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 20 STRATEGIC REPORT FOR EVERYONE 2 3 1 Mind Fundraising The social team presented Mind with a cheque for 28,963 as a result of various fundraising events such as cake sales, dragon boat racing and the Three Peaks Challenge.
2 Royal Parks A team of MoneySuperMarket.
com staff ran 13 miles in the Royal Parks Half Marathon, raising over 7,000 for Mind.
3 School Children Local children benefitted from books donated by the.
4 Mind fundraising A member of staff, Ed Toogood completed the Bontrager 24-12, 4 which is a 24 hour mountain bike race without stops, raising funds for Mind.
In order to express our annual emissions in Employees Approximately 58% of our employees are relation to a quantifiable factor associated The Group actively encourages employee male and 42% female.
In our senior with our activities, we have used revenue involvement and consultation and places leadership team, approximately 76% of the as our intensity ratio as this is a relevant considerable emphasis on keeping its team are male and 24% female whilst on indication of our growth and is aligned with employees informed of the Groups our Board, 90% of the Directors are male our business strategy.
activities via formal half yearly business and 10% female.
performance updates, regular update Greenhouse gas emissions data briefings, regular team meetings, the The Group recognises the importance of For period from 1 January 2013 to Groups intranet site which enables easy health and safety and the positive benefits 31 December 2013 access to the latest Group information as to the Group.
The Group has a health and well as Group policies, and the circulation to safety policy which is communicated to all Tonnes of employees of relevant information employees through a health and safety Emissions from: CO e 2 including corporate announcements.
This handbook, which is regularly reviewed and also helps to achieve a common awareness updated.
Combustion of fuel and amongst employees of the financial and operation of facilities 25.3 economic factors affecting the Supporting students Electricity, heat, steam and performance of the Group.
In order to build links between the Group cooling purchased for own use 918 and local schools and colleges, work The Group has an established employee experience and placements are offered to a Companys chosen intensity forum through which nominated number of students.
In doing so, the Group measurement: tonnes of CO e 2 representatives ensure that employees strives to make work placements positive, per m revenue 4.18 views are taken into account regarding challenging and relevant to participants issues that are likely to affect them.
A current studies and their future job Total CO e by emission type robust employee engagement survey prospects.
2 process is also in place to ensure that 3% employees are given a voice in the Business ethics organisation and that the Group can take The Group has formal ethics and antiaction based on employee feedback.
bribery policies which incorporate the Groups key principles and standards The Group is committed to an equal governing business conduct towards our opportunities policy.
The Group aims to key stakeholder groups.
We believe we 97% ensure that no employee is discriminated should treat all of these groups with against, directly or indirectly, on the honesty and integrity.
grounds of colour, race, ethnic and national origins, sexual orientation or gender, marital status, disability, religion or belief, being part time or on the grounds of age.
Electricity, heat, steam and cooling purchased for own use 97% Combustion of fuel and operation of facilities 3% Moneysupermarket.
com Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 21
