888 Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Corporate Responsibility The reported emissions come from our offices, data centre and Environmental Impact servers owned by us, but co-located at third party data centres.
As an online business, 888s activities have a relatively small impact on the environment.
However, we remain committed to Our facilities in Gibraltar use chilled water provided by a ensuring that wherever possible we minimise what little effect third-party for cooling and no emission factor for the chilled we have with the following four areas being the key focus water was available.
As a result, we estimated the associated points.
emissions based on the volume of chilled water and an assumed coefficient of performance.
Energy consumption: We continuously monitor our energy consumption to help us ensure we are being as energy efficient The account of our corporate GHG emissions was prepared by as possible.
the Carbon Trust in the UK.
Water: We use only ecological detergents in our offices and use Employees water saving devices in most of our locations.
888s success depends on the quality and commitment of its Travel: To minimise the impact of travel on the environment we people.
We take our responsibilities to our staff around the encourage employees to either cycle to work and, in certain world very seriously and aim to provide an enjoyable work locations, provide buses for commuters.
We also continue to environment where employees are challenged and motivated invest in the state of the art technology to help meetings occur to excel, where flair is rewarded, compensation is fair and the remotely.
balance between work and family is respected.
888 has commissioned a study to provide quantitative We carry out regular employee satisfaction surveys each year, information regarding its environmental impact and to assist it with the latest answers collected in June 2013.
The survey in finding ways to further reduce its environmental impact.
requests employee feedback regarding the employee, his her team, direct manager, divisional management, and group senior Global Green House Gas Emissions for period 1st January to management, as well as regarding the organisation as a whole 31st December 2013 and the employees overall satisfaction.
Global Green House Gas Emissions for period Total Emissions This year we were again pleased to report a continued high 1st January to 31st December 2013 tonnes CO e level of employee satisfaction, with a number of actions taken 2 to address the small number of issues raised.
These include Emissions from combustion of fuel scope 1 0 improving knowledge sharing in the divisions, professional Process or fugitive emissions scope 1 0 development for key employees and managers, and personal work with individual managers.
Emissions from electricity, heat, steam and 5,718 cooling purchased for own use scope 2 All employees are formally updated twice a year regarding the Groups business results, and employees are encouraged to Total emissions 5,718 raise ideas and provide feedback.
Intensity measure: Emissions per total revenue 14.3 tCO e m 2 In 2013, 888 launched its Excellence Club, our employee Although not legally required to do so, as the Company is development program which sent a group of employees incorporated in Gibraltar, we have reported on all the emissions selected by their divisions for excellence in a number of fields, sources stipulated under the Companies Act 2006 Strategic to an exciting adventure trip in Lapland.
We hope to continue Report and Directors Reports Regulations 2013.
These sources this program in years to come with trips to other exotic fall within our consolidated financial statement.
We do not have locations planned.
responsibility for any emissions sources that are not included in our consolidated statement.
In addition, 888 runs a number of management skills programs for both senior managers and team leaders from all divisions, We have used the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and as well as seminars for our B2C employees, which in 2013 Reporting Standard revised edition, data gathered from our focused on social media and marketing.
own operations, and emissions factors from UK Governments Conversion Factors for Company Reporting 2013, as well as an electricity emission factor for Antigua sourced from UNDP.
com } Controlling deposit limits: should clients feel the need Social, Community and Human Rights Issues to, they can control their play pattern by self limiting the Our values amounts they deposit per day, per week or per month.
At 888 we are fully committed to maintaining a high standard } Self exclusion: A player can request to be self excluded of corporate and social responsibility.
This ethos is part of for a chosen period, due to different concerns.
Based our culture and permeates throughout our business into the on internal studies we decided to increase time periods everyday business decisions we make on a day to day basis.
available for clients to cool off.
Customers can choose We also recognise that a responsible approach is not only from six different exclusion periods from one day to six the correct way to do business but one that enhances our months.
During this period, 888 blocks the account and no credibility amongst all our stakeholders and thereby supports promotional e-mails are sent to the customer.
the development of the Group.
Protecting minors Responsible gaming Underage activity on our sites is strictly prohibited and 888 Our values place the community and the customer at the takes the matter of underage gaming extremely seriously.
centre of all our endeavours.
We aim to provide responsible Our offering is not designed to attract minors.
We make adults with the best online gaming entertainment experience.
every effort to prevent minors from playing on our sites and However, we acknowledge that gaming poses a potential use sophisticated verification systems as well as a third party danger to a small minority of people.
We are constantly revising verification supplier to identify and track minors if they log into our innovative procedures to ensure minors are unable to our software.
The verification process today consists of two access our gaming sites.
We also continuously train all our staff verification systems, both 192. com and URU.
in how to provide a safe gaming experience to our customers.
Our training program incorporates methods and techniques We train our staff to be highly sensitive to the possibility of to help our employees recognise and take appropriate actions underage activity and make sure we suspend any account if they identify compulsive or underage activity.
We continue suspected to be an underage account.
to innovate in this area including the development of our 888responsible proprietary sophisticated Observer System to help identify and Since 2007 a dedicated website, www.
has been available, providing information regarding all aspects Protecting customers of responsible gaming.
The site is available in English, French, } As a responsible, regulated gaming Group we comply with Spanish and German.
both the GamCare and the eCOGRA guidelines.
GamCare Community is the leading authority on the provision of counselling, advice and practical help in addressing the social impact 888 is committed to supporting both the various local of gambling in the UK.
eCOGRA ensures that approved communities in which it operates and also the broader global online casinos are properly and transparently monitored to community.
Our community investment program includes provide player protection.
charitable donations and long standing community involvement in our key areas across the world.
In 2014, 888 supported the } Our site has links to professional help agencies and we International Medical Corps in their efforts to assist people have placed many safeguards for those who need help affected by Typhoon Haiyan which struck the Philippines in with controlling their gaming.
E-Break & Support program: Run in collaboration with Human Rights specialist well-known charity Gambling Therapy to offer 888 ensures that its policies comply with local law, in addition 888 customers a free of charge 4 week gambling therapy to reflecting the Groups values.
These policies set clear program.
standards of behaviour to which all Group personnel are } Self-assessment test: For players who are worried about expected to adhere, including as regards social, ethical and their gaming habits and want to know more about the environmental matters.
In this respect, 888 is guided by the signs of compulsive gambling.
ten principles of the United Nations UN Global Compact, which encourages companies to make human rights, labour standards, environmental responsibility and anti-corruption part of their business agenda.
Stock Code: 888 17 23124.04 25 March 2014 6:24 AM Proof 11 888 Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Corporate Responsibility We actively seek to recruit and advance women into our Diversity top management.
A summary of the breakdown of men and Diversity is important to us as we believe that only through women across the group is as of December 31, 2013, is as access to the most diverse pool of talent will we recruit and follows: retain the most talented individuals to serve our customers.
Men Women Number Percentage Number Percentage Board of Directors 5 100% 0 0% Senior Management 7 78% 2 22% Employees 657 52% 616 48% The Board acknowledges that the lack of women on the Board is a major challenge for the Company, and that it is the Boards responsibility to address this.
In 2013, the Nominations Committee included in the mandate of Odgers Berndtson, the executive search firm retained to recruit new Non-executive Directors to the Board, a specific request to include female candidates amongst the list of candidates presented for its consideration.
