Corporate Social Responsibility Human Rights responsibilities The NMC Group is committed to being a responsible corporate citizen.
This mission is headed by our CEO, Dr B R Shetty, who is one of the pioneers in the private healthcare sector in the UAE and founded NMC with the philosophy of affordable quality healthcare for all.
The right to medical assistance and treatment is the basic right of each human and this is the ideology that each person at NMC abides by and follows.
"This is in line with the United Nations' Universal Declaration of Human Rights 1948, which states that ""Everyone has the right to a standard of living adequate for the health and well-being of himself and of his family, including food, clothing, housing and medical care and necessary social services. """
We take forward this mission by following ethical human rights practices at all levels of our business including our employees, our patients and our stakeholders.
Since our inception in 1975, NMC has continually provided affordable quality health care to its patrons th and, as we enter the 40 year of our operations in the UAE, we intend that our endeavours to serve the community will grow stronger and better.
NMC encounters over 2 million patients annually across all its facilities, which are spread throughout the UAE and we are dedicated to making a positive difference in the lives of each person who walks in through NMC doors.
To be able to touch thousands of lives each day, increases our responsibility towards our patients as well as our employees who serve as the lifeline of our organisation.
Patients Over the last four decades, NMC Health has believed in the philosophy of healthcare for everyone irrespective of nationality, income level or socio-economic demographic.
NMC is one of the few large hospital chains in the UAE that accepts patients from virtually all health insurance plans, from the top end plans for higher income groups to the lowest end plans meant for blue collar workers.
NMCs patient base mirrors the demographic make-up of the UAE.
We are now touching the lives of nearly 6,000 patients a day, from all walks of life who represent the many nationalities that reside in the UAE and whose families have been NMC patrons for more than a generation.
NMC Healthcare operates or manages hospitals and medical centres in the largest cities and across four of the emirates of the UAE.
In terms of locations, our facilities are accessible to over 85% of the countrys population.
We are the only private healthcare provider in the country that has such a broad presence across the country.
35 Quality of Care for our patients is of utmost importance.
We have 3 priorities which are: Safe Facilities Clinical Excellence Patient Experience We follow the International Patient Safety Goals and have Joint Commission International accreditation in each of our three Specialty Hospitals.
Our medical practitioners and staff are dedicated to maintaining the high level of patient safety and quality of medical care that we promise.
NMC Healths distribution business, NMC Trading, has a number of pharmaceutical medical representatives and medical equipment salespersons who remain in close contact with the doctors and bio-medical and administrative teams in hospitals, medical centres and pharmacies across the UAE.
The business imports and distributes essential pharmaceuticals, medical equipment and consumables of high quality and ensures they are readily available to healthcare institutions.
Employees At NMC Health, we consider our human resources as our biggest assets.
Our employees not only serve as our partners in serving the community, but are also our brand ambassadors who take forward and enhance our mission and vision for a better tomorrow.
Diversity As at 31 December 2013, the Group had grown its employee base across all its business operations to 5,356 employees.
We employ individuals of 49 different nationalities and offer an approach of employment without discrimination.. A comparison of the split of employees by gender within the different business groups and different levels within the NMC Group is set out in the following table: 36 GENDER COMPARISION STUDY GENDER PERCENTAGE Facilities Categories TOTAL MALE FEMALE MALE FEMALE NMC Board of Directors 7 6 1 86% 14% Senior Management Team 5 4 1 80% 20% Grand Total 5356 3297 2059 62% 38% Total - Corporate Office 149 110 39 74% 26% Corporate Office Corporate Management 35 32 3 91% 9% Corporate Staff 114 78 36 68% 32% Total - Reliance Infotec 47 42 5 89% 11% Reliance infotech Reliance Management 5 4 1 80% 20% Reliance Staffs 42 38 4 90% 10% Total - Healthcare 3400 1648 1752 48% 52% Healthcare Management 37 30 7 81% 19% Doctors 503 333 170 66% 34% Healthcare Staff Nurses 996 191 805 19% 81% Technicians & Pharmacist 439 238 201 54% 46% Healthcare - Others 1425 856 569 60% 40% Total - Distribution 1760 1497 263 85% 15% Distribution Management 127 115 12 91% 9% Distribution Distribution Staffs 1633 1382 251 85% 15% Includes two Executive Directors and five senior management personnel but excluding Non-Executive Directors.
37 In our efforts to offer a work-life balance, all our staff members are provided with the option of free company accommodation or an accommodation allowance.
This allows them to stay close to their place of work and to cut the time spent in commuting to and from work.
This also contributes to providing better care to our patients since on-call doctors can be at the patients side from their home within minutes in case of an emergency.
NMC Health also extends additional benefits to its employees including offering all its female employees over the age of 40, free mammogram screening at all our hospitals during the breast cancer awareness month.
NMC runs a number of fitness events and sports clubs including cricket and volleyball teams.
NMC Health employees are eligible for discounted rates for most services within our medical facilities, and can also take advantage of discounted prices for the FMCG and food products that are distributed by NMC Trading.
NMC Health celebrates events and conducts cultural and social gatherings for its employees, such as the cultural programs conducted every year on the occasion of International Nurses Day, NMC Annual Day and UAE National Day among many other such occasions.
These events serve as a great platform for our employees to bring forth their creative side as well as interact with their colleagues in an informal environment.
Community NMC Health believes that community outreach programmes are an ideal way to contribute towards enhancing the health of the society and the nation.
Along with providing medical assistance and treatment to our patients, NMC undertakes hundreds of community initiatives over the year including blood donation camps, health awareness programs, free health screenings and hygiene workshops among others.
The following section will provide a few examples of our Community Health Awareness program: NMCs Give Blood Give Life Initiative July 2013 Continuing with its endeavour to provide compassionate and quality healthcare, NMC Specialty Hospital, Abu Dhabi organised a Blood Donation Drive in collaboration with the Abu Dhabi Blood Bank.
The Give Blood Give Life themed Voluntary Blood Donation Drive was organised to raise awareness for the need of safe blood and blood products.
This was the second drive in 2013 to generate awareness amongst our staff and to help prevent blood shortage issues in the country.
38 World Heart Day September 2013 - NMC Healthcare conducted one of the largest public awareness and education drives in the UAE on heart diseases and cardiac care where almost 10,000 people received free health check ups comprising of Blood Pressure, Body Mass Index BMI, Blood glucose and cholesterol measurements.
The week-long initiative that ran from 23 29 September 2013 was carried out at all NMC centres across Abu Dhabi, Dubai, Al Ain and Sharjah as well as high footfall areas such as shopping malls.
- NMC Cardiologists provided vital information on heart health through interviews and health tips on popular radio Arabic, Hindi, Malayalam and Tamil channels.
- Apart from our own facilities, our health teams also visited private companies as well as government ministries and public entities to conduct these check-ups for their employees.
- As a result of this campaign a large number of people became more aware of cardiovascular risks and understood the importance of regular check-ups, genetic anomalies, available treatments and ways to better their heart health.
39 NMC Breast Cancer Awareness Drive October 2013 NMC Healthcare organised a breast cancer awareness drive for the employees of companies, where NMCs Gynaecologists conducted interactive sessions including tips for self-examination to generate awareness regarding breast cancer, its early warning signs, self-detection, and treatment and battling the stigma against the disease.
Diabetes Retinopathy Campaign November 2013 Keeping in mind the significance of World Diabetes Day on 14 November 2013, NMC Specialty Hospital in Dubai and Abu Dhabi conducted a two day Diabetes Retinopathy Screening camp, where over 500 diabetics underwent screening.
NMC Healthcare has been routinely conducting such diabetic retinopathy screening camps.
This socially responsible event serves as an avenue for diabetics to come forward for a free screening and thus helps spread awareness of eye complications related to diabetes.
ADNIC Yas Run December 2013 NMC Healthcare supported the ADNIC Yas Run in December 2013, as health partners.
Almost 2,600 runners of all ages took part in the third annual ADNIC Yas Run 2013.
NMC Healthcare as Health Partners not only offered medical and ambulance support for the runners but also offered free medical tests and health screening programs including blood, glucose, blood pressure, body mass index and random cholesterol tests, as well as interactive sessions.
MamaCare NMC Healthcare conducts free counselling and pre-natal classes for expectant parents each week in all its specialty hospitals.
This program, called MamaCare, involves education talks from gynaecologists, neonatologists and paediatricians, diet planning by our dieticians and pregnancy and post natal exercises with exercise physiotherapists.
This program is open to anyone and is conducted pro-bono by NMC Healthcare.
NMC Health Index December 2013 Being the UAEs trusted healthcare partner since 1975, NMC took it upon itself to commission a research document that would give a deeper insight of the health conditions of the residents of UAE and to raise awareness about the countrys health issues.
With this intention in mind, NMC launched the NMC Health Index to: - evaluate the importance of healthcare in the country - be an indicator of the physical, social and emotional well-being of UAE society - help people be more informed on factors that can enhance well-being in daily life and make healthier choices - engage in the public health debate and develop solutions to tackle health issues in the UAE 40 For the NMC Health Index, we surveyed 1,054 adults aged 18 in the UAE exploring perceptions of health and wellness, where mixed modes - online and computer-assisted personal interviewing CAPI were used for data collection.
The survey which was available in English and Arabic included a set of questions to evaluate the physical, social and emotional health score of the respondents.
Quotas based on UAE government statistics were assigned for age, gender and nationality to reflect the population.
A few interesting findings resulted from the survey: - The majority of respondents 65% feel that having a healthy lifestyle is not wholly within their control - Overall, three in ten 31% either smoke some form of tobacco or drink alcohol weekly 21% Smoke tobacco Men 32% are five times more likely than women 6% to smoke tobacco - One in ten 9% has never visited a doctor for any medical reason, while three in four 76% say the healthcare system in the UAE is better than other countries.
This is the first health index of its kind in the UAE with NMC providing market leading benchmarking for future research in the healthcare sector.
We plan to make this index a continuous effort to contribute towards improving the overall health, not only physical, but also the happiness quotient as well as social wellness of the residents of UAE.
Environment NMC understands the significance of healthy living and takes great care in creating and maintaining a sustainable environment for generations to come.
Some of the initiatives made by NMC to contribute to the cause of a healthier environment are: 41 - NMC Health supported the Clean-up UAE campaign organised by The Emirates Environmental Group, an environmental programme devoted to environmental conservation and sustainability.
Through the years, the campaign has grown in strength and popularity: garnering support from the government and private organisations NMC proudly supported the campaign this year with 22 volunteers from the hospital participating in the environmental programme.
We firmly believe in a cleaner, greener and more sustainable environment not just for a healthier today, but a happier tomorrow as well.
- - NMC Health, in its efforts to being an eco-friendly organisation, practices safe disposal of medical waste to maintain a less infection prone environment in its facilities and offices.
Complementing these efforts is developing Environment, Health and Safety EHS policies and procedures, conducting audits, inspections and incident investigations and, ensuring continuous improvement of the NMC EHS management system and processes.
Our aim remains to remove or reduce the susceptibility of risk of fatalities, occupational diseases and disorders, disabling and other injuries, healthcare associated infections, spread of antimicrobial resistance and significant environmental incidents.
- The introduction of e-claims for health insurance has significantly reduced the amount of printed paper submitted in our monthly invoices to insurance paying companies.
We also encourage recycling of paper used internally to reduce consumption of paper.
42 Business ethics The Group is proud of the values with which it conducts its business activities and encourages all of its employees to uphold these values and the highest levels of business ethics and personal integrity in all types of transactions and interactions.
In this respect the Group has the following policies in place which all employees of the Group are subject to: Code of Business Conduct and Ethics This Code sets out how employees should act in a range of different areas including potential conflicts of interest, dealing with matters fairly as regards competitors, suppliers, customers and colleagues, maintaining confidentiality in all areas of the business, compliance with all laws and regulations, the protection and proper use of Group assets.
Anti-Bribery, Anti-Corruption, Gifts and Entertainment Policy This Policy sets out the rules and obligations of employees in relation to: the offer or acceptance, or the engagement in any activity that gives the appearance of accepting or accepting, a bribe, the offer or acceptance of gifts or entertainment, prohibition of facilitation payments any payment of charitable contributions or political donations the procedure for engaging any third parties.
The Board also operates a Gifts and Entertainment Policy applicable to the Directors of the Company.
All employees have been provided with a copy of these policies, as well as guidelines relating to them, and are aware of the significance of these policies to the Group.
The Company also ran a series of workshops to explain these policies to employees in more detail in 2012.
New employees receive training on all company policies and procedures as part of their induction program.
A copy of the policies is included on the Companys employee intranet.
Given the principal activities of the Group, NMC Healthcare employees are issued with specific guidance in relation to attendance at Pharmaceutical conferences and clinical training events.
Employees of NMC Trading are also specifically made aware, as part of their training activities, of the potential issues which may arise ethically in their dealings with our Distribution divisions Principals and Customers.
The Group also has in place a Whistleblowing procedure which is made aware to all employees of the Group and is available on the Companys website www.
The Group Strategic Report set out on pages 8 to 43 has been approved by the Board and is signed on its behalf by: Dr B R Shetty CEO 43 Governance The Board is responsible for, and committed to, ensuring that procedures are in place so that good standards of corporate governance are operated at all levels in the Group in accordance with the guidance and principles set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code published by the Financial Reporting Council in September 2012 the Code.
The Code can be found on the Financial Reporting Council website, frc.
In the 2012 Annual Report, the Group stated that good progress had been made on the governance environment during the period since the Companys IPO and that this would continue into the new financial year.
This has indeed been the case.
The management team and the Board, supported by the Audit Committee, have continued to review the governance and control environment ensuring that governance processes are documented and implemented and, where appropriate, continue to improve.
This Corporate Governance report describes how the Board has applied Corporate Governance principles during the 2013 financial year.
Both the Board and the senior management team encourages appropriate levels of governance for a Company listed on the Premium Segment of the London Stock Exchange, whilst respecting where possible business processes acceptable in the Groups country of operation.
The Board believes that progress has been made in relation to the governance structure during the year.
Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code The Board has reviewed the Companys compliance against the provisions of the Code.
Since the Companys IPO in April 2012, the Board has continued to seek to ensure that Board and Governance processes evolve appropriately and in a manner which protects the interests of the Company and all of its shareholders.
There are a number of provisions of the Code that the Company has not complied with during the year.
These provisions are stated and an explanation of noncompliance provided either below or within this Governance Section.
The Company did not have a Senior Independent Director from 27 June 2013 for the remainder of the 2013 financial year after Mr Justin Jewitt ceased to be a Director of the Company.
This was a result of the appointment of a new Non-Executive Director, Jonathan Bomford, to the Board and a preference to allow Mr Bomford to transition into his new role prior to choosing the most appropriate candidate to become Senior Independent Director.
The Board have subsequently appointed Jonathan Bomford as the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director with effect from 21 January 2014 and the Company is therefore now compliant with this Code Provision.
The Board has not to date undertaken a formal and rigorous annual evaluation of its own performance and that of its committees and individual directors.
This was due to the relatively short period of time that the Board has been constituted.
The Company therefore did not comply with provisions B.
The Board is currently assessing its preferred process for proceeding with such an evaluation which it intends to undertake in the first half of 2014.
Similarly, the NonExecutive Directors did not meet during 2013 to appraise the Chairmans performance.
Therefore the Company also did not comply with provision A.
The Independent Non-Executive Directors did however meet in January 2014 to appraise the Chairmans performance, which is the start of the formal Board and Directors appraisal process which is currently being implemented.
The Board intends to comply with Provisions A.
6.3 of the Code by the end of the first half 2014 financial year.
Mr Jonathan Bomford was appointed by the Board with effect from 27 June 2013.
The decision to appoint Mr Bomford was considered by the Board as a whole and the Nominations Committee did not operate a formal process in relation to his appointment: the Company therefore did not comply with the provisions of B.
Further details are provided on page 57.
Furthermore, during the year to 31 December 2013, whilst the Board have reviewed proposals for, and 44 discussed the implementation of a senior management succession plan, although this process has not been finalised as a result of the Boards primary focus on the Groups Governance and overall control environment processes.
A formal senior management succession plan is expected to be implemented in 2014 and the Nominations Committee will meet to consider the effectiveness of such plan thereafter.
The Company was therefore not compliant with part of Provision B.
2 of the Code during the period under review - Provision B.
The Chairman did not meet with each Director to consider their training and development needs during 2013.
However, a formal process has commenced in early 2014 in this respect.
It was considered appropriate that the implementation of this process be introduced in conjunction with new Board and Director evaluation processes which are currently being implemented as outlined above.
The Chairman was a member of the Audit Committee during the year but resigned from the Committee in December 2013.
The reasons for his membership of the Audit Committee are set out on page 63.
The Company intends to be compliant with this provision for the 2014 financial year onwards.
Unless otherwise stated above or in the Corporate Governance Report, the Board believes that it has been compliant with the remaining provisions of the Code for the 2013 Financial Year.
