Corporate and Social Responsibility Ophir aims to lead the way in responsible exploration making alasting contribution to the countries and communities that hostits operations.
This review covers five key areas: Ophirs commitment to providing a sustainable contribution to society Environment: Ophir has a responsibility to respect the Ophir is committed to sustainable development and our approach environment in which it operates.
The Company strives to Corporate and Social Responsibility CSR underpins the way we to meet all legal and applicable industry best standards do business.
We strive to act in an ethical, responsible, apolitical, in managing environmental risks and looks to minimise independent and open manner at all times.
CSR plays a vital the impact of operations.
role in managing and mitigating risks.
It also underscores the Health and Safety: Ophir strives for the highest standards principle that exploring for oil and gas responsibly, to the highest in relation to Health, Safety and the Environment HSE and international standards, is paramount.
seeks to ensure that everyone working for the Company can The focus is on maintaining a positive influence in the areas where do so in a safe and healthy environment.
the Company works ensuring employees, service companies and Community Projects: Ophir is committed to responsible contractors are able to achieve their full operating potential in a business practices and seeks to engage with local safe environment.
communities in a positive and productive manner.
Ophir is continually looking to evaluate and improve our Human Resources: Ophir rewards performance and offers CSRpolicies and procedures.
Both the UN Global Compact and a progressive working environment and development the Principles for Responsible Investment have been sources opportunities for its employees.
We will not tolerate ofguidance.
Business Ethics: Acting with honesty and integrity is crucial to the success of our business.
The Company expects all those working for us to abide with all applicable anticorruption laws, both international and local.
38 Ophir Energy plc Strategic Report This is the first year emissions data is reported for the Company Environment therefore there is no comparator for 2012.
Total emissions during Ophir has a responsibility to respect the environment in which it 2013 were estimated at 15,138 of tonnes of CO. 2 operates and abide by all applicable legal standards in managing environmental risks.
We will look for viable ways in which to The majority of the Companys emissions are produced by thirdminimise the environmental impact of operations, reduce party contracted services with respect to our operated drilling waste, conserve resources and respect biodiversity.
activity i. e. drillships and will include fuel used in drilling operations and air travel during drilling operations, with two operated Environment highlights wells drilled in 2013.
Office operations are a minor contributor.
Before initiating any operational activity, we follow a set of strict Inreporting an applicable intensity ratio, we have used the number procedures to ensure we assess every aspect of the environment of operated wells as the key metric and therefore onthis basis the for risk, and so we design and implement suitable mitigation estimated emissions were 7,569 tonnes per operated well in 2013. measures.
When drilling offshore Ghana in 2013 for instance, we conducted an extensive programme of meetings with local fishing Data is collected from each operational location.
Where actual, communities bringing them into the drilling planning process.
measured data is unavailable, estimates are made.
The measuring system is defined in the Health and Safety Environmental These local environment engagement processes are part of Management System HSEMS.
Ophirs Company-wide HSE policy, whereby before initiating any exploration project, we conduct comprehensive and integrated Reporting criteria: Environmental Impact Assessments EIAs.
These EIAs are then vetted by local governmental agencies and NGOs before finally Office energy C alculated average annual electricity use gaining approvals before work starts.
We repeat these assessments from actual invoices for all office locations at each stage of the project using recognised consultants and Ground transport For Africa office locations, collected data methods, and report the findings to local agencies to ensure foractual fuel used for office vehicles transparency and compliance.
Exploration F or offshore drilling operations calculated Emissions data diesel use rate which includes rig and PSVs Ophirs aim is to encourage energy efficiency best practices in all boats over the entire operations period its activities and to minimise greenhouse gas emissions wherever to each operated well possible.
Ophir Energy is a company whose primary activity is the exploration for and appraisal of oil and gas resources.
The Air transport Estimated total number of long haul flights emissions figures are provided as an absolute total figure of in 2013, booked and paid for by Ophir Energy estimated CO 2 production for the Companys worldwide activities.
Emission sources CO tonnes 2 Office energy 146 Ground transport 212 Exploration 13,717 Air transport 1,063 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 39 Report of the HSE Committee page 59 Corporate and Social Responsibility continued Health and safety highlights Health and safety There was only one minor injury to Ophir employees or contractors Health and safety is a priority.
We conduct all operations in during 2013 and no significant injuries or LTIs.
accordance with local and international health and safety bestpractices.
Offshore Tanzania, we continued to provide maritime security in response to security risks, notably piracy.
We conduct onshore Our approach to health and safety covers every aspect of our and offshore risk assessments for all operations so we can put operations, from subsea technical drilling risk assessments to inplace appropriate mitigation and response measures to protect incident management planning.
Everyone who works for Ophir has our people and operations.
There were no security incidents a responsibility to make sure we meet all rules and standards that during2013.
apply, and follow responsible standards where no such rules exist.
We expect subcontractors and suppliers to provide a safe and healthy working environment for their employees and to provide appropriate training, support and protective equipment.
We carry out consistent checks on subcontractors and suppliers, to ensure HSE compliance.
Ophirs HSE Committee regularly reviews these standards, and is responsible for monitoring health, safety, security and environmental HSSE practices.
The Committee is also responsible for arranging independent HSE audits across the range of our activities, so we can properly assess our progress.
Strengthening the HSE team In 2013 HSE management continued to evolve and improve following changes made during 2012.
We expect all employees and contractors to abide by our HSE standards and expectations.
Two new HSE managers have been appointed, one based in DaresSalaam, Tanzania, to cover East Africa operations and one based in Libreville, Gabon with a West Africa remit.
Both are locals, who will use their skills across their regions to ensure we continue Ophirs efforts to meet the highest HSE standards.
The HSE team is spread across Ophirs operations in London, Perth, Dar es Salaam andLibreville.
40 Ophir Energy plc Strategic Report Community development highlights Community projects In 2013 Ophir established a consistent global approach to As part of the Companys business practices, it is recognised in community development.
It is based on an analysis carried particular that we have a social responsibility to the communities out with the local community, to identify projects which will where we operate.
This includes promoting economic and add most value, to make a valuable and lasting difference.
social development within those communities.
We may do this by providing employment opportunities for local people, for In Tanzania, we have completed phase one of the re-development example, or by promoting particular community goals.
We take of a primary school in Mtwara and phase two will be complete a collaborative approach, working closely with all stakeholders during 2014.
The school will have a significant and positive impact to identify and develop activities which benefit communities for on the lives of disadvantaged young children from a community the long term.
A key focus is to ensure we understand stakeholder wehave had a close affinity to for the past five years.
needs, and we conduct meaningful discussions with local communities to achieve this.
Needs analysis confirm development of scope confirm CSR status budget to be aligned with local communities and regulator Selection of project Internal compliance Tender process from needs analysis & alignment meeting Contract review Oversight & award Annual Report and Accounts 2013 41 Corporate and Social Responsibility continued We supported two local staff members ambitions to gain MBAs, Human Resources and their application has led to them both passing the course We rely on and value the skills and expertise of our people.
They are programme during 2013. at the heart of our success.
We recognise the importance of looking after our people and developing their potential.
In Equatorial Guinea, we are finalising a programme to re-develop a school in the district of Mongomo, and the construction of People highlights water wells.
We are talking with the communities on Bioko Island Across its operations Ophir employs local people wherever possible and are reviewing appropriate projects for 2014.
We support the and looks to train and develop them so they can realise their National Technical Institute, which provides valuable training and potential and contribute as much as possible.
This training includes development for the local communities.
structured development programmes for key staff and educational sponsorships.
During 2014, we will focus on the potential of starting In Kenya, we have completed needs analysis in Mombasa, Kilifi a graduate programme.
We are currently developing Schedules of Work to renovate a primary school in Kilifi County, and to build Through annual performance reviews, we look at how all our people amaternity unit at a hospital in Mombasa County.
can develop in their roles to provide value to Ophir, and to increase their skills and performance.
Our objective is to help individuals advance both their own and the Companys interests, through a combination of on-the-job experience, external training and internal development.
Equality and diversity Ophir has a stated policy as part of its Global Code of Conduct to deal fairly and equitably with all of its employees and business partners.
This is a commitment to extend equal employment opportunities to all irrespective of race, colour, sex, sexual orientation, gender reassignment, religion or belief, age, nationality, ethnic or national origin, marital or civil partnership status, pregnancy and maternity, or disability.
This policy seeks to promote an environment of inclusiveness where everyone can prosper and grow and be recognised based on meritocracy supported by appropriate training and development.
As at 31 December 2013 the organisation has two female Directors representing 20% of the Board, 26% of the senior executives are female and throughout the organisation, the female proportion ofour workforce is 43%.
Building Lilungu Primary Business Ethics School in Mtwara, Tanzania Ophir must comply with all local, national and international laws The first phase and rehabilitation work for the Lilungu Primary School and regulations that apply in all locations where it operates.
in Mtwara the construction of five classrooms, two staff offices, water Thisis crucial to both the commercial success and the reputation tank and renovation of the kindergarten classroom is now complete.
Everyone who works for Ophir plays a key part The second phase due to start in March 2014, will refurbish a further in this.
Allemployees are accountable for the way they conduct ten classrooms and finish some additional construction, to complete themselves in the course of their work.
the project to improve the educational environment for children from the local community.
We recognise our obligations under international and local anticorruption laws, as well as the increased global scrutiny in this area.
42 Ophir Energy plc Strategic Report Female Board Female proportion representation of Ophirs workforce 20% 43% Respect for human rights The prevention, detection and reporting of bribery and corruption is Ophir respects and supports the defence of human rights.
the responsibility of all those working for Ophir, who are expected to: Wepromote behaviour that is respectful across our operations, understand their responsibilities and act with fairness, and which is consistent with the intent of the UN Global Compact.
honestyand integrity at all times Weobserve the national and international legal rights of the indigenous communities we work alongside, and of all our comply with all anti-corruption laws and regulations, no matter employees.
We focus on the respect for their safety, culture, equal where they are working.
This includes, but is not limited to, opportunity and are tolerant of their age, race, nationality, ethnicity, theUKBribery Act 2010 sexual orientation, gender or religion.
avoid doing anything which even gives the appearance of violating anti-bribery laws, as this can damage our reputation If we use public or private security providers on our operations, we initiate actions that recognise the objectives of the Voluntary report any suspicions of bribery, including requests for bribes, Principles on Security and Human Rights.
We have taken steps to implement a compliance programme, toassist in preventing or detecting any corrupt practices.
TheBoardof Directors has overall responsibility for this and receives regularreports.
One area of current focus is the development of our whistleblowing The Strategic Report was approved by policy and procedure.
Staff and business partners in all locations the Board and signed on their behalf.
can access a confidential hotline in order to report concerns about wrongdoing to fully-trained operators.
The service is operated by Nick Cooper an independent company and is available 24 7, in any language.
Chief Executive Officer Callers will be connected with operators with whom they can 19 March 2014 discuss their concern, and may remain anonymous if they wish.
