Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Corporate Responsibility Pace has made excellent progress inour Responsible Business performance in 2013.
We have reported on all of the emission Responsible Business Methodology sources required under the Companies Performance Summary The Company prepares an annual Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Responsible Business Report, and in Pace has made excellent progress Reports Regulations 2013.
These 2013 independent review and assurance inourResponsible Business sources fall within our consolidated with regards to the content of this Report performance in 2013: financial statements.
We do not have was provided by Atkins, in accordance responsibility for any sources that are not with the principles set out in AA1000 Total direct CO emissions across 2 included in our consolidated statements.
Accountability Principles Standard 2008. oursites have reduced by 10% The Report covers the following areas: to7,352 tonnes CO e in 2013 2 We have used the GHG Protocol 2012:8,181 tonnes CO e. Corporate Accounting and Reporting 2 Environment Standard revised edition, data gathered We have again managed to Products to fulfil our requirements under the CRC demonstrate further reductions in Energy Efficiency scheme, and emission Facilities theaverage product CO 2 factors from UK Governments GHG emissions.
Average STB Supply Chain Conversion Factors for Company consumption has reduced by 8% Reporting 2014.
Community to 47.99 kg CO in2013 2 As this is the first year of Defra 2012:51.99 kg CO. People 2 Greenhouse Gas Mandatory Reportinga The average weight of a Pace comparison year is not required.
The year set-topbox has reduced for the of 2013 will act as abaseline year for fourthsuccessive year by 6% to future reporting.
For the first time Pace has been Greenhouse gases mandatory reporting recognised as a leader in CDPs The table below reports the total greenhouse gas emissions by emission type: FTSE 350 Climate Disclosure Leadership Index.
Overall score Global GHG emissions data for period 1 January 2013 31 December 2013 91%in 2013 2012: 79%.
Emissions from: Tonnes of CO e: 2 Pace became a full Electronic Combustion of fuel and operation of facilities 683 Industry Citizen Coalition EICC Electricity, heat, steam and cooling purchased for own use 6,669 member company during 2013.
Companys chosen intensity measurement: In partnership with EcoVadis, 1.
Emissions reported above normalised to per tonne of product 0.216 tonnes CO e 2 wehaveconducted an independent per tonne of product sustainability assessment of our 2.
Emissions reported above normalised to annual turnover 2.978 tonnes CO e 2 supply chain.
Emissions reported above normalised to product set-top box 0.368 kg CO e per 2 product set-top box The Pace Responsible Business Report isavailable online at: www.
com universal responsible-business Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Pace plc 21 1 PIC ar13 Front [SM MR].
indd 21 20 03 2014 12:22:24 Strategic Report Corporate Responsibility Continued Objectives and targets During the year, the Company set its own responsible business targets and achieved the following outcomes against itschosenmeasures: Activity impact Objective Target Comment Environment Drive product energy All STBs designed in 2013 to exceed a score of 80% Achieved product efficiency improvement.
during Paces Design for Environment DfE programme.
performance Seek to reduce average STB emissions in 2013 by2%.
Achieved Gateway products: establish a baseline with a view In progress todefining a strategy for performance improvement.
Environment Drive low carbon Achieve a 2% reduction in overall CO e emissions Achieved 2 site operations performance improvement Scope 1 and 2 by December 2013. across our operations Scope Environment Increase Paces environmental management In Progress 1 and Scope 2. management systemfootprint to include Pace Brazil and Pace system footprint Increase Paces EMS footprint Americas operations.
Maintain ISO 14001 in current certified Pace sites Achieved ensuring no major non-conformances.
Supply chain Assess and prioritise our Complete an independent assessment of our supply Achieved performance supply base sustainability base focusing on environment, labour practices and assessment performance.
human rights, fair business practices and sustainable procurement with a view to enhancing our current strategy to include risk-based prioritised improvements.
Community Drive improvement in Maximise the benefits of supporting local Achieved community engagement.
communityprogrammes while maintaining afocuson STEM education.
Employees Drive improvement in Establish baseline performance and define Achieved employee satisfaction.
animprovement programme that drives employeesatisfaction.
EICC Code of Conduct in its business.
aswell as the charitable and community Environment initiatives of Group employees.
The Company has maintained certification A programme of assessment and to the international management standard auditing is maintained at the regular During the year, requests for assistance ISO 14001 at its Saltaire, Boca Raton, business review meetings held with satisfying the above criteria received Bangalore, Paris, Tempe and San Antonio theGroups principal suppliers.
financial support amounting to $120,189 sites.
The Group Environmental Policy has in total.
been applied to all Pace sites worldwide.
Charitable and community support The participation of employees of The Company is a signatory to the The Group has an established Charitable theGroup in community and charitable European Code of Conduct on Energy Donations Committee comprising activities outside work hours has been Efficiency of Digital TV Service Systems employees based at the Groups premises encouraged by the provision of funds EU Code of Conduct, ENERGY STAR in the UK and the USA.
The Committee tomatch individual sponsorship raised.
Program Requirements for STBs and considers all requests for charitable Pace has continued as sponsor of the MEPS Minimum Energy Performance andcommunity project assistance from Ahead Partnerships education strand of Standard.
Pace is committed to ensure employees within a financial budget business engagement in the UKs West that all products are designed to minimise andcriteria approved by the Board Yorkshire region.
This three year energy consumption through its Design onanannual basis.
commitment has enabled the Ahead for Environment programme.
The Groups support through the Partnership to develop and rollout their Committee is focused on the local Supply chain Make the Grade business education geographical area of Paces premises Pace is a member of the Electronic Industry partnership model in West Yorkshire.
inthe UK, France, India and the USA Citizen Coalition EICC and applies the 22 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Pace plc 1 PIC ar13 Front [SM MR].
indd 22 20 03 2014 12:22:24 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Board diversity Senior management diversity Total workforce diversity Female senior managers Female 9.9% employees Female Directors 22.6% 33.3% Male Directors Male 66.7% employees Male senior managers 77.4% 90.1% Female Directors 2 Female senior managers 9 Female employees 419 Male Directors 4 Male senior managers 82 Male employees 1,431 In addition, Pace has partnered with that an employee becomes disabled, businesses in India, the UK, Pace West Teach First to support the science, theGroup makes reasonable adjustments and Pace East provide training for first aid, technology, engineering and maths where any aspect of premises or working fire evacuation and fire wardens.
STEM teachers in Yorkshire and the practices puts such a disabled employee Pace West undertakes earthquake Humber.
Pace will fund the provision of at a substantial disadvantage compared training and Pace East undertakes personal development coaches to Teach with a non-disabled employee.
All of these initiatives First participants in their second year of We believe that diversity is an essential are backed up by appropriate risk teaching.
Teach First recruits, trains and part of how we do business and meet the assessments.
Tool-box talks, short supports teachers working in schools needs of our global customer base.
We presentations on specific aspects of inlow income communities to raise the operate in 18 countries, employing health and safety, are also published achievement, aspirations and access C. 2,000 people and working with onthe Groups intranet and shared toopportunity of children from low customers andsuppliers from a broad between different parts of the Group.
The number of workplace accidents The charts above show the gender split during the year for Saltaire was six.
Employment policies at different levels within the Group, as at Outside the UK, there were 16 accidents The directors recognise the importance of 31 December 2013. in the Pace West and Pace East operations, the Groups employees to its success and three in France, six in Brazil and none in future development and are committed to India.
None of these accidents was regarded providing an environment that will attract, Health and safety as serious by the relevant local Health motivate and reward high quality employees.
Each SBU in the Group has an established and Safety Committee.
The Group continues to invest in a range of Health and Safety Committee made up internal and external initiatives to promote ofhealth and safety representatives, the employee development.
designated health and safety officer and Human rights other persons with expert knowledge The Group does not have a specific Employees are kept informed of matters who review health and safety issues human rights policy at present, but does affecting them as employees and factors relevant to the Groups business.
Other apply human rights considerations to affecting the performance of the Group safety-related committees also conduct theway it does business, for example, through regular employee meetings periodic reviews of specific work practices.
through our practices in relation to equal briefings and regular written news pay, the right to form and join trade unions, briefings distributed electronically.
These actions complement the UK and our health and safety, supplier and Governments Health, Work, Wellbeing anti-corruption policies.
The Group will Diversity and inclusion HWW initiative which has been adopted continue to review whether a specific The Group welcomes applications and implemented by the Company.
human rights policy is needed in the future foremployment from all sectors of Part of the HWW incorporates return over and above our existing policies.
thecommunity and promotes equality towork programmes and the Groups Pace West is represented by the 2Wire businesses, ofopportunity in employment regardless andPace East is predominantly our office operations in Saltaire, Pace West and of age, sex, sexual orientation, disability inBocaRaton, Florida.
Pace East, France, Brazil and India have or ethnic origin.
It is the Groups policy adopted similar policies.
Each division that training, career development and Board of Directors on page 24 and 25 incorporates, where appropriate, their promotion opportunities should be ergonomic risk assessments.
The Groups available to all employees.
In the event Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Pace plc 23 1 PIC ar13 Front [SM MR].
