48 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Responsible business continued Overview A priority for 2013 was to design and put in place a new organisational structure that shifted the company Helping learners to learn and progress is both the from being a portfolio of businesses towards a single focus of our business strategy and the single most operating model with standard systems, clear significant social contribution we can make.
The section on efficacy page 14 describes the approach we are taking to our responsibilities towards We recognised that change can be both inspiring and the learner.
empowering but can also bring operational risks.
Tomitigate this, we: In addition, Pearson has adopted a broad denition ofresponsible business reecting priorities we share Were clear about the purpose of the change to better with many industry sectors and individual businesses.
focus on a shared single purpose of delivering for These include commitments across a broad range of the learner.
social, community and human rights issues relevant to Held change management workshops for senior Pearson to: leadership teams to prepare for the new organisational Ensure that our products and services are inclusive, structure and operating model supported by videos, appropriate in content to the age and location of the blogs, emails and interactive materials.
learner and are safe to use and access.
Introduced the new leadership team and their Inform, support and equip colleagues to embrace and priorities for 2014, both virtually and in-person.
respond to new priorities and ways of working.
Explained how the new operating model would work, Provide a safe, healthy workplace where our employees focusing on better use of information, improved and increasingly the learners we directly serve are able efficiency and cohesiveness in collaborating on to realise their individual potential and there is respect strategic priorities.
for privacy, dignity and life outside work.
Supported the people that left the organisation as Extend our principles on labour standards, human aresult of the restructure.
rights and environmental responsibility to include Continually tracked morale and reaction to change suppliers and business partners.
toinform and shape how we communicated and Provide opportunities for Pearson people to be good supported our people.
citizens and to get involved in their local communities.
At the same time, we continued to focus on our Deliver against stakeholder expectations on a broader responsibilities as an employer.
During the response to climate change and in making better, year, Pearson: more efficient use of resources.
Launched Milo, a single global platform for all our Be open and transparent in how we share and engage people to access learning and development resources.
with those with an interest and passion for education Adopted a new consistent global health and safety and learning.
policy and introduced a new set of common We consider our policies relating to these matters to management and reporting procedures for our be effective.
Reviewed and refreshed our code of conduct including Transforming our company supporting our people emphasising our commitment to learners of all ages through change and types.
Last year, we announced our plans to transform Continued to focus on how to meet our commitments Pearson into a single company driven by a focus on to attract, recruit and retain the best people.
We helping learners make measurable progress in their know that creating and sustaining an inclusive work lives through learning.
environment is critically important, offering equal opportunity from the boardroom down regardless ofrace, gender, gender identity or reassignment, age, disability, religion or sexual orientation.
