OVERVIEW OUR PERFORMANCE RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Section 3 Responsible business 51 COMMUNITY Challenges Access to learning, Raising literacy levels.
Our commitment To maintain our total community investment Using 2010 as our base, to expand our at 1% or more of operating profit.
How we measure One way we extend our reach is through Number of books donated to schools, progress partnerships with literacy and learning libraries and literacy charities.
We report on our community investment spend.
Community investment spend Number of books donated 13 1.5% 1 11 1.8m.
7m 08 1.7m 1.7m Environment: climate change and avoiding deforestation This commitment was designed to encourage the company to focus on carbon reduction.
Pearson was Extreme weather events continued in 2013, most included in the media category as a Decoupling Leader notably Typhoon Haiyan in the Philippines which in the Natural Capital Index developed by Trucost, was one of the worst storms on record.
Pearson a research rm focusing on sustainability metrics.
has around 350 people in Manila with the majority Trucost looked at the environmental impact of 4,600 working for the FT.
Although our employees are all publicly traded companies and 34 were recognised safe and our operations were not directly affected, asDecoupling Leaders having successfully separated many had anxious moments tracking family members.
growth from resource use over a sustained period.
Pearson matches contributions made by Pearson Our second focus area is forests.
As a purchaser of employees in countries and communities where we paper and newsprint for our books, magazines and operate.
Over 1,000 Pearson people around the newspapers, security and sustainability of supply world contributed to a special fund set up in the wake arevery important to us.
We have focused on of Haiyan, which together with matching from Pearson sustainability sourcing and being more efficient in meant that over $150,000 was raised for charities howwe use paper.
Also, as our transition towards working in the Philippines, primarily to help children being an educational technology and solutions get back into school and to rebuild their lives.
provider gathers pace, so this will change our Typhoon Haiyan was a stark reminder on the environmental footprint.
importance of minimising environmental impact.
Pearson continues to be climate neutral, a commitment we first achieved in 2009 and have maintained ever since.
52 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Responsible business continued GLOBAL GHG EMISSIONS DATA FOR CALENDAR YEAR 2013 Highlights of our activities include: Pearson received a 2013 Green Power Leadership Metric tonnes Award from the US Environmental Protection Agency Emissions from: of CO e 2 EPA for its green power purchase.
100% of the Combustion of fuel and operation electricity purchased by Pearson globally over of facilities GHG Protocol Scope 1 215 MWh in 2013 comes from green power.
natural gas, company owned We have invested in renewable energy generation at leased vehicles, refrigerant gas loss andfuel oil 30,170 four sites and have 2.3 Megawatts of wind and solar assets installed.
Electricity, heat, steam and cooling purchased for own use Pearson was the second ever organisation to be GHG Protocol Scope 2 115,548 certified globally against the Carbon Trust Standard.
This recognises leadership in measuring, managing Total 145,718 andreducing year-on-year carbon emissions.
Intensity metric tonnes CO e full time 2 Facilities in the United States also seek to secure employee for scope 1 and 2 3.19 LEED, an  mark of excellence by theUS Green Building Council.
Over 800,000 square feet across six of our buildings are LEED We have reported on all of the emission sources certified.
Pearson is also certified against ISO14001, required under the Companies Act 2006 Strategic the environmental management standard in the UK Report and Directors Reports Regulations 2013. and Australia.
These sources fall within our consolidated financial Pearson invests in forest-based carbon offsets for statement.
We do not have responsibility for any anypart of our climate footprint that we cannot emission sources that are not included in our reduce or avoid through other means.
thisprogramme has seen over 700 hectares of forest The method we have used to calculate GHG protected in Colombia, Costa Rica, the United States emissions is the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and the UK.
and Reporting Standard revised edition, together ENVIRONMENT with the latest emission factors from recognised public sources including, but not limited to, Defra, the Challenges Climate change International Energy Agency, the US Energy Our commitment To maintain our Information Administration, the US Environmental commitment to Protection Agency and the Intergovernmental panel climate neutrality on Climate Change.
How we Through carbon reduction: We publish a separate report providing more measure progress purchase ofrenewable information on our environmental impact and this energy: renewable includes some corporate value chain emissions data energygeneration atour GHG Protocol Scope 3. sites andthe purchase ofcarbonoffsets
