Directors report - Business review - Group Sustainability report As one of the largest environmental and resource management groups in the UK, Pennons business is all about sustainability.
We deliver high quality water and sewerage services and recycling, renewable energy and waste management services that are essential to the well-being of our society.
South West Water provides high quality drinking water, together with effective waste water treatment for Devon, Cornwall and parts of Dorset and Somerset.
Viridor is one of the leading UK recycling, renewable energy and waste management businesses.
Our ongoing investment, and our commitment to continuously improving levels of service and operational performance, will help society meet its fundamental requirements in water and resource management services in the long-term.
2012 13 achievements South West Water 16 consecutive years without water restrictions, industry-leading leakage control, top quality drinking water and best ever waste water treatment performance Two further awards won for Upstream Thinking, South West Waters flagship catchment management initiative Park Lake, the former china clay quarry now used as a water storage resource, and awarded County Wildlife Status following the companys work to enhance the landscape and habitat Community engagement strengthened with South West Waters employee volunteering programme and support for the successful bid for a University Technical College in South Devon South West Water customer service score improved Introduction of a new social tariff for customers in 2013 14.
Viridor Viridor announced as a Bronze company in the Business in the Community Corporate Responsibility Index Viridor first in its sector to achieve ISO 50001 Energy Management System accreditation Viridors groundbreaking OpenSpace web portal used for live reporting of environmental compliance data further developed and used by the Environment Agency as model of best practice for other regulated industries 40 employees enrolled on Viridor Foundation Degree course designed for future company leaders and around 200 on a variety of apprenticeships Viridor won Best Practice in Health & Safety and Best Communications Campaign titles at Chartered Institution of Wastes Management Awards 2012 10.5 million provided by Viridor and distributed for environmental and amenity projects across the UK via the Landfill Communities Fund.
48 Pennon Group Plc Annual Report 2013 Group overview South West Water Viridor Group Governance Financial statements We are pleased to report our performance against our strategic sustainability objectives and KPIs.
Objective: Manage Pennon Group as a sustainable and successful business for the benefit of shareholders and other stakeholders.
Capital As a well managed and responsible Group, with sustainability Earnings per share Capital Investment driving its business strategy and at the core of its operations, before deferred tax Investment m we aim to deliver strong performance and lasting value for and exceptional net m all our stakeholders.
Our services and methods of operation charges pence at all times look to provide clear community benefits and to protect and enhance the environment.
In addition to our long-term investment performance, Pennon was pleased to have increased its 2013 score in the FTSE4Good Index Environmental, Social and Governance ratings assessment to 4.2 out of 5 2012: 3.8.
South West Pennon Group Viridor Includes investment in contracts in which local authorities have a residual interest.
Water Objective: Aim to ensure that all our business activities have a positive economic, social and environmental impact on the communities in which we operate.
Community Pennon recognises it has a responsibility to contribute Charitable Community support, positively towards communities affected by our operations.
donations support, sponsorship In addition to investing in a high quality water and waste sponsorship & donations management service, we create local employment, use local & donations supply chains, provide financial support to community projects m and enhance the environment.
Pennon Group and its subsidiaries support communities and charities within their operational areas and Viridor continues to provide substantial funding to environmental and community projects via the Landfill Communities Fund.
Viridor and South West Water also both fundraise for their preferred charities: WaterAid, the Cystic Fibrosis Trust and Trees for Cities.
Continued Economic impact South West Water Viridor The company has introduced an innovative mixed economy model Viridors current programme of investment of around 1.5 billion for the current regulatory period to source its capital programme.
in recycling and energy from waste facilities, including 292 million This means using a significant number of smaller local contractors of capital investment in growth projects in 2012 13, is creating to provide specialised services, so providing inward investment significant employment and training opportunities.
These include into the local economy.
Research compiled by Plymouth University construction jobs for example, around 1,000 people were employed Business School in February 2013 suggests that the company at the Runcorn energy from waste EfW development site alone generates over 4,500 jobs in the region.
at the turn of the year and jobs in its supply chain, as well as the long-term employment opportunities for plant managers, South West Waters 2 billion investment in Clean Sweep has operatives and technicians.
Both Viridor and its construction delivered improved waste water treatment around the coast, partners are providing training and apprenticeship programmes improving the amenity of beaches and bathing waters, which on these projects.
is fundamental to the success of the tourist industry in Devon and Cornwall.
Since privatisation of the water industry in 1989, around 3% of the countrys population who live in the South West have effectively been paying for the clean-up and protection of one third of the nations bathing waters.
Following four years of close work alongside MPs of all parties and consumer groups, South West Water has been delighted to see the UK Government funding a 50 per annum bill reduction to all household customers in the region, which is designed to address this historic unfairness.
This arrangement was implemented for 2013 14 charges and is planned to run until at least 2020.
Social impact South West Water Viridor South West Water has further developed its affordability toolkit Viridor continues its programmes of proactive community for customers who are struggling to pay their water bills.
sponsorship, focusing on environmental and science, technology, The company has introduced a new social tariff for 2013 14 engineering and maths STEM focused education initiatives to help its most hard-pressed customers, and established new in its areas of operation.
partnerships with Age UK to target support for older customers and with housing associations to engage with low income customers.
The company also continues to provide funding to Viridor Credits, Battle the Bills sessions have provided advice on water and energy an independent Environmental Body and registered charity, use to the all important small businesses in the region.
via the Landfill Communities Fund.
In 2012 13 Viridor provided 10.5 million for amenity and environmental improvement projects in the vicinity of permitted landfill sites across the UK.
Approximately 275 projects were supported and it is estimated these benefited some 200,000 people.
South West Waters expanding apprenticeship scheme continues Some of the major service contracts signed during 2012 13, to identify and nurture talent in the region.
The company is proud such as those with Glasgow City Council and Peterborough City to have supported the successful bid for a University Technical Council, include significant community benefit packages whereby College in South Devon, which will provide students with relevant Viridor is committed to delivering education, training and local skills in water, environment and engineering.
Recognising that this capacity building services to complement the core waste sector plays a significant part in female participation rates, some of treatment requirements.
the companys female scientists and engineers have visited schools to encourage girls to study science, technology, engineering and mathematics STEM.
50 Pennon Group Plc Annual Report 2013 Group overview South West Water Viridor Group Governance Financial statements South West Water contracts the provision of conservation, access Complementing its sponsorship in STEM education in schools and recreation at its reservoir sites to South West Lakes Trust.
and colleges, Viridor also operates or supports 10 education The public can participate in quiet recreation, such as camping, centres on or near its sites.
These help to promote understanding walking, cycling and fishing, or take part in a wide range of boating and best practice in waste prevention, recycling, recovery and watersports activities.
The company has further developed and resource management, as well as wider issues of sustainability.
its community engagement strategy by providing opportunities for During 2012 13 the centres welcomed 15,792 visitors from schools, employee volunteering.
During summer 2012 teams of employees colleges and community groups.
All Viridor centres hold the Learning participated in a series of beach cleans around the region, in Outside the Classroom Quality Badge, the nationally recognised conjunction with Keep Britain Tidy.
indicator of good quality educational provision.
Environmental impact South West Water Viridor Following the acquisition of Park and Stannon china clay pits from Imerys, Viridor continues to proactively create, assist and manage quality South West Water is now restoring the landscape and wildlife amenity habitats on both its own sites and in the vicinity of its operations.
In recognition of the significant improvements at Park, The company is now implementing its biodiversity strategy Cornwall County Council has awarded the site County Wildlife Status.
which will look to prioritise biodiversity enhancement opportunities and to implement good stewardship practice on all relevant The extreme wet weather in the latter half of 2012 and the start sites.
Viridor is the industry leader in achieving the Wildlife Trusts of 2013 caused widespread flooding in the south west of England.
Biodiversity Benchmark at around 30% of its closed landfills The number of internal and external sewer flooding incidents and is working to extend this list as further sites come into closure.
South West Water worked in partnership to minimise the impact of these events.
Steps have been taken The unusually wet weather in 2012 caused local management to improve resilience to extreme weather: for example the 2 million challenges especially at landfill sites, associated with the collection investment in flood defences at Pynes Water Treatment Works and disposal of leachate.
Over 90% of the companys major in Exeter.
operational facilities have been developed and managed in a manner that has demonstrated climate change resilience in line South West Water experienced four Category 2 or significant with the Environment Agencys best practice guidance which Viridor pollution incidents in 2012. has also helped to develop.
In 2012 the company was the subject of 17 prosecution cases A Category 1 or major pollution incident occurred at Viridors Lean brought by the Environment Agency for pollution incidents in 2010 Quarry Landfill in Cornwall, whereby a quantity of leachate was and 2011.
South West Water regrets the increase in prosecutions, released into the local water course as a result of vandalism out but is confident that the targeted programme of action over the last of hours.
Due to Viridors swift and effective corrective actions, the two years is delivering significant improvements in performance.
Environment Agency is considering civil sanctions rather than a formal prosecution and fine.
The South West has more designated bathing waters than any other region in England and Wales and in the past two decades South West Water has made significant advances in helping to improve bathing water quality.
The summer of 2012 was the wettest on record for 100 years.
Bad weather can adversely affect bathing water quality because heavy rain impacts on urban drainage and agricultural run-off.
Heavy storms can also trigger the operation of combined sewer overflows CSOs in the sewerage system.
Following this and changes to the way in which guideline standards were recorded in line with new bathing water quality standards, 93% of Englands bathing waters met the good mandatory European standard, with over 58% meeting the tighter excellent guideline standard.
Of the 146 bathing waters in the South West region, 133 or 91% met the good standard and 88 or 60% achieved the excellent standard.
Despite the wet weather, fewer than half the years failures occurred during the operation of CSOs.
This illustrates why the company continues to work with its partners to tackle all the other issues that can affect bathing water quality urban drainage, agricultural run-off, birds and other wildlife, private sewers and misconnections homes wrongly connected to surface drainage instead of to public foul sewers.
South West Water is proud that in 2013 its service area was awarded 14 Blue Flags and 18 Seaside Awards notwithstanding the tougher standards introduced by the awarding body last year.
Landfill Communities Fund biodiversity improvement project, Denge and Pennypot, Kent Pennon Group Plc Annual Report 2013 51 Directors report - Business review - Group Sustainability report Continued Objective: Engage with all our stakeholders and foster good relationships with them.
Pennon aims to be a good neighbour, and liaises with its stakeholders in order to determine and respond to their priorities.
Both subsidiaries are actively engaging with stakeholders via social media, developing their online presence to enable customer and community queries and issues to be raised and addressed in this way.
South West Water Viridor As part of preparing its 2015-2020 business plan South West Water Viridor registered its first submission in Business in the Communitys has commissioned extensive independent research to ascertain BitC Corporate Responsibility Index CR Index, an annual customer priorities, future service and investment.
It has established benchmarking of responsible business management.
The company a WaterFuture Customer Challenge Panel comprising regulators and was pleased to be ranked as Bronze within the Index, a very representatives from domestic customers, the business community creditable performance for a first entry.
and environmental groups to ensure the companys business plan reflects stakeholders opinions.
The CR Index is the UKs leading and most in-depth voluntary benchmark of corporate responsibility, helping companies The companys Upstream Thinking project includes extensive to accurately measure and manage all aspects of their social stakeholder engagement, liaising with regulators, the charitable and environmental performance and improve corporate responsibility sector, landowners and universities.
This approach was recognised throughout their business operations, and benchmark themselves when the company won the Environment Award at the Utility Industry against competitors.
There is room for improvement within the community investment and marketplace sections and these will be looked at carefully in the coming months to see where progress can be made.
On all counts Viridor scored well within sight of the averages for both its sector and the Index as a whole.
South West Waters Twitter feed has helped improve scope for During the year Viridor further developed its OpenSpace web communicating in real time with the public: for example during portal one of the most ground-breaking projects between the flooding in December 2012.
94,000 of its household customers the Environment Agency and the waste industry, embracing have registered with the My account web page and approximately contemporary data management practice to enable timely review 4,000 customers are using the companys mobile App.
of the environmental performance of regulated facilities.
In addition the Scottish Environment Protection Agency is trialling the system.
The number of beaches covered by BeachLive has been increased.
This online service provides real time information on the operation of Combined Sewer Overflows and their impact on over 40 beaches in the region.
Advice being given by Source for Business Pilsworth landfill restoration scheme, Bury 52 Pennon Group Plc Annual Report 2013 Group overview South West Water Viridor Group Governance Financial statements Objective: Strive for the highest standards of health and safety in the workplace so as to minimise accidents, incidents and lost time.
RIDDOR incidence rate A safe and healthy workforce will always be a top priority RIDDOR incidence rate per 100,000 employees per 100,000 employees for the Pennon Group.
Reportable incidents are now reported over seven days absence 2011, after three days absence.
Actual number 7 Actual number 45 South West Water Viridor South West Water is pleased to report further improvement Viridor achieved a 42% reduction in its three-year rolling RIDDOR in its health and safety performance during 2012.
The total number incidence rate since 2009, against a target of a 10% reduction.
of RIDDOR reportable incidents for the calendar year 2012 was 7, However, the companys performance in 2012 saw an increase compared with 20 in 2011.
Innovative behavioural training has been in this incidence rate over the previous year from 1,238 per rolled out to employees during the year.
This increase is very disappointing and Viridor is redoubling its efforts to continue to drive down the number of accidents.
South West Water employs an independent occupational health The company continues its strenuous efforts to ensure a genuine service which provides a range of services such as health surveillance health and safety culture throughout the organisation.
It is giving top for shift workers and field staff.
The company has introduced a third priority to a range of employee engagement and training initiatives, party nurse-led absence reporting process to support the reduction alongside ongoing focus on fundamental risk assessment systems of absence and to provide employees with advice on specific medical and safety management procedures, following last years full review.
issues when they report absence from work.
Viridor won the Health and Safety Best Practice Award at the Chartered Institution of Wastes Management Awards for Environmental Excellence 2012.
Water treatment works, Tottiford Landfill restoration and habitat management at Dimmer, Somerset Pennon Group Plc Annual Report 2013 53 2010 2,008 2011 1,628 2012 568 2010 2010 2,165 2011 1,238 2012 2012 1,429 Directors report - Business review - Group Sustainability report Continued Objective: Develop and motivate our employees, treat them fairly and ensure that they are fully engaged in all aspects of the Pennon Groups objectives.
Pennons success is fundamentally due to the quality and diligence of our employees.
We recruit talented and committed personnel and provide training packages to equip them with the skills they need to deliver the Groups objectives.
Viridor South West Water South West Water has silver status in the Investors in People Viridor reviewed its employment and workplace policies during 2012 13 and its employment handbook and management standard.
The companys equal opportunities policy is regularly updated to reflect current legislation and good practice.
guide are made available to all employees to help them understand and interpret company policies and ensure consistency The companys recruitment procedures ensure objectivity and focus on appointing the best person for the job, without and fairness in their application.
HR training courses such as those on investigations, absence management and performance diversity bias.
management support new managers and contribute to the consistency of application across the companys business regions.
The company continues to expand its Investors in People registrations in certain parts of the country.
The company has a structured approach to assessment South West Water is training supervisors in strong leadership skills to facilitate behaviour change, and operators are being and training throughout the business and nearly 4,000 training upskilled through the acquisition of NVQs.
This approach days were delivered in 2012 13.
Over 200 employees are taking is helping to ensure that its employees have the necessary the sustainable waste management apprenticeship, which Viridor skills to support the introduction of remote operating systems, helped to design, and 15 other apprenticeships are also underway.
Further training programmes are developing The innovative Viridor Foundation Degree course, developed with current and future managers.
Edge Hill University and focused on professional development for the companys future leaders, started in April 2012 and currently has 40 employees enrolled.
Viridor also plans to implement its new Employee Engagement and Internal Communications Strategy and Plan during 2013 14.
Phased Utilisation of Remote Operating Systems Colliford Lake, Cornwall Environmental data management at Longley Lane MBT facility, Manchester 54 Pennon Group Plc Annual Report 2013 Group overview South West Water Viridor Group Governance Financial statements Objective: Aspire to leadership in minimising emissions that contribute to climate change, and develop climate change adaption strategies.
For many years, Pennon has recognised the need to manage its carbon emissions and adapt to the consequences of climate change.
With a score of 71 in the internationally recognised Carbon Disclosure Project CDP in 2012, Pennon moved slightly down the rankings to 96th place out of 240 respondents from the FTSE 350.
Pennon is working with CDP and their scoring partner, , to identify and implement areas for further improvement.
Pennon Group continued to comply with the Carbon Reduction Commitment Energy Efficiency Scheme, which was evidenced by a successful audit during the middle of 2012 covering the first compliance year.
South West Water Viridor South West Waters energy strategy is designed to limit In March 2013 Viridor became the first recycling and waste greenhouse gas emissions through a combination of energy management company in the UK to receive ISO 50001 certification efficiency and renewable energy schemes.
from the British Standards Institute for its energy management systems.
This followed a number of years developing energy The company remains committed to its ambitious long-term target management systems including procedures, databases to reduce its carbon emissions by 80% by 2050.
ISO 50001 now provides Viridor with the company set a stretching target to be achieved by 2014 15. a continual improvement framework for reducing its energy In 2012 13 its greenhouse gas emissions remained below the consumption and greenhouse gas emissions in both the short 2009 10 baseline, but the extreme weather meant the company and long-term.
was unable to maintain the downward trend of the previous two years.
South West Water remains focused on delivering improvements towards its carbon reduction target.
The company continues to be accredited to the Certified Emissions Measurement and Reduction Scheme CEMARS.
South West Waters award winning Upstream Thinking programme Viridor has set an objective of reducing its energy consumption is revolutionising the water industrys approach to catchment relative to its growth by 20% over five years from 2010 and has management.
The company is undertaking scientific research reached the end of the second year of its plan.
There were a number in conjunction with universities to assess how land management of energy efficiency projects implemented throughout 2012 13, practices impact on raw water quality and working in partnership including voltage optimisation schemes and energy efficient LED to deliver changes which will deliver a more secure and sustainable lighting installations at a number of the companys processing water supply and improve resilience against climate change.
Successful pilot projects have resulted in a national level South West Waters work focuses on moorland restoration project being implemented in early 2013 to install LED lighting at the in the uplands, which capitalises on the water storing capacity majority of its MRFs and transfer stations.
This should see significant of peat, and encourages farmers to implement measures which carbon savings accrue throughout the third year of the reduction plan.
During the year this project won the large company category of the inaugural Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales ICAEW Finance for the Future Awards and the environmental category of the Utility Industry Achievement Awards.
South West Water continues to target energy efficiency through During 2012 13, an energy efficiency technical group was its programme of pump refurbishments and replacements at both established to pull together technical expertise from across drinking water and waste water treatment sites.
The focus of the group is to identify projects for Board of its assets and networks is complemented by the use of remote approval for rapid implementation at scale across the business.
technologies to control processes and equipment from a central Further training will be provided to Viridor personnel as energy hub as part of the PUROS project.
efficiency workshops are rolled out across the regions.
In addition South West Waters Powerdown energy efficiency Viridor continues, with its carbon reporting tool, to assist its customers campaign promotes company-wide energy efficiency.
An example in identifying the carbon saving benefits of recycling, recovery of this in 2012 13 was the saving of 1.1GWh through lighting and good waste and resource management.
In 2012 an updated refits at several of its largest sites.
second version of the reporting tool was made available to customers, with a third update scheduled for summer 2013.
Pennon Group Plc Annual Report 2013 55 Directors report - Business review - Group Sustainability report Continued Pennon Group Greenhouse gas emissions tCO e 2 2011 12 2012 13 1 Scope 1 1,967,935 1,934,332 2 Scope 2 159,360 164,712 3 Scope 3 45,970 43,948 Total gross emissions 2,173,265 2,142,992 Carbon offsets 0 0 Netted off renewable electricity export to grid up to total amount 159,360 164,712 of electricity purchased and consumed by organisation Total annual net emissions 2,013,905 1,978,280 Intensity measure: tCO e scope 1 2 100,000 revenue 173 tCO e 100,000 revenue 175 tCO e 100,000 revenue 2 2 2 1 2 3 Scope 1 Direct emissions Scope 2 Energy indirect Scope 3 Other indirect Activities owned or controlled by our organisation Emissions being released into the atmosphere associated Emissions that are a consequence of our actions, that release emissions straight into the atmosphere.
with our consumption of purchased electricity, heat, which occur at sources which we do not own or control These are direct emissions.
These are indirect emissions that and which are not classed as scope 2 emissions.
are a consequence of our activities but which occur at sources we do not own or control.
Notes 3 Organisational boundary 6 Carbon offsets 1 Change in emissions The emissions listed here cover We do not purchase any carbon offsets, Our reported emissions fell between 2011 12 the Pennon Group of companies instead we rely on self-generated renewable and 2012 13 largely as a result of fewer using the financial control approach.
energy to reduce our overall emissions.
fugitive emissions recorded from Viridors landfill sites.
4 Operational scopes 7 Green tariffs renewable energy export We have measured our scope 1, 2 We do not purchase green tariff electricity: 2 Methodology and approach and some scope 3 emissions where instead we can reduce our net emissions We have followed the Governments information is available.
by exporting our self-generated renewable Guidance on how to measure and report energy to other users.
We 5 Intensity measurement have used the GHG Protocol Corporate We have chosen an intensity measure Accounting and Reporting Standard revised of scope 1 and 2 gross emissions in tCO e 2 edition and GHG conversion factors per 100,000 revenue.
Objective: Aspire to leadership in all aspects of waste prevention and resource efficiency.
Renewable Recycling Pennon is delivering solutions for society to address Recycling energy volumes the environmental challenge of depleting natural resources volumes generation tonnes by maximising the value of residual materials, transforming waste million GWh of dry and improving energy efficiency.
tonnes solids South West Water Viridor 56 Pennon Group Plc Annual Report 2013 2010 2010 11 752 13.8 2011 12 760 14.7 2012 2012 13 820 19.3 2010 11 52,400 2011 12 54,612 2012 13 45,304 2010 2010 11 1.718 2011 12 1.842 2012 2012 13 1.909 Group overview South West Water Viridor Group Governance Financial statements South West Water Viridor South West Waters goal is to have 30GWh of its energy Viridor provides waste prevention, recycling, resource efficiency usage supplied from renewable sources by 2015.
In 2012 13 and renewable energy generation best practice audits, advice excellent progress was made, with more power from renewables and services to clients across the public and private sectors.
In total, 19.3GWh was harnessed The amount of material recovered via re-use, recycling or energy from a combination of solar, wind, hydro and combined heat recovery as a proportion of total waste inputs handled by the and power CHP from sewage sludge.
company rose to 37% in 2012 13 2011 12: 35% and a total of 2.6 million tonnes of material was recovered.
This was an increase The companys 25 existing solar PV installations performed well of 8% on the previous year and included 340,463 tonnes of organic and an additional seven schemes were installed, five of which were food and garden waste composted.
operational by the year-end, with the other two becoming operational in April 2013.
The wind turbine at Lowermoor water treatment works also outperformed its generation target for the year.
Following the success of the grit and screenings composting trial, A total of 1,909,000 tonnes of dry recyclates were processed, South West Water is now rolling this process out across the region, producing high quality recycled commodities to be sold to customers in order to reduce volumes of waste sent to landfill.
in the UK, Europe and globally for remanufacturing, thus making a significant contribution towards greater overall resource efficiency.
Viridor, in partnership with the Greater Manchester Waste Disposal Authority, was pleased to win the Best Communications Campaign at the 2012 Chartered Institution of Wastes Management Awards for Environmental Excellence for its innovative work promoting waste prevention and recycling through the Recycle for Greater Manchester initiative.
The provision of renewable energy from waste sources also makes a substantial contribution to energy security and resource efficiency in the UK.
During 2012 13 Viridors output of renewable power from landfill gas, energy from waste and anaerobic digestion facilities rose to 820 gigawatt hours GWh from 760GWh in 2011 12.
Governance South West Water Programmes and performance contributing to the sustainability and Viridor sustainability reports of the businesses are overseen by the Pennon Sustainability Committee.
Details are given on page 68.
The subsidiaries develop a range of targets as part of their business planning processes The full sustainability reports for South West and monitor and report progress to their respective boards Water and Viridor will be published in July and to the Pennon Sustainability Committee throughout the year.
and August respectively and will be available to view at www.
co. uk and also on the Verification Pennons sustainability performance and reporting has been subsidiaries websites.
Full details of the sustainability audited by Carnstone Partners LLP, an independent management targets for South West Water and Viridor for consultancy, specialising in corporate responsibility and sustainability.
2012 13, and their performance against them, are given in their respective sustainability reports.
Bodmin Moor in spring Materials recycling facility, Manchester Pennon Group Plc Annual Report 2013 57
