Corporate and Social Responsibility During 2013 the Group established Perform Sporting Communities, a programme through which the Group will provide funding to support sporting activities that improve the lives of people, encourage healthier lifestyles and create better opportunities for education and social engagement.
To provide the maximum benefit to the projects chosen, the Cycle2Work & season ticket loans Group will focus on a number of major initiatives over a two In the UK the Group also introduced a Cycle2Work Scheme to three-year cycle that will be delivered usually in partnership in 2012 to offer employees the opportunity to lower the cost with an international non-profit organisation.
This ensures that of equipment and spread the cost of that equipment.
The the monies and support given are well managed and deliver scheme is designed to assist those employees looking to real, positive impact.
consider a more sustainable way of travelling to work.
Perform Sporting Communities launched two projects in 2013 The government-backed programme, designed to encourage Indian playing fields green transport by employees, was supplemented by a The Group provided support funding, fundraising and Season Ticket Loan scheme to further encourage non-car in-kind advertising to set up a series of initiatives across commuting.
During 2013 the two schemes were utilised by India to promote sports for all children.
By tapping into anumber of staff in the UK.
childrens love of sports, the programme equipped them with vital knowledge and life skills to be able to make informed, Greenhouse gas emissions independent decisions about their lives, such as deciding The tables below set out the assessment parameters used to complete school.
The three-year programme is being to measure the Groups greenhouse gas emissions and delivered by the Companys chosen charity partner Plan the emissions themselves by scope.
The Group primarily International a well-respected organisation that has a produces greenhouse gas through the use of electricity, globalpresence.
gasboilers and air conditioning in its leased offices.
The Group has pledged 250,000 over a three-year period Assessment parameters with Perform employees across the world taking part Baseline year Year to 31 December 2013 in fundraising activities to try and double this figure and Consolidation approach Operational control increase the scope and reach of the project.
Advertising All entities and all facilities under opportunities across the Groups owned websites will also Boundary summary operational control were included promote Plan International.
The only variation is that 60 leased properties, under operational control, are included in scope 1 and 2 data, all Goal kit giveaway Consistency with the scope 3 emissions are off-balance financialstatements sheet emissions In 2013 the Group offered 100 Goal branded football kits Greenhouse Gas Protocol to community football teams around the world.
Valued at revised edition, 2004 and 350 each, the kits were donated for free, with the Groups Assessment methodology ISO14064-1 2006 staff nominating local groups that would benefit from them.
Intensity ratio Emissions per m turnover Alongside this, local Goal editors and users were also asked to nominate community groups to receive the kits.
Nominations have been received from around the world, Greenhouse gas emission source including Poland, Kenya, the USA and Germany along with 2013 2013 numerous UK submissions.
tCO e tCO e m 2 2 Scope 1 589 2.8 Scope 2 1,239 6.0 Other charitable donations Statutory total Scope 1 & 2 1,828 8.8 During the year, the Group donated 10,000 to charitable causes including the UK Childrens Heart Unit Fund and Kindergarden: Los Enanitos fide la Esperanza.
During the year to 31 December 2012 the Group donated 20,000 to charitable causes including the Childrens Heart Unit Fund, York Against Cancer, the Dove Trust, Sport Relief, SME Trust and Grassroots Soccer.
46 Perform Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Corporate Financial Governance Statements Strategic Report Staff diversity Male: 81% Female: 19% The Group has necessary to do so.
The Group has a Health and Safety Policy pledged 250,000 available to all employees and applied to the Groups business over three years to operations worldwide.
The Health and Safety Policy sets support childrens sports initiatives out the organisation and arrangements for achieving and across India.
maintaining adequate standards of health and safety at work throughout the Group.
Overall, Group health and safety is the responsibility of the Chief Operating Officer.
Each Executive member of the Group Board is responsible for giving appropriate consideration to the health and safety implications arising out of decisions or proposals made within the remit of their Environmental policy respective areas of corporate responsibility.
During the year the Group recycled 27,251 kg 2012: 31,859kg of paper, cans, plastics and other materials which For subsidiary companies, health and safety is the equated to CO savings of 39,242kg 2012: 45,618 kg.
responsibility of the Managing Directors who will establish 2 appropriate and effective systems and arrangements to The Group is currently working with Carbon Smart to: ensure compliance and to achieve the corporate objectives.
measure environmental impacts to report performance All employees are expected to exercise personal responsibility internally, benchmark the organisation and target in preventing injury to themselves and others and to coimprovements based on a realistic baseline: operate with Management in complying with health and receive support in developing and implementing practical safety legislation.
low or no cost actions for improving environmental performance: and Employee involvement assistance in engaging staff to ensure that improved Employee communication environmental performance becomes part of the everyday The Group recruited a Chief People Officer CPO in work environment.
March 2013 and he has sought to enhance the Groups communications with its employees.
Employment policies Equal opportunities and human rights The Group believes that employee communication is The Groups policy is always to ensure that all persons are important in building strong relationships with, and in treated fairly irrespective of their age, race including colour, motivating and retaining, employees.
The Group makes use nationality, ethnic or national origins, sexual orientation, of various methods and channels including annual Senior disability, gender including gender reassignment, religious Management seminars, weekly newsletters, face to face beliefs or political opinion, trade union membership or briefings, open discussion forums with Senior Management, non-membership, marital and physical or mental status or team briefings, email and corporate internet to ensure that any other factors including pregnancy and maternity.
The matters of interest and importance are conveyed to and Group endeavours to provide those who have physical or heard from employees quickly and effectively and that all mental disabilities with equal opportunities in the application employees are aware of the financial and economic factors and recruitment process, and specific assistance and affecting the performance of the Company.
arrangements including training, career development and promotion arrangements to enable them to work for us Employee share schemes wherever and whenever this is reasonably practicable.
The Group recognises the importance of good relationships with employees of all levels.
The Group operates a Health and Safety Performance Share Plan for Senior Management and a share The Group is committed to providing a consistently safe save scheme available to all staff.
Details of these plans are set and effective working environment for all staff, including out in note 26 to the financial statements.
contractors, customers and members of the public.
In doing so it will, as a minimum, comply with local health and safety Political donations legislation, but will exceed those requirements should it be The Company made no political donations during the year.
Perform Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 47 Corporate Governance Introduction to Corporate Governance 50 Board of Directors 52 Directors Report 54 Corporate Governance 58 Remuneration Committee Report 66 Directors Responsibilities Statement 81 Strategic Financial Report Statements Corporate Governance
