Strategic Report Governance Financials Other information Persimmon Plc Annual Report December 2013 31 Building a sustainable business Our focus on sustainability helps us to improved but the number of loans issued by add value to our business and our vision the Council of Mortgage Lenders is still c. 15% of the future is simple a commitment to below the long term average, and lenders are the creation of sustainable communities in still requiring substantial deposits to enable which people want to live, whilst working to customers to obtain the best mortgage rates.
address environmental challenges, such as site The introduction on 1 April 2013 of the remediation and resource depletion.
Governments Help to Buy shared equity During 2013 we have further developed the mortgage scheme has assisted many of our framework we use to manage sustainability customers who do not have a large deposit.
The demands of society, The average price of Help to Buy homes sold the economy, resource constraints and legal by the Group is 195,356 with 90% of those regulations continuously change and we homes sold to first time buyers.
Our focus on monitor these changes to ensure that our Persimmon has also provided its own policies, procedures, and practice continue to sustainability helps us to shared equity loans to customers under our manage sustainability effectively.
We also add value to our business Our sustainability strategy, policies and participate in NewBuy and Help to Buy Phase procedures are cascaded through the Divisions Two, the Government backed mortgage Marion Sears to the management teams of each operating indemnity schemes launched in 2012 and 2014.
Chairman of the Corporate Responsibility business.
This ensures that sustainability is Under NewBuy customers are able to obtain Committee on the agenda of each operating business and 95% mortgages on new build properties.
that best practice across the Group can be We have been able to assist around 620 shared effectively.
Customers Sustainable homes Customer care remains one of our top We believe that homes should be sustainable priorities.
Our aim is to take care of our by being inherently efficient in their design customers, not just when they are buying and construction without the necessity to use one of our homes, but also after they have supplemental technologies.
Our modern design moved into their new homes.
All of our standards mean that new homes built by the staff are trained to provide the highest Group are inherently more energy efficient level of customer service.
During 2013 we than older housing stock using this fabric have retained our overall 4 rating in the first approach.
All our construction materials HBF NHBC independent survey on our are sourced from suppliers based in the UK.
In 2013 the Group built 2,797 homes assessed Making our new homes affordable to our against the Code for Sustainable Homes or the customers remains an important aspect of preceding EcoHomes standard, both of which our business model.
Our average selling assess energy efficiency, water consumption price in 2013 was 181,861, slightly below and material use as well as other sustainability the national average selling price, but 40% criteria.
This equates to 24% of our total of our homes were sold for 150,000 or less.
Overall the Mortgage availability during the last year has energy efficiency of our homes reduces carbon Persimmon Plc Annual Report December 2013 32 emissions and results in lower energy bills sites.
The amount of energy used in our for our customers.
The standard assessment offices decreased to 8 million kWh in 2013 90% procedure for rating the energy efficiency 2012: 9.6 million kWh.
Overall energy of all our homes was 83 out of 100 in 2013, consumption was therefore 36.7 million kWh of construction substantially above the UK housing average in 2013, 2012: 29.7 million kWh, equating to stock rating of 53.
9,600 tonnes of CO e 2012: 8,336 tonnes of waste recycled 2 CO e. 2 2012: 88% Our fabric first approach utilises our Space4 closed panel timber frames, manufactured During 2013 with the expansion of our to produce high energy performance new business our company car fleet increased to homes.
As well as generating over 60% less 858 vehicles from 815 in 2012.
However the CO emissions than older existing housing amount of fuel used has remained static at 2 stock, our new homes built using Space4 2.4 million litres since 2010 as a result of our timber frames exceed acoustic performance strategy to offer employees more fuel efficient standards set by building regulations, use lower emission cars.
The total carbon footprint considerably less water during construction from our motor fleet operation equates to than conventional building methods, can 6,300 tonnes of CO e, a reduction of 6% since 2 be rapidly and easily assembled resulting in 2009 when our fleet was less than 650 vehicles.
a better and safer working environment for Our total operational carbon footprint for our employees and generate minimal waste 2013 was 15,900 tonnes, equating to 1.38 during construction.
tonnes of CO per home legally completed 2 2012: 1.37 tonnes of CO per home 2 Resource efficiency completed.
This small increase reflects our substantial increase in production and work in Waste is the housing sectors most significant progress on our sites.
environmental impact and its management is an important part of our business.
Minimising waste is achieved through Our people efficient design, logistics and stock control, Our workforce has again increased in 2013 the use of prefabricated and pre-sized to an average of 2,791 employees 2012: 2,515 materials, minimising packaging and efficient employees.
One third of our employees construction techniques.
During 2013 the are female 930 staff.
There are eight male average waste generated per home sold was 5.7 directors and one female director of the tonnes, a reduction of 11% on the previous year Company.
A key strength of our business 2012: 6.4 tonnes.
is that we have a significant number of long We generated a total of 65,800 tonnes of waste serving employees providing a valuable in 2013 but increased the amount that we contribution to our business.
The total waste management team comprises 155 employees generated was 4% more than the prior year of which we have 20 female senior 2012: 63,000 tonnes, despite a 16% increase managers, comprising 13% of our senior in the number of homes we legally completed.
As a result, less than one skip of waste per We have continued to increase the number home built was sent to landfill in 2013. of apprentices and trainees in the business to We will continue to maximise the recycling support the Groups growth strategy.
By the and recovery of construction, demolition and end of the year we increased the number of excavation waste on our sites and ensure that apprentices and trainees employed within our waste contractors become more efficient in the Group to 277 2012: 90.
We anticipate the segregation and recycling of waste.
the further development of our training We continue to monitor our energy use and programmes will continue over future years.
CO emissions and have used the DEFRA 2 We continue to offer all of our employees the Environmental Reporting Guidelines and opportunity to develop their skills and invest emission factors from the UK Governments in job development programmes to build GHG Conversion Factors for Company abilities in our construction, technical and Reporting 2009-2013 as our methodology for management disciplines.
In 2013 we provided calculating our emissions.
over 4,400 days of training for our employees, We consumed 28.7 million kWh of energy equating to 1.6 days per employee 2012: 1.8 to power and heat the site offices, sales days.
All the Groups employees are employed offices and show homes on our development in the UK.
Strategic Report Governance Financials Other information Persimmon Plc Annual Report December 2013 33 Right: New buyers Michael and Leigh Ann Badoni at Persimmon Homes, Earnock Glen, Hamilton, Lanarkshire.
training days delivered by the Group in 2013 Health and safety Conclusion was 7,357 days, an increase of 11% on the prior One of the Groups top priorities is to We will continue to maintain innovative and year 2012: 6,624.
A significant proportion of ensure the health, safety and welfare of our robust build disciplines to deliver homes that the training delivered during 2013 related to employees, subcontractors, customers and our customers want to buy now and in the behavioural safety training aimed at fostering visitors to our sites.
We monitor our health future.
We have a talented workforce and a a culture where employees and subcontractors and safety performance through regular highly experienced management team and our take individual responsibility for safe performance checks and site visits by Group focus on our trainee and apprentice schemes outcomes by putting safety first in every health and safety advisors and the senior bodes well for the future development of decision taken.
management of our operating businesses.
Regular inspections of work activities by our Further information on our management Community contract managers, site managers and sales structure, policies and procedures managers are also undertaken.
The planning Playing our part in local life through together with our 2013 Sustainability and management of safety issues ensures supporting community projects, sponsorship Report can be found on our website at that all our employees are engaged in the and fundraising remains an intrinsic part of www.
process and we encourage responsibility at the Persimmon philosophy.
A combination of an individual level for health and safety risk Group donations and employee fundraising identification and mitigation.
The number of donated a total of 154,000 to charitable causes work related reportable accidents under the in 2013.
Marion Sears Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous Chairman of the Corporate In 2013 we invested over 38m in new Occurrences Regulations RIDDORs in 2013 Responsibility Committee community facilities, an increase of 14% over was 48 2012: 53 a reduction of 10%.
The majority of this investment In 2013 the HSE changed the reporting has been in areas of affordable housing, criteria for RIDDOR statistics from over education and public open spaces, bringing three day injury absences to over seven day substantial community benefits to our injury absences and it is therefore difficult customers and the wider community.
to make direct year on year comparisons.
Strategic Report During the year we have promoted reHowever, despite the 16% increase in sales development of brownfield sites in existing The Strategic Report contained in pages volumes, the number of RIDDORs reported urban areas, often carrying out remediation 2 to 33has been approved by the Board of dropped as against the prior year comparison.
of contaminated sites which have assisted Directors and is signed on its behalf by We believe this drop in accidents reflects the in the environmental, social and economic considerable resources being utilised by the regeneration of our towns and cities.
Over half Jeff Fairburn Group to improve health and safety across our 54% of the homes we sold in 2013 were built development sites.
Group Chief Executive on brownfield land, reducing pressure to build 24 February 2014 We provide regular competence training on greenfield land.
to our employees and our subcontracting workforce.
The number of health and safety Persimmon Plc Annual Report December 2013 34 Quality details make our homes distinctive Riverside Quarter, Colchester, Essex Persimmon Homes
