Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2013 Strategic report Corporate responsibility 53 Living up to our core values As a safe, ethical and responsive business that is driven to deliver.
54 Safety, asset integrity and security Nothing is more important to Petrofac than safety from our people, customers and the communitiesweworkin, totheintegrityof the assets and facilities we build, maintain and run.
57 Ethics Ethical is one of the six Petrofac values.
Our Code of Conduct sets out the standards we insist upon.
Everyone who works for and with Petrofac is expected to uphold the Code and to Speak Up if they become aware of any breaches.
58 People and resourcing Our ambitious growth plans require us to have the right people in the right places at the right time.
62 Social performance We seek to manage the impacts both positive and negative our business may have on the communities where we operate thereby reducing risk and creating value for the Company.
64 Environmental protection We are committed to understanding and minimising the environmental impact of our global operations.
Trainees at Jurong Island Training Centre, Singapore 52 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2013 Living up to our core values as a safe, ethical and responsive business that is driven to deliver.
At Petrofac, our approach to corporate to operate efficiently and effectively Within future editions of our Annual Report responsibility CR is embodied in our within a tightly regulated, environmentally and Accounts we can therefore expect to core values.
aware sector, we need to formalise and be confident that we are focusing on those institutionalise our commitments to CR areas that are most important to our These values lie at the heart of the work we safety and security, ethical conduct and stakeholders and most relevant to our do, they differentiate us from our competitors, environmental protection long-term commercial success.
and they guide our decisions and actions.
For example, our value of being ethical is Our values have always been implicit in Understanding what matters the way we run the business.
We are evident in our Code of Conduct, our focus mostto our stakeholders on quality is clear in the way we develop progressively formalising our approach to We first enlisted the support of our external CR and demonstrating to all stakeholders our people and manage our operations, corporate sustainability advisers, who our insistence of safety is visible in the how this helps us to achieve our wider facilitated an initial materiality assessment for commercial objectives.
way we safeguard our people and assets, Petrofac in 2012.
Working with representatives and our responsiveness is evident in the from across the business, we identied a series of CR topics we believed were most way we engage with local communities Progressively raising our reporting and customers.
standards relevant to our reporting.
We are working towards reporting against the We regard our values and their contribution to In 2013 we took this work a step further Global Reporting Initiative GRI G4 guidelines.
byvalidating our assumptions through CR as an important differentiator for Petrofac and, therefore, a commercial asset: As a commonly used framework for reporting in-depth interviews with a range of external stakeholders including clients, investors, on social, environmental and governance to deliver on our strategic goals, we need matters, the GRI guidelines enable us to NGOs, suppliers, government representatives to attract significant numbers of people, benchmark our performance against our and relevant industry associations.
primarily from within the communities in peers and to track progress over time.
On this basis, we agreed an authoritative which we operate and our values, along They also help us to identify and address with our business conduct, help us to do so materiality matrix, which is now used to the material issues that matter most to our inform our reporting and our management stakeholders, including investors, customers, approach to CR.
In 2014 we will continue staff and civil society groups.
with the validation, involving a wider selection of stakeholders and rening our analysis accordingly.
Petrofac materiality matrix and issues for 2013 Providing a more complete picture Our external advisers also conducted a full Safety and emergency Environmental management preparedness gap analysis of Petrofacs 2012 Annual Report Human rights and Accounts.
This identied those areas People resourcing Water management Energy and climate change where our reporting is already in accordance Security risks Biodiversity and habitat Revenue and tax transparency with the GRI G4 guidelines and highlighted the Environmental incidents protection operating in Joint venture management areas for improvement.
sensitive locations Social performance Supplier and contractor Diversity and equality Drawing on this analysis, we are developing management Governance plans to allow us to improve our reporting around environmental incidents, water management, biodiversity, supplier management and human rights.
Health Industrial relations disputes Waste management Materials Legacy soil contamination Low Medium High Importance to Petrofac internal stakeholders 53 Importance to external stakeholders Low Medium High Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2013 Strategic report Corporate responsibility continued Safety, asset integrity and security Nothing is more important to Petrofac Sadly, these achievements were overshadowed Launching immediate than safety from our people, customers by three deaths.
In Turkmenistan one person counter-measures and the communities we work in, to the died in a vehicle accident and another in a Any deterioration in our safety performance integrity of the assets and facilities we lifting accident.
The third fatality took place runs counter to the Petrofac values and our build, maintain and run.
in Algeria as the result of a fall.
Each incident unique delivery-focused culture.
was investigated and reviewed by senior Safety, asset integrity and security are An immediate analysis of the reported management and, separately, by the Board.
incidents in 2013 revealed that most root They matter to our people, our customers, We also experienced an increase in the causes lay in the areas of Control of Work, our suppliers and our wider stakeholders.
number of what we term High Potential Lifting Operations, Work at Height and Energy They are evidence of our relentless focus on incidents HiPos, that is to say, incidents that Isolation.
Our immediate response in each operational excellence.
They also help us to could have resulted in a fatality or serious case was to raise awareness of the event and sustain our unique, delivery-focused culture.
injury had the situation been slightly different.
the related risks and to develop local control Compared with 2012, the number of HiPos measures.
Also, the trends seen in 2013 are Despite an impressive performance across was up by 8%.
However, it should be noted being addressed in our Group-wide 2014 much of the Group, we were concerned by that we have increased our emphasis on Safety Improvement Plan and the continuing an increase in reported incidents in 2013 reporting incidents based on their potential, development of our Golden Rules of Safety.
asopposed to their actual outcome.
We also focused on these incidents and The range of well-established health, safety, A large proportion of HiPos took place trends at our annual safety conference in security, environment and integrity assurance at our Mexican and Romanian locations, Dubai.
Around 130 senior leaders from across HSSEIA disciplines, combined with the where we have taken over the operation of the Group attended, including our Chairman, new initiatives launched in 2013 and the existing facilities.
By focusing on operational the Group Chief Executive and the Managing improvements planned for 2014 and beyond, excellence and embedding the Petrofac Directors of all service lines.
The event demonstrate that we remain fully committed values, we aim to improve their respective focused on three key topics root cause to the safety agenda and are determined safety records.
Other incidents were analysis, lessons learned see below, and tolearn from the lessons of the past year.
experienced in Turkmenistan and Algeria lifting safety.
Meanwhile, we continue to rene our during the final stages of projects.
Again, each of these HiPo cases was fully investigated, asset integrity programme, which includes Strengthening our safety culture systematic scrutiny and monthly reporting and the lessons learned have been shared We have found that one of the most effective across the Group.
across all of our operations.
ways of improving our safety culture is to share knowledge and lessons learned across Our overall safety performance for 2013, the Group.
Safe a core measured according to US Occupational Safety and Health Administration OSHA Petrofac value With this in mind, 2013 saw the launch rules, wasas follows: of our Lessons Learned tool an online Reecting on our safety portal that is used to capture and share performance our recordable incident frequency rate was real-life experiences.
Whilst this Across Petrofac, our aspiration is for zero safety incidents as reected in the name represents a slight increase on 2012 when Easily accessible to Petrofac employees, the corresponding rate was 0.13, it does, ofour Horizon Zero global safety campaign.
Lessons Learned includes a wealth of safety however, remain well below the industry information, alerts around specic incidents or We are proud to say that, much of the time, norms of 0.35 as extrapolated from the areas of concern, plus training videos, and our we live up to this goal.
gures published by the International Golden Rules of Safety video.
We also use Association of Oil and Gas Producers At the Kittiwake platform in the North Sea, for the tool to capture and communicate lessons example, we have operated for eight years and experiences from other companies and our lost time incident LTI frequency without a single Lost Time Incident LTI.
In the five months rate was 0.046 per 200,000 man-hours.
During 2013, we also celebrated 10 million following its launch, around 100 lessons Although this represents an increase LTI-free man-hours at both the Cendor Field were shared.
on 2012, when the corresponding rate Development project in Malaysia and the was 0.018, it also remains well below Kuwait Oil Companys efuent water injection the industry benchmark of 0.10 again project a project that received a Gold extrapolated from gures published by Award in the Engineering and Construction the International Association of Oil and category of the American Society of Safety Gas Producers Engineers-Gulf Cooperation Council HSE our driving incident frequency rate was 0.02 Excellence Awards.
This was an area of focus for 2013 and the performance was a significant improvement on 2012 when the corresponding rate was 0.11 54 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2013 Gas in Libya.
It also provided training to and Recognising individual and Asset integrity was commended by the UK Governments team initiatives fundamental Energy Minister, Michael Fallon who said To recognise our successes in safety, toour business The experience and level of training was very we acknowledge individual and team At Petrofac, we design, build and operate impressive and it emphasised the importance achievements and actively encourage all of assets which are safe, reliable, and meet or of high-quality training in offshore safety.
our business units and operations to raise exceed their specified design purpose.
Examples include: Continuing to improve Key to this is our Asset Integrity Framework, EVE Awards ourcapability which enables us to take a structured and A highlight of our annual Leadership To address the deterioration in our safety consistent approach to integrity across Conference is the EVE Awards which performance in 2013, and to support all Petrofac operations.
This framework celebrate each of the Petrofac values Petrofacs progressive move into new comprises our: including safety.
geographies and more challenging operating asset integrity management policy In 2013, the winners included a crossenvironments, a wide-ranging plan sponsored disciplinary team from our Offshore Projects by our Group CEO has been agreed for asset integrity standard, comprising the & Operations business who had produced implementation in 2014.
12Elements of Asset Integrity a new Control of Work standard, process guidance documents and a toolkit of Key components include: and a range of accompanying tools.
supporting processes This included an award-winning e-learning rolling-out a Group-wide initiative to improve training package designed to ensure that the management of contractor safety, The emphasis for 2013 was to increase all the steps of the process would be focusing initially on those geographies and engagement with this framework and understood byeveryone involved.
projects with recent experience of incidents emphasise its importance across the Group.
As well as receiving external recognition delivering an e-learning package on In total, more than 2,500 employees had an from Oil & Gas UK for their Ideas in Safety our Golden Rules of Safety to increase in-depth introduction, with presentations award, the teams framework has also been awareness and improve understanding of completed in Aberdeen, Abu Dhabi, Chennai, adopted by a number of our customers.
their importance Dubai, Kuala Lumpur, London, Mexico, Mumbai, Poland, Saudi Arabia and Sharjah.
Safety seminar providing a framework and supporting tools During 2013, employees at our Chennai to improve the visibility, positive impact Meanwhile, for each month of 2013, one of the operational centre came together to share and effectiveness of site visits by our 12 Elements of our Asset Integrity Standard knowledge at a safety seminar.
Drawing on leadership team was featured on our intranet, PetroNet.
the content of our annual safety conference, This helped employees to understand the this covered root cause analysis, lessons This Group-wide plan is supplemented by, principles and how they contribute to our learned, and lifting.
and aligned with, local plans that have been safety performance.
established by each service line.
Board training Underlining the Boards commitment to the safety agenda, our Directors Total man-hours worked million Recordable incident frequency rate participated in a Process Safety Awareness Million man-hours completed by per 200,000 man-hours training programme.
employees and subcontractors 160 0.14 Sharing best practice across 272 0.36 theindustry We aim to share expertise and reduce risk across the industry by collaborating with our 143 0.18 peers.
For example, we remain an active 0.14 0.13 member of the UK Oil Response Forum, and 76 70 we currently co-chair the Step Change in Safety initiative, including its Asset Integrity 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Workgroup.
In addition, our Group Director of Lost time injury frequency rate Driving incident frequency rate HSSEIA sits on the Helicopter Safety Steering per 200,000 man-hours Incidents per million kilometres driven Group and chairs a task group responding to the 2013 Sumburgh helicopter crash, in which 0.046 0.02 four people from the UK oil industry tragically 0.29 lost their lives.
Petrofac Training Services is a respected 0.026 emergency response trainer.
Amongst many 0.020 activities in 2013, it provided training on 0.018 0.018 0.11 0.11 the new OPITO Helicopter Standards to a 0.03 group of delegates from Mellitah Oil and 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 55 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2013 Strategic report Corporate responsibility continued A rigorous, consistent process A full programme of asset Putting our security and Every month, each of our operating assets integrityreviews evacuation procedures to the test is obliged to report against a range of key During 2013, a total of 16 comprehensive In January 2013, we were asked to evacuate performance indicators, comprising: asset integrity reviews were conducted on our people from the In Salah gas plant in our operating assets.
In these, subject matter Algeria.
This was a precautionary measure lagging indicators relating to the experts who are independent of operations following the terrorist attack on the nearby In actual condition of our assets and the assess the level of compliance with our asset Amenas gas plant.
performance of our related activities integrity standards.
They also conduct a suchas the numbers of temporary At very short notice, three teams were thorough review of the physical condition of repairsunder management and the mobilised on-site in Algeria, in Sharjah and each asset.
In a period of just 72 hours, they overcame the numerous challenges involved leading indicators relating to our Opportunities for further and safely evacuated 400 people.
performance in maintaining robust risk improvements controls such as the completion of For 2014, the focus will be to identify Learnings from this experience have also actions arising from integrity assurance opportunities for renements or improvements been incorporated into our security and reviews and status of competency to our Asset Integrity Framework.
assessment programmes This will include: Improved intelligence gathering updating the Asset Integrity Standard to Drawing on this data, an asset integrity and analysis provide more specic operational guidance dashboard is published each month and is During 2013 we enhanced our intelligence distributed among more than 100 people building on our work in the UK by capability, by strengthening the team with across the Group.
developing a Group-wide hydrocarbon leak a wider range of more specialised skills.
reduction training package This has improved the way that we gather Additionally, our Asset Integrity Review Board, implementing a revised Technical Authority and analyse intelligence on security issues, comprising senior representatives from each particularly in higher risk countries in the Framework and associated process to of our operating assets, meets monthly.
support those people who operate our Middle East and North Africa.
Similarly, we Beyond peer reviewing and experience have stepped up intelligence and information assets and manage high hazard risks sharing, their role is to: sharing with other companies in the oil and understand the sources of integrity risk and gas sector.
Security protecting our people take actions to manage them effectively and assets Tightening our everyday processes maintain appropriate standards which Petrofacs security team works closely with prevent and mitigate risks We continuously review, evaluate and evolve the business to protect our people and assets our security processes, to reect the changing openly report on integrity and to ensure that our operations proceed nature of the environments in which we management performance smoothly.
This becomes more important as operate.
For example, as part of the prewe enter new territories and work in more promote a culture in which all employees investment in our bids, thorough security risk challenging social and political environments.
are committed to asset integrity assessments are carried out on all high risk territories or projects.
We have also consolidated and strengthened our positions in new and challenging territories 1.
Many people work in remote like Iraq, Mexico and Nigeria.
locations across the world 1 Meanwhile, our ongoing security activity includes: regular briengs to the Board Risk Committee weekly travel security and country updates 24-hour emergency support 56 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2013 Ethics Ethical is one of the six Petrofac values.
Distributing and embedding Our Code of Conduct sets out the theCode standards we insist upon.
Everyone who In early 2013, the new Code was distributed works for and with Petrofac is expected to all employees and suppliers, and supported to uphold the Code and to Speak Up if by an extensive communications campaign.
they become aware of any breaches.
In early 2014, we will launch a tailored e-learning module for all of our employees in Our new Code of Conduct order to ensure that the messages contained 80% The Petrofac Code of Conduct the Code, in the Code are understood by all utilising founded on the six Petrofac values, provides of our staff say they know how to life scenarios.
use our whistleblowing line to clear guidance to our employees and In 2013, an induction programme on the Code business partners.
raise a concern was also introduced for all new graduates.
In 2012, the Code was given a major overhaul In 2014 we launched our Annual Code of to incorporate best practice, reect new Screening all third party suppliers Conduct Certication process.
In previous legislation, and cover the increasing risks In 2013, we continued to rene the ways we years, this required all senior and mid-level we face as we enter new geographies and assess our third party suppliers to identify managers to certify that they had read encounter challenging operating conditions.
and mitigate any reputational risks they pose and understood the Codes principles and and ensure that their ethical standards are In 2013, the Code was reviewed and ratied requirements and had observed them in their consistent with our own.
The exercise has been expanded to reach out to those in our first Most signicantly, we developed an online Reecting our emphasis on clarity, the level of leadership and this year was targeted due diligence tool, which helps us conduct Code uses easy-to-follow language, and the to close to 3,000 employees, three times the detailed assessments of third party suppliers.
principles are brought to life through everyday number in 2012.
The exercise is automatically Following an initial screening phase, involving examples.
The content includes a new equal logged through a specic online site, enabling the names of over 18,000 third party opportunities chapter, an explicit prohibition us to track levels of participation and assess suppliers, we identied some that warranted on making facilitation payments and paying possible Code breaches that may be raised.
These are subject to bribes and claries our approach to third more comprehensive due diligence using the parties including risk mitigation, through Speaking Up about any breaches new tool.
due diligence, conicts of interest, and of the Code fair competition.
At the end of 2012, we ran a three-month, Assessing compliance across The Code applies to contractors and suppliers Group-wide communications programme to allour locations as well as Petrofac employees, and is available raise awareness of Speak Up our phone and We seek to conduct regular compliance in English, French, Spanish, Romanian email service enabling employees and third reviews across all Petrofac locations.
parties to report breaches of the Code.
Aiming for transparency in The success of this campaign was ourreporting demonstrated through our 2013 PetroVoices We aim to be transparent and open in employee survey see page 61, in which 80% our reporting, to comply with international of our people said that they knew how to use standards, and to meet the expectations of the Speak Up facility up from 69% in 2011.
All employees and suppliers all stakeholders.
In addition, 38 suspected breaches of the received a new Code of Conduct Code were reported during 2013, compared To this end, we became signatories of the 1 with just 21 reports between 2009 and 2012.
UN Global Compact UNGC in 2009, and have sought to integrate its ten principles in Every reported breach is fully investigated, the way we do business.
Covering the areas helping us to identify and address any gaps of human rights, labour, environment and in our processes.
All violations are reported anti-corruption, these principles are designed to the Board Risk Committee, and those to ensure that businesses can benefit local individuals found to be in serious breach of the economies and societies.
Code may have their employment terminated which was the outcome on 15 occasions in 2013.
57 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2013 Strategic report Corporate responsibility continued People and resourcing A new performance management system In 2013 a new performance management process was introduced across all of our service lines and locations.
This provides a standardised way of setting objectives and conducting mid-year reviews 2,700 90% and year-end appraisals.
It ensures that all of our people understand what is expected of new staff joined of graduates hired since 2010 are them in terms of their contribution to service Petrofac in 2013 still working for Petrofac line and Company-wide success whilst also recognising the Petrofac values and Number of the role they play in our unique deliverygraduates recruited focused culture.
230 By the end of the year, 10,000 people had been trained in the new process, and over 243 85% of all employee objectives had been set using the new scorecard.
The results 146 of the 2013 PetroVoices employee survey 6% 120 107 see below suggest that this renewed Percentage of Petrofac emphasis on performance management is employees left by choice in 2013 widely acknowledged.
2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 In mid 2014, following the first full year of its operation, we will conduct a thorough review of the process and rene it accordingly.
As we upgrade our internal IT systems, we will provide online access to complete the process.
Our ambitious growth plans require In order to retain sought after skills, we A disciplined talent us to have the right people in the also need to ensure that the interests and management methodology right places at the right time.
aspirations of our people are closely aligned The global oil and gas industry faces a with those of the business.
And, to sustain our Our strategy of continued geographic significant skills shortage.
Our Group-wide unique delivery-focused culture, we need all of expansion, increased offshore activity and talent management programme aims to our people to commit to our values.
the growth of our Integrated Energy Services address this challenge by developing and IES business requires us to attract and retain retaining our own employees thereby reducing A business focused HR strategy more people.
our reliance on external recruitment.
The Petrofac HR strategy is a reection of our Indeed, over the coming five years, we wider business strategy and we intend to: As part of our disciplined approach to expect our workforce to grow to around business and capacity planning, we therefore organise ourselves to achieve the 25,000.
Allowing for anticipated attrition, place real emphasis on talent management Companys growth ambitions and this will require us to recruit around 15,000 and succession planning.
recognise the need for local delivery new employees.
As well as onboarding new employees, our integrate our HR services and draw on In a steadily growing global industry facing HR team and line managers work together best practice to improve our performance a definite skills shortage, this will be a to identify those people whose retention is and manage our costs significant undertaking.
The Petrofac HR most important to the business.
Our focus secure the right quantity and quality of team are therefore working closely with extends well beyond leaders and potential skills to deliver on the Companys growth the business to ensure that we meet this leaders.
We also consider those people with plans, in our traditional markets as well as in organisational challenge.
hard-to-replace organisational knowledge, new disciplines and geographies relationships and technical expertise.
And we It is more than just recruiting extra people.
ll the gap between highly experienced look at how best to capture and disseminate people approaching retirement age and We also need to deliver in more challenging the skills and knowledge of our more younger, less experienced employees geographies.
We need to build local delivery experienced employees.
To achieve real sustainability, we implement a robust talent management need to build the leadership talent pipeline process in order to maintain and grow our beyond our current senior executives.
leadership teams 58 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2013 For example, we have started to pilot The Leadership Excellence programme a Petrofac Veterans programme that Our Leadership Excellence programme was will enable older employees to work introduced in 2011 with a clear mandate to: alongside younger recruits, and share their strengthen our existing considerable experience.
leadership capability and improve With regards to talent management, two leadership performance particular initiatives stood out in 2013: develop and prepare our people to understand and overcome future challenges The Petrofac Academy reinforce the unique Petrofac culture In 2013 we formally launched the new Celebrating a distinctive, deliveryby increasing understanding of Petrofac Academy, which reinforces our focused culture the organisation cross-Company approach to development.
At the heart of everything we do, Ultimately, this will have three main aims: By the end of 2013, nearly 150 of our senior thesixPetrofac values guide our graduate development to help us leaders had participated in the programme.
decisions and behaviour: Safe, Ethical, attract new graduates from diverse The years initiatives included: Innovative, Responsive, Quality and backgrounds and geographies cost conscious, and Driven to deliver.
two Leadership Excellence events management development to improve Each year we celebrate employees and intheUAE and London the skills of our supervisory and middle teams who embody these values through two Advanced People Skills modules managers, to help them succeed personally the EVE Excellence, Values, Energy intheUAE and London and manage their teams more effectively Awards, which are presented at our annual two Financial Skills modules leadership conference.
leadership development to strengthen intheUAEand London our senior leadership talent pipeline This years winners included: We also developed a Team Support module, Senior Engineer Himanshu Chanchal Initially located in our UAE ofces and focusing which has been trialled in Malaysia and will pictured above with Group Director of on graduate training, we have developed a be made available to all leaders.
We have Legal and Commercial Affairs, Richard technical facility and curriculum, which will Milne who developed an automated tool also introduced an Accelerated Senior accelerate the acquisition of skills, and help for designing the foundations for vibrating Development programme involving 23 younger professionals achieve professional equipment.
This can reduce 20 days of individuals with leadership potential.
Plans for autonomy more quickly.
design work into a few hours.
It also brings 2014 include a Management Development increased accuracy.
And, when deployed at To lead the initiative, we appointed a Senior Pathway programme.
our Karan project in Saudi Arabia, it enabled Vice President for the Academy from within a 54% reduction in concrete.
Petrofac who will work with our operational and HR teams to rene and progressively Technical Specialist Mantosh Bhattacharya extend the approach.
who, on two separate occasions, came up with solutions to technical issues that the equipment vendor, GE, had been unable to resolve.
As a result GE changed its processes.
Our Mumbai ofce has grown As well as bringing time and cost savings to signicantly in the ten years since Petrofac, this had an industry-wide impact.
it opened 1 59 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2013 Strategic report Corporate responsibility continued attrition levels measured in terms of those 1 leaving the Company by choice remained at acceptable levels, with turnover of less than 6%.
To support our ongoing recruitment needs, we introduced a range of new initiatives.
These include: Establishing a compelling Employee Value Proposition To achieve our growth ambitions we need Petrofac to present itself as an attractive employer that meets the immediate needs andfuture aspirations of potential recruits.
Through formal research, we set out to discover what it is about our business that motivates people to join us and remain 1.
Control room in the engine room of with the Company.
Initially, we spoke to 2 FPSO Berantai, offshore Malaysia engineers in our key geographies of Africa, Malaysia, Mexico, the Middle East and the 2.
At the Galkynysh gas plant inTurkmenistan UK.
Drawing on these findings, we developed an employee value proposition around the principles of growing opportunities, diverse experience and responsible ambition.
This will enable us to develop a common approach across all of our recruitment collateral and advertising.
Redesigning our recruitment systems In 2013 we implemented a consistent, automated recruitment and application tracking system to support and enhance the experience of potential and future employees.
This includes a new hires portal, which allows recruits to access and exchange information regarding their new position and accelerates the onboarding process.
By the year-end, the system had been rolled out across most of the Group.
It will be implemented in our remaining operations during 2014.
Recruiting a new generation ofhomegrown Petrofac talent An emphasis on local delivery To meet our growth plans, Petrofac recruits An important source of differentiation for continuously and systematically.
Petrofac is our focus on local delivery.
In the past we were heavily reliant on Recruiting and training local staff and working identifying and securing skills and expertise with local partners helps us enter new markets from outside the organisation.
In the future, and cements long-term relationships with we aim to be recognised as a business that governments and national oil companies.
excels at growing its own talent.
And this It also enables us to work more costemphasis on personal and professional effectively and grow our global capability.
development is one of the ways in which In Mexico for example, 90% of employees we aim to attract a significant number of at our new operations are Mexican, and new employees.
many work within their own home state.
In 2013, the total number of employees and At the height of our work on Turkmenistans long-term contractors increased by around Galkynysh gas eld processing facility, we 2% to reach 18,300.
Meanwhile voluntary staff partnered with 60 contractors involving more 60 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2013 than 14,500 employees, three quarters of We actively encourage employee share Our culture and values, a whom were Turkmen.
At the El Merk central ownership, believing that it builds commitment source ofdifferentiation processing facility in Algeria more than 90% to the Companys goals and rewards our Petrofacs differentiation stems from our ofon-site workers were Algerian.
In 2013, 30% of unique delivery-focused culture and our our employees participated in at least one of relentless pursuit of operational excellence.
Global mobility where the Petrofac share schemes.
As we recruit significant numbers of new itmakessense employees, we are consistently reinforcing Although our objective is generally to recruit Clear, consistent communications thisculture and emphasising its importance locally, Petrofac will continue to send people tothe way we operate our business.
With a large, rapidly expanding global on international assignments to supplement workforce, we believe it is essential that we Our values are an intrinsic component of our local technical and professional skills and to have the tools to keep our people informed new Performance Management Framework develop our pool of leaders with experience about and interested in our strategy, our which means that every employee is partly ofworking overseas.
appraised on the extent to which they live up In 2013 we developed guidelines to ensure A focus in 2013 was to strengthen internal to the values.
these international moves proceed smoothly communications, in response to feedback Each year we celebrate employees and for employees and their families.
They also from our 2011 PetroVoices survey and teams who embody our values through the ensure that we behave consistently and discussions at the 2012 Leadership EVE Excellence, Values, Energy Awards.
openly, that our costs are controlled, Conference for our top leaders to support This year, we received 160 nominations from and we always try to comply with the their face-to-face communication with their across the Group.
related legislation in both the home and teams.
As a result we now produce our host countries.
Business Brief at least three times a year, In our PetroVoices survey see below 82% post our interim and full-year results, and of employees believed that our values are A clear commitment to diversity our Leadership Conference for our top demonstrated through clear and visible 120 leaders to support their face-to-face and equality actions by other employees.
Petrofac is a highly diverse, multicultural communication with their teams.
In October 2013 we also re-launched Petrofacts, our business.
Our Board is made up of seven An engaged workforce with nationalities and our workforce comprises internal magazine, making it more engaging, asense of ownership thoughtful and representative of our people around 80.
This diversity allows us to reect An engaged employee is one who is fully our global customer base and draw on a rich around the world.
involved in, and enthusiastic about their work, mix of culture and experience.
and acts in a way that furthers the Companys In 2014 we plan to make further improvements wider interests.
In pursuit of our business to our website, improving functionality, and To emphasise our commitment, a new strategy, we formally monitor engagement Diversity Policy was rolled out in 2013, providing more regular, relevant information.
levels across the business, systematically alongside the re-launch of our Code of buildon strengths and address concerns.
A series of dedicated training modules will help to embed this across In 2013 we conducted our fourth biennial theGroup in 2014. employee survey, PetroVoices.
To ensure that this was accessible to a wide range In August 2013, Kathleen Hogenson was of employees, the survey was translated appointed as a Non-executive Director, into four languages and made available in increasing female representation on the paper and online formats.
The 2013 results Petrofac Board to two.
Petrofacts was relaunched in 2013 were compared with the 2011 results see the Nominations Committee Report on and an external benchmark of other high 3 page 80.
Meanwhile, around 26% of our 2013 performing businesses.
global graduate intake is female.
This showed that engagement levels In line with UK Governance Code and UK have remained broadly consistent with Companies Act 2006 requirements which the 2011 dipping slightly from 85% to 82%.
Company has complied with on a voluntary Attitudes relating to communication, pay basis, we disclose the proportion of women to and benets, and talent and performance men across the Company, at senior levels and management had improved.
However views on the Board on page 80 of the Nominations on leadership, change and company image Committee report.
Our external advisors suggest that these patterns are typical of organisations that go through significant change.
61 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2013 Strategic report Corporate responsibility continued Social performance accountability or is contractually required In 2014, we will continue to develop our local Our social investment programmes to manage them.
It is supported by a set of capability in this area through recruitment best practice guidance notes, covering social and training and will introduce an internal assessment, stakeholder engagement, land assurance process to monitor compliance Other 4% Community development 90% acquisition and involuntary resettlement, and with the Social Performance Standard and to Strategic managing grievances.
identify areas requiring additional capability Corporate Giving 6% development and support.
We believe that this In 2013 we developed additional guidance provides a consistent approach to managing on social investment and began to develop a socio-economic issues effectively and guidance note on cultural heritage.
maintaining our social licence to operate.
During the year, we incorporated socioeconomic factors, such as potential for Our social investment programmes conict with local communities and risks Petrofacs social investment expenditure in Community development to community health and safety into our local communities totalled US$4,702,942 Initiatives that target neighbouring and or impacted communities in our areas of operation: Enterprise Risk Management System.
in 2013 up from US$1,006,617 in 2012. that are designed to create benets for these These issues are now evaluated alongside This included community development, groups over and above the benets available other risk categories as a core part of our risk andstrategic corporate giving initiatives.
through standard project and operational review process.
expenditure: and that assist these groups The year-on-year increase was mainly due in meeting their development priorities.
to substantial community development Implementing our Social programmes being implemented in Mexico Strategic Corporate Giving Performance Framework Philanthropic initiatives which have altruistic aims, and Tunisia.
It also includes a total of Our Social Performance Standard is being but which nevertheless contribute to Petrofacs US$2.63 million for the 2013 operating costs implemented in Tunisia and Mexico and overall reputation and brand.
Such initiatives are for our training facilities, which have been typically implemented at a national or regional introduced in Romania, where Petrofac is established in Abu Dhabi and Algeria.
level and are managed by corporate centres of directly accountable for managing social country head ofces.
Matched giving is also part impacts.
In 2013 we continued to roll-out Algeria our training centre, located in of Petrofacs strategic corporate giving.
related activities in each of these countries, Hassi-Messaoud in Algeria, was established Other including the provision of training to locallyin 2010.
It was created to train and qualify Sponsorship refers to support provided by based staff and awareness sessions amongst young Algerians in five disciplines and Petrofac businesses to an event, activity or senior management.
Specialist teams also has since provided training to around organisation typically relating to our business, worked with our operating centres in India, 700 trainees.
the arts, sport, or entertainment in return for the Middle East and the UK to implement brand recognition and enhancement.
Abu Dhabi Petrofac is designing and relevant aspects of the Social Performance building the training pilot plants for the Framework, including our strategic corporate AbuDhabi National Oil Company ADNOC giving activities.
The training facility will provide specialist skills in oil and gas The Social Performance Framework requires facility operations.
As part of the design and us to assess the potential short and longbuild of the training pilot plants, Petrofac term impact of our activities by identifying will develop the operating and maintenance key risks that we might encounter throughout procedures, training scenarios, curriculum the assets life cycle relating to social, health, materials and provide familiarisation training environmental, economic and cultural to ADNOC & ADMA nominated trainers.
We develop strategies to manage We seek to manage the impacts both The training centre is due to be completed or mitigate these risks appropriately.
A key positive and negative our business in 2014. aspect of conducting an assessment involves may have on the communities where engagement with affected communities, Mexico we completed our initial we operate thereby reducing risk and relevant government agencies, international community development programmes creating value for the Company.
organisations and locally-based NGOs for our concessions in Tabasco State, As our business strategy takes us into new as appropriate.
providing support for schools, community geographies, and we embark on longercentres, environmental awareness and In Mexico, for example, we completed detailed term contracts, we are becoming ever more community safety initiatives.
socio-economic baseline assessments for disciplined in understanding, planning and In consultation with our partner PEMEX the Pnuco and Arenque contracts which we managing our social performance.
and the local communities, we have began to operate in 2013, building on similar now dened a long-term development Our Social Performance Framework which exercises conducted in 2012 for our contracts programme for Tabasco focusing on health, incorporates our Ethical, Social and Regulatory in Tabasco State.
All our Mexico operations education, livelihoods and conservation, Policy and our Social Performance Standard now have community development plans in and have established partnerships with was established in 2012.
Based on similar assessments, we local organisations to implement projects in out the minimum requirements for managing have also developed social performance plans each of these areas see case study.
social impacts where Petrofac has direct in Tunisia and Romania.
62 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2013 Tunisia our social investment is focused a rewarding experience for the mentors, on supporting job creation and livelihoods, this helps students full their aspirations which addresses the key concerns of the by boosting their confidence, self-belief community on Kerkennah Island.
In 2013 we helped six people set up small Supporting employee fundraising or micro businesses through training Our employees also have the opportunity to and access to finance, and more than make regular donations through their payroll, 120 people enrolled on our training for and, in 2013, Petrofac donated US$23,088 in employment programme.
We also continued a basic needs support In our concession areas in Mexico, programme for local schools and worked Similarly, Petrofac employees can choose Petrofac is committed to spending to fundraise collectively.
In 2013 Petrofac with the islands nine NGOs to build their 1% of our total annual expenditure on capacity and support their work.
staff raised US$99,000 for the UAE branch sustainable development initiatives.
of the Red Crescent in aid of the Philippines Our Corporate Giving Strategy This constitutes a significant opportunity Typhoon campaign.
In 2013 the Petrofac Board endorsed a for local communities to enhance their Corporate Giving Strategy.
Building on standard of living and for Petrofac to build established activities in the sphere of productive relationships.
education, this focuses on initiatives that: To ensure successful development promote science, technology, engineering outcomes, we are entering into strategic and mathematics STEM education partnerships with local organisations to implement long-term projects.
An example improve access to education and is in our Santuario concession, in Tabasco employability for people from State.
In 2013 we signed an agreement with marginalised groups the National Research Institution for Forestry, Agriculture and Livestock INIFAP to We are committed to supporting STEM conduct a long-term programme in support and in 2013, we continued to strengthen of farmers.
our relationship with the Royal Academy of Engineering putting our partnership on a One area of support is for cocoa producers.
In recent years, crops have been 1.
One of our community meetings signicantly impacted by disease, in some We renewed our Royal Academy of in Mexico cases reducing yields to one tenth of their Engineering Fellowship programme, which 2.
We work with young people in previous value.
In partnership with INIFAP, has been in place since 2009.
Over the next our mentoring schemes in London we are providing technical assistance four years, this will provide a further and Woking and agricultural supplies to hundreds of 18placesfor graduate engineers to pursue 1 smallholder farmers covering 600 hectares aMasters degree.
Also included is the within our concession area, with a view to provision of additional learning and increasing yields and household income.
development opportunities including, where possible, a Company-sourced major project, The project has a strong conservation amentor and a work placement.
element, preventing additional deforestation of cocoa plantations as farmers have less During the year, we launched a new incentive to plant other crops in response to programme supporting the development declining yields.
We are also working with of a national STEM teacher network.
The INIFAP on similar projects to support maize Connecting Teachers Programme aims to and livestock farmers.
improve professional opportunities and reallife applications for the classroom through regional networking.
Initially, we sponsored 2 the appointment of two teaching coordinators, based in London and Woking.
Our London and Woking ofces have also established in-house mentoring programmes working with young people in schools, mainly from under-represented backgrounds.
Petrofacs mentors are all volunteers who want to make a difference to young peoples lives by helping them to develop personal and professional skills.
As well as being 63 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2013 Strategic report Corporate responsibility continued Environmental protection We are committed to understanding All Petrofac operational sites are included in performance.
Given that more than half of and minimising the environmental this report with the exception of our three reporting companies are rated in band C or impact of our global operations.
new Nigerian sites, which were excluded as lower, it is clear that Petrofac is outperforming they had not commenced operations.
Petrofac has always been aware of the environmental implications of its business In 2013 we again participated in the UK In addition to greenhouse gas emissions and, over the past several years, we have Governments CRC Energy efficiency data, we collect data on the waste that leaves introduced progressively stricter controls.
We are registered for Phase 2 of this our facilities, which is typically segregated, scheme, and our UK-based assets complied measured and reported by category.
As we enter new geographies and more with all of the related criteria.
remote locations, environmental protection As well as calculating our own emissions, becomes an even more important In 2013 we reported on a small number of we also monitor and report on air emission management consideration.
environmental incidents: data to our clients for the facilities we manage on their behalf.
In the case of our Fifteen incidents of hydrocarbons spilled to A disciplined approach to data North Sea operations, our monitoring meets land.
Four of these were classied as minor collection and assurance the stringent standards of the Oslo-Paris involving less than 10 litres.
The remaining In 2013 we worked harder to ensure that the Convention.
In accordance with the European 11 were classied as medium and involved entire Petrofac Group has a complete and Environmental Emissions Monitoring System, spillages of between 10 and 600 litres.
consistent understanding of its environmental we measure: Two incidents of hydrocarbons released to impact.
We have therefore been rening our water.
One of these was classied as minor data management systems to ensure that all discharges of hydrocarbons, heavy metal involving less than 10 litres.
The other each service line has a clear understanding of and radiation contamination incident, which involved one of our the standards under which they are expected all air emissions of sulphur dioxide, nitrogen subcontractors vehicles and took place at to operate.
oxides, and volatile organic carbons the Sfax Ferry Terminal in Tunisia, resulted With regards to our greenhouse gas emissions in a spillage of around 38,800 litres of Our environmental data collection and analysis we are fully compliant with the requirements of condensate, which dispersed naturally this enables us to monitor and improve on our the UK Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report was classied as major.
energy use and waste management, which and Directors Reports Regulations 2013 helps to minimise our related environmental which the Company has complied with on a impact.
It is also made available to various voluntary basis.
In 2013, we commissioned Tonnes of carbon emissions generated stakeholders to demonstrate that we Ricardo-AEA a qualied independent party comply with all related requirements, and to assure and validate our greenhouse gas show that Petrofac is fully committed to emissions data collection processes.
285 To provide an accurate estimate, we have Following its review, Ricardo-AEA concluded adopted the following principles: that we have made good progress in 227 214 208 Our emissions data is calculated in line 202 calculating our carbon footprint and have set with the principles of the Greenhouse up credible processes for collating data and Gas Protocol Corporate Accounting and calculating emissions.
Reporting Standard produced by the World Resources Institute and the World Business Our emissions performance 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Council for Sustainable Development a We have seen an increase in our carbon globally recognised standard.
We attribute a As a condition of the mandatory reporting requirement of the Companies Act 2006, Petrofac must report its emissions in its Greenhouse gas emissions and our significant portion of the increase in emissions annual report against an intensity metric that is representative corporate carbon footprint report are to the addition of the Berantai and West of its business activities.
The intensity ration for 2013 is 44.97 Desaru FPSOs.
Our operations, including based on: tCO2e per million US$ revenue.
We have chosen to use tonnes million US$ revenue as this metric is the most representative our share of joint ventures but excluding for fuels and electricity use emission across the entire business.
customer-owned facilities, emitted 284,636 factors from the UK Department for the tonnes of CO e in 2013, up from 201,675 2 Environment, Food and Rural Affairs tonnes of CO2e in 2012.
These are direct DEFRA emissions scope 1: 253,101 tCO e and 2 for gas aring The American Petroleum scope2: 31,534 tCO2e.
Institutes SANGEA methodology The Carbon Disclosure Project CDP provides a For those operations that are jointly owned, global disclosure system for companies to report we use an equity share approach to their environmental impacts and strategies in account for emissions.
respect of Greenhouse Gas Emissions.
27 Those operations that are wholly controlled Petrofac continues to support the CDP and we by third parties are excluded from Petrofac locations participated received an improved score for 2013, achieving in Environment Month our reporting.
a rate of 77 for disclosure and band B for 64 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2013 In each case the appropriate spill-response Biodiversity and measures were implemented and a full water management investigation was conducted.
Through our stakeholder engagement programmes it has become clear that During the year, no fines or penalties were biodiversity and water management are imposed on Petrofac as a result of any areasof interest and concern for several environmental incidents or non-compliance ofourstakeholder groups.
We can demonstrate that, across the Group Focusing on energy efficiency as a whole, Petrofacs operations have a To raise awareness of environmental issues minimal negative impact.
But, wherever these Home to three National Nature among our employees we hold an annual issues are relevant, we do take appropriate Reserves and more than 80 Sites Petrofac environmental month.
of Special scientific Interest, the For example: Shetland environment is one of the In recent years, the focus has been energy rarest and richest in the world.
We invited all of our employees For the construction and development of to suggest creative ways of improving our when we were awarded a 500 million the Shetland Gas Plant, we have worked contract to plan and develop the new energy efficiency.
And, in 2013, a record closely with our customer, Total, and the number of 27 Petrofac locations participated Laggan-Tormore Shetland Gas Plant, Scottish Environment Protection Agency to environmental management was a in the programme.
protect indigenous wildlife and maintain the prime consideration.
quality of watercourses and coastal waters This initiative helps to secure progressive see the case study opposite.
improvements in our energy efficiency.
Based on thorough surveys of the site, In arid and desert climates, we take we gained a clear understanding of the This year for example, it directly led to a 10% particular care to minimise our use of water.
decrease in electricity consumption in our indigenous wildlife and planned accordingly For example, the design of our Sharjah scheduling work to avoid breeding Romanian operations, and a 12% reduction ofces incorporates a greywater harvesting inour diesel fuel consumption in Mexico.
seasons, changing the paths or roads and system, enabling this water to be re-used.
fence lines and establishing exclusion zones Meanwhile, at our Al Khan ofces in Sharjah, to keep people and equipment away from we implemented daily reviews of our energy sensitive areas.
This secured a further 3% for 2014 and beyond Meanwhile a dedicated water management increase in savings in addition to an 18% In 2014, we plan to develop a new Group saving in 2012, and a reduction of almost team ensures that run-off water from the Environmental Framework.
This will bring more construction site remains clear, clean and 25%in 2011. rigour to our existing standards, and ensure silt-free.
A sophisticated siltbuster system that all Petrofac operations and facilities take a has processed around 500 million litres of Tracking waste management consistent approach.
Outow water is tested three times and recycling daily to verify its quality.
We monitor and report on waste and Building on our recent data collection and recycling levels across all of our projects, quality initiatives, we will also implement a new The rapid return of Eurasian otters to the and encourage locally based employees to Group Environmental Data Reporting Guide.
completed pipeline sites is evidence of pursue initiatives that are appropriate to their Again, this will bring greater consistency to the the success.
Group, enable us to compare the respective performance of our operations, and help us For example: to manage and minimise our environmental Our Sharjah ofces have been implementing impact.
To ensure that we operate to the responsible waste management initiatives most stringent standards, we will also seek for the past seven years.
Since 2006, some independent verication of our reported data.
358 tonnes of waste paper and six tonnes of Learning from recent instances of plastic have been recycled.
Petrofac Sharjah hydrocarbon spills, we will further tighten is also an active member of the Arab Forum our spill response procedures and use for Environment and Development and a compliance strategy to assess the supports the Emirates Environmental Group preparedness and capability of Petrofac and has won the Groups Annual Waste andour subcontractors.
Management award on several occasions.
During 2013, our Bridge View ofces in Aberdeen increased their recycling rate to 61% compared to 55% in 2012.
Meanwhile, the amount of waste sent to landll fell by more than 20% from 18.7 to14.9 tonnes.
65 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2013 Governance Corporate Governance report Norman Murray Chairman of the Board 66
