ARM Holdings plc Strategic Report 2013 SuStainaBility Delivering a SOcial impact: tHrOugH Our tecHnOlOgy, Our cOmpany anD Our peOple ARM technology now reaches around 75% of people in the world, making our products amongst the most used, and useful, in the world.
Now we are looking at how we can reach further, supporting projects where ARM technology and the ARM ecosystem can be transformative.
Our ambition is to address global challenges, There are four principal areas to ARMs CR programme: achieve lasting impact and connect our charitable partnerships to our long-term Our people across the world make the Responsible corporate behaviour starts business goals.
Our approach is to: Company successful.
Our Sustainability with engagement and support from the and CR activities help engage and support most senior team.
The Board sets the tone work on long-term, strategic partnerships them around the broader benefits of ARM and receives an update on objectives and with charities: technology whilst providing volunteering progress twice a year.
The CR programme opportunities that can really challenge is then supported by processes, practices use external expertise to define the areas their skills.
and individuals throughout the business.
of greatest potential: co-ordinate and drive collaboration between the projects we support: Sustainability and Corporate Responsibility We support innovative charitable projects We want to help our local communities.
CR are an important part of ARMs that can help transform our future.
We are committed to encouraging our business.
Our products are focused on These range from improving health staff to put their skills to the service of energy-efficiency and our business model or agriculture practices in developing the community, and for ARM to provide is founded on partnership.
Weare one of economies to helping young children in the support to help strengthen the fabric of a handful of companies whose technology UK learn how to write computer code.
the societies in which it operates.
reaches, from the billionaire to the subsistence farmer.
Together, these factors add up to a great opportunity for ARM to achieve a positive global impact.
World Bank report of 2012 on mobile phone use, Information and Communications for Development 2012: Maximizing Mobile.
44 Our Vision Our Performance Our commitment Our Financial Report Our people Our responsible behaviour We have made steady progress towards our corporate environmental goal for ARMs success relies upon a motivated, ARMs business model means that the impact energy use and remain committed to our innovative and highly skilled workforce of our operations on the environment, carbon emission reduction targets for a working in an efficient, friendly working human rights issues and local communities 30% reduction in intensity by headcount by environment.
Maintaining this is our aim.
The scale and potential of our 2020.
At the end of 2013 we had achieved Treating everyone equally is an important business ecosystem and technology to make areduction of 18%.
partof our approach, so we provide the a productive contribution to sustainability samebenefits to everyone globally.
We are committed to reducing Our energy intensity based on kWh per any environmental impacts we have whilst employee has decreased by 19% globally We encourage a culture of open and maximising the beneficial aspects of our based on our 2009 baseline.
This has been honest communication at all levels of the business model and products.
achieved through our commitment to better organisation.
There are regular opportunities energy performance from our buildings for employees to provide feedback such To help us understand where our risks, alongside improved utility of our estate.
as the Global Employee Survey and our responsibilities and opportunities lie, ARM open door policy for discussions with the is a member of United Nations Global Please refer to the Governance and Financial executive team.
LEAD is a group Report page 24 for methodology and of 53 multinationals working with the further data.
Emphasis is placed on continuous learning and UN towards a more sustainable world by development.
We use a blend of education, implementing their Blueprint for Corporate Human rights reflection, feedback and direct experience as Sustainability Leadership.
LEAD companies There is growing interest worldwide in the well as formal and on-the-job training.
were chosen out of the 7,000 UNGC issue of the impact of business on human members because of their history of Our charity fundraising and volunteering rights.
Reflecting this, ARM has worked engagement with the UN and commitment programme, Team ARM, encourages this year with Shift, a specialist non-profit to CR.
ARM is represented on both the teamwork and engagement with ARMs CR organisation working on business and human global LEAD and UK networks advisory areas of interest and strategic charity partners.
rights, to understand more about this agenda boards, keeping us in touch with our peers and its key guidelines, the UN Guiding We are investing more in Team ARM in 2014 and informing how we can contribute to Principles on Business and Human Rights.
to deliver a wider range of opportunities sustainability in our immediate operations, our for employee engagement in everything ecosystem and more broadly.
We are confident that our risk in this area from charity hackathons to mentoring is low, but no company can afford to be In 2013 we sponsored the creation of a UN young engineers.
We have therefore adopted Climate and Energy Action Hub to enable a general Human Rights Policy, in addition ARM finished 2013 with 2,833 established new business partnerships on environmental to related existing policies including those employees, an increase of 18%, in 31 offices projects.
The hub now has 43 organisations on conflict minerals, business ethics and across 15 countries.
Staff turnover dropped involved, working together to scale up climate discrimination.
The new Policy underlines from 8.0% to 6.8%.
As part of the project, our commitment to avoiding adverse impact ARM is supporting research into the potential on human rights in the way we conduct In 2013 we ran 38 internal conferences, for smarter appliances to consume less energy our operations.
bringing together a high percentage of our and reduce peaks in power consumption.
We run a Global Graduate Conference and last year 88% of the years Carbon reduction is an issue that affects graduate intake took part in the week, everyone.
Despite independent assessment supported by 70 senior staff from across of ARM as an environmentally low-impact the business.
Maintaining a global culture business, ARM has taken part in the Carbon and unity of purpose is critical and we Disclosure Project CDP for the past invest accordingly.
We have been using the CDP framework to help us improve the reporting and management of our carbon impacts.
We achieved a 42% improvement on our 2012 score this year, placing us in Grade C. 45 ARM Holdings plc Strategic Report 2013 THERE WERE SO MANY THINGS WE DIDNT kNOW ABOuT RAISING HEALTHY SuStainaBility CONTINUED CHILDREN BuT DuE TO THE TALkING BOOk, WE LISTEN AND LEARN HEALTHY WAYS TO RAISE OuR CHILDREN.
Nadowli Kuubataanono, traditional birth attendant in the Jirapa District, Ghana.
Our support for innovation Literacy Bridge uses Talking Book Helping our local communities technology designed to provide those living ARM believes that business has an important ARMs approach to local community support in extreme poverty with education on health role to play in charitable work and addressing is two-fold: to support activities that impact and agriculture that can reduce maternal global sustainability issues.
It is expected that, on our employees directly, and to help in and child mortality, hunger and chronic following the 2015 Millennium Development areas of need that are often neglected.
ARM has been working with Goals, the post 2015 United Nations We work closely with local charities to advise Literacy Bridge to develop a long-term Sustainable Development Goals will us on where our support is most needed and strategy aiming to empower the worlds include the role of business as a key enabler.
can have the greatest impact.
In 2013, we partnered with We believe that the technology sector has a ARM has been an active supporter of the UNICEF in Ghana on a major 18-month great deal to offer.
community local to its Cambridge head office project that will allow Literacy Bridge to prove When working with charities, companies ever since its foundation.
Now, as a global their model at a scale of 40,000 people.
are unencumbered by many of the company, it is important that we are able This is a critical milestone as the majority of constraints faced by charitable foundations to support our local communities in all of projects fail after the pilot stage.
We have an opportunity our locations.
UNICEF and ARM have delivered the funding to bring charities and businesses together, We recognise that the needs of every for the maternal health component of the looking at the bigger picture across multiple community are different and so we build project.
ARM suggested the inclusion of issue areas to develop new ideas that can relationships at a local level and encourage Literacy Bridges prior work on agriculture, deliver real benefits.
Companies are able to each office to allocate support to local which was outside the remit of the UNICEFs take more risk and try out ideas that may not charities or community outreach projects.
project, and provided the additional support work: but this is a necessary part of research, Our aim is to help strengthen the fabric of needed.
This is an example of a companys development and entrepreneurship, subjects society in the communities around our offices.
freedom to look at the big picture, and that are very close to ARM.
across different issue areas, something that ARM is now working with community In the past year, ARM has helped launch is challenging for sector-focused charities leaders to understand the most pressing local some exciting new initiatives.
needs, whether this is one-off emergency ARM became the first major sponsor of support or long-term help for the areas of Initial data suggests that educational Code Club, a non-profit organisation helping greatest deprivation.
information from Literacy Bridge can help primary school children learn computer people achieve a 48% increase in their crop coding.
ARMs early support, taking a leap This is a programme that we will be focusing yield.
For a subsistence farmer this increase of faith in the founders vision, led to the on in 2014.
We are confident ARM can is life-changing.
In a small health trial in Jirapa expansion of the team from two part-time make as big a contribution to our local District, people adopted 90% of applicable founders to four full-time and two part-time communities as we have in our strategic health messages from the Talking Book.
We saw the potential charitable partnerships.
for the idea to scale and supported the In 2014, ARM will continue its support for entrepreneurial spirit of the two co-founders.
There are more examples of our charitable Literacy Bridge, focusing on its R&D efforts partnerships, as well as data on all our material to use ARMs Cortex M0 within a new chip ARM employees run 15 clubs and there are issues, in the full CR report.
We haveselfthat will deliver a significant reduction in now a total of over 1,500 clubs across the UK assessed the CR report at GRIlevel B manufacturing costs and power consumption supporting 22,000 children.
At the time of and it can be found at www.
writing, 100 new clubs are started each month reporting2013.
and next year ARM will be helping Code Club deliver more regional support with a goal of reaching 25% of all primary schools by the end of 2015.
We will also be working with the founders to help take the Code Club model worldwide, using ARM locations around the world to help start new Code Clubs.
