Strategic report ouR SuStainability By embracing policies and behaviours that growth and development that it is able to govern responsible conduct, the Company attract and retain talented employees who creates more valuable relationships will contribute to the long-term success of with its stakeholders, enhancing trust the business.
the Company believes by demonstrating its focus on, and The Group is fully committed to equality management of, the material non-financial that its true value is not of opportunity and dignity at work for all.
Playtech believes Its primary aim in this area is to recruit the solely demonstrated that a responsible approach to these best and most appropriate employees, by its balance sheet challenges, together with risk assessment irrespective of race, religion, ethnic or and mitigation, will positively impact national origins, gender, sexuality, disability, and financial results, its ability to succeed operationally class or age, working to the highest but should include and strategically.
other, more intangible Playtech operates in a highly competitive fOcus On sustAinAbility industry, where retaining key staff is attributes, such as its Playtech continues to improve its a priority.
The Company provides people, brand and understanding and monitoring of material financial rewards and a positive working non-financial risks, despite operating environment, developing employees skills reputation.
in a highly-dynamic and rapidlyfor improved performance and increased changing environment.
The programme to put in place consistent documentation and Group-wide policies gOVeRnAnce and procedures was initiated in 2011, Playtechs Board is responsible for as well as a number of employee-related the Groups financial and operational improvements continues.
performance, ensuring the continued Hilary Stewart-Jones, chairman of the Risk success and sustainability of the Committee, has Board-level responsibility business by directing and supervising the for the programme.
In an industry that continues to undergo WORkPlAce significant structural changes, the Boards role has never been more important.
Playtech understands that the success of The identification of significant risks facing its business is due to the vital contribution the business, and processes to monitor made by its employees.
It is therefore and mitigate them, is covered in more essential to the Companys continued detail on pages 44 to 53.
The issues of interest to the Companys stakeholders can be grouped into five areas: #1 Workplace The well being of our employees, and how we attract, develop and retain the best talent #2 Governance Maintaining high standards of corporate governance to monitor and mitigate risks associated with the business #3 marketplace Working with regulators, partners and licensees to further responsible gambling #4 community Our broader community-related obligations in those locations where our employees, business partners and licensees live and work #5 Environment Mitigating the Companys environmental impact, where relevant and appropriate, to reflect the nature and scale of its business Playtech plc 36 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 mARketPlAce them to manage their gambling operations enViROnment responsibly.
The Companys approach Playtechs CSR marketplace metrics In comparison to other global companies, to Responsible Gambling is discussed in focus on stakeholder perceptions Playtech has a relatively low environmental detail on pages 40 and 41. of the Companys relationships with impact, by virtue of the fact that it is licensees and its responsiveness to The Group has an experienced Head primarily an online business with a limited their requirements: and on Playtechs of Regulatory Affairs and Compliance number of office locations.
The day-torelationships with regulators and other who focuses the Companys efforts on day running of the business will inevitably industry bodies.
regulatory matters, and this is of particular have an environmental impact, particularly significance as Playtech continues to in terms of energy consumption and The Company will look to report on expand its regulated markets offering.
travel, and the Company has put in place these in due course, and include cause processes to monitor its carbon dioxide conduct surveys to ensure that it properly emissions from air travel and reduce any understands external perceptions of the cOmmunity unnecessary travel.
business and manages its reputation.
The Company values the positive Where it is necessary to take new office Customer service lies at the heart of influence on its employees personal and space, consideration is made for the Playtechs business, and Playtech strives professional development that can be implementation of greater energy-efficient to deliver a high quality service to its found through volunteer work, and sees measures.
In Estonia, the building was licensees so that they can offer the best it as important for the business over the designed with a highly efficient cooling player experience.
The Company works to long-term.
The Companys employees are system for the computer room, and in monitor customer satisfaction levels across actively engaged in supporting charities all new locations there has been a move the licensee base as the retention of and Playtech has expanded its Social to reduce energy consumption.
With a licensees is central to the sustainability of Involvement programme to focus on ratio of employees to printers of over 30, its business model.
Playtech places great initiatives that deliver educational support the offices can be seen to be increasingly value on its relationships with gambling and assistance to disadvantaged children paperless environments.
In addition, regulators around the world and works in those countries where the Group bottled water has been largely replaced by with them to ensure all aspects of the has operations.
water fountains, and where local schemes business meet or exceed their standards.
In 2013 Playtech gave approximately exist, waste is separated and recycled.
In a rapidly changing industry environment, 170,000 to charitable organisations All offices have secure bicycle parking, and where newly-regulating markets play a working in the fields of education and in the UK, the Company participates in a central role, it is critical that the Companys research into, and treatment of, problem scheme whereby employees can purchase reputation as the best partner in the gambling 2012: 50,000.
Playtech also a bicycle in a tax efficient manner.
industry is maintained and promoted.
provided non-financial support to these Playtechs customers are its licensees and and other community causes, including the Company plays a central role in helping computer hardware and training.
customer service Playtech has a 170,000 lies at the heart relatively low ofour business given to charitable environmental organisations impact Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 37 Financial statements Governance strategic report Strategic report ouR SuStainability CONTINUED lOcAtiOns And PeOPle develop and new customers migrate to the Companys gambling platform.
Playtech is headquartered in the Isle of Man and has offices in 11 other In practice, this approach co-locates countries, including its principal software product teams so that, for example, those development centres in Estonia, the UK, employees working on Playtechs casino With over 3,400 people Sweden and Bulgaria.
Live dealer facilities product are all located in Tartu, Estonia, working in 12 countries are located in Latvia and the Philippines.
with content and software developers, A central finance function is located in quality assurance and product delivery we aim to provide a Cyprus and marketing from Israel.
teams working closely together on safe, engaging and fair the same office floor in line with best In 2013, Playtech employed an average of working environment, development standards.
At the end of the year, total enhances collaboration and enables the headcount was over 3,400 people, with with opportunities for team to quickly identify and resolve any growth primarily being from acquisitions.
employees to develop technical issues that may arise.
In addition to the permanent headcount, Playtech deploys a software delivery and grow and maintain Playtech has a programme to outsource management process known as Next certain ancillary development and service a healthy work life Generation Mobile using the most activities, which are predominately balance.
advanced mobile technologies, which production-related rather than software has reduced the time-to-market for new development.
This speeds up time-to games and launch time for new licensees.
market for routine upgrades and frees up The Companys intelligent approach to key development resources.
PTTS also managing project workflows is a significant outsources some basic emarketing competitive advantage when compared to processes and reconciliation activities.
Playtech has also looked to utilise PROduct deVelOPment outsourcing resources, or to deliver a Playtechs software business is structured greater ability to licensees to self-manage along product lines, with separate their content.
This greater degree of control business units for each product area, has benefits for the licensee in terms of such as the IMS, casino, poker, bingo faster deployment time for new content and sports, and across the online, mobile and helps to maximise the productivity of and land-based delivery channels.
Playtechs This structure aims to ensure that Playtech R&D operations are among the biggest in can manage the demands of increasing the online gambling industry and employ operational scale, as existing licensees over 1,300 people, principally devoted Employee Profile 1 3 2 Age Gender 1 1 Male 64% 2 1 Below 25 18% 2 Female 36% 2 Below 35 59% 3 Over 35 23% 2 1 Playtech plc 38 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 2 3 1 to software development, of which over Playtech provides its customers A formal onboarding process exists in 300 are developing specifically for mobile.
operational teams with an intensive twoPlaytechs major employment centres The scale of Playtechs R&D function helps week training programme ahead of launch.
including various employee handbooks it to maintain a competitive advantage Thereafter, each licensee is assigned and guides, formally structured meetings in technology innovation, content an experienced account manager who with HR, and the new employees line development and product pipeline.
provides day-to-day support and a manager.
Additional training provides point of contact.
Customers can draw a broader overview of the Group and The Companys extensive experience on a pool of product and technology its culture, and any specialist technical and capabilities enable it to be agnostic specialists to advise on any issues, and training or regulatory training as required.
to technology platform or system when a consulting team provides value-added developing new solutions for licensees, Playtechs culture focuses on the input to optimise the tools available on the so that it is able to offer its market-leading continued improvement of its workforce, Playtech platform.
products and services to the widest driven by a strong ethos of innovation, possible customer base.
This flexibility technological development and the offers a substantial advantage as licensees VAluing OuR PeOPle delivery of market-leading performance.
increasingly look for a combination of Many of Playtechs new employees Playtechs market-leading position is a mobile, retail and more traditional formats are referred by existing staff, reflecting significant asset in its efforts to attract the for the same games.
the Companys focus on developing a best talent in the industry.
Candidates are close-knit, collegiate, corporate culture.
drawn to Playtech by the combination of Ongoing training and career development custOmeR seRVice its highly motivated, entrepreneurial team are important elements of Playtechs culture, its breadth of knowledge and The service-orientated philosophy sustainability efforts.
ability to harness cutting-edge technology.
underpinning Playtechs content This has also been an important factor in development activities is replicated in its Playtechs corporate acquisitions, where WelfARe ActiVities product and infrastructure operations, with the potential to benefit from such a large a team of over 150 people providing a Playtech recognises the value in keeping and experienced support network has 24 7 support service to licensees.
employees engaged and well motivated.
been a key discussion point and decision Welfare programs run through the year From the beginning of every project, factor for a management team assessing and are tailored to each country.
Each site Playtech supports its licensees, the benefits of joining Playtech.
has a generous budget for local activities drawing on its 12 years experience.
such as team building, parties, birthday Dedicated teams, staffed by professionals gifts and a yearly site trip.
During 2014, from all disciplines, provide complete project and launch management, assisting with strategy and business planning, through to recruitment and team building.
Following a recent software release, Playtechs Virtue Fusion team headed to a local bar to celebrate, with music provided by the in-house Ben and the Bingo Band.
Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 39 Financial statements Governance strategic report Strategic report ouR SuStainability CONTINUED to raise staff awareness of health issues, Employee remuneration includes ResPOnsible gAmbling canteen menus were adjusted to include competitive salaries, an annual bonus, more fruit, vegetables and healthy snacks.
annual salary review, non-cash and ad-hoc PhilOsOPhy In addition, employees are provided with bonuses, which are set by reference to Responsible gambling is an integral part sports facilities and are supported in the achievement of the aforementioned of Playtechs institutional mindset and a sporting endeavours such as the Nike objectives, and by the demonstration of significant factor in all of its activities.
As a night run in Tel Aviv, the Estonia Marathon other competencies and contributions to software provider, the Company is not and Vertical Rush a sponsored run up the the Group.
A revised long-term, sharetypically directly in contact with players, but stairs of Tower 42 in London.
based incentive scheme to attract and responsible gambling nonetheless remains retain the best operational and business a fundamental issue for the Company in managers was adopted in 2012. emPlOyee PeRfORmAnce safeguarding its business and reputation, An employee of the quarter programme While the development of market-leading and for the continued development of the recognises exceptional performance with a software and products is at the heart of industry in a sustainable manner.
Playtechs growth, licensees naturally Within PTTS, Playtech works with its expect 24 7 operational performance and Employee engagement surveys are licensees in relation to player acquisition efficient delivery.
The Companys business conducted around the business and in and retention, and is consequently units are integral to ensuring Playtech Estonia, the Fish Programme, which has dedicated, with its operators, to meets the requirements of its licensees been running for 10 years has benefited a substantial focus on the proper and employees are rewarded accordingly.
both Playtech Estonia and Videobet by management of the relevant responsible improving retention.
Playtechs appraisal system is based gambling protocols.
around individual business unit and Group-wide objectives, which are directly emPlOyee cOnduct technOlOgy tO suPPORt aligned to Group strategy and specific During 2013, Playtechs Board approved ResPOnsible gAmbling areas of implementation and execution.
and adopted a new Code of Conduct and The Companys fully-integrated Employees have clearly defined objectives a new Anti-Bribery policy.
The aim of these management system provides operators and targets that are set in each review policies is to: with the latest responsible gambling period, and their performance is routinely set standards of behaviour, protocols.
Embedded systems and measured against these objectives.
organisational values and business controls ensure fair play through ethics for Playtech: and fraud-detection services and facilitate responsible gambling tools for players and provide structures for reporting.
ensures a safe playing environment for all.
Both policies were disseminated to all Every licensee is provided with Playtechs employees, and line managers tasked transparency toolkit, which is embedded with ensuring that the policies were in the Companys software and includes communicated to and understood by viewable player protection content and the employees through training initiatives.
following elements: compulsive gambling prevention age verification deposit limits bet limits session time limits self-exclusion tools Once again, Playtechs people were well represented in leading gaming magazine GIQs Hot 50 talented people.
Playtech plc 40 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 The Company also provides ceRtificAtiOn And RegulAtiOn Playtech is one of comprehensive training and ongoing As a responsible supplier to the the most licensed support to licensees to allow them to regulated gambling industry, Playtechs provide the maximum protection to B2B suppliers systems comply with all the guidelines their customers.
published by the variety of regulated Where Playtech provides external and jurisdictions in which its licensees operate.
or internal marketing services to a The Company partners with regulatory and licensee, it puts in place clear protocols governmental bodies to ensure its systems and procedures for player engagement.
Playtechs technology platform provides Playtech is an active member of the tools to operators that can identify and Remote Gambling Association RGA, manage any player thought to be showing which has developed an industry code indications of problem gambling, and of practice on social responsibility and regular dialogue, reporting and joint age verification, which the Company training exercises with licensees address fully supports.
As part of the certification any concerns that arise.
process, Playtechs games and their This dialogue focuses on the early software engines including the random An active member identification by the operator of the small number generators are regularly tested of the Remote percentage of players that have the and certified by leading industry bodies to Gambling potential, under certain circumstances, to ensure consistency and fair play.
Association RGA develop gambling-related problems and The Group holds a certificate of evaluation the smaller group who demonstrate an from the accredited testing facility TST inability to control their gambling habits which is part of Gaming Laboratories or actions.
International GLI, the worlds largest The Group contributes financially to independent gambling testing and the work of the Responsible Gambling certification laboratory.
Playtech also holds Trust formerly the Great Foundation an official Certificate of Prior Approval and GamCare, UK charities dedicated from the Alderney Gambling Control to supporting research into problem Commission AGCC.
In other regulated gambling, education and training.
markets, such as Italy, France, Spain, Estonia and Finland, Playtechs software Playtech is also an associate member has been reviewed and passed for use by of the World Lottery Association WLA, the local regulators.
the global professional association for state lottery and gambling organisations.
The WLA and its members are committed fRAud, mOney lAundeRing to maintaining the highest ethical And fAiR PlAy standards of gambling.
An integral part of Playtechs technology platform is its ability to monitor and identify potential fraud and money laundering.
Playtech employs a dedicated security team focused on ensuring that it is at the forefront of industry best-practice in this area.
With comprehensive monitoring of transactions and gambling behaviour, licensees are able to ensure that players cannot gain an advantage through unfair means.
This is a particular focus in player-to-player games such as poker, to minimise any risk of player collusion.
Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 41 Financial statements Governance strategic report
