Corporate Responsibility principles Corporate Social are embedded in the daily business Responsibility processes at A. G. BARR.
Andrew Memmott, Operations Director We believe that developing our business in a responsible and sustainable manner will support our long term profitable growth, contribute to building a committed and motivated workforce and allow us to positively contribute to our local communities.
We can only deliver this ambition with the support of the whole organisation, and we promote this through our Do the Right Thing programme, now in its second year.
The programme is made up of four key areas: r Environment r Consumers r People r Communities In this report we review our progress in each of these key areas.
Our Environment Key achievements Improvements in: r Carbon emissions and intensity r Water use efficiency r Waste recycling ratios r Road transport miles travelled As a company involved in manufacturing, we recognise the impact our operations have on the environment.
Our Environmental Committee is chaired by Andrew Memmott, Operations Director, and includes key management representatives, particularly from the supply chain.
This committee plays a key role in both monitoring the implementation of our environmental initiatives and setting performance targets across the Group.
It also reports on performance to the board each quarter.
Operations Director Andrew Memmott Environmental Committee Cumbernauld Tredegar Forfar Logistics Site Site Site A A.. G G.. BA B RR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2013 29 Energy Water Corporate Social Tonnes of CO produced Production efficiency 2 Responsibility litres used per litre produced Continued 19000 2.0 18000 1.8 17000 16000 1.6 15000 14000 1.4 13000 12000 1.2 11000 10000 1.0 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 In 2012 we focused on two areas of energy In the past 12 months we have reduced reduction activity: staff awareness as part our water use ratio by 5.7%, saving over of the Do the Right Thing programme and 36 million litres.
This was primarily driven by capital investment focused on efficiency reducing the need for empty plastic bottle improvements.
rinsing at our Cumbernauld site following the installation in 2011 of Combi bottle blowers, Our collective efforts have contributed to a which make and fill bottles.
We also installed significant improvement in energy efficiency, a recycling system for empty can rinsing reducing our CO e emissions per 1,000 litres which has further reduced our water usage.
We estimate that during the year, we used over 3.8 million kWh less We are signatories of the Federation House electricity than we would have done without Commitment, an agreement made by major these initiatives.
We have reduced our food and drink manufacturers.
All signatories CO e emissions per 1,000 litres of product have committed to reduce overall water 2 by 40.4% since 2002. usage excluding water used in products in their manufacturing operations by 20% While our total emissions increased slightly by 2020 compared to 2007.
We measure in 2012, we have reduced our emissions by this not just in absolute terms, but also 28.6% since 2002, making real progress in the amount of water in litres we need towards our target of a 35% reduction.
to use for each litre of product we produce.
Environmental performance 2012 13 We have reduced the absolute amount of We are fully committed to improving Some examples of how we achieved this water we use in production by 7.6% since the sustainability of our business and improvement are given below.
This measure is an important indicator we have made further progress against our environmental targets in 2012 13. of our ongoing efficiency.
Our ratio is now Cumbernauld 1.43 litres per litre produced, a reduction At the Cumbernauld site, we use an of 24.3% since 2007.
Target 2012 v 2011 energy monitoring system to ensure that all significant electrical equipment is switched Waste Energy Energy used per 1,000 35% reduction in absolute litres produced reduced Our target is to send zero manufacturing on and off efficiently during product and CO emissions from by 11.4%.
In 2012 we reduced manufacturing by 2020 compared to 2002. the amount of waste generated at our Tredegar manufacturing sites by 8.9% and increased Water Litres of water used per The Tredegar site completed an exercise that the percentage of waste recycled to 97.2%.
20% reduction in waste litre of product produced water volumes by 2020 reduced by 5.7%.
focused on identifying the start-up time of all compared to 2007. equipment at point of use to ensure all staff Tredegar Waste 97.2% of our manufacturing were aware of the optimum time to switch Tredegar achieved zero manufacturing waste Zero manufacturing waste waste was recycled, equipment on.
93% of the waste generated to landll by 2015. recovered or incinerated to generate energy.
is segregated on site, which helps with the Forfar onward recycling and re-use processes.
Packaging We are targeting Improve the sustainability improvements through In October 2012 a new roof was installed at The remaining unrecyclable 7% is used of all our packaging.
introducing lightweight PET our Forfar site which improved insulation and as refuse derived fuel.
Polyethylene terephthalate increased the number of transparent roof bottles, which reduce the amount of material in each panels.
These two measures have reduced bottle and by recycling the use of artificial lighting and improved aluminium cans, glass, corrugated cardboard heating efficiency in the production hall.
To complement this we invested in variable Transport Total travel miles within our speed drive low pressure compressors, 20% reduction in external in house delivery vehicle which have contributed to a reduction in impacts of transport by fleet reduced by 4.7%.
energy use at Forfar by 2.7% over the last 2012 compared to 2002.
30 A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Tonnes CO 2 Litres Cumbernauld Our current transport target expired this The Cumbernauld site achieved 87.9% on year however we will continue to reduce site segregation of waste.
Given the lack the environment impact of transport of suitable waste to energy facilities near relating to the supply of raw materials to our Cumbernauld, we are nearing the practical manufacturing sites, the delivery of product limit of waste diversion from landfill that we to our customers by in-house distribution and can achieve.
We will continue to explore continued collaboration with our third party suitable options to divert all waste from logistics partners.
We will continue to report landfill as and when they become available.
on our actions to reduce the environment The residual waste is further sorted at a local impact of our transport in future years.
Every Can Counts Top materials recycling facility where 60% of the In 2012 we joined forces with Zero Waste Scotland to Since the target baseline year of 2002 our remainder is sorted for recycling.
Currently become a funding partner of Every Can Counts.
distribution network and transport planning only 4.8% of the total waste on the site is Magna Park Middle systems have changed considerably.
From left to right Alex Verbeek, UK Country have centralised our retail delivery business, Director Gazeley, Andrew Memmott, Operations Forfar our PET and can production to Scotland Director, A. G. BARR, Jonathan Fenton-Jones, Group Technical Director Gazeley, Peter Waddell, Forfar is on target to achieve zero and invested in advanced transport planning Head of Financial Planning, A. G. BARR, on site at manufacturing waste to landfill in April 2013. systems.
We regularly review our vehicle Magna Park during November 2012. routing to ensure those miles we do travel Packaging are minimised.
We have also transferred a Magna Park Bottom An artists impression of our new warehouse, In 2012, we continued to build on gains significant proportion of product distributed manufacturing and logistics facility at from our PET light weighting work to reduce to our Lutterworth wholesale distribution Magna Park, Milton Keynes.
packaging waste from a range of materials.
These actions have saved Most notably, we joined forces with the approximately 995,000 road miles per year.
Scottish Governments agent, Zero Waste Scotland, to become a funding partner Milton Keynes of Every Can Counts.
This is a drinks can In 2012 we started to build our new 265,000 recycling programme, targeting the recycling sq ft production and logistics facility at of an estimated 252 million drinks cans in Magna Park in Milton Keynes.
Scotland that are used every year outside The new site will initially support a canning the home, either on the go or by employees line, with the space to accommodate further in the workplace.
high speed production lines in the future.
Its launch is spearheading recycling in the This will double our production capacity workplace ahead of the new Waste Scotland on single 330ml and 500ml cans, with the Regulations.
When these come into force potential to increase our capacity for single in January 2014, all businesses will have to 500ml and 2 litre PET packs by a further 50%.
separate paper and card, plastic, metal and This will help us to increase our high standard glass for recycling.
of customer service and delivery levels in England.
Once fully operational, this facility Tredegar will employ approximately 100 locally The Tredegar site implemented a number recruited people.
of packaging changes during 2012, which resulted in improving the sites energy The building has been designed to achieve the efficiency and reducing the amount of benchmark Building Research Establishments packaging used.
We changed the plastic BREEAM Excellent status for environmental cap design, which is now 18.8% lighter.
performance by incorporating a number of technologies that will save both energy and However, most notable was the improvement water usage.
These will include LED lighting to packaging which saved approximately 17 throughout the facility, extensive electrical tonnes of plastic this year which also allowed sub-metering, low flush toilets, spray us to further reduce our energy consumption.
taps, rainwater harvesting and a building Transport management system that will control and Through our on-going partnership with the minimise the sites energy usage throughout Stobart Group, we have significantly reduced its operational life.
the environmental impact of distributing our products in 2012.
We removed 507,110 vehicle road miles by using rail freight to move finished product from the Cumbernauld production site to the wholesale distribution centre in Lutterworth, near Rugby.
This significantly lowered the number of road journeys required and lowered the carbon emissions arising from transporting these pallets.
A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2013 31 Our People Near Miss Reporting Corporate Social Key achievements Our most significant safety initiative in 2012 13 Responsibility r Near Miss initiative launched across was the roll out of a significant near miss Continued the business reporting system.
This initiative makes use of r Investor in People Silver status achieved systems to record and act on hazards in the at Sheffield and Wednesbury sites workplace as well as engaging the workforce r Launch of iLearn our online learning in improving safety standards.
The aim is to portal for all employees remove sources of potential accidents and r Launch of company intranet.
The impact has been a significant increase in safety Health and Safety awareness across all locations.
Our objective is to ensure we create the safest and best working environment possible at As part of the near miss initiative, safety day initiatives were delivered across the business.
The level of reportable accidents under RIDDOR increased marginally from The year finished with just under 3,000 near 9 in 2011 12 to 10 in 2012 13.
However miss incidents being reported and acted upon.
there was a 14% reduction in the total injury accidents in 2012 13 the total figure includes NEBOSH Training RIDDOR accidents, lost time and minor injury We provided an internal refresher safety accidents.
The level of significant near miss training course for the 30 managers incidents fell by 62%.
The reductions have and supervisors who hold the National come from the focus on near miss reporting Examination Board for Occupational Safety and remedial actions and improved local and Health NEBOSH safety certificate management and actions related to safety.
Each of them carried out a target audit, looking primarily at people and vehicle risks.
Six of our eleven sites had zero reportable accidents including three of our four production sites.
Action plans are in place to deliver the required improvements in the remaining sites.
IIP Certicate Below Doug Brown, Head of HR, presents colleagues at our Shefeld site with their IIP certicate.
ILM Awards Right Jonathan Kemp, Commercial Director, presents our managers with their ILM Awards in Leadership and Management.
32 A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Fire Safety Awareness Investors in People This year saw the first company-wide fire In 2010, A. G BARR achieved the prestigious safety awareness training.
As part of this, Investors in People IIP Bronze accreditation.
our sites reviewed their fire risk assessments This independent standard highlights where and all staff completed a fire safety module we perform well, as well as identifying areas launched through iLearn, our new online to improve.
Our Sheffield and Wednesbury learning portal.
sites achieved Silver accreditation in 2012, following excellent progress with their Driver Training development plans.
2012 was the second year of a three year programme to train all drivers of company We will continue to work with IIP and plan vehicles in safe and fuel efficient driving.
to re-assess a further six sites against the 150 drivers have now been trained.
This year, standard in 2013. we focused on members of the commercial team, HGV drivers and Direct to Store iLearn and Accredited Training Delivery drivers.
Our brand new, online learning portal, iLearn, went live in July 2012.
This supports Training and Development employees development plans by giving Our goal is to make A. G. BARR a great access to eBooks, video, text and audioplace to work both now and in the future.
We recognise that our employees are critical to the future success of the Company.
We In addition to iLearn, our employees can invest in our employees to increase their take accredited training programmes from capability to successfully deliver our business an extensive range relevant to their job objectives.
We aim to attract, retain and role.
Courses include Management Skills, develop outstanding people by creating a Personal Development and Health and culture where we support each other, where Safety.
During 2012, 38 employees from each individual is encouraged to reach their our sites in Cumbernauld, Forfar, Moston, full potential and where we recognise and Tredegar and Newcastle achieved a reward performance.
Every employee has recognised NVQ.
17 employees completed their own agreed personal learning and our in-house Award in Leadership and development plan to help them deliver Management programme, achieving the their personal, team and business goals.
Institute in Leadership and Management ILM Level 3 Qualification.
ILM Awards Alex Short, Finance Director, presents our managers with their ILM Awards in Leadership and Management.
A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2013 33 Improved Employee Communication Physical Activity in the Work Place Corporate Social Launch of A. G. BARR Intranet in 2012 We appointed a Physical Activity Champion Responsibility The A. G. BARR Intranet was launched in PAC at each of our 11 sites.
The PACs work Continued December 2012.
The Intranet allows us alongside their sites joint communication to provide a central point for all business committees to introduce initiatives which communication and to give employees easy encourage and support our employees to access to business information.
It is updated be more physically active in the workplace.
frequently with both company and general All our PACs attended a training workshop news, views and events.
Our employees where they reviewed progress to date and are also able and encouraged to share their launched a rolling calendar of physical own stories, successes and questions activity plans.
1901 Yards Challenge During the year we created the 1901 Yards Public Health Responsibility Deal As part of our ongoing commitment to active, Challenge, IRN-BRU was launched in 1901 healthy lifestyles, we have signed up as a encouraging all employees to walk, run or partner in the Public Health Responsibility cycle 1,901 yards as many times as they Deal, an initiative to support public health, chose during one week in June.
Collectively commercial and voluntary organisations our employees achieved over 10,000,000 to work together to deliver practical actions yards, with one group of 20 employees to improve public health.
completing a 3 day, 250 mile IRN-MAN charity cycle ride from our regional office This consists of five networks focused in Middlebrook to our Head Office in on food, health at work, physical activity, Cumbernauld.
They raised over 12,000 behaviour change and alcohol.
which was shared between The Princes Trust, The British Asian Trust and The Our main aims are to encourage our staff Prince & Princess of Wales Hospice, to be more physically active in the workplace three of The Princes Charities.
and help them to make healthy food choices whilst at work.
Healthier Staff Restaurants We take staff nutrition seriously, providing healthy options at our staff facilities and in our vending machines and chillers.
We gained early recognition for this in 2008 when the Scottish Consumer Council and Scottish Executive gave The Healthy Living Award to our Cumbernauld facility.
To build on this, we launched the Eat Well: Live Well: Work Well campaign, which includes full Guideline Daily Amounts values on all main course items, PAC workshop and a choice of low fat spreads and low salt A. G. BARR employees attending dishes from the new Balanced Choice menu.
our first PAC workshop at Bolton Wanderers Reebok Stadium.
34 A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Long Service Awards Our Consumers Calorie Reduction Pledge We are proud to have so Key activities To reduce the average calorific content many people who have built r Improved quality and food per 100ml of our portfolio of drinks by 5% their careers with us.
This safety performance by 2016 using 2011 values as the base year.
year, we celebrated 15, 25 and 30 years of service with r Support for the Calorie Reduction Pledge We also commit to monitor and report our the following employees: r Promoting lower calorie alternative drinks actions and progress on an annual basis.
r Supporting responsible advertising efforts 15 years service We will achieve this by a combination Christine Casey Thomas Crawford We believe that all our soft drinks should be of actions.
These include: Colin Garth enjoyed by consumers as part of a balanced r growing sales of our low calorie, mid Anthony Chadwick diet and a healthy, active lifestyle.
We offer calorie, water and fruit juice products as a Brenda Charleston a wide range of choice of soft drinks from proportion of our total sales by investing in June Drinkwater the sales and marketing of these products: Thomas Gallacher carbonated drinks and water, to juice drinks Karon Stirling r focusing new product development effort and fruit juices including sugar free alternatives.
Brian Dodds on low and mid calorie products: and Barbara Johnson Public Health Responsibility Deal r reducing the calorie content of our existing Deborah Clarke Jim Anderson In January 2013, we signed a specific Calorie drinks range where it is possible to do so.
George Dick Reduction Pledge, further demonstrating our Lesley Piper commitment to promoting healthy lifestyles as While we have no plans to reduce the sugar Graham Greig part of the Public Health Responsibility Deal.
content of regular IRN-BRU, we are making a Tom Watson greater variety of smaller pack sizes available.
25 years service We have always recognised our role in These include 250ml bottles as a single serve Colin Anderson helping our consumers exercise choice in alternative to 330ml cans and 500ml bottles, Mandy Molyneaux their diet.
In addition to offering sugar free and 1 litre bottles and 250ml bottle multipacks John McAlaney Corinne Howarth and reduced sugar in our portfolio we also as alternatives to larger take home formats.
David Law provide clear calorie guidelines on all our packs so consumers can make an informed We are promoting Sugar Free IRN-BRU as a 30 years service choice.
We sell our soft drinks in a wide great tasting alternative in order to increase Alexander Lindsay Paul Yarwood range of pack sizes and formats, from family its overall proportion of total IRN-BRU sales.
Lesley Fildes sharing size 2 litre bottles to 200ml packs Ronnie Todd designed to offer choice and allow informed Brenda McLeod consumption decisions.
Ross Hannah Billy Williamson IRN-MAN cycle ride Commercial Director Jonathan Kemp and 19 other employees cross the nishing line at Cumbernauld following their 250 mile IRN-MAN cycle ride.
A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2013 35 Advertising We believe that these certifications and Corporate Social A. G. BARR fully complies with both the letter the work we do to support them provide Responsibility and the spirit of the codes of practice set out us with a good basis for maintaining high Continued by the Advertising Standards Authority in the standards as well as an effective continuous Broadcast Committee of Advertising Practice improvement mechanism with regard to code for broadcast advertising and the Quality food safety.
Committee of Advertising Practice code for non-broadcast advertising.
Quality control complaints per million units produced During the year, we joined the Incorporated 3.5 Society of British Advertisers ISBA to maintain our expertise in advertising 3 legislation and compliance.
ISBA represents 2.5 British advertisers and develops policy to 2 ensure the industry always acts responsibly within advertising codes of practice and 1.5 implements all new EU and U. K. legislation.
1 Business Continuity 0.5 We have maintained the British Standard 0 Feb Mar Apr Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Jan 25999 Business Continuity Management 2012 2013 System certificate across our business.
Procurement During the course of 2012 we carried out The selection process for all new and further simulated product recall exercises existing suppliers includes a company in order to test our key continuity processes.
assessment, audit and full risk assessment for each material to be supplied.
We expect to transition from BS 25999 to the equivalent International Standard We continue to require our suppliers to maintain ISO 22301 over the course of 2013. the GM free status of our raw materials.
Quality and Food Safety A. G. BARR is committed to ensuring that We have maintained the externally it supplies high quality soft drinks that are audited Quality Management System ISO sourced and manufactured in a fair, ethical 9001 certification and retained the Grade and environmentally responsible way.
We Brick by Brick Appeal A certification status against the British work closely with our suppliers to ensure that Pictured are members of the Retail Consortiums Global Food this objective is met.
We maintain rigorous Scottish sales team who helped Standard, version 6. ethical policies across our procurement to raise over 30,000 for the Prince & Princess of Wales Hospice operations based on Institute of Purchase Glasgow Brick by Brick Appeal.
From left to right: Stevie Nixon, Chris Turner, Claire Dalgleish, Ian Johnstone and Liz Ross.
36 A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Our Community The Princes Charities 2012 Support Key achievements The Princes Trust r Continued support for good causes This is the fifth year of our partnership with in cash, in kind and with time The Princes Trust.
We donate over 40,000 r Giving opportunities for our employees per annum to support its work, and our to get involved in their communities employees engage in a number of additional r Focus support on what is needed in fundraising and training activities with our communities the charity.
r A key focus on education, both in the U. K. and overseas The Prince & Princess of Wales Hospice Glasgow: Brick by Brick Appeal 2012 We typically donate about 1% of our annual We have been proud supporters of The Prince & Princess of Wales Hospice Glasgow for over profits in cash, products, merchandise, 15 years.
Our support includes sponsoring donations and employees time, in support of charities, good causes and community the charitys annual Sportsmans Dinner, groups.
We spread this across a broad which raises considerable sums for the charity.
spectrum of activities, from contributions In 2012 the dinner raised over 80,000. to national charities such as The Big Issue Scotland and The Princes Trust, to many The charity was set up to help cancer patients small and medium sized community groups achieve the best quality of life possible in throughout the U. K. whatever time remains for them.
It also offers respite care and emotional support to families We have continued our support of the A. G. and carers in the most difficult of times.
The fund offers additional support to community and charity This year, our focus was on supporting organisations in the immediate area of our the charitys Brick by Brick Appeal 2012, eleven U. K. sites and gives our employees to raise the money needed to build a brand opportunities to offer direct support to the new hospice in Glasgow.
We raised over causes that are most important to them.
30,000 towards the building of a room In 2012, our employees facilitated cash in the new hospice, with employees from across the business involved in numerous donations to many organisations across fundraising events including sky dives, the U. K. including the Willowbrook Hospice in Prescott, Northfield Day Centre in Moston, boxing events, raffles, party nights, cake The Marie Curie Cancer Care Hospice sales, bungee jumps and cycle rides.
Willowbrook Hospice Left in Elswick, Newcastle, Leukaemia and Willowbrook Hospice, Lymphoma Research, Blaenau Gwent Prescott offers care and support for adults with life-limiting illnesses.
Young Stars Musical Theatre Company, Queenzieburn Senior Citizens Club, East Flying Start Award Glasgow Parkinsons Support Group, Jonathan Kemp, Commercial Director, The Taylans Project and St Lukes Hospice.
presented the A. G. BARR Flying Start Award to Marie Cope at the 2012 Princes Trust Scotland Celebrate Success Awards in Glasgow.
A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2013 37 The British Asian Trust The aim of these schemes is to support Corporate Social 2012 was our third year of partnering community-wide efforts to prepare young Responsibility The British Asian Trust.
We raise 20,000 people for the challenges of adulthood and Continued through sponsorship support each year.
The schemes give young people an Founded in 2007 by HRH The Prince of idea of the range of opportunities available Wales, the Trust has so far raised over to them if they decide they would like to 2 million to help 800,000 people.
The pursue a career with A. G. BARR.
Trust supports specially selected charities in Bangladesh, India, Pakistan, Sri Lanka Our educational partnership with Lenzie and the U. K. through empowering local Academy has grown this year to include major communities to transform lives.
projects on our new product development.
Teachers working in partnership with our employees have delivered classes on the Education Partnerships science, taste, aroma and colour testing of We continue to work in partnership with local schools as part of the Enterprise in Education soft drinks.
Students developed a new drinks and Local Partnership Agreement Schemes.
concept, which resulted in a new special edition product that was a great success In 2012 we increased our participation in in the market.
We continue to support the the scheme by becoming a partner of our curriculum for excellence by providing real local secondary school, Our Ladys High, life projects, such as mock interviews, Cumbernauld.
Our HR team have already sponsorship of the Academys Food and helped a number of pupils at the school with Drink Challenge and classes to develop mock job interviews and interview feedback an understanding of business dynamics.
as part of the partnership scheme.
The Local Partnership Agreement is part of the Scottish Governments strategy for developing enterprise in education.
Our employees are engaged in a range of learning activities with the schools, including Andrew Memmott visits to our Cumbernauld site to view our Operations Director and Chair of the Environmental Committee state of the art manufacturing, distribution and warehousing facilities.
Lenzie Academy Head Teacher Brian Paterson and pupils from Lenzie Academy pictured with a donated IRN-BRU mountain bike which was rafed by the school to raise funds for a school in Malawi.
38 A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Increasing Investment.
The new site at Milton Keynes which will be operational in the summer of 2013, will initially support a high speed canning line andthen potentially further PET production.
ft facility, incorporating manufacturing, logistics and offices, will allow us to increase our operational capacity, build on our high levels of customer service, whilst also increasing our business continuity provision and providing capacity for long term growth.
Crossley Project Milton Keynes Timelapse To view a video of the construction project simply scan this QR code with your smartphone using one of the free scanner apps available.
