Overview Strategic focus Business review Governance Financial statements Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13 35 EMPLOYEES A high performing, engaged workforce is critical to Premier Farnells success in meeting its strategic objectives for the benefit of all its stakeholders.
Through its employee initiatives, described below, the Group seeks to ensure that it attracts, retains and develops its people around the globe.
Performance review process Diversity and inclusion Effective performance management is critical in enabling our employees Our employees are tapped from as diverse a pool as possible.
toperform at their best and contribute optimally to the organisation.
Ouremployee base proudly reects the diversity of the various countries OurGroup-wide performance review process has been instrumental in weoperate in around the globe.
We continually seek to recruit, develop shaping our journey towards a high performance culture.
All employees andemploy throughout the organisation as well, to place suitably qualied, participate in our annual performance review process which links each capable and experienced people, irrespective of age, race, ethnicity, individual employees work with the Companys strategic and operational gender, religion or sexual orientation.
We are fully supportive of the objectives.
The performance review process also incorporates our key benetsof diversity in the workplace.
development planning processes so that we continually address We believe that a diverse workforce ensures richness in both business and performance and ongoing professional and personal development.
culture as we build an organisation that best reects our global business Wealso consider the performance review process to be an ideal platform presence.
As we nurture diversity within our talent and leadership pool, for engaging and motivating employees, as performance management weare also ensuring we build a future team that best reects our client, takes place all-year round.
As part of our continuous improvement investor and general employee base.
The diversity of backgrounds has philosophy, we also ensure that we equip our people managers with the given us higher levels of insight into the needs of the various communities necessary skills such as coaching, to bring out the best in their teams.
in all the geographies in which we operate, providing us with a wealth of Wereward andrecognise employees based on their performance and knowledge and experience to best deliver service excellence.
We have also contribution tothe success of the business and provide both competitive continued to leverage our internal development networks aimed at and fair remuneration in every country and region in which we operate.
addressing the needs and accelerating the development and engagement of our female and Generation Y populations.
Our internal Mentoring Learning and development We are continually building on our commitment to enable our people to We believe that a diverse workforce reach their full potential through learning, training and development.
ensures richness in both business and Weinvest in the development of our employees even throughout tough economic cycles, providing a suite of various training and development culture as we build an organisation that options and avenues, depending on needs, both individual and best reflects our global business presence.
organisational, identied during our performance review process.
Local, functional and global learning programmes are available for all levels of employees and are available through a blend of classroom training, Programme is now in its 6th year and we pair high-potential employees e-learning, coaching, mentoring, and direct on-the-job learning.
We review with mentors across and within every function and geography, ensuring the needs at all levels on a regular basis and proactively look for solutions to nurturing of a global culture.
We also match our high-potential female ensure that optimal learning is achieved in every region of the world.
leaders, both existing and future, with senior level mentors.
Mentoring continues to be a powerful tool for the development of our key and emerging talent pool with the senior team having internal, external and Our online learning centre provides all board mentors.
employees with a variety of material Employee communications and resources to aid professional and Our people have access to information about our business, strategy and personal development.
operational performance, and our connection to the world through various internal communication channels.
This includes our global intranet, weekly Our learning and development offer includes leadership development, newsletters and various townhalls, with local business context, content and andvarious programmes and learning tools such as 360 degree feedback translation where appropriate.
To support our emphasis on building a high and mentoring are available for first line supervisors, managers and leaders performance culture, all employees in all regions and countries participate of people.
Our online learning centre provides all employees with a variety in our annual kick-off meetings, which are conducted at the start of the of material and resources to aid professional and personal development.
The theme of the annual kick-offs provides clarity on the key Thisincludes customised learning programmes delivered in partnership strategic imperatives and allows the shaping of the objectives cascade with a leading business school.
We also provide a comprehensive process which highlights the individuals expected contribution towards induction module available online so that every new employee in the delivering the Companys strategy.
Our ongoing business updates, worldhas equal opportunity to learn and grow when they join us.
throughregular, consistent and open communication, are key to engaging Our formal career development and organisational planning processes our people by keeping them informed.
As we have grown, our people have also grown.
We offer job postings internally in line with our belief of nurturing and developing our people internally.
We have continued to evolve our performance review process to cover development planning that caters to employees longer term aspirational and career goals.
Premier Farnell 36 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13 EMPLOYEES Our values Senior leadership forums Core values are central to the long term success of any organisation and As with previous years, we are continuing the Groups commitment to bind it together with an operating framework for employees.
In short, include representation and participation from a cross section of employees values help describe how we behave around here.
These forums consist of quarterly meetings at which the strategy and key issues related to its implementation are This year the Global Executive Team developed and launched a rened set discussed, and participants have the opportunity to learn about and of values which better reect our desired culture.
These have been widely provide inputs to our business progress.
Our forums provide an arena for embraced and are now embedded as a guide for how the Company the exchange of relevant and appropriate information and constructive operates and makes decisions.
dialogue between executive management and leadership regarding where At Premier Farnell we believe: the business is, and where it intends to go.
t Customers and suppliers are at the heart of everything we do iCan recognition t Only by working together can we deliver results Our internal online reward and recognition programme iCan is now in its t We must innovate, learning and adapting faster than anyone else third year and it continues to enjoy a large degree of success.
In addition tothe more formal means of rewarding and recognising performance and t Developing our people is crucial to our success contribution, our people are also enabled and empowered to do the same t Integrity and Trust are fundamental to our culture for their colleagues and peers.
The iCan system of nominating deserving employees for virtual thank-yous and specic rewards reective of We hear what our employees say, feel and think through both the survey contribution and impact has proven to be a highly effective mechanism and through direct feedback channels to the CEO.
Even in challenging foralso engaging employees.
The iCan nominations, allocated at the economic times, we are rmly committed to understanding and responding discretion of managers and colleagues, provide an opportunity to to the internal pulse of our people.
recognise and reward employees and a way to build engagement andempowerment.
Your voice all employee engagement survey Our 6th all-employee engagement survey was conducted in 2012 13, Great place to work providing a mechanism for detailed feedback on many aspects of what it is To complement our journey towards building a high performance culture, like to work for the Company.
Despite a challenging economic climate, we we are also continuing with our initiative to create an internal environment rmly believe in the sustained power of listening to our people.
This year within Premier Farnell as a great place to work.
There are several global was no different.
Specic and concrete action plans are derived, built and activities that transcend national and cultural barriers, such as the Premier implemented to continually improve the organisation, leveraging on the key Farnell Ofce Olympics, our support of three Paralympics athletes, and engagement drivers uncovered as a result of the survey.
This year the key various recreational events.
At the same time, we have also encouraged engagement drivers are: Training & Development: Leadership: Strategy & culturally specic events that resonate with the local population.
Performance related share option scheme Despite a challenging economic climate, Building on the Groups UK savings related share option scheme, we we firmly believe in the sustained power of havenow extended our share option reward schemes to other parts of ourbusiness in all regions.
We strongly believe in including employees listening to our people.
forparticipation in the Groups performance by providing a stake in our future together.
One of the focus areas that emerges from these findings will centre on the critical role that the leader and manager will play in driving superior business performance as well as enhancing engagement, which links back to every aspect of our human resource strategy.
