Exploration expense and pre-licence expenditure costs amounted to US$106.2 million production 2012: US$157.7 million and US$30.1 million 2012: US$29.2 million respectively.
This includes the write-off relating to the Ca Voi well in Vietnam, the exit from the Blbaer kboepd discovery in Norway, and the relinquishment of various exploration licences in the UK as part of Premiers portfolio management programme.
Net administrative costs were US$20.2 million 2012: US$24.2 million.
58 Operating profits were US$352.0 million 2012: US$455.2 million, the reduction mainly attributable to impairment charges described above.
Operating profits include credits from receipts for business interruption insurance on the Kyle field of US$36.9 million, recorded as other operating income.
Finance costs and other charges, net of interest revenue and other gains, were US$65.4 million 2012: US$107.6 million.
While financial charges, net of capitalised borrowing costs, remained at similar levels, interest revenue, finance and other gains were significantly higher at US$33.0 million mainly due to sterling forward purchase contracts and interest income from partner funding on the Solan field development.
The charge for the unwinding of the discounted decommissioning reserves provision increased to US$36.4 million 2012: US$33.2 million reflecting increased provisions for future decommissioning as industry cost estimates rise.
mmboe Pre-tax profits were US$285.4 million 2012: US$359.9 million.
The group tax charge for 2013 is US$51.4 million, an effective tax rate of 18 per cent of pre-tax profits.
The groups theoretical tax rate is close to 50 per cent, which includes a higher taxation 259 rate in the UK being offset by lower rates in Vietnam and Pakistan.
The 2013 group tax charge is reduced as a result of a deferred tax credit in the UK, mainly arising from the Ring Fence Expenditure Supplement allowance.
The group has an estimated US$2.3 billion of carried forward UK corporation tax allowances, which will be utilised against UK ring fence profits over time, and are therefore reflected in the deferred tax asset position at the year-end.
Profit after tax is US$234.0 million 2012: US$252.0 million resulting in a basic earnings per share of 44.2 cents 2012: 47.9 cents.
resources Dividend and buyback The Board is proposing a dividend of 5 pence per share 2012: 5 pence per share.
mmboe This dividend is subject to shareholder approval at the AGM, to be held in London on 14 May 2014.
If approved, the dividend will be paid on 21 May 2014 to shareholders on the register as of 22 April 2014.
A dividend reinvestment plan DRIP is available 535 to shareholders on the UK register who would prefer to invest their dividends in the shares of the company.
The last date to elect for the DRIP in respect of this dividend is 26 April 2014.
The Board has approved a share buyback programme of up to 75.0 million, the maximum currently permitted under the groups banking facilities.
This programme will be executed by the groups brokers in accordance with a series of parameters set by the Board including the level of share price relative to underlying asset value.
The board will review the programme on a quarterly basis.
46 Premier Oil plc 2013 Annual Report and Financial Statements FINANCIAL REVIEW continued Cash flow profit after tax US$ million 2013 2012 Operating cash flow 832.6 808.2 million Less: Pre-licence exploration costs 30.1 29.2 Net cash from operating activities 802.5 779.0 US$234 Net cash from operating activities was US$802.5 million 2012: US$779.0 million after accounting for tax payments of US$228.3 million 2012: US$233.1 million and pre-licence costs of US$30.1 million 2012: US$29.2 million.
The higher cash flow mainly reflects commencement of production from the Huntington field in the UK.
Capital expenditure in 2013 totalled US$878.0 million 2012: US$771.6 million.
Capital expenditure US$ million 2013 2012 Fields development projects 603.7 569.0 Exploration and evaluation 260.5 187.1 Other 13.8 15.5 Total 878.0 771.6 The principal development projects were the Solan, Huntington and Rochelle fields in the UK, the Naga and Pelikan fields in Indonesia and the Dua field in Vietnam.
In addition, US$185.9 million funding support was provided to our partner in the Solan project.
Repayment of this loan will commence once the project achieves first oil.
Exploration and evaluation spend includes costs principally related to the exploration drilling and pre-development activities in the UK, Vietnam, the Falkland Islands, Norway and Brazil.
Acquisitions and disposals operating cash flow In July, Premier announced that it had agreed to acquire an additional 10 per cent interest in licence PL407 in Norway for a consideration of US$5.5 million.
PL407 contains million the Bream field where Premier now holds a 50 per cent interest and is also the operator.
In addition, Premier sold 30 per cent of the adjacent licence PL406 containing the Mackerel discovery for a consideration of US$5.0 million, contingent upon a project development US$833 approval in the area.
These two transactions aligned the partnership interests across the two licences and were completed following government approval in the year.
Also in July, Premier completed the sale of its 30 per cent operated interest in Block 07 03 offshore Vietnam.
The consideration for the sale comprised upfront cash of US$45.0 million with additional contingent payments of US$55.0 million dependent on future exploration appraisal and development milestones on the block.
In August, Premier reached agreement to sell licences PL378 and PL378B in Norway for a total consideration of US$16.0 million.
These licences contained the Grosbeak discovery.
The transaction was completed during the year.
Balance sheet position Net debt at 31 December 2013 amounted to US$1,452.9 million 2012: US$1,110.4 million, with cash resources of US$448.9 million 2012: US$187.4 million.
Net debt US$ million 2013 2012 Cash and cash equivalents 448.9 187.4 Convertible bonds 224.2 220.2 Other debt 1,677.6 1,077.6 Total net debt 1,452.9 1,110.4 Other debt includes 120.0 million of long-term senior notes, which are valued at year-end US$1.38: spot rate.
These will be redeemed at an average of US$1.39: due to cross currency swap arrangements.
It also included 250.0 million of UK retail bond and long-term bank financing which are valued at year-end US$1.66: spot rate.
These will be redeemed at an average of US$1.64: due to cross currency swap arrangements.
Premier Oil plc 2013 Annual Report and Financial Statements 47 During the fourth quarter, the group took advantage of favourable debt market capital investment conditions and historically low interest rates to raise new debt of over US$700 million, the proceeds of which were utilised for general corporate purposes including the million repayment of existing bank debt.
This new debt consisted of long-term senior notes, long-term bank loans and retail bonds.
Maturities are between 2017 and 2020 with an average current cost of 3.4 per cent.
US$878 The groups principal bank facilities amounting to US$1.5 billion mature in the first half of 2015.
As at 31 December drawn letters of credit under the facilities were US$328 million and there were no drawings under the cash facility.
Cash and undrawn facilities, including letter of credit facilities, were approximately US$1.6 billion at 31 December.
Financial risk management Commodity prices The Boards commodity pricing and hedging policy continues to be to lock in oil and gas prices for a proportion of expected future production at a level which ensures that investment programmes for sanctioned projects are adequately funded.
Where investment requirements are well covered by cash flows without hedging, it is recognised that there may be an advantage, in periods of strong commodity prices, in locking in a portion of forward production at favourable prices on a rolling forward 12-18 month basis.
At year-end, 4.4 mmbbls of Dated Brent oil were hedged through forward sales for 2014 at an average price of US$103.9 bbl.
This volume represents approximately 40 per cent of the groups expected liquids entitlement production in 2014.
192,000 metric tonnes mt of HSFO, which drives our gas contract pricing in Singapore, has been sold forward for 2014 at an average price of US$611 mt.
These hedges cover approximately 32 per cent of our expected Indonesian gas entitlement production for 2014.
During 2013, forward oil sales of 3.2 mmbbls, and fuel oil collars and forward sales for 144,000 mt expired at a net cost of US$0.8 million 2012: US$60.7 million which has been offset against sales revenue.
cash and Foreign exchange undrawn facilities Premiers functional and reporting currency is US dollars.
Exchange rate exposures relate only to local currency receipts, and expenditures within individual business units.
Local billion currency needs are acquired on a short-term basis.
At the year-end, the group recorded a mark-to-market gain of US$13.1 million on its outstanding foreign exchange contracts 2012: US$1.5 million.
In 2013, the group issued 150.0 million bonds, 20.0 million US$1.6 long-term senior loan notes and 100.0 million term loan which have been hedged under cross currency swaps in US dollars at average fixed rates of US$1.64: and US$1.34:.
Interest rates The group has various financing instruments including senior notes, convertible bonds, UK retail bonds, term loans and revolving credit facilities.
73 per cent of total borrowings is fixed or has been fixed using the interest rate swap markets.
On average, therefore, the cost of drawn funds for the year was 4.7 per cent.
Mark-to-market credits on interest rate swaps amounted to US$6.4 million 2012: credit of US$2.5 million, which are recorded as movements in other comprehensive income.
Cash balances are invested in short-term bank deposits and AAA rated liquidity funds, subject to Board approved limits and with a view to spreading counterparty risks.
Insurance The group undertakes a significant insurance programme to reduce the potential impact of physical risks associated with its exploration, development and production activities.
Business interruption cover is purchased for a proportion of the cash flow from producing fields for a maximum period of 18 months.
As previously reported, following exceptionally bad weather in December 2011, the Banff FPSO which handled Kyle production lost its anchors and the risers were severely damaged, stopping Kyle production.
A claim for business interruption insurance and property damage was negotiated with the underwriters and settled during 2013, the monies received in total amounting to US$55.0 million were offset against the capital expenditure to redevelop the field US$18.1 million or credited to the income statement as business interruption income US$36.9 million.
48 Premier Oil plc 2013 Annual Report and Financial Statements FINANCIAL REVIEW continued Going concern The group monitors its capital position and its liquidity risk regularly throughout the year to ensure it has sufficient funds to meet forecast cash requirements.
Sensitivities are run to reflect the latest expectations of expenditures, forecast oil and gas prices, and other negative economic scenarios.
This is done to manage the risk of funds shortfalls or covenant breaches and to ensure the groups ability to continue as a going concern.
The group will refinance a significant portion of its financing facilities and letter of credit facilities expiring in March and April 2015 and it has commenced discussions with its relationship banks with this in mind.
Based on our understanding of the bank market appetite and financial position of the company, the Board feels confident that the group will be able to refinance its maturing facilities on reasonable terms.
Despite economic volatility, the directors consider that the expected operating cash flows of the group and the headroom provided by the available borrowing facilities give them confidence that the group has adequate resources to continue as a going concern.
As a result, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the 2013 Annual Report and Financial Statements.
Business risks Premiers business may be impacted by various risks leading to failure to achieve strategic targets for growth, loss of financial standing, cash flow and earnings, and reputation.
Not all of these risks are wholly within the companys control and the company may be affected by risks which are not yet manifest or reasonably foreseeable.
Effective risk management is critical to achieving our strategic objectives and protecting our personnel, assets, the communities where we operate and with whom we interact and our reputation.
Premier therefore has a comprehensive approach to risk management.
A critical part of the risk management process is to assess the impact and likelihood of risks occurring so that appropriate mitigation plans can be developed and implemented.
Risk severity matrices are developed across Premiers business to facilitate assessment of risk.
The specific risks identified by project and asset teams, business units and corporate functions are consolidated and amalgamated to provide an oversight of key risk factors at each level, from operations through business unit management to the Executive Committee and the Board.
For all the known risks facing the business, Premier attempts to minimise the likelihood and mitigate the impact.
According to the nature of the risk, Premier may elect to take or tolerate risk, treat risk with controls and mitigating actions, transfer risk to third parties, or terminate risk by ceasing particular activities or operations.
Premier has a zero tolerance to financial fraud or ethics non-compliance, and ensures that HSES risks are managed to levels that are as low as reasonably practicable, whilst managing exploration and development risks on a portfolio basis.
The group has identified its principal risks for the next 12 months as being: Health, safety, environment and security HSES : Production and development delivery: Exploration success and reserves addition: Host government political and fiscal risks: Commodity price volatility: Organisational capability: Joint venture partner alignment: and Financial discipline and governance.
Further information detailing the way in which these risks are managed is provided on pages 72 to 73.
Premier Oil plc 2013 Annual Report and Financial Statements 49 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW A social licence to operate PREMIER RECOGNISES THAT OUR SOCIAL LICENCE TO OPERATE AS A WORLD CLASS EXPLORATION AND PRODUCTION COMPANY HAS TO BE EARNED THROUGH RESPONSIBLE BEHAVIOUR.
WE ARE COMMITTED TO APPLYING THE HIGH ETHICAL STANDARDS NECESSARY TO MAINTAIN OUR REPUTATION.
Implementing best practice standards enables us to access new licences, enter new countries, build lasting relationships with local communities, and ultimately maintain our licence everywhere we operate.
We have rigorous policies and procedures in place to ensure that our investment and operational decisions take account of the impact our activities might have on local communities and the environment.
These policies cover business ethics, human rights, human resources, health, safety and environment, and community investment.
50 Premier Oil plc 2013 Annual Report and Financial Statements CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW continued All policies are compliant with applicable legislation and take due account of appropriate standards, industry guidance and relevant best practice.
We commission independent reviews and audits of our policies and supporting management systems in order to assure compliance with the requirements of the following bodies: the Global Reporting Initiative GRI : the International Petroleum Industry Environmental Conservation Association IPIECA Oil and Gas Industry Guidance on Voluntary Sustainability Reporting 2010 : the Carbon Disclosure Project: FTSE4Good and the United Nations Global Compact of which Premier is a signatory.
The summary below gives an overview of how we have applied and delivered on our stated policies in 2013.
Additional details are reported in our Corporate Responsibility Report 2013, which is aligned with the GRIs Sustainability Reporting Guidelines.
The GRI guidelines represent the most comprehensive and authoritative guidance available to oil and gas companies on sustainability reporting.
The GRI has confirmed that our Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 is prepared in accordance with its Sustainability Reporting Guidelines G3.1 at Application Level A, representing an increased level of profile disclosures since our 2012 report.
It is our intention to adopt the GRIs G4 guidelines in the next reporting cycle, reflecting our ongoing commitment to continuous improvement and enhanced disclosure.
Further details of our policies and procedures relating to corporate responsibility are available on our website at www.
Business ethics A CULTURE OF INTEGRITY, HONESTY AND FAIRNESS IS EMBEDDED THROUGHOUT PREMIER, AND WE ARE COMMITTED TO TRANSPARENCY, RESPONSIBILITY AND COMPLIANCE IN ALL OUR BUSINESS ACTIVITIES.
WE REFUSE TO ENGAGE IN ANY ACTIVITIES, INCLUDING BRIBERY OR CORRUPTION IN ANY FORM, WHICH UNDERMINE THE LEGITIMATE BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT.
Our Global Code of Conduct Premiers Global Code of Conduct and associated due diligence process which provides assurance regarding compliance with the Code is embedded throughout Premier.
The Code is available in both English and Bahasa Indonesia for those employees and contractors based at our operations in Indonesia, and supplementary explanatory material is available in Vietnamese for our staff in Vietnam.
The Code is compliant with the United Kingdom Bribery Act, and covers: anti-corruption: facilitation payments: gifts and hospitality given and received : charitable and political donations: and appointment of intermediaries.
Scope of application The Global Code of Conduct applies to employees at every level in the business and those associated with Premier such as contractors, all of whom are required to behave ethically and with integrity.
This includes adhering to national laws in the countries in which we operate, explore or have joint venture interests.
All employees and associates are required to perform their duties in accordance with the Code, and to disclose any potential and actual conflicts between personal interests and those of Premier.
The Code requires all transactions relating to Premier to be recorded in proper detail with appropriate supporting evidence and in accordance with applicable accounting and reporting standards.
Any breach of the Code will result in disciplinary action and, in extreme cases, will result in instant dismissal.
The Audit and Risk Committee assists the Board in monitoring ethical business conduct as well as the effectiveness of the Code and its supporting policies.
Premier Oil plc 2013 Annual Report and Financial Statements 51 Training and monitoring Premiers legal team continued to deliver a comprehensive set of workshops on the application of the Global Code of Conduct and its requirements to all business units worldwide during 2013.
Each of our business units is analysed for risks relating to corruption, some being more exposed than others depending on geography and area of activities.
The content of our training takes account of local nuances and cultural norms, in order to equip local teams to manage risks related to business ethics.
A briefing on the content of the Code is included in the induction programme for all new employees and consultants and all new employees are expected to complete an ethics training programme within one month of joining the company.
Whistle-blowing hotline Premier encourages employees, contractors and agency workers to voice their concerns to line managers if they think the company or anyone working on behalf of the company has not acted in accordance with the Global Code of Conduct.
Premier provides a confidential and well-publicised independent third party reporting hotline for employees who feel unable to raise concerns via other procedures.
This hotline is available 24 hours a day, seven days a week.
No reports were made through this service in 2013.
No incidents of corruption or non-compliance with the Code were identified in 2013.
Human rights PREMIERS HUMAN RIGHTS POLICY EXPLICITLY RECOGNISES THE MORAL, REPUTATIONAL AND OPERATIONAL VALUE OF RESPECTING AND PROMOTING HUMAN RIGHTS, BOTH INSIDE AND OUTSIDE OUR COMPANY.
THE POLICY ADDRESSES THE RIGHTS OF OUR EMPLOYEES AS WELL AS OUR EXTERNAL STAKEHOLDERS, IN PARTICULAR THE LOCAL COMMUNITIES WHERE WE OPERATE.
Our Human Rights Policy has been benchmarked against best practice standards including the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights and the Global Reporting Initiative as well as the position of our peers in the oil and gas sector.
Respecting and promoting human rights includes the need to: engage with stakeholders in our efforts to respect and promote these rights: recognise the development and cultural rights of local communities as basic human rights: recognise our responsibility to respect the rights of indigenous peoples in all countries where we operate: help prevent, manage and resolve conflict where we are in a position to do so: ensure we are in no way involved or associated with the issue of forced, involuntary or child labour: ensure our security practices do not undermine the human rights of local communities: encourage joint venture partners to adopt the principles in this policy: consider withdrawal from relationships with business partners where there is no evidence that they are moving towards the application of international human rights standards: and use our legitimate influence to promote human rights outside our areas of operation.
Premiers Human Rights Policy is based on the fundamental rights set out in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, and is guided by the rights enshrined in the core labour conventions of the International Labour Organization and the principles of the United Nations Global Compact.
Our policy addresses the rights of our employees including their health and safety, security arrangements and working conditions and the development rights of our external stakeholders, in particular local communities.
We will apply for corporate membership of the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights in 2014.
Further detail on our performance and alignment with our Human Rights Policy is included in the Corporate Responsibility Report 2013.
There were no reported violations of our Human Rights Policy in 2013.
52 Premier Oil plc 2013 Annual Report and Financial Statements CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW continued Employees PREMIER IS COMMITTED TO PROVIDING STAFF WITH FAIR AND COMPETITIVE TERMS OF EMPLOYMENT AND SAFE WORKING CONDITIONS.
WE ARE AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES EMPLOYER.
THIS ENTAILS RESPECTING INDIVIDUALS REGARDLESS OF RACE, CREED, COLOUR, NATIONALITY, ETHNIC ORIGIN, AGE, RELIGION OR BELIEF, GENDER, SEXUAL ORIENTATION, MARITAL STATUS OR DISABILITY.
When recruiting, developing and dealing with employees and service providers, we will treat people fairly, equally and without prejudice.
We also respect the right of individual employees to join a legitimate trade union.
Through training and appraisal, we encourage staff to develop their own professional skills to the advantage of both the individual and the company.
This sentiment is embedded in our employment policies, which apply to all permanent, contractual and temporary staff, and also to all job applicants.
During 2013, we continued to roll out our People Strategy across the organisation, supporting Premiers continued growth in exploration and production activities.
The People Strategy promotes efficiency, innovation, knowledge sharing and leadership, all of which are essential to the delivery of our business goals.
The strategy is accompanied by a suite of updated tools and processes to facilitate the recruitment, development, deployment and retention of high calibre employees.
There were no reported violations of our employment policies in 2013.
There were also no reported incidents of discrimination, and no use was made of our formal grievance procedures.
Gender Age group Country Male Female 18-25 26-40 41-50 51-65 Over 65 Falkland Islands 22 9 13 10 8 Indonesia 340 58 2 209 135 52 Norway 21 10 11 12 6 2 Pakistan 13 1 6 6 2 Singapore 5 8 3 5 5 United Kingdom 161 76 5 101 70 58 3 Vietnam 37 46 4 50 22 7 Total 599 208 11 393 260 138 5 Composition of senior management defined as Gd5 and above 94% 6% 4% 49% 45% 2% Premier Oil plc 2013 Annual Report and Financial Statements 53 Health and safety PREMIER IS COMMITTED TO OPERATING RESPONSIBLY IN ORDER TO ENSURE THE SAFETY OF EVERYONE INVOLVED IN OUR OPERATIONS AND TO PROTECT THE ENVIRONMENT.
WE WILL NEVER KNOWINGLY COMPROMISE OUR HEALTH AND SAFETY STANDARDS TO MEET OPERATIONAL OBJECTIVES.
Our health, safety and environment HSE Policy recognises the need to: encourage open and honest communication: seek ways to continually improve our performance: assess and manage risks: provide appropriate resources: maintain clean, safe and healthy workplaces: investigate and learn from any incidents: plan and prepare for potential emergencies: maintain high quality documented systems and processes: seek external certification of key management systems: and meet or surpass statutory requirements.
We review and update our corporate HSES Management System on an ongoing basis to facilitate continuous improvement in health and safety performance.
Premiers Golden Rules support the HSES Management System.
They are designed to help address the most common causes of serious incidents at operating facilities in our industry.
Reinforcement of the Golden Rules during 2013 has been a key part of our commitment to excellence and continuous improvement in health and safety performance.
Every Premier employee is accountable and has a personal responsibility for health, safety and environment.
Employees are also expected to stop the job if they see or believe something that is unsafe or can be better controlled.
Premier has been certified to OHSAS 18001 and ISO 14001 since 2004 for global drilling, and since 2006 for our Indonesian production operations.
Our Chim So production operation in Vietnam was audited by ERM CVS in December 2013.
The facility is progressing well towards full certification, with a third audit scheduled for 2014.
The Anoa and Gajah Baru sites in Indonesia and the Balmoral site in the North Sea retained their drilling certifications in 2013.
