24 PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Corporate Social Responsibility Doing good business We are committed to conducting our  and care in so far as the social and environmental impact of our activities is concerned.
Health Environment safety and Safety We are committed to protecting the The health and safety of our consumers We provide safe working environments environment for the benefit ofour is our paramount consideration.
We will for all our employees, contractors employees and the public atlarge.
never compromise it for any reason.
see page 26 see page 30 see page 31 4. Business 5.
Local conduct employees community We treat each other with respect and andethics and charity all employees have the right to expect that their dignity will be fully respected We demonstrate ethical behaviour We recognise our responsibilities to in the workplace.
inallour business activities and in all society, and in particular, to the local see page 33 our dealings with third parties.
communities in which we operate.
Weare committed to enriching the see page 32 livesof our local communities.
see page 34 25 PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Doing good business We consider the principles of CSR to be Doing Good Business Introduction integral to how the Group conducts its Our CSR values and principles are set operations and key to the results which the outinaStatement on Corporate Social At PZ Cussons we believe passionately in Group has delivered in the past and to its Responsibility, called Doing Good Business, doing Good Business.
It is something we continued success and development in the of which there are six principal areas in have been doing since the Company was future.
In particular, we understand the which our operations have the greatest founded and it is a key part of our culture potential benefits which may be derived potential to impact either favourably or and who we are.
We are committed to where CSR activities are aligned to the adversely upon our stakeholders.
They are: conducting our business with integrity concerns and demands of our stakeholders andwith care in so far as the social and including our shareholders, customers, The environment environmental impact of our activities consumers, suppliers, employees and the Health and safety isconcerned.
We aim to make a positive wider community and we listen to and take Consumer safety impact on society through the products account of those concerns in shaping our Business conduct and ethics which we sell, through the way in which our business strategies and practices.
We also Our employees products are designed, manufactured and recognise that companies are subject to Local community and charity packaged and through the contributions increasing regulation, particularly in respect wemake to the communities in which of environmental issues, and we believe Recognising that doing the right thing weoperate.
thatthe pursuit of a proactive and positive inbusiness can sometimes seem to involve CSR policy reduces the risk of adverse difficult decisions, the Statement is This report sets out the Groups values regulatory action.
intended to provide everyone throughout andprinciples in relation to key aspects the Group, at all levels within the business, ofcorporate social responsibility CSR The PZ Cussons Plc Corporate guidance on how to conduct their business andhow these have been put into practice Social Responsibility Committee activities and on what good business looks during the year.
CSR describes how like at PZ Cussons.
It is also intended to abusiness: The Board is responsible for overseeing motivate and support all our employees to CSRwithin the Company, supported by a identify and vigorously pursue opportunities recognises the ways in which its actions Corporate Social Responsibility Committee across the Group to optimise our activities affect those around it: and CSR Committee, the members of which so far as their social and environmental regulates those actions so that, areset out in the Report on Corporate impact is concerned.
In doing so, it is the consistentwith sustainable business and Governance on page 50. belief of the Board and the CSR Committee development, they have a positive impact.
that we will make our business stronger, The CSR Committee was established to more sustainable and, as a consequence, ensure that the principles of CSR remain at more profitable.
the core of the Groups business activities.
The Chairman of the CSR Committee The Statement is in place across all of the reportsto the Board on the Committees Groups businesses and its policies and proceedings after each meeting on all principles apply to every Director, manager matters within the scope of its duties and and employee in all our businesses across responsibilities.
Its Terms of Reference our global operations.
areavailable on the Companys website www.
A copy of the full Doing Good Business Statement on Corporate Social Responsibility The CSR Committee and the Board have is available on the Companys website reviewed and endorsed this CSR report.
26 PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Corporate Social Responsibility continued 1.
The Environment We are committed to protecting the environment for the benefit ofour employees and the public atlarge.
Carbon performance We recognise that our Carbon During the last financial year, there have been businesshas an impact upon changes in our manufacturing mix and we theenvironment, both through have closed two factories, one in Australia and ourmanufacturing and logistics one in Ghana, which has enabled us to move manufacturing volume into more efficient operations and through our -7.4% factories or outsource.
Over the last year, manufactured products and the wehave extended our carbon emissions scope reduction in normalised carbon way in which they are used by to all PZ operating companies and we now emissions per tonne of product capture data for threeadditional head offices, ourconsumers.
and from all of ourBeauty Spas, which had previously been omitted.
The emissions from the PZ Wilmar edible oil refining operation in We also recognise that we have a Nigeria are however excluded from this years responsibility to all of our stakeholders data asthis has only recently come on stream.
to run our business in ways which minimise Thiswill be included in the scope in the the adverse impacts and make a positive nextfinancial year.
contribution to meeting global environmental challenges.
We aim to We apply the principles and appropriate identify and vigorously pursue opportunities conversion factors within: across our Group to reduce our reliance on increasingly scarce materials and minimise Defra Department for Food and Rural our impact on the environment while Affairs Voluntary Reporting Guidelines delivering margin improvement and The Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A continuing to build a sustainable business, Corporate Accounting and Reporting thereby creating a win:win both for the Standard Revised Edition environment and our business.
We have now Global warming potentials from IPCC completed the first year of our three year Intergovernmental Panel on Climate environmental performance plan, with all Change Second Assessment Report ofour operating units actively engaged SAR 100 year inour targets.
Despite a volume increase within our own factories of 1.1% and the fact that more locations are now within scope, we have Carbon achieved a 7.5% reduction in our absolute carbon emissions versus last year and a 7.4% We are focused on reducing the emissions improvement in our normalised carbon associated with the fuels used to produce emissions per tonne of production.
Our energy for our factories, either via direct carbon performance can be seen over consumption of fossil fuels such as diesel, thepage: oils or gas or via indirect electricity consumed in the factories.
The key elements of our approach continue to be the conservation of energy, finding alternative more fuel efficient processes and using alternative low carbon sources of energy.
27 PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Carbon emissions performance Scope 1 Scope 2 Total Normalised absolute absolute absolute by tonne of Financial year tonnes of CO tonnes of CO tonnes of CO production 2 2 2 1 1 1 2011 12 91,281 33,444 124,725 649 2012 13 83,763 31,641 115,404 701 As submitted to Carbon Disclosure Project CDP and subject to partial external verification with an accepted 2% errorlimit.
1 The data reported in 2011 12 has been amended toaccount for an amendment in carbon conversion factors.
Below are some key examples of how this visible on manual monitoring systems.
A large part of the water footprint of our reduction in carbon has been achieved: These opportunities will be explored products is associated with our consumers over the coming years and the most use of our washing and bathing products Throughout the year output from viable opportunities implemented.
and, if we are to do all we can to reduce ourIndonesia factory grew rapidly with Nigeria has saved 11% energy in the last water usage, we will not only need to focus a74% increase in production volumes.
financial year through various energy on the water footprint of our manufacturing Bydriving continuously to reduce saving initiatives.
processes but also on that of our consumers.
energyusage month by month, ensuring However, we are at the start of our journey equipment not in use is turned off and so we are currently focussing on the Carbon Disclosure Project andintroducing significant changes volume of water which we directly abstract The CDP is an independent notforprofit inour liquidmanufacturing processes, during the manufacturing process, including organisation working to drive greenhouse the sitehas reduced its energy per water which is extracted for cooling, even gas emissions reduction and sustainable tonneofproduct by 23%.
ifit is returned to water courses after use.
water use by business and cities.
The CDP In May 2012 our Kenyan factory operates the only global climate change successfully installed and commissioned Our water performance per tonne of reporting system, gathering data on afive tonne per hour Biomass fuelled production has seen a small improvement company strategies and performance with boiler to provide steam and hot water of0.8% per tonne of production.
We remain regard to carbon emissions and water use.
The boiler has now been committed to hitting the demanding targets As a business we have been participating in use for a full year and has resulted in which we set for ourselves a year ago and inthe CDP for the last five years with a the complete elimination of burning fuel this will be an area of priority for us in the continued commitment to reduce our oil, saving over 1,681 tonnes of carbon coming 12 months, with particular focus carbon footprint.
Currently we report on per year, which equates to 76% of the onour operations in Nigeria which account Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions: however, Kenyan carbon footprint for 2012 13. for the majority of the Groups total water wehave an ambition to ultimately work TheBiomass boiler burns organic waste consumption.
We look forward to reporting toScope 3 which includes third party which would otherwise have gone to further progress next year.
manufacturing and distribution in the landfill.
Byusing this organic waste, coming years.
weare able to put a waste crop to good Water use and avoidthe burning of fossil fuels.
In Greece the factory has investigated many innovative ways to reduce energy consumption including optimisation of Water production planning, new building -0.8% Water scarcity is an increasing threat to insulation and lighting.
Furthermore, theWorlds population and it has been anew smaller efficient boiler has estimated that by the year 2025 two thirds reduction in normalised water usage reducedenergy consumption by 9%.
of the Worlds population could be facing normalised per tonne of product In Nigeria, which accounts for 41% of serious water shortages.
We also recognise versuslast year.
ourtotal energy consumption, real time that we operate in regions which are defined automatic energy monitoring has been as water scarce, water stressed or water implemented.
This has given an insight vulnerable as defined by the United into minute by minute energy Nations and that consequently we play consumption for each of the factories arole in ensuring that water resources are onour Ikorodu site and has highlighted used in an efficient and responsible way.
potential energy saving opportunities which would not otherwise have been 28 PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Corporate Social Responsibility continued Waste Packaging 1.
The Waste can have a significant impact on the Packaging not only consumes global environment, whether it is solid waste sent resources but also generates waste once our Environment to landfill or burnt or liquid waste disposed consumers have used the product.
We recognise that wastage recognise that eliminating packaging is not occurs through our manufacturing arealistic target, it is our ambition to reduce Continued processes whether in the form of packaging the amount of packaging which we use in from incoming goods, nonconforming our products and we also encourage our products which require disposal or water consumers to reuse and recycle.
used for cleaning our plant at the end of production.
By striving to reduce the level Due to the nature of packaging projects, ofwaste we generate we can have a positive being more long term in their nature, it is impact on the environment by reducing the not meaningful to report specific progress levels of natural resources which we against the group target this year.
However, consume and the amount of waste requiring we have significant plans in the pipeline, disposal.
This also delivers significant focussing on light weighting, optimising financial savings for the business.
structural and material design and eliminating unnecessary packaging Accurately capturing and recording waste materials, while also ensuring that datain a consistent way, particularly in some arightbydesign philosophy is used ofthe developing markets, presents significant forallfuture packaging initiatives.
challenges and, at this stage, our focus is on ensuring the validity and completeness of management information in respect of our waste performance.
We will report on our progress in next years CSR Report.
Packaging During the year, there has been some notable progress in packaging light weighting, namely: The UK has delivered significant packaging weight reductions saving 76.5 tonnes of plastic through light weighting projects of key packs including Carex and Imperial Leather.
Greece has also made good progress on our packaging weight reduction target and has reduced the weight ofFeta Cheese tubs by 10%, saving 1tonne of plastic material per year.
In Kenya, we have successfully moved our Roberts Antiseptic brand out of aPVC bottle into polypropylene.
Not only has this initiative enabled us to remove PVC but it has also delivered asignificant weight saving and saved atotal of 2.65 tonnes of plastic.
We anticipate reporting further packaging progress next year.
Weeding palm oil 29 seedlings in plantation nursery, Nigeria PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 We are working hard to increase our As members of the RSPO, we have also understanding of the palm oil supply chain begun to procure GreenPalm certificates and have been members of the Roundtable tohelp offset the direct palm oil used in Working for Sustainable Palm Oil RSPO since 2010. ourUK, Australian and Polish products.
Through the RSPO we have joined forces Ourultimate ambition is to move to sourcing together for with all players in the palm oil supply chain certified sustainable palm oil via a mass from producers and traders to consumers balance or segregated mechanism where sustainable and NGOs to promote the growth and commercially available.
useof sustainable oil palm products.
palm oil Forest footprint disclosure project Through our joint venture, PZ Wilmar, we PZ Cussons participates annually in the have invested in and begun to regenerate Forest Footprint Disclosure FFD project.
old state owned Nigerian palm oil This is a special project of the Global Canopy Palm oil is the most widely traded plantations to ensure ongoing oil supply to Foundation, initiated in 2008.
The FFD vegetable oil in the world and is used our new food ingredients consumer brand engages with private sector companies and to support investment in the local inmany food and household products.
inrespect of disclosure of their forest Nigerian palm oil industry.
Our joint venture Securing a long-term sustainable supply footprint based on exposure to five key partner, Wilmar International Limited, is a of this raw material is important to us commodities: soy, palm oil, timber, cattle fellow RSPO member and one of the worlds and is a complex challenge faced across products and biofuels.
We report on our leading producers of RSPOcertified our industry.
useof palm oil and on the timber sectors sustainable palm oil.
The plantations are ofthe FDD.
working towards  plantation best practice and will contribute Our participation in the FDD has improved to the wider Nigerian palm oil industry and corporate awareness of the issues around economy through: the maintenance of tropical forests resources in developing countries.
As part Supporting the local farmers by of this commitment and our drive to drive implementing a smallholder farmers efficiencies in our business, we have now scheme with the support of the reduced tallow consumption classified as StateGovernment cattle products for FFD for the production Training schools built on site to provide of soap and now utilise a natural biproduct education and skills development in from the production of our edible palm oil plantation management to local produced in Nigeria.
Nigerianemployees Generation of significant direct and indirect employment, both within the plantations and the supply chain Investment in local schools and medicalfacilities.
30 PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Europe, Africa and South East Asia who In both Greece and Nigeria we operate to local Corporate Social actively work with industry associations regulatory standards, in addition to Codex andregulatory bodies to ensure we are Alimentarius, EU regulation 852 2004 and Responsibility continued aware of legislative requirements and we HACCP principles on the hygiene of foodstuffs work proactively with them to help shape the are applied.
Our Greek factory also has IFS, industry response to managing future issues.
Where necessary, we use specialist expertise, such as Toxicologists and Dermatologists, The recently acquired Raffertys Garden aspart of the product safety assessments Baby Food brand sources from specialist and decisionmaking process.
food producers in Australia who are accredited with the following food safety 2.
Consumer We closely track the scientific literature, standards: HACCP Hazard Analysis and general chemical legislation and consumer Critical Control Points, ISO22000 ISO safety safety organisations to guide our materials standard specifically for the food industry, policy within the Group.
In Europe these SQF Safe Quality Food encompassing The health and safety of our consumers include ReaCh Registration, Evaluation, HACCP principles, covers production, is our paramount consideration.
We will never compromise it for any reason.
Authorisation and restriction of Chemicals, transport and distribution.
the list of Substances of Very High Concern SVHC and the Scientific Committee for Managing Materials of Concern Consumer Safety SCCS.
We have adopted a Group Materials of We apply the same standards to consumer Concern list which formalises our approach safety whether our products are developed to material selection and acts as the vehicle and manufactured in our own factories or for communication around the Group.
continue to progress our programme of managing materials and, where there are reasonable grounds for concern on Cosmetic product safety The safety of our products is consumer safety or environmental impact, and regulation ofparamount concern to our we will adopt a cautionary approach and materials may be restricted or prohibited consumers and to us.
It is our We have adopted the EU Cosmetics ahead of any legislation being put in place.
Directive as the PZ Cussons Group standard responsibility to ensure that all for cosmetic products.
This represents ofour products are safe and meet In the past year we have initiated action on thehighest safety standard and requires the performance expectations of the following: adetailed Cosmetic Product Safety Report consumers in whichever market to be done for every product before being Microplastic Beads These are used placed on the market.
All new product we are operating.
asexfoliating agents in face and body development is done to this standard and cleansing products and were reported to we are working to bring all existing products Consumer safety starts at the product design beaccumulating in the oceans and harming to this standard.
stage and continues through material sourcing marine life.
We are taking action to remove and manufacturing.
Our approach to product or replace them with natural alternatives.
safety adopts the following key principles: Food and nutrition safety Triclosan Triclosan is an antibacterial agent and regulation Compliance with all Country, Regional which has been under continued scrutiny orGlobal regulations and guidelines In our Food and Nutrition business in Greece, forseveral years.
We have not used it in our onmaterials usage, manufacturing leading antibacterial liquid soap, Carex, and Nigeria and Australia we aim to apply high andlabelling.
other antibacterial products for many years Wherever possible we adopt a common and have taken the decision to remove it Global standard which means we exceed from the few remaining products in which local regulations in many countries.
When making safety assessments, weconsider the intended use of our Packing Cussons Baby products and, additionally, all reasonably inour Ikorodu Factory, foreseeable conditions of use to ensure Nigeria that appropriate pack warnings and safety features, such as child proof closures, are adopted when needed.
When concerns are raised about the safeuse of any material, either related toconsumer safety or its impact on the environment, we adopt a proactive and cautious approach.
Where we believe there are any concerns which have a reasonable scientific basis, we take action to remove, restrict or replace materials ahead of legislation being imposed.
Technical expertise and regulatory affairs PZ Cussons Technical Teams are responsible for consumer safety and managing compliance to Global regulations.
We have experts in each of our regional centres in 31 PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 3.
Health and Safety We provide safe working environments for all our employees, contractors andvisitors.
Loading finished goods at Agecroft Factory, UK We have comprehensive internal safety PZ Cussons regards health and safety PZ Cussons recognises that management procedures that include asafundamental business responsibility thesuccess of our business verification of regulatory compliance, risk andreviews health and safety matters on a isdependent upon the quality assessment, training, individual site action regular basis.
Health and safety is reviewed andwellbeing of our employees.
plans, safety audits and provision of regularly by the Group Risk Committee occupational health services.
which ensures that any related risks are We are committed to developing properly identified, assessed and prioritised the highest standards of All operating units participate in the and that appropriate action is taken to occupational health and safety PZCussons World Class Manufacturing manage and mitigate those risks effectively.
programme delivering compliance checks across all of our operating units and identifying improvement opportunities.
The business tracks and reports two key and we seek toprovide safe We use regular internal and external audits health and safety performance indicators working environments for all to help drive continuous improvement.
Two inall operating units: Lost Time Incidents ouremployees, contractors of our operating units, PZ Cussons UK and LTIs per 200,000 hours worked and First PZCussons Indonesia, are certified in Aid Cases FAC per 200,000 hours worked.
andvisitors and to ensure internationally recognised Occupational LTIs include all health and safety compliance with all relevant Health and Safety management system occurrences which result in 1 day or more health and safety laws and OHSAS 18001 and we have plans to roll absence from work excluding the day of regulations at all our places thisout across other operating units over incident : FACs include all health and safety the next 12 months.
PZ Cussons Nigeria occurrences including LTIs which result ofoperation.
areprogressing towards achieving this inthe employee being given first aid.
FACs certification and the business is also include cases where employees are treated implementing health and safety for incidents which occur outside of the Lost time incidents and first aid cases improvement plans which include near miss workplace, as any treatment given may or hazard identification procedures HAZOP enable us to reduce the number of & HAZID.
We empower and encourage our employee days lost.
The FAC indicator was 0.6 2.5 employees to identify and report hazards or introduced to enable us to continue to near misses and to personally conduct work improve our health and safety performance 0.5 place risk assessments as part of personal as we had successfully reduced LTIs in some 2.0 objectives.
The Group employs health and operating units to an extremely low level for example, one of our UK operations has safety specialists in all of our operating 0.4 1.5 unitsand health and safety committees now operated for nearly five years without an LTI incident.
withcross functional and cross hierarchical 0.3 representation exist at all sites.
Where 1.0 As the graph on the left shows, over the appropriate, PZ Cussons provides onsite 0.2 medical facilities and health monitoring past threeyears we have successfully reduced LTI frequency as a Group by 20% to programmes for employees.
We continue to 0.5 0.1 build on our traditional programmes, which a frequency rate of 0.33 per 200,000 hours worked and FACs have remained level at focus on workplace behaviours, coupled LTI frequency rate First aid cases with helping employees understand any 2.04 per 200,000 hours worked.
frequency rate personal health risks.
Incidents per 200,000 hours worked 2010 11 2011 12 2012 13 2010 11 2011 12 2012 13 32 PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Corporate Social Responsibility continued 4. Business conduct andethics We demonstrate ethical behaviour inallour business activities and in all our dealings with third parties.
developed during the course of the year to We actively support the development of We believe in doing business further strengthen the controls we have new and valid safety and toxicity methods theright way, and we aim to over supplier selection, engagement, which would remove the need for animal demonstrate ethical behaviour monitoring and auditing.
inall our business activities, and in We fully support the stance taken by all our dealings with third parties.
Antibribery governing bodies, such as the European Union, which now prohibit animal testing of We believe that corruption is unacceptable, We are open, honest and fair with our Cosmetics and forthcoming of Household suppliers, customers, business partners, and in all its forms.
It is detrimental to society, Products and the moves being made in this tocustomers, and to our business, and is regulatory authorities and we demonstrate direction by other regulatory environments.
respect and integrity in our dealings with nottolerated at PZ Cussons.
Along with However, we do recognise that some ourexternal legal advisors, we continue to each of them.
regulatory authorities still demand testing monitor our compliance with the UK Bribery on animals as part of the burden of proof Act, amongst other legislation.
forconsumer safety in some product Communicating our sectors.
At present our operations in those ethical standards countries are limited and to date we have Speak up global not been required to test any products on We have continued to inform and educate whistleblowing programme animals.
Where required by law, we aim to our employees, suppliers and business work with the authorities, through our Our employees are aware of the ethical partners around our Doing Good Business Product Development and Regulatory CSR values, including the development of standards that we expect of them, and are Affairs teams, to avoid the need for testing.
encouraged to Speak Up via our Global additional learning materials and policies, further embedding our values in workplace Whistleblowing programme when they We are a Global organisation with a Global notice that management, colleagues or activities, and the introduction of stretching Supply base.
The position taken by some targets for the future.
associated parties fall below these standards.
regulatory environments, and the need The programme is recommunicated to our toreassure consumers on the safety of Global teams on a regular basis.
All Speak Up products, does mean that we cannot Supplier selection calls are immediately followed up by Group 1 guarantee that some of our ingredients Internal Audit.
We expect our suppliers and contractors to have not been tested on animals historically.
demonstrate similar high ethical standards We work with our suppliers to source and we take due account of this when ingredients which have not been tested Animal testing establishing or continuing business onanimals, although we cannot always relationships.
We scrutinise our suppliers We are against animal testing of any form in guarantee that this is the case.
the development or marketing of cosmetic and contractors to ensure that they are 1 Within PZ Cussons Beauty division, The Sanctuary diligent, responsible, honest and fair and household products.
We do not test brand operates with an ingredient cutoff date of ingredients on animals, nor do we andwechoose to work with those who 1998 and does not use ingredients that have been demonstrate the same commitment to commission or request any of our suppliers tested on animals for cosmetic purposes after or associates to test ingredients, or ethical values and doing good business as thisdate.
We are aiming to achieve this standard across our portfolio and all new product we do.
Additional procedures have been products, on animals.
developments for PZ Cussons Beauty are designedto meet this criteria.
33 PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Developing PZ Cussons talent Diversity and inclusion We are committed to the training and PZ Cussons is an extremely diverse development of our employees and have organisation in terms of its ethnic and 5.
Our continued with this commitment this year, cultural makeup and this is something that delivering a wide and varied suite of training we continue to promote.
We employ many employees courses across the globe in our operating different nationalities including Indian, units.
The training courses delivered were a Chinese, Polish, Indonesian, Singaporean, We treat each other with respect and combination of management competency and Thai, Greek, Australian, Nigerian, Ghanaian, all employees have the right to expect technical skills training and have included: Kenyan and British.
We also value diversity that their dignity will be fully respected in the workplace.
inrespect of gender and age: Our award winning Global Extraordinary 2012 13 Leadership programme 2011 Peer Women Employees 30% Awards in Excellence in Leading and Development continued to be rolled Women Senior Managers 30% outthis year, with 25 cross functional Employees with over 15yearsservice 19% business leaders from Australia Employees over 50 6% successfully completing the course.
Our commitment to develop in house talent has continued with several We do not employ any person below the variousstudent placement programmes local legal working age and we will not, in andapprenticeships in each of our any circumstances, employ anyone below operating units.
Additional technical and management training was conducted in our Indonesian factory to enhance our manufacturing Human rights teams skills, including English skills and problem solving.
The Company takes every reasonable step Our Graduate Development Programme toensure that everyones rights are both Our employees are essential to in Nigeria has been running in excess of respected and protected within the working ten years, directly recruiting circa 30 environment and in outside situations linked the success of our business and Nigerian graduates from across the to the working relationship.
The Company toachieving our business goals.
will, as a minimum, comply with all Skill development programmes have employment related legislation.
We value and celebrate the diversity of continued in Nigeria, including a Coach every member of our team of over 6,000 programme whereby over 512 employees employees, working in 10 countries across were trained on coaching skills to improve Europe, Africa and Asia.
PZ Cussons is their team performance and over 150 committed to a culture where all employees managers participated in our Zodiak are treated with respect and have the right Business Finance and Strategy training to expect that their dignity will be fully programme, improving the business respected in the workplace.
We are acumen of nonfinancial managers.
committed to creating an environment in which all employees have the opportunity Our Indonesian toreach their full potential and where FactoryTeam everyone has a voice regardless of role, seniority or geography.
Performance management Managing performance at PZ Cussons is more than just a set of activities and forms.
It is an everyday way of working to improve performance by taking action to coach and motivate our people.
We measure performance based on business objectives aligned to team, function, operating unit and global business strategies in conjunction with behaviours assessed against key competencies.
Together, these provide arating which is linked to reward and to ourglobal talent and succession planning activity.
This enables us to develop and motivate high performing and high potential individuals providing them with challenging and exciting careers.
Our performance development and review programmes havenow been rolled out globally and havebeen in place for three years.
34 PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Corporate Social Responsibility continued The Seashell Trust 6.
Local The Seashell Trust is a specialist school in Manchester, dedicated to providing community acreative, happy and secure environment for children and adults and charity with complex and severe learning disabilities which include little or We recognise our responsibilities to society, and in particular, to the local nolanguage abilities.
PZ Cussons communities in which we operate.
continues to support the Trust andwork Weare committed to enriching the in active partnership.
Weareproud to livesof our local communities.
confirm that wehavecommitted to supporting thedevelopment of a new housing development on site, which will allow the Seashell Trust to provide further facilities to support even more individuals and families.
We also continue our collaboration between Seven, our fragrance business and the Seashell Trust to research and investigate how fragrance can improve the students understanding, communication and ability to make choices with extremely encouraging results.
Members of Seashell Trust, As a business, we recognise our along with our Creative Perfumer willbe responsibilities to society and, presenting the evaluation and outcomes of our latest tranche of innovative inparticular, to those local action research at this years European PZ Cussons Chemistry Challenge communities in which we operate.
Encouraging more children to take a greater Employees across the business interest in science is of importance globally, have continued to show real and no less in Nigeria.
PZ Cussons Nigeria commitment to supporting their Foundation has launched the PZ Cussons Chemistry Challenge, inviting schools to sign local communities and charities.
up and take part in a variety of activities and competitions designed to stimulate interest We have been working with one ofour and excitement in the world of chemistry community partners, the Halle Orchestra, to and its practical application.
The key aims of Our partnership with the Jigawa State explore the link between fragrance and the programme are to develop the science College of Education JSCOE is music in creating multisensory experiences IQ of secondary school students age 1316, continuing with further success.
This for dementia sufferers to help trigger to promote appreciation of the role of year, the focus has been on supporting positive memories.
Holiday themed chemistry in our society and to provide a theneed for training and infrastructure in workshops were created featuring familiar better perception of the nature and Information and Communication Technology fragrances and music which worked relevance of chemistry.
The key objectives are to set up an ICT together to evoke several environments, for willalso make scholarship grants available teaching unit for the college to provide example end of the pier themed music with for students who emerge as winners from training and workshops for staff and the sweet aroma of candyfloss and toffee the competitions.
This includes IT and administrative apple.
Following the success of the skills, networking and learning systems workshops, fragrance therapy is now part of Schools and Youth Centre development toprovide modern online teaching and a wider project to create new artsbased The Foundation built and donated a new learning resources as well as to digitalise training modules for the care home staff.
administrative block for Queens School, student registration and information Ibadan, which was commissioned in July management.
The official launch of the 2012.
This has provided a much improved PZ Cussons Nigeria Foundation programme took place in January 2013 learning environment and teaching facility andis expected to be complete by for the pupils.
Under construction currently The PZ Cussons Nigeria Foundation was November 2013. established in 2007 with the objective are also a new Assembly block for Queens School in Ilorin and a new Youth Community ofpositively impacting local communities through schemes related to improving Centre in Lagos.
education, health, potable water and infrastructure.
So far 40 projects in 30locations have been completed or areinprogress, including the following projects this year: 35 PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Carex Clean Hands Academy programme which offers a full educational package Health Community toschools including, demonstrations, Our vision is to enhance the lives of our Our community work is largely employee lessonplans, educational materials and consumers everyday, and we know that this driven, with passionate individuals and teams competitions all around hand hygiene.
includes the health and wellbeing of our getting behind charities and community Theprogramme has grown each year with consumers and the communities we operate initiatives that are most important to them, over 1,300 schools each joining the 3rd within.
Many initiatives which we are involved with full support from the Company.
edition inOctober 2012, receiving with have a focus on addressing such issues, Justafew examples are: educational materials and Carex products.
including the following examples: PZ Cussons employees in the UK volunteered The Sanctuary continues to support Global handwashing day takes place their time to support a Women in the world Wellbeing of Women, a charity dedicated on15October every year and is a Global of work initiative at Whalley Range Girls to improving the health of women and PublicPrivate Partnership for Handwashing school for year seven pupils.
The objective babies, funding medical research into to foster and support a global culture of forthe day was for the students to develop womens reproductive and gynaecological handwashing with soap, raising awareness an understanding of core values, skills and health.
In addition to financial support, of the health benefits of health hygiene.
Our qualities that employers look for and PZ activities during the year have included the Carex teams from across our operations get Cussons colleagues were pleased to share sponsorship of the Daily Mail Inspirational involved in supporting the initiative through their experiences and offer advice.
We also Women of the Year Awards in support of a range of activities.
In Kenya, the Carex continued our work with Salford City Wellbeing of Women.
This included our team took hand hygiene on the road, Academy with Mosaic Mentoring Challenge Cussons Mum and Me brand tying up with reaching over 2,000 people with the an online business tool where the pupils Wellbeing of Women and the Royal College message of the importance of handwashing, have the opportunity to work in teams and of Midwives to fund a new research before bringing together six local schools have an insight into real life ways of running fellowship, which will provide financial for an educational and fun hand hygiene a business.
PZ Cussons employees ran a support of 60,000 to enable a midwife event.
Poland have continued with their session to compliment the challenge, looking toundertake PhD research.
support for Global Handwashing with the specifically at corporate responsibility and the importance of this in business.
Colleagues in Kenya have been passionate about getting their hands dirty to preserve the Nairobi National Park.
The Kenya Wildlife Service KWS in conjunction with the Kenya Association of Manufacturers KAM and many volunteers including our employees embarked on a tree planting exercise part of an ongoing conservation drive dubbed the Nairobi GreenLine Project.
The project aims to have trees planted along the Nairobi National park boundaries to protect it fromencroachment.
Ongoing projects The PZ Cussons Nigeria Foundation has continued in partnership with Concern Universal on the SWASH initiative Sustainable Water Sanitation & Hygiene.
This project aims to empower PZ Cussons portable communities to take responsibility for water station in Lagos, their own water supply, sanitation Nigeria facilities and hygiene practices through community-based Water, Sanitation and Hygiene Committees WASHCOMs as well as working closely with the local government water and sanitation departments.
So far five communities across Nigeria have benefited from the work under the PZ Cussons Foundation.
