2012 2012 2012 2012 we have made to improve our energy efficiency.
We now Minimising energy use and have energy saving plans in place at all mines, led by our emissions engineering teams.
We have taken a variety of actions to improve our energy efficiency including technical measures Our policies and processes eg improving our milling efficiency rates, using new energy Energy security - including power supply and power efficiency technologies, improving our operational practices costs - is critical to both our current and future projects.
We eg restricting the use of sump pumps and engaging with our are determined to improve energy security by being as efficient as possible in our energy use and by exploiting a diverse mix of employees eg through energy efficiency awareness-raising potential renewable energy sources.
This strategy reduces our programmes such as our switching off switches campaign.
costs, improves our security of supply and helps future proof At the Loulo-Gounkoto complex alone these efforts have the our business for the potential impacts of climate change.
potential to save almost 300 000kWh month, an equivalent saving of around US$200 000 month.
We have set a challenging target to reduce our greenhouse gas emission intensity that is the amount of greenhouse We made good progress in 2013 in connecting Tongon to the gas per production unit by 47% by 2015, compared to 2009 national grid, following problems in 2012.
The amount of grid levels.
This would mean achieving an emission intensity of energy supplied to the mine rose by around 75% between 23.45 tonnes CO2-e tonne ore milled in 2015.
October 2012 and 2013, reducing our power costs by well over 50%.
We are also committed to transparency and we supplement the data in this report with an annual response to the Carbon In 2014, one of our areas of focus will be to improve Disclosure Project, which for two years has been scored in the management of peak loads.
A great deal of energy is used in the top 20% of responders for disclosure and data management.
start-up and operation of all our diesel-powered generators, Performance assessment which are required when activity on the mine is at full capacity Despite significant efforts to reduce energy use at some peak load.
However the energy generated cannot always be sites in 2013, our overall energy efficiency decreased this stored and is sometimes wasted as activity declines.
Therefore year from 36.7kWh tonne ore milled to 46.32kWh tonne being smarter about how we manage changes in electricity use ore milled, contributing to an increased carbon footprint of at peak times, for example through better forecasting, should 646 000 tonnes COe see graph below.
This leaves us with 2 improve our energy efficiency.
We will report on progress in much work to do to meet our 2015 emission intensity target.
One of the reasons for these results was that energy use at Loulo was much higher than anticipated due to the demands Our energy costs, and emissions targets will also be massively of the underground mining process, and because a blown boosted next year by the provision of power to Kibali from the transformer on the Ivorian grid in December 2013 caused a new 20MW Nzoro 2 hydropower station, due to come online in spike in energy use at Tongon.
April 2014 see Opening the floodgates to cleaner energy.
We have also begun an analysis of the potential use of solar power While our emissions have not reduced by as much as we at all sites, which will report and be acted on in 2014. would like, this should not obscure the very significant efforts Energy and emissions Electricity use 000MWh Number of operating mines Energy eciency 000kWh t ore milled Number of operating mines 2011 3 2011 3 4 4 5 5 Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions Tonnes COe Number of operating mines Emission intensity Tonnes COe Number of operating mines 2 2 2011 3 2011 3 4 4 5 5 Scope 1 emissions are direct emissions occurring from sources that are controlled by the company, while Scope 2 emissions include emissions from the generation of purchased electricity.
The Nzoro 2 hydropower station adjacent to the Kibali River is due to come online in April 2014 and will make a major Nzoro 2 will not completely displace diesel generation as we will contribution towards achieving our 2015 emission reduction need to retain this capacity for the dry season when the power targets.
output of Nzoro 2 is likely to be significantly reduced and as a backup facility.
Nzoro 2 will have an electrical power output of 20MW, with 1MW of this being provided to the local community.
When Randgold also has permission to build three further operating at full power output, the plant will be able to meet all hydroelectric power stations of similar capacity to Nzoro 2. of the electricity requirements for the Kibali camp and current In total, it is expected that the total power output from mining operations.
Randgolds hydroelectric power stations will be approximately 60MW.
These three additional hydroelectric power stations are To put the scale of the savings into context, Randgold currently scheduled to come into operation by 2016, to coincide with the has 30 diesel generators available to meet current energy start of underground mining operations at Kibali, enabling the demand at Kibali and each of these consumes 216 litres of fully-operational mine to be self-sufficient in electricity except during the short dry season.
At full capacity the new hydrostation could Waste management Cyanide and waste We have a waste management plan for each mine.
Our management major waste, by volume, is the waste rock and tailings from our operations.
The dumping of this overburden and waste Cyanide management rock is carefully controlled by our geotechnical engineers with Cyanide is used to efficiently and cost-effectively extract gold slopes shaped to the correct angles for stability, in line with IFC from its host ore.
This process can be toxic and can result in environmental and human health problems if it is not very Performance Standards.
Where necessary these dumps are carefully managed.
The responsible use and management of covered with topsoil and then planted with indigenous grasses cyanide is therefore crucial to our social licence to operate.
This has the benefit of erosion control and mitigates dust pollution.
In 2013 we launched a full review of the use of cyanide across all our operations.
The aims of the analysis were to ensure that Our waste management plans also cover the variety of other our cyanide management practices continued to meet both the wastes organic, inorganic and hazardous wastes that we specific requirements for each country and international best produce, describing how these are to be handled, stored, practices, and to highlight any areas where these standards separated, recycled, reused or disposed of.
We pay particular were not met.
attention to hazardous wastes eg battery waste, chemical and solvent waste, fluorescent lighting waste, and hydrocarbon Our analysis found that we fully conformed to both relevant waste and ensure that these are disposed of in accordance national standards and international best practices at all of our with all relevant national standards.
For example, at all sites sites.
However, we also concluded that we needed to formalise hydrocarbon waste collection, primarily used oil, is outsourced our approach, improve our transparency and be able to provide to reputable service providers who remove the material from tangible evidence of our commitment to high standards and the sites.
We therefore created an updated cyanide management code which defines the key principles and Where possible we involve local community members in practices in our use and disposal of cyanide.
Our code covers waste management practices in order to transfer skills and all parts of the cyanide life cycle within our operations from technology with legacy planning in mind.
This includes use of a production to transportation, storage and usage.
community-based enterprise at some mines which sorts metal waste and extracts value from it.
Last year we also created In total the group used 5 760 tonnes of cyanide in 2013.
There waste management committees in some of the villages around were no reportable incidents relating to cyanide during the Loulo, engaged with school groups around Morila and worked year.
Handling, and storage of cyanide have all been carefully with NGO Swiss Contact to build local waste management skills.
maintained within our plants in 2013 and there have been no A focus for 2014 will be working with communities around discharges above guidelines.
The only potential issue that Kibali to raise their awareness of the benefits of recycling and emerged this year was a reading of slightly above the 50 parts waste management.
per million ppm level recommended by the IFC at the point of tailings deposition at Loulo and Tongon during the second quarter.
To tackle this we have plans to increase oxygen In total, we had 71.7Mt of overburden and 13Mt of tailings supply into the relevant Carbon in Leach CIL process.
No waste, deemed hazardous under the Basel intervention will result in cyanide levels reducing to below Convention, is transported, exported, imported or treated by 50ppm.
116 Annual Report 2013 | Randgold Resources Nursery at Loulo.
We will measure success against each BAP through follow up Land rehabilitation and surveys every three to five years.
biodiversity In 2013 we planted almost 9 000 indigenous trees and Our policies and processes opened a 23.5 hectare ecological centre at Kibali.
The centre The act of open pit or underground mining and its associated is now collecting and planting samples of all flora and fauna infrastructure inevitably impacts on the flora and fauna found in the mine exclusion zone.
At our Morila mine where that share the land.
We acknowledge the reality of this and honey production will be one of the post-closure sources of are committed to minimising our negative impacts and to employment, rehabilitation teams identified trees that flower rehabilitating our sites to the highest levels possible.
We have several times a year and so will make more pollen available for a policy of constant rehabilitation while the mine is operational, honey production.
which includes the propagation of indigenous plant nurseries at each mine site.
If land on our mines cannot be rehabilitated we aim to offset We have a Biodiversity Action Plan BAP in place at all mines.
the damage by creating or supporting a conservation area These delineate habitats and land uses across the sites and elsewhere.
To honour this commitment in the DRC we held detail the actions required to protect or restore habitats.
We detailed discussions throughout last year with the management also have mine closure plans and aim to fully rehabilitate our of the Garamba National Park to agree an appropriate sites with indigenous vegetation once the mine closes.
If land biodiversity offset project there.
These discussions are at cannot be rehabilitated then we seek to offset our impacts.
We expect that in 2014 we will be able to begin sponsoring projects that support the protection of We monitor our progress by conducting baseline surveys of endangered species in the park.
the land at the feasibility stage and then by taking an annual satellite image of the mine so we can monitor changes in As shown in the table below, a relatively small amount of land vegetation and replace them as soon as is possible.
was rehabilitated in 2013, as with the exception of Morila all our mines are at a relatively early stage in life and therefore at Performance assessment a disturbance rather than a rehabilitation phase.
The amount We have delivered on our commitment to put detailed BAPs of rehabilitation at Morila in 2013 was relatively low because and associated action plans in place at all sites operational the mines infrastructure is being used to launch agribusiness since 2012 and these now form the basis of a set of measures being implemented by our environmental management teams.
Total land rehabilitated and disturbed Total hectares rehabilitated Total hectares disturbed 2013 2012 2011 2013 2012 2011 Morila 4 130 51 - 883 1 013 Loulo 1.2 6.4 7 3.8 1 274 1 280 Tongon 0.6 - 6 - 2 451 2 451 Gounkoto - 17 - 11.5 460 446 Kibali - - - 386.9 723 434 Total 5.8 153.4 64 402.2 5 791 5 624 Annual Report 2013 | Randgold Resources 117 Sustainability report continued At each site efforts to manage dust include rehabilitation of Dust management waste rock dumps and disturbed areas and spraying roads and crushers with water, molasses or other dust suppressants Our policies and processes Dust is generated from many parts of our mines including the Performance assessment movement of large vehicles on dust roads, waste rock dumps We complied with all local air quality standards in 2013. and crushers.
Levels of dust can also be exacerbated in the dry season causing discomfort for people and livestock.
We In total around ten separate products were used for dust therefore have an active policy of measuring and managing the suppression over 2013 including molasses, Duststop, and amount of dust pollution on our sites.
At Morila we experimented with a dust control measure using grass packing and a wind At each mine we have built an extensive network of monitoring break system, composed of straw hedges installed on the TSF.
stations and control points that include dust buckets located across the mining right areas and in local villages.
Particulate To restrict dust on untarmaced roads we introduced speed emissions are monitored, recorded and reported to the limits in some areas and encouraged drivers to slow down.
be attributed to the move from construction to operations Responding to environmental at Kibali.
The high number of hydrocarbon spills in Mali also contributed to this increase which, as discussed earlier, was incidents addressed through an audit process and additional training A key performance indicator for our environmental see Spotting trends and taking action.
performance is the number of environmental incidents that occur.
These range from Class 1 most serious to Class 3 It should be noted that we regard Class 3 incidents as an early minor and are displayed in the table below.
warning mechanism which when attended to, can prevent more serious incidents from happening.
Therefore, we do not For the fourth consecutive year we had no Class 1 environmental incidents.
However, we did experience a slight see the slight increase in this number as necessarily reflective increase in Class 2 and 3 incidents.
In part, this increase can of a negative trend in performance.
Medium incident involving material disruption to production or uncontrolled release of contaminated effluent outside the boundary fence of the operation.
Minor incident involving controlled or uncontrolled release of effluent or pollutants within the boundary of the operation.
118 Annual Report 2013 | Randgold Resources Identifying our most material sustainability issues The successful delivery of our business strategy depends on our ability to identify and respond to the most material sustainability risks and opportunities that impact our business.
This is especially important given vast and wide-ranging sustainability challenges in our host countries.
As part of developing our approach to sustainability, we have undertaken a thorough review of what our most material sustainability issues are by engaging with both our internal and external stakeholders on this question.
In keeping with the principles of the Global Reporting Initiative, we define our most material issues with reference to our internal assessment of importance, and to the views of our external stakeholders about the issues that affect their decisions about Randgold.
This helps us form a better view of our external stakeholders opinions about what is important to them, which helps us with our planning.
It also helps us fulfil our commitment to produce this report in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiatives latest guidelines for sustainability reporting, known as G4.
In order to define and select our material sustainability issues we undertook the following steps in 2013: Working with external advisers, we conducted an internal review of possible sustainability topics relevant to our sector including reference to: our business strategy: an executive committee workshop: topics covered by the media in relation to mining and sustainability: analysis of research we have conducted into what matters to investors: sustainability Topics for Sectors: What do stakeholders want to know, a document published by the GRI following research with external stakeholders: and the GRI G4 guidelines including the Minerals and Mining Sector supplement.
We reviewed this long list of topics and identified 41 issues as being the most significant ones.
Executive management team members at Randgold each prioritised the 41 issues potential impact on the business.
Heads of all key departments were consulted.
We then asked a range of external stakeholders, to assign a score of up to 15 issues, five critically important, five very important and five important to them when they are making assessments or decisions about Randgold.
We asked representatives of all eight stakeholder groups except for the media, as we had already considered their perspective in our initial analysis.
The issues were then plotted on a materiality matrix see overleaf and reviewed internally.
Thresholds were set to signify the most material issues defined as being in both internal and external groups top 10 priority issues and other material issues defined as including all issues in the top third of each groups list.
This list of issues identified for reporting was then agreed to by the environmental and social oversight committee and the CEO of Randgold Resources.
Annual Report 2013 | Randgold Resources 119 Sustainability report continued All issues were important, so it wasnt as easy to rank them as I had initially thought.
But its good to know that you are thinking about all these issues.
Vontobel Asset Management shareholder Priority issues Medium impact The materiality analysis produced a list of priority issues that These are the 14 medium-impact issues that were in the top third 13 of either internal or external stakeholders lists: reflect our most significant impacts, according to both internal energy use and efficiency: and external stakeholders.
bribery and corruption: revenue transparency: Our materiality analysis which has also been used to define our local procurement and partner development: specific standards disclosures as part of the GRI G4 reporting staff training and skills transfer: framework identified 19 material issues for management and legal compliance: reporting.
These are five of high impact and 14 of medium resettlement and compensation R&C : impact.
We do not deem issues that fell outside of this list to environmental incidents: be unimportant and the report includes some information community development and investment: about our approach and performance in those areas too local economic development: where relevant.
waste management: HIV AIDS: High impact malaria: and The five issues that appeared in both internal and external occupational health.
stakeholders top 10 most important issues and are therefore deemed to be the most high impact material issues were: This excludes the issue of indigenous populations which has been excluded due to a lack of clarity over how this was defined resulting in safety: it being misunderstood by external stakeholders.
Something that will be community engagement: corrected next year.
water pollution: cyanide management: and The relative importance of each issue according to this analysis is illustrated on the scattergraph below.
5 4 Safety Community engagement Community development and investment Water pollution Local economic development Cyanide management Waste management Malaria Local and national employment 3 HIV AIDS Occupational Indigenous populations Sta training and skills transfer health Air pollution Community grievance resolution Security forces Local procurement Closure planning Environmental incidents Water Legal compliance Fair wages use Bribery and corruption Corporate governance R & C Freedom of association Revenue transparency Artisanal mining Land disturbance Energy use and eciency Human rights 2 Gender equality Product Climate change and adaptation Material use eciency Supplier human rights responsibility Financial assistance Ecology Supplier labour practices Strike action 1 0 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 Very minor Minor Moderate Severe Very severe Current or potential impact on the business 120 Annual Report 2013 | Randgold Resources Importance to stakeholders Medium High Critical From material issues to GRI aspects and indicators This mapping has been done with reference to both the GRI G4 aspect boundary.
Internal boundaries refer to impacts that manual and the Mining and Metals Supplement.
occur within the fences of the mine concession area on all five operational sites if it affects our sixth site of Massawa, which This table links the issues identified in the materiality exercise is in a feasibility study phase, it is specified below.
External with GRI G4 aspects and indicators disclosures from both the boundaries refer to where impacts affect stakeholders outside main guidelines and the Mining and Metals Sector Supplement.
the fences in all host countries.
If an issue affects only one or It also identifies where the impact occurs for each material a limited number of our host countries it is specified below.
Boundary I Internal, Material Issues identified GRI G4 category GRI G4 Aspect E External Disclosures Community engagement Society social Local communities E G4-SO1 Local community engagement, impact assessments, and development programmes and MM6 Disputes relating to land use and MM7 Extent to which grievance mechanisms were used to resolve disputes Legal compliance Society social Compliance I including G4-SO8 Fines for non-compliance with Massawa and E laws Bribery and corruption Society social Anti-corruption I including G4-SO3 Risks related to corruption Massawa and E Local procurement and Economic Procurement E G4-EC9 Local suppliers partner development practices Local economic development Economic Indirect economic E G4-EC8 Indirect economic impacts impacts Revenue transparency Economic Economic I including G4-EC1 Economic value performance Massawa and E Community development Economic Indirect economic E G4-EC7 Infrastructure investments and investment impacts Resettlement and E Only applicable MM9 Sites where resettlement compensation to DRC happened Local and national Economic Market presence I and E G4-EC6 Local management employment Safety Social labour Occupational I G4-LA6 Injury and rates of injury practices health and safety includes MM: causes of fatal accidents.
Staff training and skills Social labour Training and I and E G4-LA10 Programmes for skills transfer practices education management and lifelong learning Occupational health Social labour Occupational I G4-LA6 Injury and rates of injury practices health and safety including MM: causes of fatal accidents as above Malaria Social labour Occupational I and E Additional indicator We use our own practices health and safety measure of malaria incidence to track progress in this area HIV AIDS Social labour Occupational I and E Additional indicator We use our own practices health and safety measure of HIV AIDS prevalence and number of VCTs to track progress in this area Water pollution Environment Effluents and I and E G4-EN22 Water discharge quality and waste destination Energy use and efficiency Environment Energy I and E G4-EN5 Energy intensity Cyanide management Environment Effluents and I and E G4-EN25 hazardous waste also need H&S waste component to cyanide management Waste management Environment Effluents and I and E G4-EN23 waste by type and disposal waste and MM-3 total amount of rocks, tailings, overburden Environmental incidents Environment Compliance I and E G4-EN29 Environmental fines and sanctions Annual Report 2013 | Randgold Resources 121
