Dubai in the DRC Near our Kibali mine in the DRC there has always been a small local market serving towns such as Durba.
However in recent years the new market at Kokiza has seen such remarkable growth that the locals have christened it Dubai.
The goods on offer at Kokiza market include not just food and subsistence items such as vegetables and fish but pharmacies, phone charging points, clothes shops and motorbike repair shops.
The market has become an urban hub a focal point for furniture, household goods and tools.
A major factor behind the growth of Kokiza market has been A journey that used to take around five days now takes the arrival of customers from across the border in Uganda approximately four hours and it is estimated that the road has using the new Doko-Aru road for access.
reduced living costs in the area by almost half.
The Doko-Aru road was built as part of the core infrastructure Alongside investment in the main Doko-Aru road, we also for the Kibali mine connecting the mine to international invested in other parts of the transport network including the ports.
Before it was built the network of roads in the region Aru-Ariwara road, Durba-Watsa road and the Northern bypass.
consisted entirely of unmaintained gravel roads and Randgold These investments increased access to the main thoroughfare invested over US$20 million to upgrade and manage this main and so accelerated economic benefits for a relatively modest access road.
of long term skilled jobs in the plant and in local agriculture Leaving an economic legacy: From poultry to if it receives final government approval as expected in palm oil 2014.
One of our key considerations when working with When we plan our mines we begin with the end in mind.
the inward investor was their social and environmental credentials and as part of our due diligence processes, At the very start of operations we agree a closure plan for the mine area with a budget set aside to ensure sufficient financial we looked at their sustainability policies and track record.
resources to meet closure obligations.
Throughout operations we then invest in non-mining based economic activity, training for alternative employment and continuous rehabilitation of land.
Our oldest operational mine is Morila and our newest is Kibali, and despite their contrasting life expectancies both were implementing closure planning work last year.
Morila is close to the end of its life but still supports around 1 200 direct jobs it employed around 2 000 during peak operations.
The closure plan is using the mines infrastructure to grow four community-led agribusiness sectors poultry farming, tilapia fish farms, mangos and honey, which after several years of pilot projects moved to commercial scale production last year.
For example, units are now in place to farm 10 000 hens, 34 tonnes of tilapia and potentially 300 tonnes of mango for export per year.
Between 2013 and 2017, these four sectors are expected to produce total revenue of more than US$6 million.
At Kibali we have also been actively implementing closure planning, even though the mine is not expected to cease production till 2030.
For example, we are working on bringing in investors to establish a palm oil processing factory based on the mine concession which will produce cooking oil, soap and other products, using palm oil sourced from local plantations.
The project will provide thousands Annual Report 2013 | Randgold Resources 91 Working in conflict zones All three host countries of our currently operational mines have suffered some level of civil conflict over the last decade.
Cte dIvoire has emerged from the ravages of a civil war in 2002-2003 and fighting over a disputed election in 2010-2011.
In 2012, northern Mali suffered an ethnic insurrection that prompted French and Malian military forces to intervene, while the vast DRC is still slowly recovering from a war that lasted from 19942003.
Part of the way we manage this conflict risk is to ensure we meet our obligations under national mining codes and the expectations of international rules and conventions.
In the DRC for example, we have an active engagement with representatives from MONUSCO the United Nations Organisation Stabilisation Mission in the DRC to ensure clear protocols are in place should a conflict situation arise.
In all our countries of operation we have legally binding mining conventions or mining codes that guarantee fiscal stability, govern taxes applicable and allow for international arbitration in the event of force majeure or a dispute.
In 2013, we reinforced these commitments by implementing a Conflict Free Gold Policy available at www.
com, to ensure that the gold we produce is delivered in a manner which does not fuel armed conflict, fund armed groups or contribute to human rights abuses associated with such conflicts.
However these protocols are a relatively small part of the story.
The key to our approach is the deep partnerships that we form with our host countries and communities.
In troubled times we have found that the overriding considerations of common interests and shared values reassert themselves.
A business model built for emerging Africa Our philosophy of genuine partnership means Randgold has become firmly entrenched in the economies of our host countries.
Just some of the ways that this is achieved include: Our local and national preferential recruitment policy: Our creation of in-country local management teams: Our joint ownership structures: Our payment of taxes, royalties and dividends: Our support for local and national-based suppliers and workers: Our support for infrastructure, and community-led investments in sustainable development: and Our openness and transparency at ground level.
We have found the governments of the countries in which we operate are totally committed to engaging with investors such as ourselves in the best interests of advancing the countrys own progress.
Ministers make themselves available more so than in complex developed markets and this allows difficult issues to be discussed at length and deep partnerships to emerge.
Our business model has enabled us to commission and operate the Tongon mine successfully at a difficult time for the Cte dIvoire, and during the upheaval in Mali in 2012 we experienced steady and stable production while other mining companies were evacuating their senior management from the country.
Now in Kibali, our in-country management teams have shown that we can build one of Africas largest mines ahead of schedule and on track to meet its production target of 550 000oz for 2014.
We believe our strategy for working in emerging Africa is a robust one.
It has delivered us genuine partnerships that our host countries understand and want as part of their economic progress.
These partnerships are our most priceless asset.
92 Annual Report 2013 | Randgold Resources 2012, and the third concerned conditions in 2013.
The council Site visits and checks from shareholders in the has also exchanged written communications with Randgold DRC and held annual meetings with the company.
As the Kibali project is situated in the north-eastern DRC, which is generally considered to be a violent part of the country, the Some disgruntlement remains regarding the size and quality Council on Ethics for the Norwegian Government Pension Fund of the houses provided by the company as compensation, Global undertook their own due diligence into sustainability but the councils overall impression is that people in the area practices at Randgolds Kibali mine in 2013.
Their aim was to are generally pleased with Randgolds project.
The fact that determine whether our work was fuelling the conflict in the the project has resulted in increased opportunities to make a DRC.
living through work and trade is an important reason for the populations positive attitudes.
They said: The council has held an open dialogue with Randgold on the Kibali project.
In 2013, Randgold published It is the councils general impression that the company has a sustainability report encompassing all of its projects, the established good strategies to work through security issues, companys strategies, and reports on its achievements and and that these strategies have resulted in a well-established goals.
Following its recommendation in 2011, the council has practice.
There will often be conflict and security risks linked commissioned three studies of the situation in the project area.
to the establishment of mining operations, and it is therefore The first one describes the situation in the project area during crucial that these challenges are handled in a timely and the second half of 2011, the second focused on the situation in adequate manner.
has designed and implemented community development Q&A: The state of relations in Mali plans that strengthen and modernise basic social services, Mohamed Keita is a civil servant at the Ministry of Commerce, and it consults with the community on issues that affect their Mining and Industry in Mali, and the Governments representative lives and wellbeing.
on the Morila board: a position he has held for over six years.
Following the tumultuous events in Mali in 2012 we asked him to What hopes do you have for the future of gold mining in give his account of the relationship between Randgold and the Mali?
Since 2012, the combination of the political and security situation, and the announced closure of the Morila and How do you define sustainability and do you think Yatela mines, have led to questions about the future of gold Randgold fits this definition?
However, certain facts suggest optimism and We define our commitments and expectations on sustainability hope.
These include the review and adoption of half a dozen in the Mining Code and Mali has adopted the definition used feasibility studies for licensing or exploitation of gold for both by the UN Food and Agricultural Organisation FAO where large and smaller mines, and a State strategy to develop small sustainable development is seen as offering a decent standard mines.
of living for all today, without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their needs.
Randgolds focus Some prefeasibility studies for the exploitation of gold mines on going beyond compliance with the code, particularly in have been implemented and there is encouraging research regard to protection, preservation and rehabilitation of the ongoing, some of which has given satisfactory results.
environment provides tangible evidence of their commitment to sustainability.
How would you describe the relationship between Randgold and Mali?
Randgold is always in dialogue with national authorities on any matter affecting mining operations.
There is always room for improvement but Randgold is regarded as a good corporate citizen.
It has met the commitments in its various feasibility studies and complied with the Mining Code governing appropriate methods of operation, including providing information on any accident, and reporting on the impact of its activities on the land, the environment and human health.
Randgold is the only company to have implemented real and genuine political involvement of Malian nationals in all phases of mining activity, and at the highest level of management.
It Annual Report 2013 | Randgold Resources 93 Delivering for host communities US$85 million 100% spent on successfully completed resettlement at Kibali 94% increase in spending by local community development committees in 2013 99% of grievances resolved through our grievance mechanism 3 microfinance providers engaged around mines in Mali, DRC and Cte dIvoire 136 drinking water boreholes drilled, 91 new classrooms constructed across five mine sites to date Whether we are trying to open, operate, change or close a mine we prioritise community engagement and community development.
Local communities are core to our social licence to operate and a valuable resource for our business.
They provide us with a dynamic and enthusiastic workforce, enhanced security and the capacity to make a difference on the ground.
Community development Our policies and processes As part of our stakeholder engagement this year we asked our stakeholders to prioritise the sustainability issues affecting Randgold in 2013 see: Identifying our most material sustainability issues and it was no surprise that both internal and external stakeholders rated community engagement as one of the top three most material issues to our business.
Our policies reflect the high priority we give to community development.
At the heart of our approach is frequent engagement and a commitment to lifting the quality of life and economic opportunities of our host communities.
At the early exploration stage of a project we oversee a wide-ranging communication programme and establish a grievance mechanism to ensure all local communities understand our plans and have a chance to engage.
Once a mine becomes operational we form community development committees CDCs that consist of local leaders and representatives from women and youth groups and which are responsible for ongoing communications and decisions on how to allocate a community investment budget.
The budget is designed to reflect a mines production and projects are chosen by the community, although they must fall within our five broad categories for sustainable development: education, primary health, food security, potable water and local economic development.
94 Annual Report 2013 | Randgold Resources Long term sustainability is important to us, and if a school, health clinic or water system is built we work closely with the CDCs to ensure that it can be maintained after the mine has closed.
Where possible we partner with local NGOs to harness their knowledge and expertise too.
For example, at Tongon this year we joined and helped facilitate a workshop run by local NGO CIFDC, which has enabled local communities and authorities to allocate responsibility for the long term management of sustainable development structures including management of public infrastructure and equipment and ensuring ongoing local participation.
Performance assessment Community development commitees spending US$ 000 2 000 1 500 1 000 500 0 2011 2012 2013 Through community-led committees we have helped put in place vital health and educational infrastructure across all five of our mine sites.
Since we started we have drilled 136 boreholes, built or equipped several health clinics, nurse and midwife facilities and funded the construction of 91 new classrooms.
Around Loulo-Gounkoto more than 3 000 children are now in school compared to just 297 in 2005.
Annual Report 2013 | Randgold Resources 95 Sustainability report continued In 2013, our community-led committees invested a total of in transportation for medical equipment and to start up US$1.61 million across all five mines.
Spend by CDCs has more agribusiness schemes.
Market gardens near Kibali, originally than tripled since 2011 and increased by 94% on our 2012 created to ensure food security during resettlement have total, reflecting the start of community spending at Kibali and now been taken up by community co-operatives and are increased allocations at three out of four of the other mines.
functioning as self-sustaining, commercial entities.
Of this total over US$422 000 26% was spent on education and approximately US$222 000 14% on local economic Our company has also established a charitable foundation, development projects.
One of our aims next year will be to the Nos Vies en Partage Foundation, operating separately from encourage a higher proportion to be spent on economic the company and with broad aims to help tackle the social development projects.
development challenges that affect poor communities in our host countries.
We are delighted that our outgoing chairman There were over 200 individual community project items with Philippe Litard has agreed to become the first chairman of some standout examples including: the foundation.
In Mali: Investments were made in projects ranging from teachers to tractors, with one of the biggest projects being One of our challenges for 2014 will be to take greater steps the creation of a solar-powered water tank for drinking towards measuring the social outcomes of our community water at DK village near Loulo.
Health spending included development work.
This work began in 2013 when we invited a contribution to the Governments fight against blindness US-based educational charity World Education to examine near Morila.
A market garden initiative run mainly by women has continued to grow and sold produce worth the quality of education standards at the schools we support around US$1 600 last year.
around Loulo see Gold mines, class sizes, exams and baggy In Cte dIvoire: Over 45% of the budget was spent trousers.
We hope to go further on measuring social on educational projects including the construction of outcomes such as these in 2014. much needed classrooms, housing for teachers and a computer room at the Korhogo nurses school.
There was Annual CDC expenditure also investment in medical equipment and agribusiness partnerships funding hen-houses, poultry feed and a US$ 2013 2012 2011 tractor.
There was a successful partnership with NGO Loulo 435 211 222 448 91 691 ARK Appui Rurale fide Korhogo to build awareness Gounkoto 406 198 115 347 n a of sustainability among youth and train a community committee on the commercial operation of a donated Morila 147 872 190 748 189 925 tractor.
Tongon 343 459 304 191 164 721 In DRC: The newly constituted CDC invested around Kibali 284 826 n a n a 15% of its budget in educational support to schools and Total 1 617 566 832 734 446 337 orphanages opened in the region, and a similar amount CDC expenditure US$000 500 400 300 100 0 Loulo Gounkoto Morila Tongon Kibali 96 Annual Report 2013 | Randgold Resources 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 Ploughing ahead with non-mine employment In order to create long term food security around our mines, Randgold has donated several tractors to local community committees to be run on a commercial basis.
The tractors are hired to farmers based on the tractors ability to generate revenue and profits for the community.
As part of our commitment to diversifying the economic activity around each mine Randgold works with its community development committees to monitor the ploughing and profitability of the tractors it donates.
For example, in the 2013 growing season the tractors donated to six villages around the Loulo mine in Mali ploughed a total of 352 hectares during the growing season.
This created over FCFA 7 million US$14 500 of revenue and around FCFA 3.8 million US$8 000 of profit directly from the hiring of the tractors as well as substantially increasing the amount of productive land, and thus income, for the communities.
CEO Mark Bristow is pictured at a special ceremony handing over a new tractor to be shared by the villages of Katonon and Above: CEO Mark Bristow delivers a tractor to villagers near Tongon.
Below: Training tractor drivers near Tongon mine.
Kofiple near our Tongon mine in Cte dIvoire.
Annual Report 2013 | Randgold Resources 97 Sustainability report continued A school near the Loulo mine.
All eight schools have enormously improved facilities, more Gold mines, class sizes, exams and baggy teachers and have brought in simple innovations such as school trousers uniforms as part of implementing best practice.
Encouragingly, In 2013, as part of our commitment to supporting the school attendance was high and exclusion rates very low, with sustainable development of our host communities we half the schools having zero exclusions and the other half rates have started to more closely measure the outcomes of our between 1.02 and 4.44%.
We are particularly encouraged by community development work instead of the outputs.
For the number of female pupils enrolled and proceeding through example, we want to track not only how many schools we have helped to build, maintain and operate: we also want to education 46% of the total 2 616 students in 2013 were understand the extent to which those schools are delivering girls.
the standards required to create better futures for the communities children.
However, we found a number of challenges to be met by the schools.
For example, there is an average pupil teacher ratio We want to help raise the bar on education because todays of 60 pupils for one teacher: notably higher than the national children may well be our employees of tomorrow.
And pass rates in some schools, including pass rates for Grade 9, were unacceptably low.
Last year therefore we invited internationally respected educational charity World Education, who has worked in over Going forward we hope to work with World Education, the 50 countries in Asia, Africa, and Latin America, to examine the school authorities and parents to tackle the challenges in quality of educational standards in eight Randgold-supported these schools.
We have learned a lot and intend to replicate primary schools around the Loulo mine in Mali.
With World this critical evaluation process at other mine sites as we aim to Education we measured outcomes such as school attendance better evaluate the real social and environmental outcomes of rates and exam results and compared them with national our business strategy.
At Morila we work with CAMIDE, an MFI which has now Using microfinance as a community sponsored around 15 projects, and at Tongon, as of last year, development tool with PAMFCI Premire Agence fide Microfinance - Cte dIvoire.
One of the avenues we take to foster economic development In late 2013 we provided seed funding of approximately is to encourage national microfinance institutions MFIs to US$100 000 to PAMF-CI and basic office infrastructure in expand to our mine areas.
This catalyses entrepreneurialism the Tongon village.
At Kibali in 2013 we initiated a unique where there are no banks or access to other kinds of credit.
pilot project with around US$10 000 of seed funding to try We provide initial capital to an appropriately accredited local a new approach to microfinance lending see Microfinance MFI on a long term, interest free loan and help them get established in the area through support such as office space.
98 Annual Report 2013 | Randgold Resources Preston Nix, community development officer at Kibali explains Microfinance innovation in DRC some of the reasons behind this approach: The goods auction Microfinance can be a powerful and effective way to create introduces a structure for lending and timely repayment in the alternative employment in areas such as the DRCs Orientale most transparent and cost effective way possible.
It ensures Province where our Kibali mine is based.
For most of the that sought after goods go to those mostly likely to use them villages around Kibali there are no banks or access to financial and who want them the most.
This aims to encourage local credit so it is very hard for an entrepreneurial idea to develop.
In such remote areas of Africa there is no magic formula So far, five auctions have been held, attracting up to 500 for economic growth, and microfinance is not without its problems.
Common issues with microfinance include arbitrary people, with between three and 15 bidders per lot.
The project has auctioned 292 items to 233 households.
The revenues interest rates, the risk of flooding the market with the same have been recycled and to date Randgold has invested around goods and gender bias.
Therefore Randgold has undertaken a pilot project around Kibali to test a unique type of microfinance scheme which The aim is to gradually scale up the rotating fund, the number of auctions and the value of the lots.
Participants may bid for provides actual goods to the client instead of a cash loan.
It also uses a public auction to set a price for the goods.
The pilot higher value items as they establish a credit record with the project was started in 2013 with US$10 000 of seed funding company and in due course will be able to bid for the purchase from Randgold.
of small scale machinery for bigger commercial ventures.
The goods provided include batteries, farming equipment, An economic analysis of the pilot will be carried out next year soap, salt, beans and fuel.
The purchasers are expected to and we hope to scale up the activity if the methods prove repay the amount owed within 10 weeks.
Performance assessment Grievance mechanism Grievance data for 2013 is displayed below.
In total, 99% Our policies and processes of grievances were successfully resolved across all sites in As with any long term relationship, addressing problems is 2013, following a rate of 94% in 2012.
This increase reflects vital to success.
So managing a fair and accessible grievance mechanism is critical to our community relations approach.
a continued improvement in RAP management at Kibali and We provide places with paid attendees, some open daily, where better compensation methods.
The reason the number of community members can lodge, record and receive responses grievances at Kibali was significantly higher than other mines to a grievance if they feel they have been unfairly treated or is because the grievance mechanism is the primary route discriminated against in a non-work related disagreement.
We by which individuals affected by resettlement are provided commit to providing an initial response to all grievances within recourse for compensation appeals.
We consider our grievance mechanism to be an extremely Aside from RAP-related claims the grievances covered a range valuable channel of communication with local communities.
of issues including complaints about dust, vehicle damage Alongside public meetings, radio broadcasts and our to property and water filters that needed replacing.
All were community development work, it is a chance for us to resolved amicably.
Some of the most serious incidents understand what is important, build relations and to stop involved a land compensation issue in Cte dIvoire which issues becoming problems.
necessitated a court hearing, and a protest in communities The proportion of grievances that have been resolved and around Gounkoto about a unilateral increase in power cost the issues raised are a matter discussed at the mine board by the power utility company.
Although the latter was aimed level.
Our respective mine boards hold the mine management at the utility company, the grievance mechanism facilitated to account for responding effectively and appropriately to all access for the communities to the appropriate authorities.
2013 grievances registered and resolved Grievances Grievances Grievances Grievances registered resolved registered resolved at 31 December 2013 2013 2012 2011 Loulo 8 8 100% 5 2 Morila 2 2 100% - 1 Tongon 22 22 100% 16 5 Gounkoto 1 1 100% 10 7 Kibali 1 142 1 130 99% 1 013 369 Total 1 175 1 163 99% 1 044 384 Annual Report 2013 | Randgold Resources 99 Sustainability report continued including a requirement to be accredited according to UN : Human rights and security contractual requirements: compulsory training for all security Our policies and processes providers in the UN Voluntary Principles on Business and Randgolds group-wide human rights policy available at www.
Human Rights and a formal disciplinary procedure should any randgoldresources.
com was adopted in 2012 and integrates a personnel be subject to credible allegations of serious human set of human rights best-practice requirements including zero rights abuse.
tolerance for any exploitative, forced or compulsory labour, including child labour.
The policy supplements our code of Currently there is no specific group requirement for external conduct, applies to all operations and is part of induction human rights audits.
training for all staff and contractors.
The policy also protects the rights of indigenous people.
Performance assessment The groups mining operations have never been subject to Randgold has a history of respecting human rights and has any allegations of serious human rights abuses or breaches never been subject to any allegations of human rights abuses of humanitarian law, and this remained the case in 2013. or breaches of humanitarian law.
We aim to pro-actively Throughout the year there were no significant incidents promote international human rights standards and include a resulting in injury to security personnel and our security clause in all our supplier and contractor agreements that binds personnel active in 2013 have received human rights training.
them to comply with our human rights and anti-corruption policies.
We ensure that our mines do not provide benefits We have signed agreements in place with all relevant states to any armed groups who have committed or been credibly governing our interaction with security forces based on the accused of human rights abuses.
UN Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights.
In the DRC we continue to work closely with MONUSCO who provide As part of our implementation of this policy we have also practical help to ensure all security personnel and local police created a separate category within our grievance mechanism so are trained in the voluntary principles.
that any human rights related grievances can be anonymously reported and addressed.
There was one human rights related grievance registered in our grievance mechanism in 2013.
This occurred at Kibali when We utilise private security services to protect our mines, while security guards employed by one of our contractors based relying on governmental forces for security of tenure and law themselves in a house without paying any rent to the owner.
enforcement in the surrounding communities.
We have four When this was reported through the grievance procedure our ways in which our human rights policy is implemented.
The four security manager intervened and ensured the rent was paid.
ways are: strict due diligence procedures prior to recruitment The security sub-contractors were subsequently changed.
Performance assessment Resettlement This year we completed the Kibali RAP which has been Our policies and processes singled out by our CEO as, one of the companys greatest The creation of a new mine can sometimes involve the need achievements and which contributed to Randgold receiving to move people from their homes to be resettled away from the DRCs prestigious Prix dexcellence award for corporate the mines Exclusion Zone.
It can be one of the most sensitive responsibility in November 2013. challenges that a mining firm can face.
The Kibali RAP process started in early 2010 and the last family We are committed to minimising involuntary resettlement, was settled in October 2013.
In total more than 21 000 people however if resettlement does need to take place our policy, 4 216 households have been successfully resettled to the new in line with national legislation and the IFCs Performance town of Kokiza.
Over 2 600 households were resettled in 2013 Standards, is to ensure that the resettled persons standard of which completed the resettlement and means we have no living is improved, or at least restored.
Lengthy and wide-reaching consultation is fundamental to Our aim for all resettled people has been to provide an our approach.
Our engagement begins during the feasibility improved socio-economic situation with better quality housing, study of a project and includes a public participation process improved access to water and electricity and the provision PPP which uses locally elected community committees as a of title deeds.
The long term handover of the management way to discuss options and issues, alongside radio broadcasts, of the town to community led structures and committees is meetings with tribal and religious leaders and open forums now underway and will be the main challenge for 2014 See attended by the CEO.
The results of the PPP are incorporated page 102 of this annual report for more on the Kibali RAP.
in a Resettlement Action Plan RAP which is then also put forward for further community consultation.
An independent audit of the resettlement was carried out in March 2013 which measured progress of the still-to-be Our policies are designed to maintain community structures completed activity against the commitments made in the RAP.
wherever possible and ensure that we compensate fairly in It found full or partial compliance with over 85% of the criteria mitigation for any adverse effects on the community where and we have worked to address the remaining areas of nonthey cannot be avoided.
100 Annual Report 2013 | Randgold Resources One of the largest Roman Catholic Church complexes in Africa under construction at Kokiza.
Ultimately, the existence of the ASM community is linked to Artisanal and small-scale poverty and it is only through sustained economic growth for mining ASM the whole region that a viable long term solution can be found.
Our policies and processes Performance assessment ASM provides a basic livelihood to millions of people across ASM activity is present on two of our mine complexes: Kibali Africa, however it becomes illegal if the individuals concerned and Loulo-Gountoko.
operate on concessions where a company has exclusive mineral rights.
Illegal ASM on our sites is a significant issue for At Kibali around 2 000 artisanal miners have been successfully Randgold because it can create tensions in local communities removed from the Exclusion Zone since the start of the due to health, human rights or local crime factors.
It can also cause environmental damage especially if the chemicals used project either by relocation or through offers of alternative employment.
Our partners SOKIMO provided an alternative get into water supplies.
site for the orpailleurs with support to help the relocation.
In 2013 the Exclusion Zone at Kibali remained largely free from We have a no conflict and no invasions policy with regard to artisanal mining communities present on or adjacent to our ASM activity although there was a handful of entries into the sites.
This means that we rely on partnership with national, zone following the formal end of the RAP construction phase.
regional and local governments to enforce exclusion zones At the Loulo-Gounkoto complex there is a sizeable presence of and discourage ASM activity.
Wherever possible, we offer alternative livelihoods for ASM participants also known as ASM that has unfortunately grown this year.
The community orpailleurs including work on our mines or in new economic is also dredging in the Falm River, creating a risk of water sectors such as agriculture.
One factor behind this growth was the inability of the Malian government to act for a large part of 2013 following Where orpailleurs are not interested in alternative employment the previous years political instability.
A plan has now been we seek to offer a designated site, approved by government, formed with the Governments Regional Director for the where they can work without causing harm to others and be Environment, who visited the mine last year, which will attempt gently introduced to the alternative livelihoods on offer.
to reduce numbers through the creation of a cereal bank and with options for new alternative income generation.
We do not buy any minerals from artisanal miners.
However we regularly monitor the presence of ASM communities on or Despite the efforts to date, managing the ASM communities on near our mine sites and have a policy of active dialogue and both sites remains one of the most significant challenges for consultation with the orpailleurs.
our local partnerships and us in 2014.
Annual Report 2013 | Randgold Resources 101 Resettlement creates new towns and new ambitions Over 4 200 new homes constructed 15 schools and 9 health clinics built 56 boreholes drilled 39 places of worship recreated 100 kilometres of extra roads built US$34.8 million 100% spent on local contractors The work on the Resettlement Action Plan RAP began in June 2010 with the affected people at the centre of the process.
A resettlement working group, comprising 56 representatives from each affected village including a village chief, a sage or elder and a representative each of women and men - worked with Randgold to choose Kokiza as the site of the new town.
BEFORE More than 21 000 people have been resettled in the new town of Kokiza.
102 Annual Report 2013 | Randgold Resources The Kibali resettlement is one of the companys single greatest achievements.
Mark Bristow, Chief executive I am proud of what we have achieved here... Young people can see possibilities which were not there five years ago.
Patrice Tshiekela Mukengeshayi, Kibali social department pictured right The work on the RAP began in June 2010 with the affected people at the centre of the process.
A resettlement working group, comprising 56 representatives from each affected Patrice Tshiekela Mukengeshayi, part of the 40 village including a village chief, a sage or elder, and a strong team that managed the resettlement explains: representative each of women and menn worked with People did not want to move at first.
To begin Randgold to choose Kokiza as the site of the new town.
with we asked for volunteers and then we had a breakthrough.
Once the first people came, others To ensure open communication throughout the process followed.
It is sometimes a tricky process explaining access points for grievances were established in each what has to happen, people can be aggressive, so we village and open throughout.
This grievance mechanism need to always be in touch with the community, and was the official channel for which community members to have good relations with them.
could claim compensation not captured in the original RAP as well as airing problems or disagreements.
More than Such a major resettlement programme was not 2 600 grievances were received over three years mainly around without unforeseen challenges.
A storm in March levels of compensation, with 99% resolved.
Throughout the 2012 damaged some 700 new houses, leading to an process a food security programme ensured subsistence was immediate review of the design of the dwellings as not threatened and there was extra support for vulnerable well as a prompt rebuilding of the houses to regain households with young children or elderly residents including the trust of villagers.
In early 2013 the extension Mr Agini Ruffin, the oldest of the resettled people at 105 years.
of an airfield threatened to prevent children from The RAP was conceived and structured in accordance with some villages from getting to school, so we provided DRC legislation, the World Bank Groups policy on Involuntary a bus to alleviate the difficulty until the school was Resettlement and IFCs Performance Standards on Land relocated.
These sort of unplanned problems were Acquisition and Involuntary Resettlement.
The total cost for only overcome thanks to the strong community implementation of the RAP was US$85 million 100%.
relations that had been built over time.
Before the resettlement only 21% of residents had electricity Kokiza is now well established, and the challenge and 95% of residential water contained faecal coliforms.
Now in 2014 will be to move the town towards selfall residents have access to brick or cement houses that have reliance.
A broad community delegate forum has electricity, potable water and individual rainwater tanks.
In been established to monitor the administration total US$12.6 million was spent on housing construction and of community infrastructure including schools, 4 216 houses built.
Many residents who were previously only churches, clinics and boreholes.
And from spring tenants of their lodgings were given deeds to become owners 2014 the town will begin to receive electricity from the during the resettlement.
Housing compensation was managed Nzoro 2 hydropower station, rather than Randgolds within the requirements of the national mining code, and these diesel generators.
were exceeded in some cases for example the owner of a 2 2 house between 20m and 40m moved to a house of at least 2 Patrice concludes: Randgold is a company that 40m.
delivers what it says it will.
I am proud of what we Amenities developed or recreated at Kokiza include 15 schools, have achieved here, it is huge.
Some people didnt nine health clinics, seven soccer fields and 39 places of worship.
really think it would come to pass.
People have seen The construction has included the drilling of 56 boreholes, the the change, and young people can see possibilities relocation of 2 397 graves observing local cultural protocols, which were not there five years ago.
and the construction of one of the largest Roman Catholic churches in the DRC.
Annual Report 2013 | Randgold Resources 103 A safe, skilled and stable workforce 3 600 new jobs created in 2013, total workforce of 15 070 86.7% of all employees and contractors are host country nationals 60% reduction in the LTIFR across the group: one fatality 4 mines certified to international OHSAS 18001 safety standard Our most important asset is our human capital.
We do what it takes to ensure a safe and rewarding work environment and invest to develop workforce skills and leadership by local people.
At the heart of our approach is a focus on recruiting host country nationals, giving us an effective and good value workforce, encourage succession planning and building positive links with local communities.
This section explores the three key areas of safety, skills training and industrial relations.
Overview Our workforce this year grew to over 15 000 employees, with over 3 600 new jobs created in 2013.
Over 86% of this workforce were nationals from our host countries, and this rate is even higher in some of our more established mines.
Over 98% of the Morila workforce and 92% of the Tongon workforce are nationals.
Recruiting host country nationals is central to our human resources policy.
Our policy is to recruit first from local communities and if no one meets the skill set required we then approach nationals, followed by Africa-based employees and only then recruit globally.
Contractors are also expected to prioritise the employment of nationals as part of our partnerships with them.
This policy extends to senior management.
For example there are only two non-nationals in the management teams across all three of our mines in Mali.
Although our number of national employees is extremely high, especially in comparison to other Africa-based mining firms, one of our aims for next year is to accelerate the replacement of internationals with appropriately trained local employees.
Last year we set a baseline for measuring progress against this target with a total of 45 internationals replaced and we hope to increase this figure in 2014.
Randgolds labour costs total around 5% of our direct operating costs: around 15% including contractors.
Given the pressures to save costs across the gold mining industry at large in 2013, this relatively low cost base has meant we have been able to protect our workforce numbers to Safety briefing at Loulo.
a greater extent than many peers.
104 Annual Report 2013 | Randgold Resources Total workforce 2013 Group Loulo Gounkoto Morila Tongon Kibali  tionals triates tionals triates tionals triates tionals triates tionals triates tionals Employees 191 2 788 82 865 6 157 10 387 39 494 54 462 Contractors 1 856 10 272 158 2 128 24 1 057 11 760 56 1 168 1 561 5 324 Total 2 001 13 069 240 2 993 30 1 214 21 1 147 95 1 662 1 615 5 786 13.3% 86.7% 7.5% 92.5% 2.4% 97.6% 1.8% 98.2% 5.5% 94.5% 21.8% 78.2% consideration in some of the underdeveloped areas in which Safety our top priority we operate.
Our policies and processes Safety is a top priority for Randgold and we were not surprised We have a zero tolerance policy towards drug or alcohol abuse that it was one of the issues that appeared as a high-priority and unsafe behaviour on site.
among both internal and external stakeholders in our materiality assessment this year.
The aim of our safety policy is Performance assessment to record zero lost time injuries and we have an annual target Unfortunately there was one fatality over the year.
The incident to reduce the Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate LTIFR by 10% occurred at Kibali where the victim was involved in an incident each year.
A full investigation has been conducted and remedial actions around both immediate and underlying Our safety approach is built on the combination of rigorous causes have been taken to ensure no repetition occurs.
Actions safety systems working alongside individual responsibility.
have included new restrictions to stop people on foot walking in the vicinity of heavy mobile equipment, increased training Our safety systems are based on the international for supervisors and improved lighting for night working.
OHSAS 18001 safety standard, which provides a useful framework for managing a wide range of areas from fire fighting In terms of eradicating Lost Time Injuries LTIs, our focus to formal risk assessments, hygiene standards and emergency on safety has started to achieve the desired step change in air crashes.
All our mines are now certified to OHSAS 18001 our performance.
Last year was one of the best performing standard with the exception of Kibali which became operational years for the group in terms of improving our LTIFR.
The this year and will apply for its certification in 2015.
We assess rate decreased from 1.5 per million hours worked in 2012 to specific safety risks for each department, such as chemical 0.57 per million hours in 2013, a reduction of over 60%.
hazards, and each has its own specialised training modules.
Personal protective equipment and morning toolbox safety Gounkoto demonstrated that our target of zero LTIs is possible briefings where daily reminders and discussions about by achieving zero LTIs for the entire year.
safety are raised are other vital elements.
Each site has an emergency response team, including a mine rescue team if As reported in our previous sustainability report, we have there are underground operations.
been attempting to increase the reporting of near misses as we consider these an early warning system that allows us to prevent potential accidents.
Therefore we were pleased that Allied with these risk management systems is a fundamental the number of near misses reported in 2013 increased from philosophy that every individual should take responsibility 20 to 128, although we are still not satisfied that a culture of for their own safety.
All our employees are instilled with this reporting near misses is universally ingrained and hope to mantra, starting at induction where safety training is a critical increase this number again in 2014 by providing all workers part of staff orientation for every employee and contractor.
with a clearer definition of what counts as a near miss.
Every employee is asked to consider safety risks at the start of the day and we actively encourage a right to refuse ie to Safety is a continuous challenge and we will continue to work challenge supervisors if they feel that the correct equipment towards our target of zero LTIs in 2014. or other safety measures are not in place before doing a job.
There are also random audits with management approaching 2013 safety performance employees to check their risk awareness and understanding of the correct safety behaviour.
Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate LTIFR If an accident occurs, our Safety, Health and Environment 1.75 3.13 1.50 0.57 SHE department ensures the incident is analysed and that corrective actions are taken.
They also ensure that illiterate employees are fully briefed on the meanings of written procedures and signage in their home language, an important 2010 2011 2012 2013 Annual Report 2013 | Randgold Resources 105 Sustainability report continued Group level 2013 2012 2011 Total labour 15 070 11 477 8 652 Person hours 35 246 261 25 327 309 19 806 975 Number of active mines 5 5 4 LTIs 20 38 62 LTIFR 0.57 1.5 3.13 Fatalities 1 1 3 Near misses 128 20 14 Individual mine level Loulo Gounkoto Morila Tongon Kibali Person hours 6 103 322 2 408 290 2 035 248 4 480 840 20 218 561 LTIs 5 - 1 2 12 LTIFR 0.82 - 0.49 0.45 0.59 Fatalities - - - - 1 Near misses 9 1 5 22 - Including persons employed by our contractors.
Defined as injuries that occur in the execution of duties that mean the person is unable to perform those duties for at least one day.
Number of LTIs per million manhours worked.
For the rising stars of the company we provide formal training Training and retaining talent including both on-site and off-site courses at academic We take a long term approach to skills development.
During the institutions in our host countries and at leading international very early recruitment for a mine we use psychometric testing universities.
to identify local people with the aptitude for skilled positions and we then invest time and resource into their development.
This formal training helps our employees to gain the full range The backbone of our training system is extensive informal of skills needed to run a world-class gold mining company.
training in the form of shadow skills training, mentoring, apprenticeships and on the job experience.
All recruits receive Throughout their careers employees are also offered informal training until a line manager deems them proficient incentives, including a share scheme, to reward them for long to take real responsibility for upholding the standards in their term commitment.
