his home dialect Mashi, he worked for a sugar cane company Local Congolese recruitment delivers step and as chef fide plantation for a tea estate near Bukavu before change at Kibali undertaking his second degree, a Masters in Environmental Sciences and then leading a project founded by the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation.
Vital joined Randgold at Kibali in 2010 as an environmental officer.
Two years later he created our department of safety, health and environment in which he is now a senior manager, drawing in skilled local employees to work on a challenging agenda.
His own training with Randgold has included courses in South Africa, Uganda and with visiting experts on monitoring and audit systems for both internal and external compliance.
All aspects of water, waste, dust, noise, health, safety and environmental quality fall under his remit.
Vital explains: We train the managers Vital Byabushi is superintendent of safety, health and and they take it down to the workers.
To start, we trained environment at Kibali mine in the DRC.
It is a highly responsible every week for two years and followed up each time.
We tell position which covers everything from public health policy and the contractors: If you dont do it, you or the officer responsible personal accidents at work to major chemical or biological is out.
No more business or contracts if you are not safety incidents which could affect the firms operating licence.
Vital was born and brought up in South Kivu, south of Orientale He sees environmental and particularly climate change issues province where Kibali is situated.
as paramount to successful operations in coming years.
Water and waste management are very big questions we have Vitals first university degree, in rural development, was from to answer, and they are new to the DRC, he says.
We have to the Catholic University of Bukavu where he was also involved in develop people with the right skills to solve the problems here setting up the womens development organisation ADIF.
Already other companies are coming to us to ask in English, French, Swahili, the regions Lingala language and how we do this.
At each mine, a Mine Level Agreement MLA is agreed between Industrial relations the unions and management and reviewed every three years.
Our policy and processes These frameworks complement national labour laws and set We see our employees as major stakeholders in our business, out mutually agreed rules for each mine on detailed items and this belief is the foundation of our industrial relations such as salary increments or the parameters of acceptable policies.
The signing of MLAs means that Randgold does not enter into annual wage negotiations.
We see transparent communications as vital to good relations with our workforce.
We invite representatives from any active Performance assessment trade union to attend the quarterly meetings of each mine Our industrial relations were generally steady and stable board, where they can present issues for discussion.
We do throughout 2013. not have restrictions or prescriptions on union representation at our mines and talk to anyone who speaks for the workers.
All our countries of operation have the right to freedom of Unions also sit in on our strategic planning sessions and their association enshrined in law, so all employees are able to join agreement on output targets is an integral part of strategic a union.
At Randgold we have introduced long-term incentives planning.
to senior employees which effectively removes them from the employee side of negotiated conditions and into management.
To deepen our engagement, all the companys operations also This means that we quantify around 85% of our workforce have monthly meetings between management and labour and to be part of the unionised membership that benefit from CEO Mark Bristow meets each mines workforce twice a year in negotiated conditions.
At these mass meetings all employees are free to raise any question they regard as important making Kibali was a key focus of our attention in 2013 with the for lively and honest discussions that have been known to go cornerstone of our policy being the successful signing of an on for up to six hours.
MLA towards the end of the year.
The Kibali MLA is a five year Annual Report 2013 | Randgold Resources 107 Sustainability report continued agreement with the potential for review after three years.
in November when sub-contractor Shaft Sinkers had a one day stay away.
Finally, in December the sub-contractor responsible There was also a large reduction in employee numbers on for open pit mining had a three day illegal stay away, which led the Kibali site in 2013 as the mine moved from construction to six employees being dismissed.
At its peak there were around 13 000 employees on the Kibali site and over the course of the year Standard entry wages cost to company in all around 5 500 workers from around 37 contractors have countries of operation successfully completed work and peacefully left site.
National Randgold minimum standard Kibali was also the only site that suffered any industrial relations wage entry wage disputes in 2013.
These all related to the employees of sublabourer CTC labourer contractors rather than Randgold directly, and all hinged on month month the administration or understanding of salary payments.
DRC US$90 US$316 There were three incidents in total.
The first in February Mali US$100 US$226 Cte dIvoire US$168 US$248 resulted in two lost days for the contractors.
The second was Chairman Philippe Litard and non-executive director Jeanine Mabunda Lioko on a mine visit at the time of her appointment to the board in January 2013.
In 2013 we actively encouraged women to apply for roles on Gender diversity our mines and offered work experience for young women We are an equal opportunity employer and as with our drive to who aspire to work in the industry.
We are encouraged that develop local national managers, we also want to make progress in 2013 we saw a handful of local female operational workers in promoting women into operational and management roles.
In the longer term we are active in supporting community womens associations and in Ideally we would like to encourage more locally based women encouraging high education rates among female students to into the mining industry but this is a very challenging area due try and contribute to more gender equity in the future.
to a combination of cultural factors.
In total, around 8% of our permanent workforce is female Firstly because women tend to have relatively low labour force and we have a number of women in key executive and senior participation rates in the generally patriarchal societies of managerial positions.
This includes Mrs J Mabunda Lioko West and Central Africa, and secondly because of the image of who is a non-executive director on our Randgold Resources mining as a traditionally male dominated industry.
108 Annual Report 2013 | Randgold Resources Health as part of wealth 112 678 medical consultations for employees and community members in 2013 18% decrease in malaria incidence, all mines at least 25% below original baselines Tongon health clinic transferred to local management, clinics at Kibali and Loulo to be transferred in 2014 26% increase in HIV voluntary tests: 1% decrease in HIV prevalence We operate in countries that suffer from relatively low levels of public spending on health but high incidences of diseases such as malaria, HIV AIDS DRC and intestinal infections.
Ensuring that our workforce and the communities they live in have access to a reliable basic health service is an important platform on which all our economic development efforts are built.
Overview Our policies and processes Loulo We establish health clinics and provide medical equipment at every mine site and in some surrounding villages providing free medical consultations and first aid to employees, their dependents and community members.
Occupational and community health are equally important to our strategic objectives.
Our occupational health processes are certified against the OHSAS 18001 health and safety standards and focus on avoiding the health hazards common to a gold mine including cyanide, arsenic, dust and noise.
We provide all required personal protective equipment and conduct regular testing for health hazards.
For example, regular biological monitoring for lead and arsenic.
All employees must pass minimum standards of fitness and there is regular first aid training and preparation to deal with traumatic, toxic and cardiovascular emergencies.
Ergonomic and luminous intensity surveys are also conducted in all offices and operational areas.
Beyond the fences of our mines our health priorities are set by an independent baseline study at feasibility stage.
This identifies the most important local health issues and we then work with relevant authorities to put accessible health provision in place.
Our aim is to provide initial funding for clinics and nurses where it is needed, which can then be on-managed by the relevant local authority.
We also deliver inoculations against polio, tetanus and yellow fever and work regularly with partners such as NGOs or the World Health Organisation.
Annual Report 2013 | Randgold Resources 109 We have an annual target to reduce malaria incidence across In 2013 we were able to renew our partnership with UNAID in the group by 25% and an extensive stand-alone programme Mali, which had been disrupted by the political turmoil in 2012, to combat the disease.
This includes extensive insecticide and worked with charity CURE to deliver medical equipment and larvae eradication programmes following an annual and supplies from the United States to four clinics around entomological survey at each site, wide distribution of Kibali.
impregnated mosquito nets, and support for malaria education programmes.
One of the most significant social outcomes of our health work communities is a reduction in infection rates for debilitating Similarly we have a stand-alone programme to combat the illnesses such as bilharzia, intestinal infections and tropical spread of HIV AIDS.
We provide free Voluntary Counselling and Testing VCT, distribute condoms and support educational diseases.
For example the Kibali community health clinic programmes.
If someone is HIV positive they are referred to registered a sharp drop in the infection rates of bilharzia in government clinics where they get free treatment.
2013, related to substantially less reliance on contaminated surface water.
Anecdotally we have seen that these can Performance assessment radically improve the quality of life for many communities and To ensure the longevity of health services after our mines have we will look into developing more accurate measures of social closed we were pleased that in 2013 the health clinic in Tongon outcomes such as these in next years report.
One of our aims village was passed on to Government management, while final for 2014 will be to better evaluate the real social outcomes of preparations were also made for clinics at Kibali and Loulo to our health work.
be transferred with equipment in 2014.
Total medical consultations 2013 112 678 medical 15% consultations 18% 67% Employees Dependents Community members 110 Annual Report 2013 | Randgold Resources Taking a bite out of malaria This year we achieved a significant decrease of over 18%, in malaria prevalence across the group from 64% in 2012, to 52% in 2013.
A contribution to this progress was the distribution of over 8 450 impregnated mosquito nets and action taken at Loulo to replace the Deltamethrin insecticide, which mosquitoes had been found to be resistant to, with two new chemicals, sprayed intermittently.
Malaria incidence at Loulo declined by 23% last year.
As seen in the table alongside our malaria programme has helped reduce malaria incidence by at least 25% at all our sites compared to the baselines set before our mines became employee absenteeism due to malaria, even with the high operational.
levels of intervention that we employ, is almost US$100 000.
This number is probably just the tip of the iceberg for us as The 18% reduction was welcome but did not meet our a business, as it also doesnt account for the time when the ambitious target of a 25% year-on-year reduction.
employee is working below his or her peak.
Given the cost to our business, to say nothing of the human consequences One of the very real challenges in eastern DRC is the endemic for the employees and their families of malaria, we see our nature of malaria, exacerbated by the long wet season around antimalaria programme, which cost a total of US$572 424 nine months.
An analysis of our spraying programme around last year or US$37 per employee as a highly cost effective Kibali this year showed that because many of the houses investment in the health and wellbeing of our employees.
where spraying takes place are made from mud, wood or grass structures, the insecticide is effective for a much shorter Employee malaria incidence rate % period of time than expected.
Next year the spray programme will be adjusted to take account of this.
If we focus just on employee absenteeism in 2013 Gounkoto 74.02 2011 55.23 77.48 74.02 ie those days where employees were unable to even attend Kibali 113.14 2011 61.05 70.27 113.14 work 26% 3 324 out 12 484 days was due to malaria.
For Tongon 132.7 2010 61.13 65.05 88.90 us, the average cost of losing a senior level operator for a day is US$30 day.
That suggests that the total cost to us of Group 52.69 64.04 69.24 HIV prevalence among our employees is now lower than the Fighting the spread of HIV AIDS national average at three out of five of our mines, though it This year a total of 2 908 employees and sub-contractors were remains exceptionally high at Kibali.
In part this is due to a much tested for HIV on a voluntary basis at our mine clinics.
This higher HIV prevalence rate in the Province Orientale region was an encouraging increase of over a quarter 27% from the 9.5%, where the mine is based, compared to the national rate 2 298 tests carried out in 2012.
One of our priorities next year will be to channel efforts awareness helps to arrest the spread of the disease and because treatments are generally more effective if they are and additional resources into fighting the disease at Kibali.
Employee HIV prevalence rate % by mine There has been a 1% reduction in employee HIV prevalence Baseline 2013 2012 2011 rates across the group.
It is also encouraging that even though Morila 0.6 2000 1.85 1.44 1.54 the workforce has grown, the number of positive cases of HIV Loulo 0.7-1.27 2005 1 1 - dropped from 101 to 95 cases.
The total cost of our HIV AIDS Gounkoto 0.7 2009 1 1 - programme was US$87 818 in 2013, the equivalent of around US$6 employee year.
Tongon 3.2 2009 2.7 15 - Kibali 17.7-37.6 2008 12.76 11.50 16.76 We distributed over 325 000 condoms last year and continued Group 3 4 6 to support peer education in local villages with important The relatively high HIV prevalence rate at Tongon in 2012 is due to constituents in the community such as sex workers and young an unrepresentative sample that was taken among patients that men.
the doctor judged to already have a high possibility of infection.
