48 Redrow plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Corporate governance Sustainability Committee report 5.
Update on the continuing impact of the Flood and Water Management Act 2010: 6.
Updates on the Devolution of Building Regulations to the Welsh Assembly Government with particular reference to Part L and the introduction of the Domestic Fire Safety Wales Measure in April 2013: 7.
Update on the likely changes to Part L 2013 of the Building Regulations and the Standard Assessment Procedure 2012 SAP and their impact: 8. Review of site waste management procedures following the introduction of Site Waste Management Plans in Wales: Alan Jackson Chairman of the Sustainability Committee 9.
The review and update of the Companys Sustainability Website: Current Members of the 10.
The introduction of the revised version of Building Sustainability Committee for Life 12 together with guidance introduced in Alan Jackson September 2012 and its impact upon the processes Nigel Smith of the Company: Redrow Research and Sustainability Director 11.
The introduction of a Code for Sustainable Homes and Renewable Technologies Compliance Policy for the Company: 12.
The commissioning of Energy Audits with The Sustainability Committees Terms of Reference recommendations for practical energy are kept under regular review being last reviewed consumption reducing measures within the in May 2013 and are published on the Groups website.
Companys Divisional offices: The Committee met twice during the year ended 13.
An update on the research undertaken by the National 30 June 2013 and its principal business can be House Building Council on Mechanical Ventilation and summarised as follows: Heat Recovery: and 1.
A review of the Terms of Reference of the Committee: 14.
Updates on the numerous Sustainability consultations 2.
A review of the Companys Environmental Management undertaken throughout the financial year.
Standards: The Sustainability review on pages 30 to 37 provides 3.
R eview of external environmental benchmarking further information on areas of work monitored reporting and an update on the Next Generation UK by the Committee.
Update on the Carbon Disclosure Project, and Mandatory Carbon Emissions Reporting: Alan Jackson Chairman of the Sustainability Committee 17 September 2013
