Corporate responsibility opportunities such as networking events.
forces with the Wallace and Gromit As a business that works In addition, we do much to increase Childrens Charity to host a Big Breakfast across nearly 2,000 awareness of those in need within our event for customers and other local communities, and encourage our business people.
A networking evening locations, we have a customers to join our centres in taking for business women in Brno, Czech responsibility to the local an active supporting role.
Republic raised funds for the Modry Hroch Foundation which supports communities of which we All activities are co-ordinated, monitored childrens hospitals.
and evaluated by the Corporate are a part.
This ensures that all These events all help to raise awareness of worked hard to impact activities are aligned and help us achieve the social needs within our communities as our goals, but also that we learn from our our involvement in the Melbourne, Australia positively the communities initiatives and that best practice is shared campaign to end violence against women, in which our team and replicated.
and the So Paulo, Brazil campaign raising awareness of breast cancer have shown.
members, stakeholders Here is a small selection of some of those activities.
Gifts in kind Since 2012 Regus has supported the Fundraising Start Up Loans initiative, a UK government At the same time there is a clear business Regus team members across the network backed venture which helps young case for our engagement with local raised funds for local community groups, entrepreneurs set up a business.
Regus communities and efforts to improve their charities and other organisations, ranging offers the entrepreneurs a virtual of ce for welfare, because we are a major source from our team in the Philippines collecting a six-month period.
To date almost 1,000 of business for the local community and donations to support emergency relief new businesses have been supported.
We help develop local business measures for typhoon and earthquake ecosystems recruiting and purchasing victims, to team members in the USA In a number of centres in the UK and North locally.
This helps improve the local raising funds for the breast cancer charity America, Regus facilitated collections of business environment, which then attracts Susan G. Komen Race for the Cure.
unwanted business technology, working other businesses to the area, some of with Computers for Charities and World In Hong Kong, Philippines and Mexico, which may decide to use Regus.
The Computer Exchange to bring refurbished Regus supported the Make-a-Wish deeper our engagement across multiple IT to public education facilities in Africa.
Foundations Wishing Season, raising levels, the greater this symbiotic effect.
funds, volunteering and selling Christmas Other gifts in kind from Regus teams Because our community support is cards to help create memorable moments ranged from childrens toys donated by spread over a wide geographical area, for ill children in those countries.
our teams in Argentina, Romania and its important that we adhere to speci c Australia to arranging donations of Regus teams around the world have selection criteria, ensuring our support blankets on Mandela Day for a homeless also run marathons and triathlons, goes to areas in which we can make the shelter in South Africa.
skydived, raced up the stairs of largest positive contribution.
Therefore, skyscrapers, and slept out overnight our community engagement work in 2013 Volunteering to raise sponsorship funds.
focused on supporting local community In Munich, Germany, team members joined groups in the vicinity of one of our with Regus customers to help clean up Networking events centres and which correspond with after severe ooding in some parts of the Many Regus centres hosted networking one of the following: city.
Those who could not join the clean-up events, bringing together local customers donated refreshments, gloves and bin helping businesses get started and and stakeholders.
Meanwhile, in South Africa, Regus enabling them to reach their full potential encouraging participation in community staff supported the 2013 Santa Cause development activities, these events education and health Childrens and Orphans Christmas Party, help local entrepreneurs to develop their both volunteering at and co-sponsoring Within these areas, our team members own businesses.
Our team in India formed a offered different types of support in Events ranged from networking activities partnership with Enactus an organisation 2013: mentoring, volunteering, helping in Nevada, USA to support the Northern which uses entrepreneurial action to organisations to raise their pro le, Nevada Childrens Cancer Foundation, to strengthen communities.
equipment support, entrepreneurial team members in Newcastle, UK, joining development, and arranging business 28 Regus plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 OUR VISION IS TO BE RECOGNISED AS A COMMITTED SUPPORTER OF LOCAL COMMUNITIES Strategic report Governance Financial statements Regus Philippine Appeal supporting the ABS-CBN Foundation-Sagip Kapumilya.
Prague Run Up Challenge raising funds for the Czech Young Sportsmen Association.
Fundraising to support humanitarian relief efforts in the Philippines following Typhoon Yolanda Haiyan.
Running in the Paris marathon for Get Kids Going.
Gearing up for a cycling challenge in support of Marie Curie Cancer Care.
com investors 29 Corporate responsibility continued Christmas charitable activities Environmental impact policies are working.
However, due to the In 2013, the team at a Group operational We continue to improve our environmental timing of the MWB acquisition, under the level donated the Companys contribution performance for our traditional centres CRC rules Regus automatically became to its Christmas party to charity.
The and, as stated in our environmental policy, responsible for the whole of MWBs CRC monies were then distributed to a variety are still committed to a 50% reduction in year.
We had to subsequently purchase of organisations, nominated and selected CO emissions for our UK business by 15,227 additional CRC allowances at a 2 by the team 2020 based on our 2007 base year.
cost of 182,724 to cover all of MWBs emissions.
In carbon allowance terms this Regus centres in the UK supported In 2013 we achieved an average 31% is nearly half as much again as the existing Operation Christmas Child, acting as reduction target 29% from our 2007 base Regus portfolio.
collection points for shoeboxes lled with in our Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions small gifts for disadvantaged children for our UK Regus centres see Chart In the past year, as part of our ongoing around the world.
To meet our 2020 target we will maintenance programme, we have more than 5,000 disadvantaged children need to achieve a 5% year-on-year undertaken many hundreds of small received a Christmas gift.
reduction from now until then.
This may projects across our portfolio.
These prove challenging due to the acquisition improve our energy ef ciency and in Our team in Hong Kong also supported of MWB, whose locations are signi cantly aggregate help to reduce carbon the Concordia Welfare and Education Fund less ef cient than our existing centres.
Typical projects which provides education to children in However, our teams are currently working include building controls upgrade, parts of Asia.
hard putting in place carbon reducing heating and chiller upgrades and Those activities are just a few examples policies and measures to improve their lighting improvements.
of our community engagement in 2013.
Once this work has Finally, we will be refreshing our addition to making a positive contribution been completed we will review our behavioural change programme in 2014 to local communities, the examples are an overall progress and revise our to further embed Greener Working illustration of the engagement, dynamism targets accordingly.
Our Greener Working and creativity of Regus team members Regus are full participants in the UK Champions will be encouraging staff and across the world.
Carbon Reduction Commitment Energy clients alike to help Regus reduce its global Ef ciency Scheme CRC and have environmental impact.
This will include successfully completed the registration further practical measures to improve the for Phase 2.
We are delighted to report ef ciency of energy and water usage in an ongoing reduction in our purchased centres and reduce the amount of general allowances of nearly 9% from the start waste by making more use of our mixed of Phase 1 for the existing UK portfolio recycling facilities.
indicating that our carbon reduction Regus UK yearly average kg CO per occupied workstation Our progress this year 2 200 Reduction of the UK carbon footprint % 150 31 since 2007 100 Reduction in total CRC reported carbon emissions 50 % 9 0 since 2010 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Regus UK Actual Regus UK Target 2013 average 31% reduction from 2007 base line target 29% 30 Regus plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Children bring a lot of festive cheer to Regus in the UK.
Giving unwanted business technology a new lease on life.
Creating a magical day for orphans in South Africa.
Taking part in the Big Summer Sleepout in support of StepbyStep.
Supporting Operation Christmas Child with the Shoebox Appeal.
