22 Annual Report 2013 The Restaurant Group plc Corporate responsibility report The Restaurant Group plc TRG or the Group Healthy eating is a personal responsibility but TRG acknowledges that it has a significant role to play in the acknowledges that as a provider of food and drink we have communities and wider environment in which it operates.
a role to play in providing appropriate options from which individuals may choose when they eat out.
TRG strongly This statement sets out the principal areas of focus believes that we should offer our guests choices on the and activity that the Group has undertaken to date: menu.
Whilst we do not wish to be prescriptive we aim to provide a healthy choice at each menu point, alongside Our market the area of business that our strategy more indulgent options.
For many people dining out is a treat, is focused on.
and therefore the normal restrictions which may be applied Our people the Groups policies and actions towards to healthy eating on a day-to-day basis may be waived in our employees.
favour of enjoyment and experience.
Our communities how TRG interacts with those communities from which our customers and employees Nutrition and allergens are drawn.
In 2013 TRG began publishing full nutritional breakdown of all dishes on its core brand menus online, within our brand Our environment the impact of TRG on the wider websites.
The information published is in accordance with environment, and how we are seeking to reduce this.
EU guidelines and is regularly updated.
Our shareholders those that have invested capital in the development of The Restaurant Group plc, and to In October 2013 Frankie & Bennys launched a Non-Gluten whom the Directors and management of the Group Containing Ingredients Menu, to cater for consumers with a are accountable.
This menu has now been fully endorsed by Coeliac UK.
Our market The Restaurant Group plc has focused its attention on Other initiatives markets in the United Kingdom which have significant TRG is a member of the Supplier Ethical Data Exchange growth potential.
For a number of years, dining out has been SEDEX, which facilitates measurement and improvement a growing market, and, partially as a result of this, there has in ethical business practices across the supply chain: been an increased focus from customers and regulatory 164 of our food and non-food suppliers provide information authorities on health issues relating to our sector.
We have describing their procedures and practices to the Group seen initiatives on alcohol, food in particular on calorie via SEDEX.
consumption, sugar and salt content and smoking over recent years and these are set to continue to be a focus.
As in previous years, there continue to be no known genetically modified foods in any product the Group uses It is important that the Group continues to monitor closely and new suppliers are required to confirm that they will not these developments and ensure that we offer our customers provide the Group with such products.
We have also removed a broad range of choices in our restaurants, including the Southampton Institute colourings that can cause healthy options.
hyperactivity in children from all TRG branded products.
Healthy eating Drink aware In 2011, The Restaurant Group became a partner of the All our restaurants operate a Challenge 21 policy, whereby Public Health Responsibility Deal the Responsibility Deal, we will ask for proof of identification to anyone who appears launched by the Department of Health.
The Responsibility to be under 21.
We also participate in the Challenge 25 Deal has been established to tap into the potential for policy in Scotland.
We also do not permit the sale of businesses and other organisations to improve public health alcohol to under 18s, even if the alcohol is for consumption through their influence over food, alcohol, physical activity with a meal.
All of our restaurants offer a wide range of and health in the workplace.
non-alcoholic drinks including fruit juices, carbonates, minerals and non-alcoholic cocktails and tap water is TRG is currently committed to three pledges within the available for customers free of charge.
Responsibility Deal: We have removed all added trans fats from our products: Our people The most important asset any company can have is its We will use our local presence to encourage children people.
At The Restaurant Group plc we strive to nurture and adults to become more active: our individuals to build great teams.
Anyone has the potential We commit to ensuring effective action is taken in all to develop within our Company and we endeavour to give premises to reduce and prevent under-age sales of alcohol them the tools and knowledge to encourage this.
This is the primarily through rigorous application of Challenge 21 key to any successful business and our team is one of which and Challenge 25. we are especially proud.
Being a Responsibility Deal partner means that TRG is Our Managers in Training scheme continues to identify required to monitor and provide regular updates to the and develop talent.
We continue to implement leadership Department of Health with regard to the actions we are programmes to assist in the identification and development taking to fulfil our commitments within the pledge.
of our future managers and we are also expanding our commitment to apprentice programmes with the aim of creating a clear path for an apprentice to join TRG and progress in to management positions.
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2013 23 Such schemes are a key feature of the Groups succession in place, and to enforce these we employ external auditors planning strategy and are therefore designed to equip to perform a rolling programme of independent safety audits managers with the skills they need to develop their careers and carry out benchmarking of our restaurants.
We have at the next level and to ensure TRG remains their employer invested significant time and resources in health and safety of choice over the long-term.
matters across the Group in recent years to further enhance the clean, safe environment for our customers and staff.
We employ over 12,000 people and continue to increase this number as we expand our business.
The Group opened a Our communities further 35 restaurants during 2013 and created over 1,000 Active involvement in the local communities around our jobs for local communities in the process.
Our policies ensure restaurants and pub restaurants is important to the Group that we offer equal rights regardless of age, colour, gender, and TRG supports staff fundraising activities at a brand and sexual orientation, disability or religion and the diversity of our local level.
people reflects the diversity of the customers we serve.
During 2013 we engaged in a number of local and national This gives us a group of employees able to meet the charitable events: challenges our market presents.
We have a fair and open recruitment process with clear terms of employment CHAS and we have enhanced our careers website In Scotland, the nominated charity is CHAS, Childrens www.
jobs to allow easy access Hospice Association Scotland, who provide the only hospice to available jobs for potential employees across our services in Scotland for children and young people who have Group, and to strengthen our employer brand identity.
life-shortening conditions for which there is no known cure.
All staff are provided with a contract of employment and 173,000 was raised in 2013 through a range of activity copies of our staff handbook along with other policy including regular charity breakfasts and family fundraising documents to ensure everyone is aware of our rules, events.
We worked in conjunction with Real Radio Scotland expectations and procedures, including grievance and to deliver the most success annual CHAS Easter Bash to disciplinary issues.
The Group has an ethical dealings policy date, and 2013 saw the first ever CHAS Christmas Bash, in place which incorporates a strict prohibition on bribery which made a significant contribution to the total raised.
and corruption in compliance with the Bribery Act 2010.
Caudwell Childrens Charity The Group also has a defined termination policy, should this During 2012, Frankie & Bennys were made aware that the be required.
Our focus on ensuring the recruitment of our daughter of one of our employees suffers from cerebral palsy.
teams complies with current legislation continues.
With the The family were going to great lengths to raise the money UK Border Agency instigating regular visits to employers to for five year old Susanna to have an operation in the United check the validity of our employees rights to work in the States that would enable her to walk unaided.
A weekend of UK we have instigated robust measures to prevent the fundraising, including a donation by the company of almost possibility of TRG contravening the rules.
70,000 saw Frankie & Bennys raise over 144,000: more than double the amount required for Susannas operation.
The Restaurant Group plc pays all of its employees at The remaining funds were donated to Caudwell Childrens least the national minimum wage and does not utilise tips Charity to help assist other children in a similar situation in any form to make up this rate.
All gratuities are paid to Susanna.
Susanna had her operation in Missouri in late to the employees, with credit card tips attracting only the October 2012 and is recovering well.
She took her first steps usual tax deductions but, unlike some of our competitors, unaided just one day after surgery.
no administration fee is taken by the Company.
The funds raised from the Help Susanna Walk appeal went The Group allocates considerable resources to provide high on to help an additional 34 children.
The response was quality training to our teams.
Training begins on the first day overwhelming and we are proud of the huge collective effort and is an on-going process of development and support.
that has made such a difference to so many young children Our training team is fully qualified and delivers high quality and are looking at more ways in which Frankie & Bennys courses, as well as guiding new and established team can continue to support Caudwell in 2014. members throughout their development.
BBC Children in Need With our portfolio of sites it is vital that our communication is Each year we also support BBC Children in Need and in 2013 of a very high standard.
Branch staff are given regular team we raised over 80,000 following fundraising activity over briefings and regular communications packs are issued from Halloween, the October half term and the evening of the live head office to each brand.
Our senior managers are out in Telethon.
In the years we have been fundraising, Frankie & the business extensively and interact daily with their branch Bennys have raised over 400,000 to support the appeal.
management and team members to ensure full two-way communication is present throughout the business.
25,000 was raised in 2013 for BBC Children in Need during our Penny in a Pint campaign, during which 1p from each The health and safety of our customers and employees is of pint sold was donated to the appeal.
The small things really paramount importance.
The Group has extensive procedures do add up to make a big difference!
to ensure we mitigate risks to our guests and teams as far as possible.
We have very clear procedures and standards 24 Annual Report 2013 The Restaurant Group plc Corporate responsibility report continued Charity breakfasts and local charity events Emissions data in respect of the 2013 reporting period, In addition to the large fundraising drives above there are on the financial control reporting basis, is as follows: many other charities that have benefitted from our support CO e tonnes 2 Carbon this year.
We regularly host charity breakfasts whereby we Dioxide offer free breakfasts in return for a donation to local charities Emission Type Equivalent including Debra, Zoes Place and Rainbow Trust, most Scope 1: Operation of Facilities 4,046 notably raising 65,000 through family fun weekends in Scope 1: Combustion 17,397 March and May, as well as a sponsored sports challenge.
TOTAL Scope 1 Emissions 21,443 Coast to Coast regularly raise funds for Teenage Cancer Scope 2: Purchased Energy 53,788 Trust as well as other local charities at VIP restaurant launch events throughout the year.
TOTAL Scope 2 Emissions 53,788 Total Emissions 75,231 Junior sports team sponsorship Greenhouse Gas Emissions Intensity Ratio: Frankie & Bennys have a long history of sponsoring local Total Footprint Scope 1 and Scope 2 CO e 75,231 junior sports.
During 2013, we have sponsored a total of 2 205 junior teams across the country playing football, rugby, Turnover 579.6m hockey, swimming, gymnastics, netball and much more.
Intensity Ratio tCO e 1,000 0.130 2 Not only do we provide kits for the teams, but we also take Notes: an active role during the season, attending tournaments Our methodology has been based on the principals of the Greenhouse Gas Protocol.
and inviting them to enjoy end of season celebration dinners We have reported on all the measured emissions sources required at Frankie & Bennys.
under The Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Report Regulations 2013.
This includes emissions under Scope 1 and 2 but Schools visit programme excludes any emissions from Scope 3.
Conversion factors for electricity, gas and other emissions are those The Frankie & Bennys schools visit programme has been published by the Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs in place for more than five years now and continues to grow in 2013. in popularity with over 1,400 visits taking place in 2013.
Refrigerant fugitive emissions from our pub estate are not currently included due to absence of data.
Schoolchildren, accompanied by their teachers, are given the opportunity to visit our restaurants to bring curriculum based We continue to promote our energy saving campaign to all subjects such as maths, science and food hygiene to life.
Through the timely supply of accurate reporting, The children are also able to make their own pizzas by operation managers have the information they need to allow choosing their toppings.
Whilst we leave the cooking to them to monitor and reduce energy consumption levels.
the chefs, school children are given an educational activity book to complete a pack that has been designed by The Group also seeks to improve the energy efficiency of educational experts.
New restaurant fit-out specifications now include heat recovery systems, energy saving lighting, Our environment low energy hand dryers and increased insulation.
2013 has seen further work in pursuit of the Groups We continue to review the energy performance of all sites commitment to minimising its impact on the environment.
with a view to further improving our energy efficiency.
Not only are the attitudes and expectations of our customers changing over time but we recognise that the Groups Our shareholders activities impact the natural environment, most significantly The Group has had a clear strategy since 2001 to deliver with regard to energy consumption and carbon emissions, value for shareholders by focusing on sectors within the water consumption and the creation and removal of waste.
eating out market that offer high barriers to entry, where we can generate sustainable and growing cash flows and 2013 saw the Group successfully trial Voltage Optimisation which offer high returns on investment.
This has led the equipment and commit to invest further in this area during Group to focus investment in edge and out of town leisure 2014.
Whilst not appropriate for all sites, it is expected that locations, rural and semi-rural pubs and our Concessions Voltage Optimisation will result in meaningful reductions in business, which operates principally on airports.
has maintained a progressive dividend policy and has a strong track record of growing profits and dividends for The Group has also discontinued the use of helium filled shareholders.
The Chairmans statement, Chief Executive balloons in our estate.
Helium is a finite resource used Officers review of operations and Group Finance Directors extensively in medical research.
report provide further detail on the Groups strategy, performance during 2013 and prospects for the Group.
TRG is proud to have achieved and maintained the Carbon Saver Gold Standard in January 2012 in recognition of the Groups sustained reductions in energy.
Through on-going investment in energy efficient equipment, energy control systems and the active involvement of our staff we have set a reduction target of 2.5% a year for five years to further reduce carbon dioxide emissions and minimise our impact on the environment.
