26 Rexam Annual Report 2013 Strategy in action: Sustainability We have an industry leading commitment to promote and support post consumer recycling systems.
Many countries in which we operate have well established recycling infrastructures for beverage cans and achieve recycling rates above 90%.
Those markets with recycling rates below the average require long term support to establish and enhance collection mechanisms and build a recycling culture with consumers.
INFINITELy RECyCLABLE MATERIAL SUPPORTING A RECyCLING CULTURE Beverage cans are made entirely from metal, Many countries in which we operate have well principally aluminium and some steel.
Both established recycling infrastructures that function materials are classed as permanent.
No other packaging material has a means the metal is both fully recoverable and stronger or more firmly established global recycling recyclable as an infinitely reusable material.
infrastructure than metal, largely due to the Making the can lighter and continuous economic value of the materials.
The materials improvement in manufacturing both make are deemed so valuable that in developing a valuable contribution to its sustainability.
countries thousands of people make a living from Independent life cycle studies, however, collecting and trading empty cans.
For example, consistently confirm that promoting and in Brazil, Egypt and India it is estimated that the supporting an increase in recycling rates is the recycling rate for cans is more than 90%.
most valuable contribution that beverage can We are proactive in supporting the can in a producers can make to sustainability.
As the number of countries through industry initiatives life cycle of a drinks can may be as short as six such as Every Can Counts in Europe, America weeks, it could be recycled eight times a year.
Recycles in the US and Metalmatters in the UK.
We run our own programmes such as the Can Community Challenge and also fund billboards and trucks to promote more widely the recyclability of the can.
Energy saved Understanding Scrap collected our contribution 95% 98% 200kt Recycling a can saves 95% of Brazil has a recycling rate of 98%.
The can making process generates the energy required to make The latest figures for Europe and scrap metal, all of which is collected, a can from virgin material.
North America, our two other baled and recycled to the tune of main markets, are 71% and 67% 200,000 tonnes a year.
In both cases, the recycling rates continue to improve.
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Rexam Annual Report 2013 27 The Aluminium Stewardship Initiative ASI, The ASIs aim is to devise a standard that The ASI initiative is launched at the end of 2012 by key players can act as a tool for responsible sourcing of unique in that it brings in the aluminium industry, is supported today aluminium, as well as a material stewardship by 14 major companies including Rexam.
collaborative framework to improve the overall together key players sustainability performance of the entire value These companies share a common goal: in the whole aluminium chain of products containing aluminium.
the development of principles and criteria value chain to ensure for aluminium stewardship that would drive environmental, social and governance that the industry works performance across the aluminium value chain.
in a sustainability focused and transparent way.
Julia Marton-Lefvre, IUCN Director General
