Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Rexam Annual Report 2013 23 Strategy in action: People Building a winning organisation is a key element of our strategy.
The talent, passion and commitment of our people are vital to the success of our business.
Ensuring our peoples safety, wellbeing and development will help secure a sustainable future for our business, our customers and our shareholders.
MEASURING EMPLOyEE ENGAGEMENT LEARNING AND DEvELOPMENT Percentage of females Engagement stems from motivated people We are committed to helping our people in senior positions understanding how their role and the work they achieve their full potential through training do fit into and contribute to the delivery of our and development.
In September 2013, we carried out a rate for senior leadership levels is 84% which 14.6% global employee engagement survey the third demonstrates that we can offer careers rather in four years and more than 90% of employees than jobs.
Development objectives are agreed We value both gender and other responded.
The survey measured levels of during annual performance evaluations and types of diversity.
We provide equal satisfaction, pride, advocacy and motivation our people are encouraged to learn proactively opportunity for men and women and our overall employee engagement score was through our online resources and formal training in the Group and are aware there 72% favourable.
We are now close, in terms of sessions as well as on the job learning and is more to do in encouraging engagement, to the very best organisations in mentoring.
During 2013 we continued to invest and supporting gender diversity our survey partners external benchmark.
In the in various training programmes with leading throughout the Group.
At year end first survey, held in 2010, our score was 62% business schools, specialist consultancies and 2013, the gender balance at board so we have made good progress.
vocational training organisations to build our level was six males 75% and two peoples skills and performance levels.
We have values and leadership practices which FIT FOR THE FUTURE In senior management roles for define how we should behave, how we perform It is the sum of our engagement, performance continuing operations there were and how we can act as one Company.
The values and learning and development that ultimately 164 males, 85.4% and 28 females and leadership practices are part of leaders determines whether we are fit for the future.
14.6% 2012: 83.7% male and performance objectives and help us to differentiate Organisational effectiveness also plays an 16.3% female.
Throughout the ourselves in the eyes of customers, shareholders important role.
Now, as a focused beverage Group, 88.6% of our workforce and employees.
We maintain a clear consistent can company, we are reviewing our structure 7,014 is male and 11.4% female approach to rewarding our people with base and processes to ensure they reflect the new 905 2012: 88.1% and 11.9% salaries linked to their role, contribution and reality and longer term customer needs.
Global short term incentive plans typical of many manufacturing Our business is conducted to deliver sustainable aligned to business strategy and our shareholder industries.
See also page 53. success through environmental management, interests are offered to the majority of our upholding human and labour rights, ethical employees.
Company and individual performance business practices and supply chain labour measures give the opportunity to reward standards.
See page 34 for external Understanding exceptional performance.
It is not just about accreditations.
Disabled people are given full reward, however: one of our values is recognition our contribution consideration for employment and subsequent and as such we celebrate success in various ways.
training including, if needed, retraining for alternative work where employees have become 84% disabled, career development and promotion on the basis of their aptitudes and abilities.
We In the 2013 employee engagement promote the importance of treating employees survey, 84% of the respondents and suppliers in a non discriminatory way, understood how their work and decisions regarding selection, terms of contributed to the vision, goals employment, advancement, retention and or objectives of Rexam.
Employee termination will be made without regard to communication is a key responsibility race, religion, colour, national origin, age, sex, for all managers, and employees marital status, sexual orientation or physical are encouraged to participate and or mental disability.
We provide online legal give their views on any aspect of compliance training to ensure familiarity with the Groups business including the Rexams Code of Conduct so that those making annual and half year financial results decisions promote non discriminatory actions.
and the economic factors affecting the Groups performance.
Rexam also has well established employee share schemes to promote share ownership.
