Strategic report | Corporate responsibility Our people We offer employees a range of additional benefits, which Our people are our most highly valued asset: they are critical have proved to be a useful retention tool.
Rightmovers are to our success and our growth.
We are proud of our people made aware of these benefits through our induction process and the mixture of talent and experience that they bring.
In 2013 we continued to communicate the We depend on their skills and commitment to achieve importance of saving for retirement and promoting the our objectives.
stakeholder pension plan we established in 2008 as well as Our cultural style is open and honest.
We invest in the option to save by salary exchange.
48% of employees are ensuring that all employees understand Rightmoves core now members of the pension plan.
We did this by holding values and goals.
We achieve this through a combination of a employee seminars and offering the opportunity for one to rigorous selection process, including technical skills testing, one briefings with external benefits advisers.
This year the an off-site residential course to ensure all Rightmovers seminars also contained information on auto enrolment, understand our core values, ongoing coaching and for those employees not yet in the pension plan.
mentoring, and cross-functional team building events We also offer private healthcare complemented by a involving all employees.
We encourage employee involvement cash back scheme.
In November 2013, the Companys fifth and place emphasis on keeping employees informed of the Sharesave contract matured allowing employees to benefit Groups activities via bi-monthly staff forums and business from the success of the Group over the last three years.
performance updates with senior management and quarterly Over 60% of our employees currently participate in the sales conferences.
We continue to offer our Rightmover-led training academy, We offer flexible working arrangements, supporting designed to provide a structured means for employees to part-time working and reduced hours to allow our employees expand and diversify their skills and knowledge and explore to balance their work and family commitments.
new ways of working with one another.
Given the specialised During 2013 we upgraded our corporate website found technical nature of the work we do and the services we at plc.
co. uk including the Careers section.
In order provide, we also support ongoing external professional to showcase Rightmove, we made a video of our people development where appropriate.
explaining what it is like to work at Rightmove, so anyone During 2013, our employee recognition scheme, which wishing to join can get a flavour of our unique culture.
is voted on by fellow employees and is an opportunity to This, along with our updated Careers section has proved nominate colleagues who have shown outstanding to be a great success and we have already started to recruit performance or are high achievers, continued to gain directly through the site.
Up to eight awards are presented every During the year we also ran an employee satisfaction two months at our bi-monthly staff forums.
survey, with 96% of respondents saying Rightmove is a great place to work and 93% of respondents saying they are proud to tell people they work for Rightmove.
co. uk Strategic report Governance Financial statements Equality and diversity Human rights Rightmove has a strong commitment to equality of Whilst Rightmove does not have a specific human rights opportunity in all our employment policies, practices and policy, it does have policies such as Equal Opportunities and procedures.
We take a proactive approach throughout our Anti-bribery that adhere to internationally proclaimed human recruitment and selection process to ensure that we attract, rights principles.
hire and retain a diverse and talented workforce and this is kept under close and regular scrutiny.
No existing or potential Charitable activity employee will receive less favourable treatment due to their We continue to encourage all our employees to devote time race, creed, nationality, colour, ethnic origin, age, religion or and fundraising efforts to charitable causes of particular similar belief, connections with a national minority, sexual importance to them as individuals.
During 2013 many of orientation, gender, gender reassignment, marital status, our staff have been active in raising money or supporting member or membership of a trade union, disability, or any fundraising activities across a wide range of charities for other classification as prescribed by law.
which Rightmove matched the donations raised.
We recognise that a diverse workforce will provide a wide Our employees are also able to donate directly from array of perspectives that promotes innovation and business their monthly salary to any charity or recognised good success and drawing on what is unique about individuals cause registered within the UK through the Charities Trust.
adds value to the way we do business and helps us anticipate This provides a tax efficient means of giving.
and provide what our customers want from us.
Our gender diversity throughout the group remains Environment strong especially at the director level for the year ended Rightmove actively considers its environmental impact and 31 December 2013.
Out of three executive directors, one is we are conscious of playing our part in tackling climate female.
Our female representation on the Board was 25% and change.
Traditional ways of finding a home tend to involve is therefore aligned with the minimum target representation large amounts of paper and printing, whether in the form level to be achieved by 2015 as recommended by the of newspaper advertising, property particulars mailed to Davies Review.
applicants through the post or leaflet drops by agents.
Having made substantial progress with gender diversity at Rightmove reduces the need for print media and the Board level, the Board continues to focus on the next level of environmental damage that goes with them.
Rightmove senior management in order to develop potential within this takes care to design the layout of property particulars to team to step up to Board level at the appropriate time and to reduce the total number of pages that need to be printed identify and develop potential within the wider organisation out in those cases where a home hunter does want a with a view to strengthening the female representation within physical copy.
In 2013, 14% 2012: 13% of Enhanced information on properties also reduces the our senior management team were female.
amount of time home hunters waste in visiting properties that A breakdown by gender of the number of persons who rapidly turn out to be inappropriate.
As a high proportion of were directors of Rightmove, senior managers and other viewings involve a car journey, any reduction in wasted employees as at 31 December 2013, is set out below: viewings has an environmental benefit.
Rightmove has Directors Senior management Other Rightmove employees 2 2 171 185 6 12 Male Female Male Female Male Female Rightmove plc annual report 2013 19 Strategic report | Corporate responsibility continued worked hard to increase the number and size of photographs As an online business, our culture emphasises a paperless of each property, improved the size and added functionality to environment.
We also recognise that our responsibilities do property floorplans and has introduced more comprehensive not stop just with how we operate internally we encourage map searches and aerial photographs which help home all our customers, business partners and suppliers not to hunters to identify the specific location of a property.
unnecessarily print out emails sent by us in the signature of The higher the quality of the information presented about all our emails.
We also continue to focus on streamlining properties, the less carbon footprint is generated by processes and replacing paper-based services with online prospective buyers making wasted journeys.
services and communications, wherever possible.
co. uk website includes functionality for our introduced in recent years include e-communications to customers to display Energy Performance Certificates which shareholders, online customer membership forms and allow prospective buyers to evaluate the energy efficiency of product documentation and email invoicing.
a property they are considering buying and to identify opportunities to improve the energy efficiency once they Greenhouse gas reporting have purchased the property.
Since 1 October 2013, the Companies Act 2006 Strategic As an internet-based Group with most staff employed in Report and Directors Report Regulations 2013 has required two office locations, we believe our own environmental all UK quoted companies to report on their greenhouse gas footprint is small.
We encourage our staff to take steps to GHG emissions, which are classified as either direct or address our environmental responsibilities.
For instance, indirect and which are divided further into Scope 1, Scope 2 we continue to operate recycling schemes which were and Scope 3 emissions.
established in consultation with local authorities and recycling Direct GHG emissions are emissions from sources that are partners and when we moved to our new office in Milton owned or controlled by Rightmove.
Indirect GHG emissions are Keynes, we removed all waste bins from desks, which emissions that are a consequence of the activities of the Group encourages and increases the amount of recycling we do.
but that occur at sources owned or controlled by other entities.
We subsequently introduced this into the London office.
As an operator of an online property portal, the main Scope 1 emissions: Direct emissions controlled by the environmental impact is the power usage of our data centres.
Group arising from Company cars, which whilst leased, Our procurement policy is to purchase hardware with the we are responsible for the emissions and therefore we best computational performance which uses the least report these under Scope 1. electrical power.
We encourage our employees to use alternatives to car Scope 2 emissions: Indirect emissions attributable to the travel, by promoting the use of public transport in particular Group due to its consumption of purchased electricity.
when travelling between our two office locations and by encouraging participation in our Cycle to Work scheme.
Scope 3 emissions: Other indirect emissions associated with activities that support or supply the Groups operations, we include emissions arising from our third party run data centres.
co. uk Strategic report Governance Financial statements 3 The Group is required to report Scope 1 and 2 emissions for Emissions per employee its reporting year to 31 December 2013.
Scope 3 is not yet Tonnes CO e per employee 2013 2 mandatory, however the Group has chosen to report Scope Scope 1 1.3 3 emissions as it relates to electricity used in data centres, Scope 2 0.9 in which the Group rents out space to house and operate various servers, which host our website platforms.
Scope 3 0.6 Total 2.8 Rightmove emissions by scope 3 Based on 349 employees taken as the average number of employees in 1 2 Scope Source Tonnes CO e 2013 2 the Group throughout the year.
Scope 1 Company cars 461 Methodology Scope 2 Electricity 330 We have reported on all of the emission sources required Scope 3 Outsourced data centres 202 under the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Total 993 Directors Reports Regulations 2013.
We have used the GHG Protocols Operational Control consolidation method.
1 UK emissions factors have been used for all data.
All emission factors have been selected from the emissions conversion factors published annually by We do not have responsibility for any emission sources that Defra.
uk  not included in the above information.
 2 As this is the first year of Mandatory GHG reporting, there is no comparative year reported.
Health and safety The Group considers the effective management of health Emissions have also been calculated using an intensity and safety to be an integral part of managing its business.
metric, which will enable the Group to monitor how well we During 2013, we continued our fire safety, first aid and work are controlling emissions on an annual basis, independent of place safety training.
The Groups ongoing policy on health fluctuations in the levels of their activity.
As Rightmove is a and safety is to provide adequate control of the health and people business, the most suitable metric is Emissions per safety risks arising from work activities, through further Employee, based on the average number of employees consultation with, and training of, employees, the provision during the year.
The Groups emissions per employee are and maintenance of plant and equipment, safe handling and shown in the table opposite.
use of all substances and the prevention of accidents and causes of ill health.
