Sustainable development We recognise that we have a responsibility to all our stakeholders and to Key priorities the wider world, and so we endeavour to integrate sustainable development Our key priorities for 2014 are to: into everything we do.
Our ability to operate globally is supported by this Deliver performance that positions us to meet or exceed our new commitment.
It allows us to access high-quality resources, effectively manage Group HSEC performance targets.
risks and opportunities, engage with communities, and attract talented people and it strengthens our licence to operate.
Complete our review of the core HSEC management processes, including a review of our HSEC performance standards.
Strengthen the focus As a global company, we seek to understand the risks we face both threats on the control of material HSEC risks and use of effective control and opportunities that relate to social wellbeing, environmental stewardship management plans.
We do this in order to deliver sustainable Seek greater consistency of approach in closure planning across the contributions to the places we work and greater value to our shareholders.
Group, and focus planning efforts on operations closest to the end of The way we work our global code of business conduct is the foundation their life cycles.
of our sustainable development framework.
This is supported by our corporate Improve how we learn from health, safety, environment and community policies and standards that lay down the minimum acceptable requirements incidents, so we can eliminate workplace fatalities and reduce injuries, for behaviour or operating conditions.
Our policies are also supported by illness and disruptions to operations.
management systems to make sure they are implemented appropriately across Continue to work closely with leadership teams at non-managed the Group.
These pieces of the framework and our relentless focus on living operations and joint ventures to improve safety performance.
our values accountability, respect, teamwork and integrity work together to achieve great performance and effective risk management.
Support our employees fitness for work through effective fatigue management programmes based upon leading scientific research Performance overview and technology applications.
In 2013, we: Improve the integration of human rights considerations into existing corporate processes, including risk analysis, impact assessment, and Did not achieve our target of zero fatalities.
Sadly, three people lost their complaints, disputes and grievances procedures, to facilitate a more lives while working at Rio Tinto managed operations.
co-ordinated approach to avoiding and addressing involvement in Established a process safety directorate and developed associated risk potential human rights harm.
Review our Integrity and compliance programme to increase the use of Achieved a 31 per cent reduction in all injury frequency rate AIFR compared risk assessment, as well as the programmes accessibility to employees.
Implement a career framework to help employees develop and manage Exceeded our targeted 30 per cent reduction in the rate of new cases their careers more effectively, by providing clarity and transparency of occupational illness between 2008 and 2013.
We reduced this rate by regarding roles and career pathways available within our business.
68 per cent over this period.
Fell short of our ten per cent noise reduction target, achieving a 3.1 per cent Goals and targets reduction compared with 2008.
As part of our commitment to continuous improvement, we have set new Implemented our Malaria Management Framework at affected sites.
Group targets for a range of sustainable development metrics, including: Achieved a 17.3 per cent reduction in our greenhouse gas emissions Measuring progress against our goal of zero fatalities with an annual target intensity from 2008. of zero fatalities.
Achieved a 6.1 per cent decrease in freshwater used per tonne of product Measuring progress towards our goal of zero injuries with a year-on-year compared with 2008. improvement in our all injury frequency rate.
Did not meet our communities target, which required all operations to A year-on-year improvement in the rate of new cases of occupational have locally-appropriate, publicly-reported social performance indicators illness per 10,000 employees annually.
All managed operations will have reviewed and increased their focus on Implemented a corporate approach to Indigenous communities free, managing their health risks, through implementation of critical control prior, informed consent FPIC which has been recognised as best practice management plans to address their specific material health risks, by 2015. by non-governmental organisations.
All operations having in place locally-appropriate, publicly-reported social Rolled out our Why human rights matter guide, providing our operations with performance indicators that demonstrate a positive contribution to the a resource for understanding how to integrate human rights considerations economic development of the communities and regions where we work, into communities work.
consistent with the Millennium Development Goals, by 2015.
Launched the Procurement Academy as part of the Rio Tinto College.
In 2008 we set a target of ten per cent reduction in total greenhouse gas This provides employees with globally-endorsed learning opportunities on emissions intensity, to be achieved by 2015.
Current performance exceeds the importance of our procurement practices to the communities in which this target.
We will continue to seek opportunities to maintain and improve we operate.
our performance, and will establish a new target beyond 2015 that takes Introduced scenario-based compliance training which provides practical account of our performance to date.
advice on our compliance principles and policies.
All managed operations with material water risk will have reviewed Developed new Group-level health, safety, environment and communities and improved their management of their material water risks, and HSEC targets that focus on local imperatives and are representative have achieved their approved local water performance targets, by 2018. of the Groups diversity and geographic reach.
We intend to report our performance against these targets in the 2014 Retained our listing as a leading company on the FTSE4Good and Annual report.
Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes, which investors use to monitor businesses sustainability performance.
com reportingcentre2013 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Sustainable development We recognise that we have a responsibility to all our stakeholders and to Key priorities Targets Progress to date the wider world, and so we endeavour to integrate sustainable development Our key priorities for 2014 are to: Our goal is zero harm, including, above all, the elimination of into everything we do.
Our ability to operate globally is supported by this Deliver performance that positions us to meet or exceed our new workplace fatalities.
Progress is measured through our all injury frequency rate AIFR risks and opportunities, engage with communities, and attract talented people 3 per cent reduction in our AIFR compared with 2012 per 200,000 hours worked.
and it strengthens our licence to operate.
and a 31 per cent reduction compared with 2008.
Strengthen the focus 30 per cent reduction in the rate of new cases of occupational illness per 68 per cent reduction in the rate of new cases of occupational illness compared As a global company, we seek to understand the risks we face both threats a on the control of material HSEC risks and use of effective control 10,000 employees between 2008 and 2013. with 2008. and opportunities that relate to social wellbeing, environmental stewardship management plans.
Ten per cent reduction in the rate of employees per 10,000 employees 3.1 per cent decrease in the rate of employees potentially exposed to an average and economic prosperity.
We do this in order to deliver sustainable Seek greater consistency of approach in closure planning across the exposed to an eight hour noise dose of more than 85 decibels absent of eight hour noise dose of more than 85 decibels compared with 2008. contributions to the places we work and greater value to our shareholders.
a b Group, and focus planning efforts on operations closest to the end of hearing protection between 2008 and 2013.
The way we work our global code of business conduct is the foundation their life cycles.
Ten per cent reduction in total greenhouse gas emissions intensity between 17.3 per cent reduction in our total greenhouse gas emissions intensity compared of our sustainable development framework.
This is supported by our corporate a Improve how we learn from health, safety, environment and community 2008 and 2015. with 2008, currently exceeding our 2015 target.
We continue to seek opportunities policies and standards that lay down the minimum acceptable requirements incidents, so we can eliminate workplace fatalities and reduce injuries, to maintain and improve our performance.
for behaviour or operating conditions.
Six per cent reduction in our freshwater use per tonne of product between 6.1 per cent decrease in our freshwater use per tonne of product compared management systems to make sure they are implemented appropriately across a Continue to work closely with leadership teams at non-managed 2008 and 2013. with 2008. the Group.
our values accountability, respect, teamwork and integrity work together Our diversity goal is to employ people based on job requirements who to achieve great performance and effective risk management.
Support our employees fitness for work through effective fatigue represent the diversity of our surrounding communities.
management programmes based upon leading scientific research We are targeting: Performance overview and technology applications.
Women to represent 20 per cent of our senior management by 2015.
Women represented 14 per cent of our senior management in 2013.
In 2013, we: Improve the integration of human rights considerations into existing Women to represent 40 per cent of our 2015 graduate intake.
Women represented 28 per cent of our 2013 graduate intake.
corporate processes, including risk analysis, impact assessment, and 15 per cent of our 2015 graduate intake to be nationals from regions 30 per cent of our 2013 graduate intake were nationals from regions where Did not achieve our target of zero fatalities.
Sadly, three people lost their complaints, disputes and grievances procedures, to facilitate a more where we are developing new businesses.
we are developing new businesses.
lives while working at Rio Tinto managed operations.
co-ordinated approach to avoiding and addressing involvement in All operations have in place locally-appropriate, publicly-reported social 90 per cent of our operations have locally-appropriate, publicly-reported social Established a process safety directorate and developed associated risk potential human rights harm.
performance indicators that demonstrate a positive contribution to the performance indicators in place.
Review our Integrity and compliance programme to increase the use of economic development of the communities and regions where we work, Achieved a 31 per cent reduction in all injury frequency rate AIFR compared c risk assessment, as well as the programmes accessibility to employees.
consistent with the Millennium Development Goals, by 2013. with 2008.
Implement a career framework to help employees develop and manage a The target period 2008-2013 is complete.
Exceeded our targeted 30 per cent reduction in the rate of new cases their careers more effectively, by providing clarity and transparency b The noise target measures the reduction in noise levels above 85 decibels averaged over eight hours within the workplace.
Where noise levels remain above the target level, hearing of occupational illness between 2008 and 2013.
c The initial target period is complete and is now being extended to 2015 to better align with the timeline of the UN Millennium Development Goals.
As part of our commitment to continuous improvement, we have set new Performance data 2009-2013 Implemented our Malaria Management Framework at affected sites.
Group targets for a range of sustainable development metrics, including: 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 Achieved a 17.3 per cent reduction in our greenhouse gas emissions Measuring progress against our goal of zero fatalities with an annual target Social intensity from 2008. of zero fatalities.
Fatalities at managed operations from safety incidents 3 2 6 3 4 Achieved a 6.1 per cent decrease in freshwater used per tonne of product Measuring progress towards our goal of zero injuries with a year-on-year Fatalities at managed operations from health incidents 1 compared with 2008. improvement in our all injury frequency rate.
New cases of occupational illness per 10,000 employees 16 15 13 20 39 Did not meet our communities target, which required all operations to A year-on-year improvement in the rate of new cases of occupational Employees potentially exposed to an average 8 hour noise dose of more than have locally-appropriate, publicly-reported social performance indicators illness per 10,000 employees annually.
All managed operations will have reviewed and increased their focus on a Employees number 66,000 71,000 68,000 77,000 102,000 Implemented a corporate approach to Indigenous communities free, managing their health risks, through implementation of critical control Environment prior, informed consent FPIC which has been recognised as best practice management plans to address their specific material health risks, by 2015. by non-governmental organisations.
Greenhouse gas emissions intensity indexed relative to 2008 82.7 94.1 95.9 96.1 92.6 All operations having in place locally-appropriate, publicly-reported social Rolled out our Why human rights matter guide, providing our operations with Total energy use petajoules 483 502 516 513 496 performance indicators that demonstrate a positive contribution to the a resource for understanding how to integrate human rights considerations economic development of the communities and regions where we work, Freshwater used billion litres 435 446 465 457 433 into communities work.
Land footprint disturbed square kilometres 3,556 3,530 3,485 3,453 3,410 Launched the Procurement Academy as part of the Rio Tinto College.
In 2008 we set a target of ten per cent reduction in total greenhouse gas Land footprint rehabilitated square kilometres 472 446 422 420 402 This provides employees with globally-endorsed learning opportunities on emissions intensity, to be achieved by 2015.
Current performance exceeds Direct economic contribution the importance of our procurement practices to the communities in which this target.
We will continue to seek opportunities to maintain and improve a b Value add US$ million 31,818 26,195 38,193 33,812 21,363 we operate.
our performance, and will establish a new target beyond 2015 that takes a Payments to suppliers US$ million 26,054 30,271 28,444 27,486 23,481 Introduced scenario-based compliance training which provides practical account of our performance to date.
Community contributions US$ million 331 291 294 166 119 All managed operations with material water risk will have reviewed Developed new Group-level health, safety, environment and communities and improved their management of their material water risks, and Numbers amended from those originally published to ensure comparability over time.
Amendments due to changes in measurement and calculation methodologies or immaterial HSEC targets that focus on local imperatives and are representative have achieved their approved local water performance targets, by 2018. updates to data.
of the Groups diversity and geographic reach.
a These figures include the Groups share of joint ventures and associates.
We intend to report our performance against these targets in the 2014 Retained our listing as a leading company on the FTSE4Good and b Value add is the sum of labour, payments to governments and returns on capital invested in operations.
com reportingcentre2013 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Sustainable development continued Our lost time injury frequency rate LTIFR, was 0.42 per 200,000 hours worked as well as impacting general health.
Its reduction can also result in increased services.
These changes will ensure that we become a leaner, stronger and Performance data in 2013.
While our LTIFR compares favourably within the industry and across efficiencies in the work environment.
Advances in fatigue risk management more resilient organisation.
Our sustainable development performance data are reported for calendar years sectors, we are committed to making further improvements as we strive for were achieved via the use of a number of scientific tools such as and, unless stated otherwise, represent 100 per cent of the parameters at each In 2013, the Rio Tinto College launched the Procurement Academy, having our zero harm goal.
bio-mathematical modelling to improve our shift roster designs and managed operation, even though Rio Tinto may have only partial ownership.
already established five Academies in the areas of health, safety, environment actigraphy to quantify actual fatigue risk and other health-related factors.
Regrettably, we did not meet our goal of zero fatalities in 2013.
Three people and communities, human resources, leadership, marketing and stakeholder Data reported in previous years may be modified if verification processes detect We also had a team of researchers from Harvard Medical School conduct a lost their lives while working at Rio Tinto managed operations.
The College is a virtual learning environment available to all material errors, or if changes are required to ensure comparability over time.
mental health review for our Iron Ore operations, looking at gaps between our were caused by a mobile equipment incident during road maintenance employees.
The Academies learning tools comprise videos, events, documents, current mental health strategy and global best practice, among other aspects.
Wherever possible, data for operations acquired prior to 1 October of the at the La Granja project in Peru, a crush incident at Rio Tinto Alcans interactive courses, audio courses, languages and webinars.
Employees The key recommendation from this review will be used to develop a mental reporting period are included.
Divested operations are included in data Alma smelter in Canada, and a crush incident at Richards Bay Minerals can access a wealth of globally-endorsed learning opportunities anywhere health management framework, aimed at sharing good practices and to provide collection processes up until the transfer of management control.
In addition, we established a new Rio Tinto Health We have incorporated the requirements of the ten sustainable development We provided support and counselling to the families and workmates affected by risk profile based on a Health risk assessment and biometric data gathering Approximately 884,000 attendances were recorded for training in leadership, principles of the International Council on Mining and Metals ICMM and the these tragic events and we have shared the lessons from these incidents across in 2012 and 2013. technical and operational skills, and health, safety, and environment courses mandatory requirements set out in ICMM Position statements into our own the Group.
It is essential that we learn from these events if we are to achieve across the business in 2013.
People policies, strategies and standards, and report in line with the Global Reporting our target of zero fatalities.
We are also placing significant focus on the effective Engaged employees ensure unified operations.
We use a number of Initiative GRI G3 guidelines at Application level A.
Having great people and an inclusive culture are key to our success.
Our core investigation of incidents that have the potential to cause fatalities, so that we communication tools to keep our employees informed of Group updates, news values of accountability, respect, teamwork and integrity are expressed through learn from them.
Further information on our data definitions, our GRI-checked report and our and announcements.
This has included developing myRioTinto, an employee the principles and standards of conduct set out in The way we work.
We are alignment with the ICMM sustainable development principles and supporting This focus on investigation and sharing lessons learned extends to our portal dedicated to their employment needs.
committed to providing a work environment in which everyone is treated position statement can be found on: riotinto.
Further discussion of this is covered on page 22. fairly and with respect and has the opportunity to maximise their potential.
Communities and regional development During 2013, we continued with our rigorous risk assessment processes Materiality In line with our Employment policy, we seek safe and effective working We seek to understand the social, environmental and economic implications and the deployment of critical control monitoring plans to drive effective risk relationships at all levels within the Group.
We employ on the basis of job of our activities for host communities through regular, open and honest We use a materiality assessment to focus our report on our most significant management at an operational level.
We also continued to improve specific requirements and do not discriminate on grounds of age, ethnic or social engagement with those communities, representative organisations and sustainable development issues.
risk management processes for catastrophic risks such as process and origin, gender, sexual orientation, politics, religion or disability.
We do not local governments.
Our process was developed in line with the GRI guidance on materiality and employ forced, bonded or child labour.
We recognise the right of all employees The way we work provides the foundation of our Communities and Social completeness www.
It involves identifying and prioritising to choose to belong to a union and seek to bargain collectively.
We employ Health Performance work.
Our Communities policy and standard provide the issues affecting our business and stakeholders over the next three years from people with disabilities and make considerable efforts to offer suitable Protecting the long-term health and wellbeing of our workers, by promoting performance framework, while guidance notes describe preferred worksite internal and external perspectives.
alternative employment and retraining to employees who become disabled the fundamentals of fitness for work and controlling occupational exposures, practices.
We refer to external policies such as the International Finance and can no longer perform their regular duties.
Performance data for a selection of our most material sustainable development is a priority.
Our occupational health performance standards and our focus Corporations standards.
We work to a common Communities and Social issues are subject to external assurance.
We also discuss financial performance, on health risks support this commitment.
Our Group-wide performance, talent and remuneration systems support Performance approach of: safety and greenhouse gas emissions in the product group section of this report consistent and transparent assessment of talent across Rio Tinto.
We met our five-year target to reduce the rate of new cases of occupational 1 building a community and socioeconomic knowledge base, including the see pages 26 to 37.
They also drive a performance-focused culture by making clear linkages illness per 10,000 employees by 30 per cent.
We reduced the rate of new identification of potential positive and negative impacts of our operations: between performance and reward, and enable employees to articulate Omission of issues from our report does not mean that they are not managed cases by 68 per cent over the 2008 to 2013 target period.
In 2013, we realised 2 engaging with communities, local governments and other concerned their career aspirations.
Visit our website for additional information.
significant decreases in the number of reported cases of noise-induced agencies: and hearing loss 81 per cent, musculo-skeletal disorders 59 per cent and It is important to represent the diversity of our surrounding communities 3 undertaking mitigation and delivering programmes that reflect 2013 Materiality topics covered in this report stress 66 per cent.
Whilst we have significantly reduced the number of new in our workforce, by employing people from these communities who meet job the priorities of local communities.
Social Environment Economic Governance occupational illness cases reported over the last five years, we will continue requirements.
Our employees diversity of skills, ideas and experiences helps to target a year-on-year improvement in the rate of new cases of occupational to ensure that we respond with innovation and sensitivity to the challenges We strive for mutually-beneficial outcomes within our host communities.
We Safety Greenhouse Economic Closure illness per 10,000 employees annually.
accept that we cannot meet everybodys concerns and expectations: however, gas emissions contributions Health Human rights wherever we operate we seek to do so with broad-based community support.
Water Non-managed People Integrity and In 2013, the rate of employees potentially exposed to an average eight hour We are focused on increasing the representation of women and of people from operations compliance Communities noise dose of more than 85 decibels absent of hearing protection decreased nationalities and local groups under-represented in our workforce.
In 2013, In 2013, our businesses contributed to just under 2,200 socioeconomic and joint and regional by 3.1 per cent compared with 2008.
This reduction fell short of our ten per cent women represented 28 per cent female: 118: male: 305 of our graduate programmes covering a wide range of activities such as health, education, ventures development reduction target.
Influencing factors were: better quantification of actual noise intake, 17 per cent female: two: male: ten of the board, 14 per cent female: business development, environmental protection, housing and agricultural exposures throughout the target period, particularly in the last year, and 102: male: 608 of our senior management, and 19 per cent female: 11,090: development.
We spent US$331 million on these community assistance 1 divestment of some operations.
We achieved genuine reduction in noise male: 48,435 of our total workforce.
Thirty per cent of our graduate intake programmes.
Social exposures at a number of our operations through such interventions as in 2013 were nationals from regions where we are developing new businesses.
Our communities target, adopted in 2009, required all operations to have Safety replacing noisy heavy mobile and fixed equipment through our formalised Further information on diversity and inclusion can be found on page 64 in the locally-appropriate, publicly-reported social performance indicators in place by Our goal is zero harm, including, above all, the elimination of workplace buy quiet policies and retrofitting sound-proofing technologies on heavy Corporate governance section.
2013, which demonstrate a positive contribution to the economic development fatalities.
We strive to create a positive safety culture in all parts of our mobile equipment and operator booths.
In 2013, we employed 66,000 people, including the Groups share of joint of the communities and regions where we work, consistent with the UN organisation, where everyone is committed to their own safety and the safety of We remain focused on the identification, management and reduction of arrangements and associates.
Of these, approximately 28,000 were located Millennium Development Goals.
In 2013, further progress was made in their workmates.
Our safety performance is underpinned by a set of global material health risks at each operation.
In addition to our health standards and in Australasia, 17,000 in North America, 8,000 in Africa, and 7,000 in Europe.
establishing these indicators: 98 per cent of operations had these indicators standards that is fully integrated with Rio Tintos Health, Safety, Environment policy, we have set a new Group target that all managed operations will have See page 199 for a breakdown of employees by business units.
in place and 90 per cent had reported them publicly.
The target is being and Quality management system.
reviewed and increased their focus on managing their health risks, through extended to 2015 to better align with the timeline for the UN Millennium Throughout 2013, we remained the largest private sector employer of Our integrated safety approach combines a focus on injury reduction, implementation of critical control management plans to address their specific Development Goals.
Indigenous Australians, who represented approximately 7.5 per cent of our elimination of fatalities and catastrophic risk management.
Central to our material health risks, by the end of 2015.
The plans establish an approach that 1 Gender distribution for our total workforce is based on managed operations Australian workforce.
Our local employment commitments are often managed approach is that passionate and effective safety leaders engage with their teams will be applied for monitoring ongoing performance of critical controls against excludes non-managed operations and joint ventures as of 31 December 2013. through directly negotiated community benefit agreements.
to build a zero harm culture.
During 2013, all product groups have continued to material risks at individual sites.
Performance measures and targets will be strengthen safety leadership.
established for each critical control and this will enable operations to improve The global economic outlook remains challenging.
So we continue to focus their focus on their material risks at a local level.
We will begin reporting our on transforming the Groups service and support activities, both within product We continued to reduce injury rates across the Group in 2013.
Our performance performance against this target in the 2014 Annual report.
groups and Group functions, by implementing a new operating model is measured by the all injury frequency rate AIFR, which includes data for with the right people doing the right work, in the right location.
In some employees and contractors.
Over the last We increased our focus on fitness for work during 2013.
A focal point was areas there have been significant employee reductions as a result of the five years we have reduced our AIFR by 20 per cent.
This improvement is being fatigue, which is known to be a contributing factor in many safety incidents transformation required to deliver simpler and more cost-effective support driven by the successful zero harm programmes within each of our businesses.
com reportingcentre2013 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Sustainable development continued Our lost time injury frequency rate LTIFR, was 0.42 per 200,000 hours worked as well as impacting general health.
com reportingcentre2013 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Sustainable development continued operations with material water risk to have reviewed and improved their Tragically, there were 33 industrial fatalities at PTFI in 2013: 31 underground land uses, and seek stakeholders consensus for a preferred closure strategy Environment management of their material water risks, and have achieved their approved and two at the surface involving light vehicles.
Twenty-eight people lost their as early as we can in an operations life cycle.
Greenhouse gas emissions local water performance targets, by 2018.
The target reflects the geographic lives in the catastrophic underground tunnel collapse incident in May.
We have We recognise the need to understand and adapt to the physical impacts Good performance in legacy management and closure can enhance our diversity of our operations, and the nature of their water challenges.
This worked closely with, and continue to support, the PTFI leadership team both of climate change, which will affect our operations, particularly through reputation and enable us to maintain access to land, resources, people approach allows our sites to have targets that focus on issues of water supply, in the investigation and in the post-investigation lesson implementation to the availability of water and the occurrence of extreme weather events.
We and capital to continue establishing new projects with the support of the management of surplus water, or water quality.
All of our sites have plans in develop practices to avoid catastrophic failures in the future.
believe that global energy and climate challenges are best met by companies, local communities.
place to manage their specific material risk and in 2014 we will begin reporting governments and society working together.
Our strategy is to maximise PTFI manages complex social, community and environmental issues.
our performance against this target.
Human rights shareholder returns by making our assets more resilient against uncertain There have also been instances of violence in areas near the operation, carbon and energy market risks.
Rio Tinto has diverse operations across more than 40 countries with very including a series of shooting incidents that resulted in one injury in 2013.
Environmental regulation different social, economic, political and cultural landscapes.
The actions we PTFI continues to implement prudent measures of security for personnel Rio Tinto both produces and consumes energy.
Our smelting and mineral We are subject to various environmental regulations and are required to take to respect and support human rights help us build enduring and and material transport.
Both Rio Tinto and Freeport-McMoRan support processing operations are energy intensive and depend on electricity, coal, disclose Group-level environmental incidents and fines.
Further information active relationships with local communities, employees and business partners.
the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights VPSHR and work oil, diesel and gas to keep them running.
The majority of our electricity use on the Groups environmental regulation is included in the Directors report together to ensure practice is consistent with these principles.
Rio Tinto is from greenhouse gas-friendly hydro and nuclear power.
We respect and promote fundamental human rights consistent with the continues to monitor the situation.
United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights.
Our human rights We met our five-year target for a six per cent reduction in total greenhouse gas Economic approach is founded in The way we work, voluntary commitments and The operation employs controlled riverine tailings transport, a process that the emissions intensity and are on track to achieve our 2015 target of a ten per cent our Human Rights policy.
It draws together relevant internal controls World Bank does not consider as good industry practice, on the basis that it is Economic contributions reduction.
We had reduced our total greenhouse gas GHG emissions intensity that incorporate the broad range of issues encompassed by human rights.
contrary to International Finance Corporations 2007 Environmental, Health, Our aim is to bring sustainable economic benefit to the regions and countries by 17.3 per cent at the end of 2013 compared with 2008.
Our total GHG This includes those associated with communities, security, human and Safety Guidelines for mining.
However, several independent expert reviews in which we have a presence.
This approach helps us build a reputation as emissions were 37.2 million tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent COe 2 resources, procurement, and health, safety and the environment.
Our concluded that this method represents the best practicable management an organisation that facilitates economic growth in the places where we work.
in 2013, 3.4 million tonnes lower than in 2012. approach is consistent with the human rights due diligence process in solution for this operation because of the extremely rugged topography, Due to the scale and capital intensity of our mining and processing activities, There are also significant GHG emissions associated with the transportation, the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights.
We understand high rainfall and significant seismic activity.
We continue to believe that this we are a major employer and tax contributor to the local, state, and national processing and use of our products.
In 2013, the three most significant sources this includes avoiding involvement in human rights harm by others, method is appropriate given these conditions.
jurisdictions in which we operate.
Our high levels of productivity and the of indirect emissions associated with our products were: including business partners.
Significant improvements continue to be made to limit the surface area value we add to resources create prosperity for our shareholders, employees, Approximately 5.3 million tonnes of COe associated with third party We integrate human rights into our risk analysis, impact assessment, 2 disturbed by tailings placement, to enhance retention within the engineered communities, governments and business partners.
transport of our products and raw materials.
complaints, disputes and grievance processes.
At locations that are deposition area, to minimise geochemical risks, to protect adjacent river Globally, the Groups direct economic contribution was US$57,872 million high risk, we may conduct additional human rights risk analyses and systems and to rehabilitate inactive tailings surfaces.
In addition, PTFI uses An estimated 139.4 million tonnes of COe associated with customers 2 in 2013.
tailings to make cement that supports local infrastructure projects.
using our coal in electricity generation and steel production.
US$31,818 million in value add, made up of labour, payments to Approximately 395 million tonnes of COe associated with customers using In implementing our policies, we are subject to the local laws of the many 2 Governance governments and returns to capital.
our iron ore to produce steel these emissions are not all in addition to the countries in which we operate.
We build on compliance with local laws Closure coal-use emissions above, as some customers use both our iron ore and and, where our policy and procedures are more stringent, we operate to US$26,054 million as payments to suppliers.
our coal to produce steel.
Our Closure standard requires Rio Tinto businesses to begin planning for these standards.
These figures include the Groups share of joint ventures and associates.
closure from the earliest stages of project development, to seek sustainable Despite the lack of progress towards a global agreement on climate change, To ensure our employees and other key stakeholders understand how these and beneficial future land uses when an operation eventually closes, and to Details of the payments to governments that are included in our direct legislation that puts a price on greenhouse gas emissions is in place in Europe, tools work together, we developed a Human Rights guidance note, which minimise financial, social and environmental risks.
economic contribution are available in our report on Taxes paid in 2013, Australia, New Zealand, various US states and Canadian provinces.
As a result, will replace our 2003 guidance.
We also rolled out updated human rights which is available on the Groups website.
over two-thirds of our emissions from our operations are covered by marketWe require our sites to develop integrated management plans to promote a e-learning across the company and developed site-specific human rights based carbon regulation.
sustainable approach throughout the life cycle of the operations.
In 2013 a human rights section was included in mandatory training Non-managed operations and joint ventures component of improving our land management and rehabilitation performance for The way we work.
To continue to build internal networks and identify Rio Tinto holds interests in companies and joint ventures that it does not Water is the integration of closure and operations planning through strong technical Group-wide challenges, we refreshed the mandate of our multi-function and manage, including the Escondida copper mine in Chile and the Grasberg Water is a vital resource for communities and ecosystems and is essential support and knowledge sharing.
This includes an aim to progressively cross-product group human rights working group.
We actively engage with our partners around to our operations.
Our operations rely on the ability to obtain water of suitable rehabilitate as much land as possible prior to the closure of an operation by sustainable development through formal governance structures and technical Rio Tinto has made voluntary commitments to the OECD Guidelines for quality and quantity and are committed to using water responsibly.
Our optimising areas that can be rehabilitated without compromising production.
In this way we endeavour to ensure that the principles in Multinational Enterprises and the UN Global Compact, and is a member of approach to water management is based on the identification, assessment In 2013, 25 per cent of our disturbed land excluding land disturbed for The way we work are respected at all times.
its Human Rights Working Group.
We also participate in the Voluntary and control of water-related risks.
hydroelectricity dams had been rehabilitated.
Principles on Security and Human Rights.
We are committed to avoiding Escondida Material water risks have been identified at over 40 per cent of Rio Tinto Our closure strategy is also closely connected to our biodiversity goal.
violations of fundamental human rights through our security arrangements and Rio Tinto has a 30 per cent interest in Escondida, which is managed by BHP operations and almost 75 per cent of our projects, with the greatest exposure Rio Tintos biodiversity goal is to achieve a net positive impact on biodiversity by to taking steps to avoid complicity in such violations by private and public Billiton.
Our seats on the Owners Council allow us regular input on strategic in Australia, followed by Africa and Canada.
Each operation has its own set of closure of the operations, or earlier, at sites with high or very high biodiversity security personnel.
This includes training for security personnel and conducting and policy matters.
In 2013, Escondida successfully negotiated a four-year water challenges, and risks vary by region and site.
These risks cover technical values.
This is determined by proximity to biodiversity-rich habitats, species of security and human rights assessments at all critical risk sites.
To assist sites in contract with their union employees, which allows Escondida to continue to challenges, regulatory requirements, financial impacts and stakeholder conservation significance and the site conservation context.
In 2013, 33 of our this regard we have also developed a security and human rights toolkit.
be focused on safety and the environment.
Also during the year, the Escondida expectations.
Beyond risks to individual businesses, more complex, and often operations were prioritised with either high nine or very high 24 biodiversity Water Supply project to construct a new 2,500 litre per second seawater We strive to achieve the free, prior and informed consent of Indigenous long-term, regional water risks pose a threat that can require collaboration values.
These sites are required to develop and implement biodiversity action desalination facility was approved.
This project will ensure a continued communities as defined in the 2012 International Finance Corporation with stakeholders.
plans that outline what is required to achieve our goal.
water supply to sustain operations while minimising Escondidas need Performance Standard 7 and supporting guidance.
Because we must respect At the end of the 2008-2013 target period, we met the targeted six per cent to use groundwater.
We also have a portfolio of non-operational sites inherited through acquisitions the law of the countries in which we operate, we seek consent as defined in reduction in our freshwater use per tonne of product.
We achieved a and mergers, which either are no longer economically viable or that have relevant jurisdictions, and ensure agreement-making processes are consistent Grasberg 6.1 per cent reduction during this period.
In 2013, our freshwater withdrawal been closed by their previous owners and require additional remediation.
We respect the land connection of Indigenous PT Freeport Indonesia PTFI, a subsidiary of Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold, decreased by 3.9 per cent to 516 billion litres.
Through specific programmes, communities and seek agreements with affected communities in the Inc. owns and operates the Grasberg mine in Papua, Indonesia.
We have a joint Regardless of these legacy sites ownership history, we endeavour to such as recycling, businesses improved their freshwater use.
However, this development and performance of our operations.
venture interest attributable to the 1995 mine expansion, which entitles us to decommission and remediate them safely, making the land available metric does not accurately reflect the improvement in water efficiency at many a 40 per cent share of production above specified levels until the end of 2021 for beneficial reuse.
Integrity and compliance sites, with the target impacted by production levels and extreme rainfall events and 40 per cent of all production after 2021.
We have the ability to engage and Good governance helps us to operate ethically, wherever we are in the world.
Stakeholder consultation is a key element in all our closure planning.
Both influence through our representation on the Operating, Technical & Sustainable It requires open and transparent dealings with our stakeholders, and it supports our Closure and Communities standards require that our operations engage As our approach to water-use has matured, and with better understanding Development Committees.
our commitment to conducting our business with integrity.
The way we work, regularly with stakeholders, including employees, traditional landowners, local of site-specific factors, we have reviewed and reset our water targets to better our global code of business conduct, is the foundation of this commitment.
Together, we identify options for post-closure reflect local or regional conditions.
Our new Group target requires all managed 22 23 22 riotinto.
com reportingcentre2013 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Sustainable development continued operations with material water risk to have reviewed and improved their Tragically, there were 33 industrial fatalities at PTFI in 2013: 31 underground land uses, and seek stakeholders consensus for a preferred closure strategy Environment management of their material water risks, and have achieved their approved and two at the surface involving light vehicles.
Our new Group target requires all managed 22 23 23 riotinto.
com reportingcentre2013 Sustainable development continued The way we work is also core to our Integrity and compliance programme, supported by our standards covering antitrust, anti-corruption, fraud, conflicts of interest, data privacy and third party due diligence.
One of the key components of our programme focuses on acting with integrity.
This translates into our compliance with the law and the Groups own policies and standards.
One of our main objectives is preventing misconduct before it occurs.
Through our training and guidelines, our employees are made aware of their responsibility to act with integrity at all times.
The programme reflects the size and geographical spread of the Group as well as the diverse activities of our businesses.
It also implements a communications strategy to raise awareness of our values, principles and internal controls.
We encourage employees to raise any concerns directly with management but, if they are uncomfortable in doing so, they can use Speak-OUT, the Groups confidential and  whistleblowing programme.
Speak-OUT offers an avenue where employees can choose to report anonymously, subject to local law, any significant concerns about the business, or behaviour of individuals.
This could include suspicion of violations in financial reporting, safety or environmental procedures, or business integrity issues in general.
During 2013, 618 Speak-OUT reports were lodged, which was approximately eight per cent less than 2012.
Twenty one per cent of cases raised issues relating to business integrity, 62 per cent to personnel issues, ten per cent to safety and sustainability, and the remaining seven per cent of cases raised miscellaneous concerns.
Fifty eight per cent of matters raised and closed through Speak-OUT resulted in action being taken in relation to the reported issue after it was examined or investigated.
Rio Tinto is committed, in principle and practice, to maximum transparency consistent with good governance and commercial confidentiality.
We issue information in a timely way on the Groups operational, financial and sustainable development performance through a number of channels.
We communicate views to governments and others on matters affecting our business interests.
By furthering public dialogue, we contribute to the development of sound legislation and regulation that is relevant and appropriate to our business interests.
Assurance Our Group Audit & Assurance function has accountability and responsibility for providing reasonable assurance to the Rio Tinto board that: Rio Tintos policies, standards and controls are adequately designed and effective for their intended purpose: and that these policies, standards and controls are consistently implemented by all Rio Tinto sites on a timely basis and as designed.
In addition, we engaged an independent external assurance organisation, , to provide the board of directors of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited assurance on selected sustainable development subject matters, as explained on the next page.
 assurance statement satisfies the requirements of subject matters 1 to 4 of the ICMM assurance procedure whilst our online GRI report has been checked by GRI, satisfying subject matter 5 of the ICMM procedure.
