COrpOrAte respOnsiBility repOrt The Group Risk Committee provides the Audit Committee, Ensuring we operate a business and through them the Board, with a comprehensive annual report on its activities including new legislative that is sustainable throughout the requirements, details of areas identified in the year as requiring improvement, and the status of actions being economic cycle is fundamental taken to make the necessary improvements.
It also facilitates the coordination of the environmental, health to Ashtead.
Furthermore, we and safety and risk management activities of Sunbelt and aim to do that in an ethical and A-Plant so that best practice and new initiatives in one business can be shared with, and adopted by, the other.
responsible way with due regard The Group Risk Committee also works to ensure the to the welfare of our employees, highest of ethical standards are upheld at Ashtead.
Our group-wide ethics policy and entertainment policy are the needs of our various communicated directly to employees through dedicated communication and training programmes.
Whistle-blowing stakeholders, the communities arrangements, in place in both the US and the UK, allow employees, in confidence, to raise concerns about any in which we operate and the alleged improprieties they may encounter.
The priorities of the Group Risk Committee last financial year included: This report looks at how we manage this aspect of our reassessment of the Group risk register business and the progress we have made in this area over the last year.
safe driver training hOW COrpOrAte respOnsiBility is MAnAGed adherence to delivery vehicle maintenance and driver Our Group environmental, health and safety and risk hours of service legislation management processes are managed through the Group business continuity plan improvements Risk Committee which reports to the Group chief executive and the Audit Committee.
The Committee is chaired by reduction in accident rates: and Suzanne Wood, our finance director.
Other members introduction of driver behavioural tools of the Committee are: heAlth And sAFety the heads of Sunbelts and A-Plants risk and safety Top of our priorities is the health and safety of our teams: employees.
Our business requires our staff to move heavy UK and US counsel: and potentially dangerous equipment on a daily basis.
They also regularly come into contact with hazardous the heads of Sunbelts and A-Plants performance materials.
How we keep our employees safe and limit standards internal operational audit teams: and any impact from those hazardous materials are of prime the Sunbelt board member to whom its legal counsel concern and are intrinsically linked to the long-term and safety director report.
26 Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 how we track health and safety GOinG ABOve And BeyOnd On a day-to-day basis, health and safety is tracked across Have you ever rung one of the numbers on the back of the business by the number of reported incidents that occur a van to report bad driving?
We received this message during the course of our work.
We track and analyse any one day last year: I want to say thank you to one of incidents which occur to enable us to identify recurrent your employees who stopped and helped me today issues and implement preventative improvements across when my car windscreen wipers failed during heavy our business.
The number of reportable accidents is one rain on a busy dual carriageway.
He helped me get my of our group-wide KPIs.
Sunbelt had 505 reported incidents car to a safe location and checked that everything was relative to a workforce of 6,757 2012: 400 incidents relative okay.
His behaviour is a credit to your company.
I didnt to a workforce of 6,444, whilst the UK had 249 incidents get his name but.
It turns out they were talking about relative to an average workforce of 1,949 2012: 275 Dan Alsop, a driver at our Stockton depot in the UK.
incidents relative to an average workforce of 1,958.
For the Dan had put on his flashing beacons to alert other road purposes of our internal tracking, the term incident does users and then guided the driver to a safe place away not necessarily mean that an employee was hurt or injured.
Every business likes to claim its staff Rather it represents an event that we want to track and provide outstanding service.
It is great to hear it from report for monitoring and learning purposes under our the public.
health and safety management policies.
The increase in Sunbelt is due principally to increased focus on ensuring all minor incidents are reported, in addition to higher activity levels.
UK reportable incidents have continued to decline in a stable environment.
There are significant differences in how reportable accidents are defined in the US and UK due to differing legislation in the two countries.
Under the relevant definitions which generally encompass more accidents in the US than in the UK, Sunbelt had 171 OSHA Occupational Safety and Health Administration recordable accidents 2012: 170 accidents which, relative to total employee hours worked, gave a Total Incident Rate of 1.97 2012: 2.14.
In the UK, A-Plant had 15 RIDDOR reportable incidents which, relative to total employee hours worked, gave a Because of this, rigorous safety procedures are essential RIDDOR reportable rate of 0.35.
The definition of RIDDOR if we are to minimise potential harm to both our staff and reportable incidents was changed by legislation for our reputation.
A strong reputation for excellent health 2012 13.
On the previous basis, A-Plant had 28 RIDDOR and safety is a significant competitive advantage for us.
reportable incidents 2012: 39 which gave a RIDDOR In addition, changing legislation in this area and more reportable rate of 0.66 2012: 0.87.
In order to compare stringent requirements on everyone involved in the accident rates between the US and UK, Sunbelt also applied industry, have contributed to the growth in our business the RIDDOR definition to its accident population which gave in recent years.
This is because as health and safety a figure this year of 84 RIDDOR reportable accidents in the regulations become more onerous across the industry, US and a RIDDOR reportable rate of 0.48.
Using the prior abiding by them is increasingly more difficult and expensive year definition, Sunbelt had 97 RIDDOR reportable incidents for both our customers and our smaller rental competitors.
2012: 118 which gave a RIDDOR reportable rate of 0.56 As a result, it often makes better economic sense for 2012: 0.74. customers to outsource more of that health and safety commitment to a specialist equipment rental provider such health and safety training as Ashtead.
Smaller rental companies may also struggle to Because of the reasons outlined above, our most compete as a result of these increased customer demands.
comprehensive group-wide training programmes relate This is one of the factors contributing to the structural shift to health and safety.
In our view, regular employee riddOr in the US market.
It is for these reasons that health and education and awareness training is the most effective reportable safety is at the heart of everything we do.
way of improving and sustaining safety standards across the business.
We have a continual process of educating incidents We have extensive programmes in place to monitor, our employees and customers about new and improved decline develop and maintain safe working practices across the methods of ensuring employees operate in a safe Group and remind our employees of the need to be safe at environment.
For example, A-Plant has ISO 9001 the Quality Standard accreditation across all its operations as well as This year in the US, we are focused on extending our ISO 14001 Environmental management and OHSAS 18001 national driver training.
Throughout the year we are Occupational Health & Safety management accreditations.
conducting an outreach initiative which will train district We also offer assistance to our customers in fulfilling their managers, store managers, shop foremen, drivers, own responsibilities to ensure the safety of their employees.
The initiative includes For more detail on this see our section on customers below.
115 separate courses focusing on major CMV commercial We make a considerable annual investment in ensuring motor vehicle training, including CSA compliance, our rental equipment meets or exceeds the latest safety safety and accountability, daily vehicle inspections, load standards, as well as providing health and safety advice securement, hours of service and vehicle maintenance.
and materials along with each rental.
We have also partnered with enforcement agencies through this initiative, such as the Highway Patrol.
Each course Our efforts are regularly recognised by those bodies that includes 4.5 hours of classroom instruction, a Q&A session monitor health and safety in the workplace.
For example with Commercial Motor Vehicle Enforcement and an this year A-Plant was given a Gold Award by the Royal outdoor demonstration and product exhibition.
The initiative Society for the Prevention of Accidents RoSPA is a key component of our ongoing cultural focus on safety.
This scheme is designed In the UK, all new commercial vehicle drivers are required to reduce the number of accidents and cases of ill health to attend a four-day training programme at our specialist at work and to encourage organisations to develop robust training centre in Nottingham before they are allowed to health and safety management systems.
drive any of our vehicles.
As well as subsequently receiving regular safety refresher training, all drivers are encouraged to complete the Carry & Deliver Goods or Driving a Goods Vehicle NVQ National Vocational Qualification.
Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 27 Our peOple We pride ourselves on having a high-quality, driven, conscientious and loyal workforce.
We expect our staff to outperform consistently and in return, we invest heavily in their training and development as well as aiming to offer them superior reward and benefits.
Our employees are a key component of our competitive advantage because of the high quality service they provide to our customers.
Both 58 Sunbelt and A-Plant have extensive programmes in place new UK to ensure high standards of recruitment, training, levels of customer service and the appraisal, review and reward apprentices of our employees.
taken on in recruitment September We use a wide variety of means to recruit the right people including local community agencies and contacts, minority 2012. and womens organisations, colleges and job fairs.
We also JeFF stAChOWiAK, Wins AMeriCAn rentAl aim to provide local jobs for local people.
Employing the AssOCiAtiOn ArA MeritOriOus serviCe AWArd right people is nowhere more important than at trainee Sunbelts National Director of Safety Training, Jeff level.
For example, A-Plants three-year apprenticeship Stachowiak was awarded the ARA Meritorious Service scheme is one of the most successful in the industry and Award for Aerial Work Platform Best Practices in 2012. is always heavily oversubscribed.
We also have a good Jeff has been a leader in the equipment rental industry record of retaining our apprentices at the conclusion of since 1986.
He is an expert in Aerial Work Platform, the programme.
Ashtead Board member and A-Plant forklift and earth moving equipment training and also chief executive, Sat Dhaiwal, started out as an apprentice serves as a Mining Safety & Health Administration small plant fitter and in the box below we profile another trainer for Sunbelt employees.
He is one of many graduate from our apprenticeship scheme.
Ashtead employees setting a leading example in safety A-plant apprenticeship programme training in our industry.
The A-Plant three-year apprenticeship programme is one of the most successful and popular in the hire industry and covers nearly 100 apprentices across the business.
The programme is split into four categories: plant maintenance: In Sunbelt, one of our most successful initiatives has been customer services: driving: and electricians.
our work with the US military providing opportunities for quality veteran recruits looking to apply some of the skills The plant maintenance programme is a three-year they have learnt to a civilian career.
They bring leadership programme where apprentices attend Reaseheath College, and people skills and an ability to work under pressure in Cheshire, on a block release basis as well as gaining skills that are only gained through experience.
Sunbelt has practical skills in store workshops under the guidance been voted a top 50 military recruiter by CivilianJobs.
of a mentor, where they work towards Level 3 Advanced Apprenticeship.
The customer service programme is also Hiring highly qualified technicians for our business can be a three-year programme and is predominantly work-based challenging.
To remedy this, Sunbelt has partnered with with quarterly sessions delivered in-house, together with the Universal Technical Institute in the US throughout their regular NVQ Assessor visits.
We hold dedicated Sunbelt Days to recruit at those locations that offer diesel, hydraulics and Driver apprentices work in-store and their apprenticeship electronics programmes, so that we can source the best programme takes two years to complete.
electricians apprenticeship programme is specifically for the accommodation part of the business where Career development and training there is a need to supply qualified electricians for site Training and development continues throughout the installations.
We believe we have one of the highest careers of our employees.
Their welfare and job apprentice retention rates in the industry with typically satisfaction is enormously important to us and our career over 85% of those graduating from the programme development programmes are designed to enable staff still employed one year after completing their training.
to progress as far as they are able and willing.
Particular In September we took on 58 new apprentices: 23 for emphasis is placed on the responsibilities of our store plant maintenance: 24 for customer service: six drivers: managers and workshop foremen to facilitate on-the-job and five electricians.
Significant numbers of our employees remain with us for most of their careers, something which is increasingly uncommon.
Several of our most senior staff started out at entry level within our stores and their continuity of employment is testament to our focus on employee development.
In the US, building on our existing whole career training, we are introducing two major new programmes in 2013.
Our Back to basics programme will focus on new recruits and staff with less than two years experience in their current positions.
Courses are designed to accommodate the needs of those new to the roles of store manager, customer service representative and sales representative, FrOM ApprentiCe tO WOrKshOp FOreMAn as well as provide training for shop foremen and mechanics Brian Kettell joined A-Plant as a plant maintenance aspiring to advance.
We will also be running an Advanced apprentice in Luton back in 2004, the day after his skills programme for more senior staff, with courses 18th birthday.
After four years he completed his focused on managing employees, understanding the apprenticeship and after a time working as a driver in financials, advanced sales techniques and technical training.
Milton Keynes, was appointed as a tool hire engineer before being made a mobile fitter, working on call and In the UK in 2013 we will be rolling out an ongoing on the railways.
Last year he returned to his original Up-skilling the workforce programme.
This scheme is depot as workshop foreman and is now a mentor to his designed to supply experienced workers who have no formal own apprentice.
qualification with a recognised vocational qualification.
28 Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 trAininG More than 2,500 US employees will be trained in 2013 as part of our national driver outreach initiative.
BAlAnCinG the ArMy With A CAreer in equipMent rentAl Ian Collings from our UK Stockton depot manages to work for A-Plant and be a member of the British Territorial Army.
When hes not working for A-Plant as a Traffic Management Operative, he is a member of the 4th Battalion The Yorkshire Regiment in his spare time.
He was interviewed on the BBC One Show on how he balances his two careers.
Ian says that A-Plant has been very supportive and accommodating of his double life.
It will include further outside training for drivers, rental In the US we are required by law to monitor ethnicity in our managers, yard operatives, foremen and workshop workforce every year and we maintain a diverse workforce.
Formal training programmes in the UK are We also gather ethnicity data as part of the recruitment held at our National Training Centre in Nottingham.
process in the UK and through an Equality and Inclusion Survey, to monitor our diversity.
Increasingly many local In addition, we endeavour consistently throughout the year authority and public sector tenders request this kind of to maintain and develop arrangements aimed at involving information.
We are committed to providing opportunities employees in the Groups affairs.
For example, regular for people from all ethnic groups and in both geographies meetings are held at stores to discuss performance and we have good representation from ethnic minorities across enable employees to input into ways of improving the organisation.
Our CustOMers reward and benefits We work with all manner of customers from small local We motivate and reward our people through a combination householders to the largest national companies that we of competitive fixed pay and attractive incentive programmes.
We invest significant resources in Our sales force is also incentivised through commission ensuring our customers use our equipment effectively, plans which are based on sales volume and a broad efficiently and safely.
We are very conscious that without measure of return on investment determined by reference proper training, maintenance and support, the equipment to equipment type and discount level.
We maintain flexibility we rent can be dangerous.
We therefore invest in making in these incentive plans to reflect changes in the economic sure our service to customers includes promoting the safe environment.
We believe this was an important element use of our equipment.
We have an ongoing programme of in retaining the confidence of our workforce through specialised customer health and safety briefings on using the recession.
our equipment range, as well as regular general health and In addition to their core benefits, including pension and life safety awareness-raising initiatives.
The health and safety insurance arrangements, we have an employee assistance of our customers is as important as that of our employees.
helpline which offers free confidential support and advice In 2012 Sunbelt provided operator training for more than to those in need.
We offer a wide range of standardised people given diversity and equal opportunities courses across the US, including aerial and forklift training, operator training At Ashtead we work hard to ensure equal opportunities for scaffold, excavation and trench work.
As well as training in the US.
all our staff, as well as prioritising employment diversity.
operators, we also trained 250 customers to be trainers We recruit predominantly from the areas immediately within their own organisations, providing the knowledge around our facilities thereby providing opportunities for and accreditation to train their own staff.
We also offer local people.
We make every reasonable effort to give bespoke training solutions such as a customised forklift disabled applicants and existing employees becoming training and testing programme for Balfour Beatty.
disabled, opportunities for work, training and career Customers making use of our training expertise in the US development in keeping with their aptitudes and abilities.
include Weyerhaeuser, Nucor and Waste Management Inc. We do not discriminate against any individual on the basis Last year A-Plant launched a new Customer Training of a protected status, such as sex, colour, race, religion, Solutions brochure, detailing the wide variety of courses native origin or age.
that we provide for customers in the UK, including Manual Ours is mainly a male workforce but nonetheless, we Handling, Site Safety Awareness, Driver Load Unload, have women at all levels in both the US and UK including Traffic Management and Working at Height.
Many of our on the Board, on the senior management team, as store courses are accredited by PASMA Prefabricated Access managers, sales executives and apprentices.
Women make Suppliers and Manufacturers Association and IPAF up 7% of our workforce below manager level and 12% of International Powered Access Federation.
A-Plant is also our managers.
We are committed to providing excellent an accredited training provider for NPORS National Plant training and career paths for all employees who work Operators Registration Scheme.
Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 29 helpinG CustOMers tAlK ABOut sAFety A-Plant works closely as a key supplier to Skanska on the development of safety equipment and improving the safety of plant.
As part of our relationship, at the St Bartholomews Hospital project in London, A-Plant provided support to a health and safety day.
The open day allows employees of Skanska and its supply chain to show friends and families where they work and to help them, in particular their children, understand what they do on a daily basis.
At the event the A-Plant team demonstrated the safety aspects of equipment used on site and also linked this to safety at home.
We also hosted a safety awareness day with another of our largest UK customers, Amey, which showcased the very latest and safest equipment available from our preferred suppliers.
A neW CAreer FOr An ArMy MeChAniC Former US Army mechanic Dontae Johnson was wounded whilst serving in Iraq.
With a wife and child at home, when he recovered, he decided the time had come to seek a civilian job.
Dontae was used to fixing trucks, bulldozers, tractor-trailers and other large vehicles but on arrival at Sunbelt, he had to learn about construction equipment.
To succeed he relied on two crucial military skills: understanding the chain of command and finding information.
He says, Although it was a new industry for me I had good knowledge of blueprints, diagrams and schematics.
I combined that with a willingness to learn and to seek out mentors within the company.
Dontae says what he likes most about his job is the variety, No day is the same.
In addition, our high level of health and safety as well as We are the primary sponsor with a $50,000 investment environmental accreditation, including ISO 9001 in the UK, of the Charlotte chapter of the Juvenile Diabetes gives confidence to our largest customers who are most Research Foundations Walk to Cure Diabetes in the US.
focused on site safety that we have in place the appropriate We will have a large equipment presence and a team of policies, training programmes, feedback and auditing walkers supporting the charity on the walk.
and monitoring processes to minimise our impact on the In the UK we work with CRASH which is the construction environment and ensure the safety of our workforce.
They and property industrys charity for homeless people.
also aid us when our large customers come in and audit our Through our Ford depot we supplied equipment to help operations for compliance with the standards they look for a CRASH Emmaus project in Brighton involving the us to apply.
Increasingly many of our largest customers construction of a garden centre in which homeless people and contracts demand that these standards be rigorously will grow a range of plants, shrubs and herbs for sale.
enforced in our business before we can begin to even pitch for the business.
We support the American Heart Association AHA and have been a regular sponsor of the Charlotte Heart Ball COMMunities which this year raised more than $1m.
We also support At Ashtead we take pride in giving back to the communities the AHA in its healthy heart projects in schools.
in which we operate and from which we recruit.
Our involvement is at both a corporate and a local level and A-Plant Lux, our specialist traffic management division, where possible we seek to align our efforts with our own provided a safe escort to the 200 mile celebrity sponsored operations.
Below we highlight some of our best efforts, walk from Swansea to Carnarfon to support the Wales both big and small.
Air Ambulances Leap into Action appeal to help raise funds for a new helicopter to be based at Welshpool Airport.
30 Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 envirOnMent CARBON EMISSIONS TONNES M OF REVENUE We are committed to minimising the risk of adverse impact on the environment from our business wherever possible.
SUNBELT INTENSITY RATIO We seek to fulfil our environmental obligations through: A-PLANT INTENSITY RATIO diligently tracking pertinent environmental regulations 250 and requirements and carrying out self-audits to 226 200 maintain compliance: 181 investing in the regular renewal of our rental fleets to 150 155 145 143 ensure that the equipment we provide to our customers 129 124 113 incorporates the latest environmental technology 100 available from our chosen manufacturers, where 50 possible: ensuring that our stores are adequately equipped to 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 operate in a safe and secure way, protective of the NOTE: CONSTANT EXCHANGE RATES environment.
Key matters covered are: wash-down bays to collect and safely dispose of materials released when we inspect and clean equipment returned from rent: enclosed paint booths and spray shops to ensure that We also support the initiatives of the Carbon Disclosure repainting of equipment can be conducted safely and Project in the management of harmful carbon dioxide securely: bunded fuel tanks to ensure secure fuelling emissions.
We participate in its annual survey and report of our fleet and, where relevant, vehicles: on our carbon dioxide emissions.
We are pleased to report that across the Group our estimated total CO2 emissions ensuring proper arrangements are made, through the continued to decrease relative to our activity levels last use of reputable vendors, for the collection and disposal year.
In the year to 30 April 2013 absolute CO2 emissions of waste fuels and oils, tyres and other old or broken increased slightly to 172,000 tonnes 2012: 162,000 tonnes parts released as we service and maintain our rental as activity levels increased significantly at Sunbelt.
This fleets: Carbon comprised 149,000 tonnes at Sunbelt 2012: 139,000 tonnes investing in a modern and efficient delivery truck fleet intensity and 23,000 tonnes at A-Plant 2012: 23,000 tonnes.
which enables us to ensure that our vehicles are continues This year we have worked hard to improve energy efficiency purchased with regard for good emissions management across the Group, installing more energy efficient lighting to reduce and fuel efficiency: and air conditioning as well as more , wherever practicable, that we control noise friendly refrigerant at many of our stores, particularly in and potential disruption in and around our stores so as the US.
At Sunbelt we manage environmental initiatives and not to unduly impact the communities immediately track our performance through our internal Environmental surrounding them: and Site which carries detailed information on environmental requirements by individual state.
Our overall emission reducing our waste to landfill by significantly increasing levels are low relative to our revenue and employee the amount of waste that goes to recycling.
numbers and we recognise that most of our emissions are generated by our delivery truck fleet in transporting our equipment to customers job sites.
Our customers expect and pay for this delivery but we continue to work on initiatives to help us cut our emission levels, such as reducing the speed at which our vehicles are driven.
In the US last year we replaced around 650 delivery trucks with more fuel efficient models.
In the US, an increasing proportion of our fleet purchases are Tier 4 compliant.
These are designed to reduce carbon emissions and, from 2015, will be the only ones available for purchase.
They have the additional benefit of being cleaner burning engines and more fuel efficient.
On big, long-term construction sites, we are prepared pOWer CuBe to place pools of our equipment at the job-site enabling Last year Ashtead launched Power Cube, a equipment to be sourced on site and thereby reducing the revolutionary product which enables customers to cut sites overall transportation needs.
Our Auto Tool Hire their carbon footprint, fuel consumption, noise levels Units in the UK and Gear Box in the US allow the storage and emissions, whilst delivering huge cost savings.
of smaller tools at the job-site.
These on-site initiatives Power Cube is a portable, maintenance-free, selfreduce the need for item by item delivery, thereby helping contained energy pod that stores and delivers clean, to cut distribution emissions.
We have also worked hard to silent, emission-free power.
The Power Cube operates improve the environmental rating of our accommodation either alone or alongside a generator by electronically units.
Our new Eco Fusion Welfare Unit, for example, offers converting stored energy into mains power.
When reduced fuel usage, a 60% reduction in generator servicing, the site load is low or when silent running is preferred, longer generator life, fewer breakdowns and significantly the generator is automatically turned off and the reduced noise pollution.
Power Cube continues to silently power the site.
In the morning, or whenever it is programmed to, the Power Cube automatically restarts the generator GeOFF drABBle and resumes charging itself.
The product has been Chief executive launched following successful testing on a number of 19 June 2013 our customers sites.
Following a test period on a live site for a period of 101 days, when the site was powered by a 33kVA Generator and an 8kVA Power Cube, a reduction in CO of 30,652kg or over 30 tonnes was 2 recorded.
This equates to a saving in fuel costs of over 31,000 annually.
Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 31
