Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Rolls-Royce Holdings plc annual report 2013 49 ETHICS COMMITTEE REPORT The Board has a firm belief that the only way we can succeed as a Group is by applying sound and ethical business practices wherever we operate.
Iain Conn Chairman of the ethics committee The ethics committee was formed in 2008 in response to the Committee members and attendance publication of the Woolf Committee report.
It is responsible, on The ethics committee consists exclusively of independent behalf of the Board, for reviewing compliance with the Groups non-executive directors and met four times in 2013.
Global Code of Conduct, for improving bribery and corruption Attendance in 2013 prevention policies and for reviewing arrangements by which Iain Conn Chairman 3 3 staff may raise ethical concerns in confidence.
It considers Dame Helen Alexander 4 4 recommendations on ethical matters made by external regulatory Lewis Booth CBE 4 4 authorities or other bodies and makes recommendations to the Peter Byrom retired 2 May 2013 1 1 Board on how they should be applied in Rolls-Royce.
I would like to Lee Hsien Yang appointed 1 January 2014 n a thank Ian Strachan for his chairmanship of this committee from Jasmin Staiblin 3 4 November 2008 to May 2013.
Ian Strachan retired 2 May 2013 1 1 Referral to Serious Fraud Office SFO The Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive, the General On 6 December 2012, we announced that we had passed Counsel, the Director of Risk and the Head of Business Ethics are information to the SFO relating to concerns in overseas markets.
also invited to attend meetings on a regular basis.
Since that date we have continued our investigations and are engaging with the SFO and other authorities in the UK, the USA and elsewhere.
In December 2013, we announced that we had been Key objective: informed by the SFO that it had commenced a formal investigation.
review compliance with Rolls-Royce ethics policies.
The consequence of these disclosures will be decided by the regulatory authorities.
It remains too early to predict the outcomes, Responsibilities: but these could include the prosecution of individuals and of the review compliance with and recommend changes to the Group.
Accordingly, the potential for fines, penalties or other Global Code of Conduct: consequences including debarment from government contracts, monitor evolving practice and requirements of regulatory bodies suspension of export privileges and reputational damage cannot and recommend how they should be applied in the Group: currently be assessed.
As the investigation is ongoing, it is not yet establish bribery prevention policies and procedures: possible to identify the timescale in which these issues might be review arrangements by which staff may raise concerns resolved.
We continue to demand the highest standards of behaviour and ensure such concerns are handled effectively: and from our people.
John Rishton has stated unequivocally that neither ensure that ethical policies and practices are subject to an he nor the Board will tolerate improper business conduct of any sort appropriate level of independent internal scrutiny.
and all necessary action will be taken to ensure compliance.
Lord Golds review The Group has taken significant further action to strengthen and enhance its ethics and compliance programme.
In January 2013, the Group appointed Lord Gold to review its ethical and compliance procedures and make recommendations.
Lord Gold began his work in 2013 reporting directly to the ethics committee and attending its meetings.
In July 2013, he presented an interim report, having interviewed over 80 senior managers across the Group.
In addition to a number of detailed recommendations, the report drew attention to the need for further strengthening of the Groups ethics and compliance function in the following three areas: develop and implement an integrity and values communication strategy: provide integrity and values training for all employees: and reorganise the compliance function.
The ethics committee, the Board and the ELT have all reviewed and accepted Lord Golds interim report and the recommendations made in it and the Group has started to implement those recommendations.
The Group has Rolls-Royce Holdings plc annual report 2013 50 Directors report ETHICS COMMITTEE REPORT developed an holistic ethics and compliance improvement In July 2013, following the issue of Lord Golds interim report, the programme, overseen by a newly appointed Director of Risk, Director of Risk undertook to carry out a further thorough review clarifying, with a new Global Code of Conduct, what is expected of all ABC policies, taking account of Lord Golds recommendations.
from all individuals in the Group, defining processes to combat This review is underway and the Group has started the process bribery and corruption and strengthening oversight and review of of updating and modifying its suite of anti-bribery and corruption the Groups performance in these areas.
The following is a summary policies so that they are robust, simpler, meet the current needs of some of the Groups major activities undertaken in 2013: of the business and are embedded as a core part of the Groups processes for winning new business.
All revised and enhanced ABC Global Code of Conduct Global Code policies and procedures will meet the recommendations made by In July 2013, the Board and the ELT approved a revised version of the Lord Gold and will be supported by a training programme.
Groups Global Code of Conduct which is a condensed, updated and more readable version of the previous Global Code of Business ABC compliance team Ethics.
The Global Code is being used as a platform for the Groups The ABC compliance organisations remit is to embed the ABC enhanced ethics and compliance programme and its rollout is being policies in the businesses, take the ABC programme into a business supported by manager-led face-to-face awareness briefings for all as usual mode and make compliance a central part of the Groups employees and a detailed programme of training which will processes for winning new business.
The ABC compliance team has continue.
The Board and the ELT received the awareness briefing been reorganised during the year to ensure team members remain and supporting ethics training in July 2013 and provided feedback independent of the businesses they are policing.
The team has been and input into the materials.
The Board agreed that the training strengthened with the creation of several new roles and broader programme would be compulsory for all employees.
areas of responsibility including offset compliance.
A new role of Head of Risk Training has been created to ensure that there is a The rollout programme started in September 2013 and will be robust and effective training programme to support all risk policies delivered to all employees and all new starters.
All employees are including compliance and ethics.
In response to Lord Golds being asked to certify they have: received a copy of the Global Code: recommendations, a protocol is being developed which will ensure read and understood it: will comply with it: and have received a that the Groups Legal, HR, Compliance and Ethics functions work management briefing.
In future years, periodic refresher training in a co-ordinated manner when investigating potential ethics and will continue and will also be compulsory.
compliance breaches, ensuring that any proposed disciplinary action Ethics Line is reported to the Director of Risk.
Since 2008, employees have been able to access a confidential Ethics team reporting line to report any concerns they might have.
In 2013, the The ethics team manages the Global Code and the reporting Group has reviewed, updated and re-launched its confidential Helplines.
It works closely with the compliance team.
The team has reporting line now known as the Ethics Line.
Today we have contact been strengthened by the creation of the new role of Group Ethics numbers in 48 countries in addition to a web-based reporting tool Officer responsible for establishing and co-ordinating a network of which enables employees to ask questions or raise concerns trained ethics officers across all business sectors to act as a local 24 hours a day wherever they are based in the world.
The ethics point of contact for ethical issues.
committee receives reports and questions raised through the Ethics Line.
In July 2013, it was agreed that an oversight committee would Conclusion be established to monitor the detailed operation of the Ethics Line When I took up the post of chairman of the ethics committee in and ensure it remains effective and efficient.
2013, I was well aware of the huge amount of effort and resource that this Group had already dedicated to improving the way our Anti-bribery and corruption policies ABC policies employees conduct our business.
The Board has a firm belief that Much progress has been made in developing policies to govern the the only way we can succeed as a Group is by applying sound and use of intermediaries since the formation of the ethics committee ethical business practices wherever we operate.
The number of intermediaries used by our businesses has aware that there will always be more to do and we must always continued to fall dramatically during the year.
Businesses now have seek to improve.
greater ownership and direct responsibility for the marketing, sales and support of the Groups products and services.
An updated Iain Conn and simpler version of the Global Gifts and Hospitality Policy was Chairman of the ethics committee introduced in October 2012 and work has continued in the year to capture data, develop a reporting regime and develop key metrics.
