Rolls-Royce Holdings plc annual report 2013 26 Strategic report SUSTAINABILITY Our strategy is to create a sustainable business, through our focus on customer, innovation and profitable growth.
Our commitment is to continually improve the environmental performance of our products and services.
With our customer at its heart, our strategy will deliver Better power, a Better future and a Better business.
The Trent XWB is the worlds most efficient Better power turbofan aero engine flying today.
The low Sustainability noise technology built into the Trent 1000 Helping our customers do makes it the quietest engine on the Boeing Better power 787 Dreamliner, which itself has half the Helping our customers do more more using less.
noise level of the corresponding previous usingless.
Each of our customer-facing segments Better future provides services and customer operation In Defence aerospace, we have worked with We are committed to innovation: solutions to improve the effectiveness of the US Air Force to complete the final testing powering better, cleaner, economic our equipment.
In each of our markets, we of the Series 3.5 enhancement of the growth that creates value for customers, are focused on reducing fuel consumption T56 engine, providing fuel savings of up employees, investors, suppliers and and emission levels.
Find out more by to tenpercent in addition to improved wider society.
Better business Improving the environmental performance In Marine, our Environship design together We invest in technology, people and of our products with our advanced propulsion systems can ideas to improve all aspects of our Rolls-Royce has a strong track record of reduce CO emissions by up to 40percent 2 performance and to drive profitable reducing emissions through significant compared to conventional diesel-powered growth.
Building on todays investment in technology.
The Environship concept was achievements to meet the business invested 1,118million in R&D, of which awarded the Green Ship Technology challenges of the future.
around two-thirds is aimed at reducing Award this year.
the environmental impact of our products Our Civil Nuclear portfolio makes a andservices.
significant contribution to future low In Civil aerospace, The Advisory Council for carbon electricity generation.
We are Aviation Research and Innovation in Europe strongly positioned to support growth ACARE has set challenging goals for aviation in this industry.
These include reducing aircraft CO emissions by 75percent per 2 passenger kilometre : reducing noise by 65percent: and reducing oxides of nitrogen NO by 90percent, all relative to a typical x new aircraft produced in 2000.
CO Engine 2 Trent 800 0 Trent 500 ACARE Target: -5 75% overall reduction Trent 900 in CO2 per passenger -10 Trent 1000 kilometre 30% engine Trent XWB contribution Rolls-Royce -15 engine long-term goals.
-20 Trent family -25 ACARE flightpath 2050 target -30 2000 2010 2020 2030 2040 2050 % CO or fuel burn 2 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Rolls-Royce Holdings plc annual report 2013 27 Carbon Disclosure Project Dow Jones Sustainability Index The Rolls-Royce 2013 carbon disclosure Rolls-Royce has been listed for the 12th score of 85 is our highest score to date.
We achieved an overall This, along with our performance score of 67 in 2013, above average in all band B rating, demonstrates our areas within the aviation and defence sector.
commitment to continually improving Left to right: Sarah Armstrong Rolls-Royce, our environmental performance.
Ella Jakubowska and Sir Trevor McDonald at the TARGETjobs Female Undergraduate of the Year 2013 awards.
Average number of employees 2012 2013 diversity and equality, pay and benefits, By region Better future working hours, forced labour and child United Kingdom 22,800 24,800 labour.
We set equivalent standards for our We are committed to Rest of the world 20,000 30,400 supply chain through our Supplier Code Total 42,800 55,200 ofConduct.
innovation: powering By sector Diversity and inclusion Civil aerospace 21,500 23,400 better, cleaner economic A diverse workforce will help ensure our Defence aerospace 7,800 7,900 growth that creates value continued success as a global business and Marine 8,800 9,200 contribute towards a better future.
We Energy 3,700 4,000 for customers, employees, continue to face challenges in increasing 1,000 10,700 Power Systems diversity across the organisation and are investors, suppliers and Total 42,800 55,200 working with our leadership teams to raise Includes Rolls-Royce Power Systems AG.
awareness of the need for change.
Over recent years we have seen increased levels Our people We retained our title as The most popular of diversity in both our early career pipeline Our culture fosters innovation, collaboration graduate recruiter Engineering, Designs and high potential pool, with females and continuous improvement.
Developing and Manufacture in the UK TARGETjobs making up 26percent of our UK graduate strong people management and leadership Awards for the fourth year running.
Our intake in 2013 and 29percent of our skills alongside our technical expertise helps position has also risen in the Times Top 100 graduate intake into countries outside the ensure that our employees are engaged Graduate Employers rankings and in the UK.
Females are 24percent of our high and understand the wider role they play Guardian UK 300 survey.
potential population as compared to in the Groups success.
We work actively 15percent of our general population.
Employee involvement to attract young people to Science, Employee engagement is critical to our This year, Rolls-Royce sponsored the UK Technology, Engineering and Mathematics success.
We use a variety of channels to Female Undergraduate of the Year 2013 STEM subjects.
The winner, Ella Jakubowska, well-established frameworks for managing Content and figures do not include Rolls-Royce accepted a place on our Customer employee and trade union employee Power Systems AG, unless indicated.
representative participation which include In 2013, we recruited 2,530 experienced Full-time equivalents formal information and consultation Headcount by gender at 31 December 2013 professionals to support the growth of our arrangements.
Our incentive schemes and Male 46,975 business.
Our graduate programme is all-employee share plans make sure that Female 8,225 expanding, we recruited 379 graduates every employee has the opportunity to share Total 55,200 through our global programmes, an increase in our success.
We encourage our employees Includes Rolls-Royce Power Systems AG.
Our graduate to improve their knowledge and enhance Senior managers by gender population is becoming more representative their careers by providing meaningful Male 188 of the diverse and global company we are training and development.
In 2013, we Female 11 working in, with this years graduates supported 49,600 employees, customers and Includes Rolls-Royce Power Systems AG.
representing 32 nationalities and coming suppliers through our learning management Board directors by gender from 97 universities.
Learning investment for 2013 was Male 10 programme has been running for over 100 39.7million and a total of 272,000 training Female 2 years.
At any one time we have over 1,000 course completions were delivered during apprentices around theworld.
We give full and fair consideration to Human rights applications for employment made by Our human rights policy sets out our disabled people and also support employees commitment to respect the human rights who become disabled during employment, of our employees through core labour helping them make the best use of their standards regarding employee involvement, skills and potential.
Rolls-Royce Holdings plc annual report 2013 28 Strategic report SUSTAINABILITY Community investment Commerce: in Brussels on EU affairs we The Group continues to be an active We are committed to conducting business to belong to The AeroSpace and Defence participant in ethical initiatives of the the highest standards and building positive Industries Association of Europe ASD and European and US aerospace and defence relationships within the communities where EU Turbines, amongst others: and globally business sectors.
We are a signatory to the we operate.
In 2013, our total contribution we are members of local Chambers of Common Industry Standards which were was 8million.
We actively work with Commerce in our countries of operation.
drawn up by ASD and aim to promote schools and universities to increase interest and enhance integrity practices among Rolls-Royce does not make corporate and encourage diversity amongst those itsmembers.
contributions or donations to political taking STEM subjects, and to broaden the parties or to any organisations, think-tanks, The Group is also a member of the career aspirations of individuals from academic institutions or charities closely International Forum on Business Ethical under-represented groups.
associated to a political party or cause, as Conducts IFBEC Steering Committee.
Working with governments outlined in our Global Code of Conduct.
This organisation includes leading US and National governments are often our European companies in the aerospace customers and we aim to build strategic and defence sectors and aims to promote Better business relationships with governments in our responsible and ethical business behaviours keymarkets.
through the Global Principles of We invest in technology, BusinessEthics.
National governments and the EU also set people and ideas to the legislative and policy framework for Improving operational performance doing business and they are a potential Improving the environmental performance improve all aspects of our source of funding and support for research of our operations contributes to profitable performance and to drive and technology R&T, R&D, manufacturing, growth.
We have set a three-year target education and training initiatives, as well as to reduce energy consumption by tenpercent profitable growth.
Building for certain capital projects.
by the end of 2015, with 2012 as the baseline on todays achievements to year excluding product test and development We engage in dialogue to align our own and normalised by revenue.
business needs with the political, social, meet the business economic, industrial and commercial Our energy use increased slightly in 2013, challenges of the future.
requirements of national governments reflecting our increased levels of activity, and the EU.
but we are on track to reduce our overall Ethics emissions of greenhouse gases.
We continue In 2013, we have worked with the UK We have made a strong commitment to to invest in improvements to our facilities.
Government on the development and improving our ethical performance in line Our total spend in 2013 amounted to almost implementation of the Aerospace Growth with building a better business.
3million on projects, including upgrades Partnership: in EU Affairs, we have to compressed air systems, lighting systems You will have read in the Chief Executives focused on the Horizon 2020 EU funding and controls, and additional energy review on pages 6 and 7, about Lord Golds programme: and in North America we monitoring capability in our plants and review, the SFO investigation, and the focused on defence appropriations and offices.
We are seeking to make wider publication of our new Global Code of policy issues.
use of more sustainable energy sources, Conduct.
We have also introduced a Globally, we are members of national where cost effective and practical to do so.
confidential Ethics Line which is available industry bodies and trade associations that 24 hours a day, where individuals can ask Our business segments have thirdrepresent our sector and Group interests.
You can read party accredited certification to the In the UK we are members of the more on these topics in the ethics committee environmental management systems Confederation of British Industry CBI and report on pages 49 and 50.
In addition, we have AeroSpace, Defence and Security ADS : in refreshing our Supplier Code of Conduct for maintained our focus on requiring key North America the Aerospace Industries deployment in 2014.
Compliance with the suppliers to become certified to ISO14001.
Association, Organisation for International code will continue to be monitored through For further information on how we Investment and the US Chamber of our regular supplier audits.
work with suppliers please visit www.
Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Rolls-Royce Holdings plc annual report 2013 29 UK Prime Minister David Cameron meets Colin Smith CBE, Director Engineering and Technology, and some of our apprentices at the Apprentice Academy, Derby, UK.
We are helping to lead the way on REACH Total GHG emissions ktCO2e 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Registration, Evaluation and Authorisation Direct emissions facilities, processes, product test and development Scope 1 215 236 229 213 218 of Chemicals regulations and have submitted Indirect emissions facilities, processes, product the first ever REACH Authorisation test and development Scope 2 357 365 346 337 302 application.
This is in the final stages of the Total for facilities, processes, product test approval process with the European and development 572 601 575 550 520 Chemicals Agency and European Commission.
Direct emissions power generation to grid Scope 1 56 Additionally, we continue to work with our Indirect emissions power generation to grid Scope 2 3 suppliers to assist them in meeting their Total for facilities, processes, product own obligations with a focus on the test and development, and power generation to grid 579 managed reduction and phase out of the use Normalised by revenue emissions ratio for facilities, of targeted substances that are hazardous to processes, product test and development ktCO e m 0.04 2 health and dangerous to the environment.
Through our active participation in the We have used the GHG Protocol Corporate awareness, overall proactive reporting, International Aerospace Environment Group Accounting and Reporting Standard risk based investigation and other we are also helping to introduce new revised edition data gathered to fulfil our improvements.
These contribute to both standards to facilitate efficient data sharing requirements under the Carbon Reduction TRI and high potential incident reductions.
across the aerospace supply chain.
This Commitment CRC Energy Efficiency Throughout the year, we continued several focuses on the uses of hazardous substances scheme, and the UK Governments GHG global safety improvement plans.
The in both manufacturing processes and reporting guidance as the basis of our Electrical and Process Safety programmes included in our products and related methodology and source of emissions factors included site reviews and training and tools substitution and phase out programmes.
Further for ensuring efficient implementation of details on our methodology can be found Greenhouse gas emissions control measures.
Reviews have also been within our Basis of Reporting, available at In 2013, our total greenhouse gas GHG carried out on the use and control of www.
emissions from our facilities, processes, exposure to a number of chemicals newlyproduct test and development was Safety regulated under the REACH regulations.
520kilotonnes carbon dioxide equivalent We are committed to continually improving These reviews confirmed that our controls ktCO e. This represents a reduction of 2 the standards of health and safety in the are suitable and that they ensure ninepercent compared with 572 ktCO e 2 workplace.
We have steadily improved occupational exposures and releases to the in 2009 see table.
This reduction has been performance over previous years.
In 2013, environment are within limits set by the achieved, despite a growth in our global there were no fatalities or significant new requirements.
We have introduced a injuries and we achieved a 17percent Health longer term GHG target over ten years, reduction in the Total Reportable Injury TRI The current incidence of occupational illness aimed at reducing emissions by 17percent rate from 0.54 in 2012 to 0.45 TRIs per 100 stands at 0.86 cases per 1,000 employees.
by the end of 2022 baselined at 2012, employees.
Over the longer term, we have The leading causes of illness are noiseexcluding product test and development.
reduced the TRI rate by 37percent since induced hearing loss, work-related upper 2009.
We have set a new target to reduce The figures in the table do not include limb disorders and stress.
This reflects our TRIs per 100 employees by 15percent by emissions associated with Rolls-Royce Power global health risk profile and provides the 2015 baselined at 2012.
We expect to integrate this focus for our health improvement activities.
subsidiary into our reporting process We continue to analyse high-potential Following a prosecution in the UK by the during 2014.
Power generation relates incidents and each of them is investigated Health and Safety Executive for one case to the operation of commercial gas-fired at business segment level, with some also of Hand-Arm Vibration Syndrome HAVS, power stations.
included in Group level assessment.
The independent advice was sought from the number of high-potential incidents has UK Health and Safety Laboratory and we are declined slightly from previous years and continuing to strengthen our management the number of near misses reported has of HAVS.
The increased level of near miss reporting reflects greater risk
