Strategic Report 01-41 39 Directors 42-45 Governance 46-71 Financial Statements 72-123 Company Information 124-126 corporate social responsibility continued 2014 Targets A report of Group health and safety The Groups Health and Safety Policy and Roll out bribery and corruption training in performance is given at quarterly CSR Arrangements document sets out the all other relevant languages: Committee meetings and all actions are Companys policies for all of its foreseen Roll out bribery and corruption training to recorded and progress reviewed at the next activities.
Rotork employees are engaged in Rotork agents: meeting.
The results of audits, the rating of activities which include manual handling of Make progress towards achieving Rotorks locations and the status of audit actions are heavy objects, mechanical lifting, operating 2015 diversity targets: and reviewed by the Health and Safety Committee machinery and driving to suppliers and Continue to communicate the and any actions identified are acted upon.
In addition to working whistleblowing policy regularly through in the Groups facilities, employees also work the Rotork e-newsletter.
Training is provided to enable employees to on customer sites, which are often more carry out their duties without risk to hazardous.
To reduce the risks associated HEALTH AND SAFETy themselves or to others.
with these activities, additional safe working Overview practices are in place and include: The safety of Group employees, customers The Group Health and Safety Policy is Site surveys, to establish requirements, and visitors is of paramount importance to endorsed by the Chief Executive and sets out measurements and an assessment of the the Group.
It is our policy to provide a safe the Groups requirement to meet or exceed potential work area: working environment for all employees and legislative and other requirements in the Project assessments to identify risks, visitors to any of the Groups sites and ensure countries in which Rotork operates.
The hazards and necessary controls to employees work safely.
For these reasons, policy can be viewed on the Groups website eliminate, reduce or control the risk to a policies and procedures are in place to help under Corporate Social Responsibility reasonable level: to eliminate, reduce or control our Health and Safety in the Investors section.
Method statements, detailing work to be operational risks and ensure compliance done and controls to be put in place with health and safety legislation.
Effective management of the Groups health and equipment to be used: and safety programme enables us to: Point of work risk assessments, before The Group undertakes health and safety Minimise the risk of injury to our work starts, which must also be audits at all of its locations.
A schedule of employees, customers and suppliers and reviewed after any period away from audits is established and approved by the damage to property: the work area: CSR Committee.
Each Rotork location is Reduce costs associated with employee The use of permits-to-work when audited against a checklist which has been illness, injury and loss of physical assets: working in hazardous environments developed to ensure each location meets the and such as confined space work: and Groups standards for health and safety.
Each Continually improve the Groups health Unannounced internal audits of item on the checklist is assessed against and safety practices.
employees when working on a pre-determined criteria and scored.
calculation of the overall score gives the The Group operates a behaviour-based safety company a rating and any company not programme.
This requires managers and Five performance indicators are monitored achieving the baseline rating is given limited supervisors to encourage safe working across the Group and performance against time to improve.
practices by: these indicators is reported to the Audit Promoting regular safety observations by Committee: All audits are reviewed by the Groups Health all staff: Accident frequency rate which is a and Safety Officer and all actions resulting Regularly asking employees for their reported Group KPI : from audits are recorded and monitored for suggestions for improving safety at their Lost time rate: correct and timely rectification.
facility: Incident frequency rate: Holding employees accountable for Health and safety audit rating: and observing these practices: On time completion of health and safety Providing managing safety courses for line audit actions.
management: and Regular health and safety training to employees on subjects such as manual handling and confined spaces.
