Rotork plc Annual Report 2013 40 corporate social responsibility continued By monitoring the results of these Local community involvement highlights The Group is also a member of an initiative of performance indicators we are able to from the year include: the Engineering Development Trust who help identify areas of strong performance which Rotork Malaysiavisited and donated 11-21 year olds to enhance their technical, can then be shared across the Group and itemsto AsSolihin Orphanage: personal and employability skills through areas of weakness which may require Various locations running apprenticeships, industry-led projects, industrial placements additional resources and training.
work placements and internship and specialised courses.
In Germany, Rotork programmes: provided practice interview training at a local Progress Rotork Mexico joined forces with the High School to help students with lower One of the Groups non-financial KPIs is Mexican Red Cross to provide donations chances on the job market.
A target is of food and personal hygiene items to calculated as an average of the past three those affected by two storms that hit In addition to local charitable activities, the years AFR performance.
In 2013, the Mexico: Group has supported two major charities in Group achieved an AFR of 0.33, achieving Rotork Sweden made a donation to a 2013, WaterAid and The Institute of Cancer the 2013 target of 0.43. local High School for children with Research.
A specific WaterAid project is disabilities, enabling them to travel to the supported and the Group receives updates Details of the Groups AFR over the past five UK to meet children from similar schools: throughout the year on the progress of this years and how it is calculated is shown on and project.
Rotork Fairchild, USA employees donated Christmas gifts of toys and clothes to local WaterAid uses the Groups support to help 2014 Targets children.
fund the Jeldu Woreda Project in Ethiopia, Achieve an AFR of 0.42. which aims to deliver safe and adequate Rotork operates a number of educational water, sanitation and hygiene facilities to COMMUNITy INvOLvEMENT initiatives such as apprenticeship schemes local communities.
The original project, Overview and co-operative relationships with funded by Rotork since 2011, has now been The Group considers it important to numerous universities.
The Group is the completed benefitting 16,500 individuals contribute to and engage positively with industry member of the Bath Education living in three villages in Ethiopia.
As planned stakeholders in the communities in which we Trust, which aims to advance education in this project was completed by the end of operate and to be a good community Bath schools and promote community March 2013 and all facilities are solar neighbour around the world.
In 2013, City of Bath College powered.
as part of our ongoing responsibilities as a joined forces with Rotork to offer corporate entity.
The Group seeks to be engineering apprenticeships, which will see In 2014, the Group will support WaterAids regarded as a good corporate citizen.
This five to seven apprentices a year becoming Metu-Hurumu Woreda WaSH Project in links into our corporate values which include fully qualified engineering technicians, to Ethiopia, situated in the same area of Ethiopia producing a positive and beneficial impact in form a strong part of Rotorks future.
as the Jeldu Woreda Project supported by the the areas in which we operate.
One of the Rotork also offers graduate work Group.
This project will target 10 villages and ways the Group does this is by having local placements and degree sponsorship to provide over 128,000 people with safe water charity committees at each of our sites which promising students, employees and the and sanitation.
The project is a combination donate to local charitable causes.
This most talented individuals from our of water supply provision, water resource empowers local employees to decide how to internship scheme.
management and livelihood improvement distribute the funds in their local and has been identified that this approach is communities.
The Group aims to contribute of critical importance to improve the 0.1% of profits to local charitable causes.
wellbeing of the communities in the Keber watershed.
2013 has been a particularly difficult year with cancer deeply affecting the lives and families of a number of our colleagues.
Strategic Report 01-41 41 Directors 42-45 Governance 46-71 Financial Statements 72-123 Company Information 124-126 corporate social responsibility continued Therefore, in addition to our ongoing support Contacts and feedback for WaterAid, the Group has made a The Group welcomes and values feedback.
If donation to The Institute of Cancer Research you have any comments regarding this CSR ICR, London.
This is one of the worlds most report or any aspect of the Groups CSR influential cancer research institutes, with an programme, please contact Stephen Jones, outstanding record of achievement dating Company Secretary, by writing to him at the back more than 100 years.
Scientists and Rotork plc registered office, full details of clinicians at the ICR are working every day to which can be found in the corporate make a real impact on cancer patients lives.
The ICRs mission is to make the discoveries that defeat cancer and the Group is pleased to support that aim.
Rotork offices in China walked Mount Tai to raise money for WaterAid.
Rotork also made a special donation to One bike, a thousand hopes 2013 campaign, in memory of the brother of an employee based in Lucca, Italy.
Progress 55,000 contributed by the Group to WaterAid plus a further 6,600 contributed to WaterAid through employee fundraising activities: 57,000 contributed to the ICR: 10,000 contributed to Mauro Talini and Father Kolbe International no-profit Association.
The Rotork Middle East office collected clothing for 2014 Targets the Philippines appeal.
To increase donations to charitable causes.
The Group will: Donate 0.1% of Group profits to Rotorks nominated international charity: and Donate 0.1% of Group profits to charitable causes local to Rotorks operating sites.
To continue to support WaterAid and in particular the Metu-Hurumu Woreda WaSH Project.
