Rotork plc Annual Report 2013 34 corporate social responsibility The Group believes that responsible business is the best business.
It can benefit our operational effectiveness, develop our industry leading products, grow our business and build on the trust of our stakeholders.
wHy doeS corporate Social HEALTH AND SAFETy reSponSibility cSr Matter The Groups employees are essential to the to tHe Group?
Providing a safe The Group believes that responsible business working environment is paramount and by is the best business.
It can benefit our ensuring our people are safe we enhance the operational effectiveness, develop our effectiveness of our workforce by mitigating industry leading products, grow our business the risk of injury and reducing costs and build on the trust of our stakeholders.
associated with employee illness or injury.
Sustainability lies at the heart of the Groups The Groups approach to health and safety commitment to social responsibility and it can be found on pages 39 to 40. represents a valuable opportunity to ensure that the Group continues to be successful in COMMUNITy INvOLvEMENT the long term.
For these reasons, the Group The Groups asset-light business model endeavours to entrench CSR across all its means that we do not significantly disrupt processes and ways of working.
local communities where we are based.
Nevertheless, we recognise that we operate The Groups approach to CSR is focused in a wide number of territories around the around four main themes: world and that our operations have some impact on the communities within these THE ENvIRONMENT territories.
Furthermore, the Groups The environmental programme, described in employees, customers and suppliers are often more detail on pages 35 to 37, benefits the members of these communities and normally Group in a number of ways including ensuring these businesses are run by local people.
A compliance with legal requirements in all product of this engagement is to ensure that territories in which the Group operates, the Group continues to be welcomed in the achieving cost savings by reducing waste and communities we work in and this contributes resource consumption, and reducing emissions to the sustainability of our operations.
Local The Oromia region of Ethiopia, in the Jeldu district.
which contributes to sustaining the causes are supported through each location Photographer credit: David Balhuizen, Belu WaterAid.
environments in which the Group operates.
having its own charity committee focused on its local community.
More details on ETHICS AND vALUES community involvement can be found on The Group looks to conduct business in an pages 40 to 41. honest and ethical manner at all times.
High standards of ethics and values are important The Group recognises that shareholders are to the Group because they help to foster an becoming increasingly focused on CSR issues open and honest culture which contributes to and take into account the Guidelines on the effectiveness of our people, allowing us Social Responsibility issued by the Association to attract, motivate and retain talent, build of British Insurers.
The Group has been a on the trust of our stakeholders and to member of the UN Global Compact since enhance and protect our reputation.
2003 and continues to be included in the Furthermore, behaving ethically and honestly, FTSE4Good index where we maintain an for example by taking a zero tolerance above average score in the global rankings, approach to bribery and corruption, UK rankings and industry sector rankings.
contributes to improving standards in markets around the world which will help nurture and grow these markets.
More details of the Groups ethics and values can be found on pages 37 to 39.
