Rotork plc Annual Report 2013 118 Notes to the Company financial statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2013 a accOunting pOlicies continued Share-based payments The Company has adopted FRS 20 and the accounting policies followed are in all material respects the same as the Groups policy under IFRS 2.
This policy is shown in note 1 to the Group financial statements.
Costs in relation to share-based awards made to other Group company employees are recharged to each subsidiary company.
Deferred taxation Deferred tax is provided in full, without discounting, on timing differences that result in an obligation at the balance sheet date to pay more tax, or a right to pay less tax, at a future date at rates expected to apply when they crystallise based on current tax rates and law, except for the items explained below.
Timing differences arise from the inclusion of items of income and expenditure in taxation computations in periods different from those in which they are included in the financial statements.
Deferred tax is not provided on timing differences arising from the revaluation of fixed assets where there is no commitment to sell the assets or on unremitted earnings of subsidiaries where there is no commitment to remit those earnings.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is regarded as more likely than not that they will be recovered.
Dividends Interim dividends are recorded in the financial statements when they are paid.
Final dividends are recorded in the financial statements in the period which they are approved by the Companys shareholders.
b persOnnel expenses in the cOmpany prOfit and lOss accOunt 2013 2012 Wages and salaries including bonus and incentive plans 3,131 2,731 Social security costs 457 345 Pension costs 368 337 Share-based payments 663 603 4,619 4,016 During the year there were 12 2012: eleven employees of Rotork plc plus the four 2012: four executive directors.
The personnel costs accounted for within the Company include the full costs of the employees, the Group Finance Director, the Group Chief Executive, but the full costs of the other two executive directors are reported within the subsidiary where they are based.
Disclosures required by paragraph 1 of schedule 5 of SI2008 410 are set out in the directors remuneration report on pages 56 to 69.
Share-based payments The share-based payment charge relates to employees of the Company participating in the Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP.
The disclosures required under FRS 20 can be found in note 25 to the Group Financial Statements.
The table below sets out the movement of share options under the LTIP for employees of the Company.
The weighted average remaining life of awards outstanding at the year end is one year.
