RPC Group Plc 30 Annual report and accounts 2013 cOrpOrATe reSpOnSiBiliTy As a global force in rigid plastic packaging, we are committed to Our sustainability incorporating sustainability into our overall business strategy and story helping our customers to achieve their environmental goals.
Since our inception we have been constantly developing innovative packaging solutions that provide sustainability benefits for our own directoperations, our customers andoursupply chain.
As a packaging manufacturer, RPC has greatest control over the earliest The packaging stages of the packaging lifecycle.
however, the influence of our actions at lifecycle the design stage reaches far beyond, to the customer and even the recycling opportunities at the end-of-life stage.
RPC is taking positive steps to tackle sustainability challenges and the diagram opposite shows the most significant environmental impacts throughout the packaging lifecycle whichwe can control or influence.
Scan this code with one ofthe many available QR reader apps on your smartphone to access ourwebsite: www.
com sustainability R A W M A Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information T T N E E M P O R L E V I E D D A N A N L G I S E D S R E T A I L F I L L I N G RPC Group Plc Annual report and accounts 2013 31 Some sustainability highlights from Becoming a member of recycling the past year include: charity Recoup to reinforce our commitment to the recycling of Further product innovations plastic packaging.
in lightweighting, the use of recycled content and keeping The completion of a number of products fresher for longer.
large energy efficiency projects which have kept our kWh tonne A Green Apple award for the 25% usage stable despite a lower recycled content paint container.
throughput of raw material and The development of a video a move towards higher added incollaboration with a value products.
plasticsrecycler to promote An 18% reduction in water per the recyclability of rigid tonne due to the increase in plasticpackaging.
closed loop cooling systems across the Group.
Closed loop process Responsible procurement reduction in waste Research & development to landfill of new materials such as bio-polymers Sustainable raw materialsource Consideration of target Lightweighting demographic Use of post consumer Reduction in food recyclate waste Product protection Recyclability SUSTAINABILITY Increased shelf-life Reduce Product protection Energy consumption Waste Water consumption Carbon emissions Product protection Efficient transportation A N D L D A I S S O T P R S I B I D U T N I O O I N T A R E N I C G N I N I E L S C U Y - C E R E R M A N U N F A O C I T T C U E R L I L N O G C L A S O P S I D E S U RPC Group Plc 32 Annual report and accounts 2013 cOrpOrATe reSpOnSiBiliTy continued Developing sustainable packaging solutions PROduCT dEVELOPMEnT And energy demand in comparison with A SuSTAInABLE SOLuTIOn InnOVATIOn thesourcing of virgin raw materials.
BIO-MATERIALS The work in this area is an evolving field in Lightweighting A developing area of focus for the Group which we are continuously active across all Across the industry, packaging has become over the past few years has been bioofthe main polymers that we use in packaging progressively lighter while still maintaining materials.
Interms of use for plastic PP, HDPE, PET and PS.
Work to date has the same technical performance.
This is packaging bio-materials can be split into resulted in the design and manufacture of evident particularly in the UK where, despite two main categories.
anumber of packaging applications that the increased demand for consumer goods, 1.
Non-biodegradable bio-based material incorporate PCR material.
The product case the weight of packaging purchased per which is derived from plants or another study shown below illustrates an innovative person has remained roughly the same over non fossil fuel source which can either collaboration between RPC sites to produce the last 10 years source: Incpen.
RPC has partly or fully replace oilbased polymers anew pack containing PCR.
managed to reduce weights of packaging in packaging.
across all three of its manufacturing Product protection processes through significant investments 2.
Plastics that are both bio-based and The development and use of innovative in tooling, process changes and machinery biodegradable under certain conditions.
multi-layer packaging within the Group has alongside developments in materials.
This provided a protective barrier so that RPC is working with a number of biohas been achieved while maintaining the customers products have a prolonged material suppliers to evaluate, research technical capability of the packaging and shelf-life.
This has not only helped to reduce anddevelop these materials within its ensuring that it is able to carry out its the energy demands on refrigeration, but also packaging portfolio.
Customer collaboration primary function of protecting a product ensures food remains fresh on shelf, reducing fuelled by consumer demand and throughout all stages of supply, distribution spoilage and the high environmental impact recyclability will be key to the future use and use.
In response to demographic and lifestyle Recycled material changes, notably the increase in single person RPC has been working with the recycling households and the overall trend towards industry for many years, collaborating with greater consumer convenience and eating Government agencies such as the Waste & onthe move, we continue to manufacture Resources Action Programme WRAP to innovative portion packs.
Portion control will research and develop the use of postincreasingly be required to contribute to the consumer recycled PCR material in reduction of food waste and is also relevant in packaging.
The use of PCR diverts end of reducing waste within other sectors such as life plastic from landfill and also reduces the pharmaceutical market.
Green apple Gold award The environmental credentials of RPC Containers Oakham have been underlined with itsselection for a prestigious Green Apple Gold Award.
The award, conferred by the Green Organisation, in the category Packaging that improves thesustainability of the product supply chain, recognises the creation of an injection moulded plasticpaint can using 25% recycled material.
RPCs expertise allowed Dulux Matt and Silk Colours to be the first to market with a paint range incans of 2.5 litre and 5 litre sizes containing 25% recycled post-consumer content.
The Green Organisation is an independent, non-political, non-activist, non-profit environment group dedicated to recognising, rewarding and promoting environmental best practice around the world.
Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information RPC Group Plc Annual report and accounts 2013 33 sustainability benefits of extending the use of postconsumer recycled content conversion toplastic RPC Containers UKSC and RPC Containers Market Rasen Bornholms, a market leader in seafood in Scandinavia, is have collaborated to produce this tester pot for the converting most of its packaging solutions from cans to an AkzoNobel Cuprinol Garden Shades range.
The tester pot injection moulded plastic solution from RPC Superfos.
body is blow moulded in 100% post-consumer HDPe.
The sUsTaInaBIlITY BeneFITs: cap and applicator brush stem are injection moulded using 50% recycled PP.
Lightweight nature of the pack reduces environmental impacts throughout the packaging lifecycle.
sUsTaInaBIlITY BeneFITs: Oxygen barrier solution provides a 2 year ambient shelf-life Resource efficient: gives plastic a second life reducing the to protect the product.
Improved logistics due to the optimised shape and weight Reduction in carbon footprint.
Container remains technically reliable and fit for purpose.
Resealability of pack provides consumer convenience Potential to increase the recycled content of the cap to while keeping the product fresh and reducing food waste.
Diverts plastic from landfill or incineration.
esTIMaTeD loGIsTICs savInGs: Helps the supply chain to meet recycling targets by providing a market forrecycled plastics.
200,000 km by ReCYCleD ConTenT: truck every year 50-100% RPC Group Plc 34 Annual report and accounts 2013 cOrpOrATe reSpOnSiBiliTy continued RPC & Regain Polymers Developing sustainable packaging solutions collaborate to promote recycling PARTnERSHIP THROuGHOuT THE OPTIMISInG RECyCLABILITy & RPC has collaborated with plastic PACKAGInG LIFECyCLE RECyCLInG recyclers Regain Polymers to produce a short video which Packaging is only one part of the product RPCs desire to improve the performance of supply chain.
Despite being so visible in the the packaging it manufactures does not end promotes the fact that plastic waste stream, its primary role is as a when the packaging leaves its sites.
It has packaging, such as pots, tubs and delivery and protection mechanism for a also taken a proactive stance with trays, can be recycled and used product that has a significantly higher customers in designing packaging to againin novel concepts such as its environmental impact than the packaging optimise recyclability and to ensure end of 25% recycled content paint cans itself.
Packaging is a key element in the life collection of packaging.
or tester pots containing recycled supply chain and the Group strives to offer The Group is keen to promote the collection HDPeand PP.
its customers, whether big or small, the of post-consumer packaging for recycling most appropriate sustainable solution for The video follows the story of a into new packaging formats.
This is their product in order to minimise margarine tub from being deposited particularly relevant in the UK where the environmental impact.
into the household recycling bin, government has set stretching new targets through the recycling process where dETERMInInG THE EnVIROnMEnTAL for plastic packaging recycling up to 2017.
IMPACT OF PACKAGInG Ashort video has been produced see case it is washed, chipped and granulated, study, to educate industry and consumers to its delivery to RPC where the RPC is working with customers, suppliers ofthe need to recycle all plastic packaging recycled material is incorporated and external advisory organisations to due to its value as a resource to the industry.
into new packaging and ends with determine the environmental impact of This year RPC has also become a member of the new paint can being purchased packaging.
The main focus is often cradle Recoup, a charity focused on the recycling of and taken to the home where the to gate analysis, investigating areas which plastic, to reinforce its commitment to this we directly influence such as the impacts of margarine tub came from.
the type of raw material used and the The video will feature on the RPC manufacturing process applied to the InduSTRy PARTICIPATIOn Group website and be promoted material, as well as the impact of transport RPC has taken an active role as a member or widely throughout the supply to the distribution centre or customer.
partner with a number of organisations at the chain to educate both industry and Carbon footprint studies have shown that forefront of sustainable packaging.
Not only consumers of the value of recycling the highest area of impact in terms of CO2e are they a platform to keep up to date on all plastic packaging.
emissions is the raw material stage, developments in the latest field, but they also followed by production the conversion of allow expertise in manufacturing to be the raw material into a packaging format.
offered to these groups, to improve current The smallest impact comes from transport.
processes and develop pioneering This is an area over which the business technologies such as the use of postdoes not have a significant amount of direct consumer recycled plastic in packaging.
The control: however, it is investigating ways to Groupsefforts in the sustainability field have improve distribution by increasing full loads alsobeen recognised through its inclusion and coordinating logistics within geographic inthe FTSe4Good listing.
This type of product analysis helps Over the past year the Group has focus attention on areas where the greatest participated through membership or improvements in carbon footprint can partnership with thefollowing organisations bemade.
shown below: Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information RPC Group Plc Annual report and accounts 2013 35 ELECTRICITy uSAGE PER TOnnE KWH T Managing direct environmental impacts 1,850 1,806 1,811 IMPROVInG EnERGy EFFICIEnCy Lightweighting along with the move to higher added value products, which increase the Approximately two-thirds of the carbon complexity of the manufacturing processes, footprint of products is from the raw offsets some of the energy efficiency materials used.
The first point of focus is to measures that have been put in place.
utilise these materials as efficiently and economically as possible.
The remaining IMPROVInG WATER EFFICIEnCy one-third is embedded in the energy required 2011 2012 2013 Water is an important part of the at the processing stage when plastic manufacturing process, primarily as a granules or flakes are converted into cooling agent.
Plastic packaging manufacturing, have been made across the Group to reduce by its nature, is energy intensive.
water usage or to re-use it within a RPC is constantly working to improve the closed-loop system which reduces WaTeR UsaGe PeR Tonne L T energy efficiency of our manufacturing evaporative losses.
It has been working on a number As a result of a focus on the sites water of energy efficiency projects over the year 920 834 684 cooling systems over the past year the Group ranging from high investment projects water consumption has reduced by 18%.
suchas new processing machines and systems to minor site alterations such as CARBOn REPORTInG lighting changes.
Through the British Plastics Federation, the Focus over the past year has been on the Groups UK manufacturing sites have optimisation of site cooling systems by entered into a Climate Change Agreement replacing as many of the open loop cooling which sets carbon targets based on energy towers with closed-loop cooling systems as use at the sites.
Its UK sites also qualify for 2011 2012 2013 well as optimising the related equipment inclusion in the Governments Carbon such as the chillers, air compressors and Reduction Commitment energy efficiency pumps.
Not only has this resulted in energy Scheme CRC but have been granted an efficiency savings across the Group but also exemption due to the Climate Change reduces health and safety risks relating to Agreement already in place.
For reporting at open water systems and reduces water the next financial year end 2013 14 the consumption, see below.
Group will be required to report carbon emissions for all operations under The This year the Group kWh tonne electricity Greenhouse Gas Emissions Directors consumption has remained relatively static Reports Regulations 2013. in comparison to last year.
This is due to the benefits of a number of large projects WASTE And RECyCLInG throughout the Group having been realised Polymer is a valuable resource and sites over the last few years.
The Group strategy operate at a high efficiency in terms of to lightweight packaging adversely affects salvaging raw materials.
Any material that the electricity KPI as the same amount of cannot be reused is segregated and energy is required to run the processing collected for recycling.
The same applies to machines but with a lower throughput of many other materials that we handle such materials.
Lightweighting benefits are seen asscrap metal, cardboard boxes tubes, at other stages of the packaging lifecycle wooden pallets and shrink wrap.
The Group such as reduced raw material consumption is making good progress on the reduction and lower transportation impacts.
RPC Group Plc 36 Annual report and accounts 2013 cOrpOrATe reSpOnSiBiliTy continued Managing social impacts HEALTH And SAFETy The Group ran internet based safety training WILLIS-RPC BLuE SAFETy PROGRAMME courses, fire drills, and mock emergencies Over recent years RPC has brought the The RPC Blue Safety programme, run in toequip employees with the skills and safety of its people and those that it affects to conjunction with Willis, continued and the knowledge that they would need in the event the forefront of all of its activities.
There has Group more than doubled the number of ofan emergency at home or at work been a drive throughout the company to trained safety auditors at its sites.
New make safe working an integral part of the Training in safety skills for life such as basic auditors carried out site audits together with dayjob of all employees and visitors.
first aid and fire fighting helped us to develop internal and external safety auditors, bringing habitual safe behaviours both at home and with them knowledge of their local best RPC has concentrated on raising awareness atwork.
practices and taking away ideas to develop of potential hazards so that their identification on their own sites.
Sharing experiences and has become a reflex andresolving them has SAFETy TRAInInG FOR SEnIOR MAnAGERS solutions throughout the Group enables the become a priority.
This has helped to make The Group ran a number of training business to bring in positive changes quickly.
the Groups operations saferand better programmes with general managers, cluster Inallowing sites the freedom to adapt ideas organised as hazards are engineered out of managers and Board members completing the to their specific equipment, procedures and existing and new plant and equipment.
Institution of Occupational Safety and Health physical structures, these changes are SAFETy WEEK IOSH approved Safety for Senior Executives embedded more rapidly which fits well with course, reinforcing its commitment to the entrepreneurial and competitive cultures RPCs objective is to make safe working part competent leadership in safety.
of its DNA and it is clear to all who visit or work on its sites that health and safety is WORKPLACE TRAnSPORT SAFETy All of the on-going businesses were audited integral to all that it does.
In 2012, the Group this year with the Superfos businesses Workplace transport was identified as a key built upon the success of the RPC Safety fullyintegrated in the system and 75% area to improve in 2012 and a number of Week, focusing on developing in all 2012:72% of sites achieved the highest measures were implemented at sites through employees a habitual awareness of the Blue safety grading.
the Group to minimise the chance of accidents impact that their actions have on each other.
Actions included changes to Focus on improving the lower scoring sites The slogan RPC: Safe for you, Safe for me Personal Protective Equipment PPE, had a significant impact, both in the results was the basis for Safety week, reinforcing including high visibility clothing, changes to ofthe audits and the levels of accidents the belief that each RPC employee and theaccess and site rules for fork-lift trucks.
visitorhas an obligation to carry out their Accidents involving moving vehicles reduced ACCIdEnT STATISTICS function in a safe manner and at the same by 9%.
time look out for the safety of those with Reportable Accident Frequency Rate RAFR SLIPS TRIPS FALLS whom they interact.
is the key metric used to measure accident There was a reduction in slips, trips and falls levels across the Group, calculated from All of the sites involved employees and their of18% with a reduction of 68% in reportable thenumber of 3 day accidents per families in informative and fun activities accidents.
designed to raise awareness of the benefits of working safely and of looking out for each Improvement activities, whilst coordinated 2012 saw a further reduction in RAFR to its other and also the potential consequences of from the centre are carried out and driven lowest level ever in the Group, following unsafe behaviour.
home in each manufacturing site by the anexcellent improvement in 2011.
The workforce, implementing changes in the way improvement has been made in almost every that suits it best, taking the relevant areas of cluster as efforts in safety awareness and Group and industry good practice that best suit investment in equipment bear fruit.
The total number of reportable 3 day accidents reduced by 26% compared withthe previous year.
Fire safety training at a Superfos site.
Safe for you, Safe for me Like badges given to employees atGent for carrying out work safely.
Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information RPC Group Plc Annual report and accounts 2013 37 ETHICS The Group does not employ child or forced CuSTOMERS And SuPPLIERS labour in any of its operations.
A child is as The Group aims to act responsibly and The Group seeks to be honest and fair in its defined in the International Labour withintegrity, respecting the laws and relationships with customers and suppliers, Organisation Convention.
regulations of all the countries within whichit to provide customers with standards of operates as well as internationally accepted EMPLOyEES product and service that have been agreed standards of responsible business conduct.
and to pay suppliers and sub-contractors Training and Development The Group requires high standards of onagreed terms.
employees are provided with training in order professional and ethical conduct from all It is Group policy to maintain accreditation to to give them the necessary skills to perform employees, officers and directors.
These the quality management standard ISO 9001 their duties and where appropriate to develop policies are now set out in a Code of and encourage operating units to gain those skills and progress their career.
The Business Conduct which can be read in full accreditation to any specific standards Group invests in a range of development on the Groups website www.
required by the markets served or by activities including NVQs and apprenticeship each business within the Group is expected customers such as the British Retail schemes and supports other professional to operate with policies and procedures Consortium and Institute of Packaging BRC andtechnical training.
which are consistent with the Groups values IOP Food Packaging Standard.
Currently 41 The Group recruits a number of trainees every and standards.
In all dealings, all employees of the Groups manufacturing operations year in a wide range of disciplines including and other persons acting on behalf of the have ISO 9001 accreditation and 29 operating electronic engineering, warehouse logistics Group are expected to: units have BRC IOP accreditation.
and toolmakers with the training in these engage in honest and ethical conduct, COMMunITy programmes lasting up to three years.
including the ethical handling of actual The Board supports initiatives by operating Communication orapparent conflicts of interest between units to engage with their local community.
The Group established a european Works personal and professional relationships: Operating units and their staff participate in a Council in 1998 which meets once a year and maintain effective procedures to prevent variety of local activities including projects asteering committee that meets four times confidential information being misused with local schools, charity events and factory ayear.
The european Works Council brings orused for personal gain: open days.
The Group policy on donations is together employee representatives from to support local educational and charitable across the Groups operations to discuss advance the legitimate interests of the causes, and in particular those where business matters with senior managers within Group, having regard to the Groups values employees and their families are involved in the Group including Board members.
This and standards, as set out in the Code: the fund raising.
involves the provision of information comply with all applicable laws, rules and concerning the Group, consultation and regulations in every country in which the discussions.
In addition there are national and Group operates: site-based works councils or employee forums that discuss more local business matters.
treat customers fairly, openly andhonestly: An employee newsletter Perspectives be intolerant of discrimination, harassment isissued regularly in five languages.
or victimisation: employees are encouraged to make their maintain high standards of integrity in views known tothe directors and senior business relationships with suppliers: and management of theGroup.
encourage the use of those suppliers who RePoRTaBle aCCIDenT operate with values and standards FReqUenCYRaTe equivalent to the Groups.
1,695 1,389 1,032 2011 2012 2013 An apprentice toolmaker in Germany working on a multi-cavity RPC Bramlages current apprentices and their mentors.
