Employees The current profile of the Groups employees presented in accordance with the Groups revised segmentation and the changes over the last year are as detailed below.
Group 2013 2012 Average number of employees Energy 620 513 Built and Natural Environment Europe 2,403 2,662 Built and Natural Environment Australia Asia Pacific 947 1,005 Built and Natural Environment North America 228 218 Central 108 109 Group total 4,306 4,507 Days absent % 2 2 Average length of service years 7 6 Working part time % 11 9 Retention rate % 82 81 Female 1,456 1,298 Male 2,850 3,209 Age profile Employees aged under 25 % 8 9 Employees aged 25-29 % 15 16 Employees aged 30-49 % 55 54 Employees aged 50 % 22 21 Additionally Energy makes extensive use of associates and sub-consultants which equated to approximately 790 full time equivalent employees in 2013 2012: 750. excluding redundancies The attraction, retention and motivation of high calibre employees is a strategic imperative for all businesses within the Group.
To achieve this, businesses maintain appropriate remuneration structures as well as an environment in which employees are able to develop their skills in a way that can be applied to our clients requirements.
Each of the businesses has the remit to put in place arrangements that meet their specific demands whilst working within a framework of structures and systems that are overseen at Group level.
Human resource professionals are employed throughout the Group to support the achievement of this objective.
The Executive Directors have overall accountability for the development of human resource practice within the businesses for which they are individually responsible.
The gender profile of the Groups employees is shown above.
As noted in the Corporate Governance Report two of the members of the Group Board, representing 25% of the directors, are female.
Of the senior management group that is comprised of directors of the companies that are included in the Group consolidation, 44 are male and 3 are female.
The Groups policies in relation to health and safety are described on page 12.
Building an environment in which employees feel engaged with their business and the Group as a whole is a key component of our strategy.
This is of particular importance in ensuring the successful integration of newly acquired businesses.
We use the Group intranet as a means to communicate the Groups business developments and achievements as well as policies and procedures.
Corporate newsletters also facilitate this flow of information.
New employees receive an induction and regular staff appraisals facilitate open communication between employer and employee as well as identifying developmental needs.
The Group operates share plans across all its businesses aimed at giving employees a tangible interest in the Groups overall performance.
Share purchase plans are accordingly open to the vast majority of our employees and enable them to purchase shares in the Company with the benefit of a matching share contribution from the Company.
A performance share plan is also operated for more senior employees, which offers the potential to build an interest in the Company over a number of years.
Report and Accounts 2013 10 Strategic Review The Group is committed to the training and development of its employees to enable them to realise their potential and effectiveness.
Divisional directors and project managers are responsible for the management of training and verification of technical competence for project personnel in accordance with our quality management systems.
Continuing professional development is of particular importance for our professional employees who are required to demonstrate technical competence within their specific sectors.
The Group accordingly supports a range of schemes through professional bodies and is a recognised training provider in a number of technical fields.
The Group provides training to the oil and gas sector through its Nautilus business, which also assists in providing technical training within the Group.
It has also continued to operate approved structured training schemes for its chartered and water engineers in the UK as well as for civil engineers in the UK and Ireland.
During 2013 RPS continued its long-term practice of supporting staff in pursuing relevant higher education courses.
This involved sponsoring courses at a total of 50 universities and colleges across the United Kingdom, Ireland, The Netherlands, USA and Australia.
Vacant positions within the Group are, wherever possible, filled from within and our developmental and training programmes support this objective.
RPS provides equal opportunities for all its employees and potential employees regardless of their sex, sexual orientation, trans-gender status, religion or belief, marital status, civil partnership status, pregnancy, age, disability, race, colour, nationality, national or ethnic origins.
The policy applies to the process of recruitment and selection, promotion, training and development, conditions of work, pay and benefits and to every other aspect of employment.
