Corporate Responsibility Commitment The Groups corporate governance policies are described in detail elsewhere in the Report and Accounts and provide a framework within which it can look to achieve attractive levels of return for its shareholders whilst striking a balance between this objective and recognition of its obligations to its employees, clients and society in general.
The Corporate Governance Committee supports the Board in exercising general oversight in relation to environmental, social and governance ESG matters although in the normal course of business the Board and the Executive Committee assess the risks and opportunities to which such issues give rise.
In the Boards view it has adequate information to enable the proper assessment of these issues and where required training in such matters will be provided to directors.
As noted in the Risk Management section of this review environmental issues are most likely to affect the Group through the impact material adverse events may have on the Groups trading.
Whilst given the nature of its activities the Groups own impact on the environment is comparatively modest, the Groups performance is monitored as outlined below and appropriate action to minimise impact taken where possible.
The Group can, however, make a greater contribution to the environment through its own expertise and many of the projects with which it is involved.
The Group advises international bodies, governments, local authorities and companies on the improvement of environmental performance.
Projects include the development of strategies to reduce carbon emissions and the adaptation of buildings and infrastructure to anticipate climate change as well as the preparation of Environmental Impact Assessments across several sectors.
The policies adopted by the Group in relation to employees as well as health and safety are described elsewhere within this review whilst the risks associated with failures in both of these areas are described in the Risk Management section on pages 8 and 9.
The Group recognises the importance of maintaining high standards of business conduct and contributing to the communities with which it is involved as detailed below.
In the Boards view the challenges, risks and opportunities created by ESG issues as outlined in the Report and Accounts are unlikely to change significantly in the foreseeable future.
The Group remains a constituent member of the FTSE4Good Index, which consists of those companies that satisfy a set of globally recognised standards in the area of corporate responsibility.
It is also a participating member of the Carbon Disclosure Project to which it provides data on an annual basis.
Standards of Business The Group aims to be honest and fair in all aspects of its business.
Through codes of conduct employees are required to adopt high standards of behaviour in their professional roles.
Employees are also required to be sympathetic to the cultures of and comply with the laws and regulations of the countries in which they operate, as well as giving due regard to the safety and well-being of all project personnel and relevant local communities.
All RPS employees must avoid personal or professional activities and financial interests that could conflict with their responsibilities to the Group.
If a conflict of interest does arise then this must be acknowledged and reported.
Employees must not seek personal gain from third parties, or abuse their position within the Group for personal gain: the Group has a policy of zero tolerance towards acts of bribery.
RPS supports the Universal Declaration of Human Rights as well as the International Labour Organisations Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work.
We understand our responsibility to respect the human rights of the communities and workforces with whom we interact and our employees are expected to conduct themselves in a manner that is respectful of those rights.
Health and Safety The health and safety of the Groups employees and others we affect is of paramount importance and we remain committed to good practice that as a minimum complies with the requirements of law.
The Board sets the overall framework and standards for the management of health and safety, the implementation of which is overseen by the Company Secretary.
Within this context each of the Groups businesses is responsible for the development of appropriate safe working conditions and systems to protect employees, contractors, visitors and others who may be affected by the Groups activities.
Where appropriate work activities are assessed for health and safety risks and appropriate mitigation measures and controls put in place.
Employees are trained to ensure that they have the appropriate skills to carry out their job safely and senior management are trained to ensure that obligations to employees for whom they are responsible are properly discharged.
The Groups businesses have appropriately qualified health and safety advisors to develop and implement these systems.
Health and safety systems are also subject to regular audit.
Health and safety issues and performance are reported to and reviewed by all operating Boards at each meeting.
This incorporates a system for reporting all near misses, accidents, dangerous occurrences and work-related diseases.
All such incidents are investigated to determine the root cause and wherever possible action is taken to mitigate the risk of recurrence.
The Group Board receives and Report and Accounts 2013 12 Strategic Review reviews a report at every meeting which summarises health and safety performance across the Group as well as detailing any significant incidents and emerging issues.
OHSAS 18001 is an internationally recognised standard for health and safety management that is aligned with the ISO 9000 Quality Management and ISO 14000 Environmental Management standards.
27% of employees across the Group work in offices that now have third party accreditation to the OHSAS 18001 standard.
During the year the Group was neither prosecuted for the breach of health safety regulations nor subject to any investigation by regulatory authority.
In 2013, the reportable accident rate was 3.0 accidents per 1,000 employees 2012: 2.7.
Accidents that do occur most commonly relate to manual handling activities, slips and falls affecting individuals.
Reportable Accident Rates Group 2013 2012 Reportable injuries 15 14 Reportable injuries incident rate per 1,000 employees 3.0 2.7 Community Involvement RPS has supported a range of community and charitable initiatives with gifts in kind and financial contributions throughout the year, mostly at office level.
In 2013 the Group and its staff gave or raised 740,000 in charitable contributions 2012: 797,000.
Taking into account the 233,000 spent on academic bursaries and educational initiatives 2012: 168,000, the total contribution of the Group and its employees to the communities in which it operates was 973,000 2012: 965,000.
Tree Aid The Group has for a number of years been an active supporter of Tree Aid and its programme of education, tree planting and woodland conservation programmes to assist some of the poorest communities in sub-Saharan Africa.
The Group has continued to focus its charitable contribution upon its work and is acknowledged as being Tree Aids largest corporate sponsor, having contributed a total of 116,000 towards projects in Ghana and Mali in 2013.
In addition to financial support the Group continues to harness the skills of its employees in providing important technical support for Tree Aids work.
During the year this has included GIS mapping, a biodiversity study and a topographical survey as well as training for Tree Aid employees.
We are pleased to continue our association with Tree Aid and grateful for the contribution made by our employees.
Environmental Management and Climate Change Although as a consultancy organisation our impact on the environment is comparatively moderate, the Group seeks to keep this to a minimum through the adoption of appropriate standards and the setting of specific targets.
The Group endeavours to: n comply with all relevant national and regional legislation as a minimum standard: n comply with codes of practice and other requirements such as those specified by regulators and our clients: n utilise suppliers that offer products which are sustainable, recyclable or environmentally sensitive wherever practicable and economic: n employ practical energy efficiency and waste minimisation measures: and n provide a shared inter-office IT network together with communications and video conferencing technology that reduces the need for business travel.
To achieve these objectives appropriate training is provided to enable activities to be conducted in an environmentally sensitive manner and sufficient management resources are allocated to enable effective implementation of policies.
Parts of the Group have achieved ISO14001, the internationally recognised environmental management system standard.
Facilities for recycling office waste are in place at our offices.
During 2013 our offices continued to recycle waste paper, spent toner and ink cartridges, obsolete computer hardware, printers and mobile phones.
com 13 Greenhouse Gas Reporting Annual Emissions For the reporting year to 31 December 2013 we have followed the 2013 UK Government environmental reporting guidance and used 2013 UK Governments Conversion Factors for Company Reporting.
Greenhouse gas emissions are reported using the following parameters to determine what is included within the reporting boundaries in terms of RPS energy consumption.
n Scope 1 direct emissions includes any gas data and fuel use for company owned vehicles.
Fugitive emissions from air conditioning are included where it is RPSs responsibility within the tenanted buildings.
n Scope 2 indirect energy emissions includes purchased electricity throughout the company operations.
Greenhouse gas emissions tCO2e are set out below showing an 8% increase over the year which is attributable to the pattern of growth within the Group and the inclusion for the first time of data relating to air conditioning within the 2013 direct emissions.
2012 2013 Scope 1: Direct emissions 5193 6095 Scope 2: Indirect emissions 4573 4458 Total 9766 10553 Data has been restated for 2012 reflecting the change in factors under the new reporting guidance.
Targets and Emission Intensity The specific target set by the Board is to reduce energy consumption per capita by 5% per annum for office energy consumption.
The target was set in 2008 as the base year and since that time there has been some fluctuation in performance with increases shown in 2009 and 2010 due to expansion in the business and increased data availability.
In 2011 there was a reduction of 4.4% followed by a further reduction of 3% in 2012.
For 2013 consumption was equal 3.6 MWh per capita, which represented an increase of 5%.
This was attributable to an improving economic climate in parts of the Group with a related increase in activity as well as the acquisitions that have recently been completed and headcount reductions in our AAP business.
The fluctuations over the five year period demonstrate the difficulties inherent in sustaining improvement as economic circumstances fluctuate and as the structure of the Group changes in pursuit of our acquisition strategy.
We have therefore concluded that going forward the per capita target should be based on a five year rolling average reduction of 2.5%.
The Groups policies and objectives for environmental management are reviewed from time to time in the light of changes within the Groups businesses, new legislation and emerging practice.
On behalf of the Board Alan Hearne Chief Executive 27 February 2014 Report and Accounts 2013 14
