Sustainable development Value through local growth Reducing the harmful use of alcohol We know that most consumers enjoy beer SABMiller has become a global brewer by inmoderation with friends and families, excelling locally nurturing strong, local brands butthere is a minority who drink too much, putting themselves and the people around which suit the tastes of consumers in each them at risk of harm.
We generate long-term returns harmfuluse of alcohol and the issues linked with it, such as drink-driving or underage by building value chains that drive economic drinking, are core priorities for us.
We growth and stimulate social development while operate over 100 programmes around the using scarce resources ef ciently.
world to help reduce the harmful use of alcohol, working with local partners, governments and communities.
Our approach to helping to reduce alcohol harm also requires regular reviews of our commercial governance practices to re ect Promoting economic growth and For the year ended 31 March 2013, SABMiller societys expectations.
We believe that our innovation across our value chain Africa sourced 52% of agricultural crops policies on employee behaviour, commercial Our local operations produce high-quality used from within Africa, reaching a year early communication and product innovation are drinks that are enjoyed by millions of its target to source 50% of agricultural crops atthe leading edge of our industry, as is the consumers every day, creating jobs, in Africa by 2014. company-wide education programme that payingtaxes, encouraging enterprise reinforces our beliefs in this area.
In Ghana, the introduction of cassava beer during the year gives consumers of illicit The increasing focus by both governments In the year, SABMiller generated US$25,042 andinformal alcohol access to an affordable, and NGOs on alcohol-related harm is leading 1 million of economic value.
The majority of quality alternative.
It also gives farmers to increased regulatory intervention and a this was distributed through the course of previously working at subsistence level a stronger expectation that industry will play ourbusiness to our employees, shareholders newincome stream and provides government aleading role in tackling these problems.
and investors, suppliers and governments, with a new source of revenue from taxation.
InOctober, in response to the call by the aswell as to local communities through our In Uganda, our Eagle brands beers World Health Organization WHO and its corporate social investment activities.
brewedfrom locally sourced sorghum crops member states in the WHOs Global Strategy have now grown to account for 30% of the to Reduce the Harmful Use of Alcohol, we The multiplier effect the jobs and employment local market.
signed a five-year global action plan with created as a result of our investments and other leading beer, wine and spirits companies operations can be a powerful driver of A fair approach to taxation to help reduce the harmful use of alcohol.
Our operations in Africa and Given its important contribution to local This requires us to strengthen and expand South Africa employ over 24,000 people, public services, the level of tax paid by marketing codes of practice: provide consumer supporting a further million jobs indirectly multinational companies is of major interest information and innovate products responsibly: andcontributing over US$9,000 million of to many stakeholders.
reduce underage drinking: reduce drinking 2 added value to the economy.
and driving: and enlist the support of retailers We work closely with revenue authorities to reduce harmful drinking.
We are con dent Around the world we have enabled around the world to ensure our tax returns we can meet these commitments according entrepreneurs to establish thousands of new and related disclosures meet their to the stated timetable.
Many have grown from informal requirements and this is underpinned by businesses into self-sustaining, growing arobust governance structure.
This year, The growing resource challenge: nexus companies.
Last year alone, SABMiller wewere recognised as Best Taxpayer of thinking across our value chain including our foundations invested over theYear for the third year running by The anticipated growth of the middle class US$6 million in programmes to foster Mozambiques Tax Authority.
from two billion to five billion worldwide by entrepreneurial activity worldwide.
3 2030 is expected to raise millions of people Total taxes borne and collected by SABMiller out of poverty, but will also put pressure on In Africa, we are creating completely new plc in the last financial year amounted to scarce natural resources.
According to the beer brands brewed with locally grown US$9,900 million compared with US$9,400 2013 World Economic Forum Global Risks crops.
Across the continent, SABMiller works million in 2012.
These include excise taxes, Report, water supply is one of the top five with a spectrum of farmers from large-scale corporate taxes, transactional taxes and global risks in terms of likelihood and impact.
commercial growers to near-subsistence taxes borne by employees, as well as a We rely on high-quality water and water smallholder farmers to boost yields, incomes shareof our US joint ventures taxes.
Of this scarcity is already becoming a reality for and economic growth.
By pioneering the total, 73% was paid in developing countries.
useof traditional crops such as sorghum The corporate tax charge for 2013 was andcassava in brewing, we are opening up US$1,201 million compared with US$1,126 new opportunities, markets and sources of million last year, giving us an effective tax income for local farmers and communities.
1 For more information on the economic value generated by SABMiller, see Sustainable Development Summary Report 2013, page 10.
2 For more information see SABMiller: Our economic impact in Africa animation, and Working for South Africa: the contribution of SAB tothe South African Economy, at www.
3 The emerging middle class in developing countries, Homi Kharas, OECD Development Centre Working Paper No.
Middle class is fide ned as having daily per capita spending of US$10 to US$100.
44 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2013 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Expanding the Water Futures partnership The Water Futures partnership was established in 2009 to facilitate local action to address some of the most pressing shared water risks facing SABMiller and surrounding communities and ecosystems.
It set out to prove the business case for private sector action.
This has been done through local partnerships in eight countries with projects to protect watersheds, upgrade infrastructure and strengthen local water management institutions.
For instance, in George, South Africa, SAB Pty Ltd is working with the Department of Environmental Affairs, WWFand local hop farmers to clear alien vegetation.
This will help to improve water run-off in the area and relieve stress to the region.
In 2012, a new project in Zambia joined the partnership: Zambian Breweries isworking with stakeholders to rehabilitate alocal spring used by both its Ndola facility and the local community.
To open up the knowledge, experience andbene ts of the partnership to more participants, the partnership has agreed toscale-up into a broader Water Futures initiative.
This will expand its reach, increase the global network of local partnerships andencourage new partners tojoin in collaborative action.
For more information, see www.
org Addressing the illegal alcohol market Latin America.
It found illegal alcohol to be in Latin America roughly a quarter of the total alcohol market rising to almost a third in countries such as Across Latin America one of the greatest Peru and Ecuador.
It also showed that where challenges we face is the presence of a large beer is more affordable as in Panama illegal alcohol market.
theillegal market tends to be small.
Tackling the complex factors that lead to These studies help us to take more targeted theharmful use of alcohol requires a targeted, action.
For instance in Peru we are working evidence-based approach.
This year we with local authorities to understand the asked FLACSO, a well-respected association reasons for the existence of the illegal alcohol of university sociology faculties in Latin market.
In Colombia our media campaign, America, to look at alcohol consumption Licores Adulterados fide Colombia LACRA, patterns across the region.
Among other acaricature of a ctional illegal alcohol interesting findings, they found that in company, seeks to change consumer countries with lower per capita levels of beer attitudes towards illegal alcohol by consumption there is likely to be a higher exposingits dangers.
proportion of the population prone to harmful consumption of alcohol, mostly cheap and Through this evidence-based approach, often illegal spirits.
andworking in partnership with governments, NGOs and other stakeholders to develop a A second study, with Euromonitor targeted response, we are helping to reduce International, helped us to determine the size the harmful use of alcohol across the continent.
and shape of the illegal alcohol market in SABMiller plc Annual Report 2013 45 Sustainable development continued Water security cannot be achieved in Water to lager ratio for a lighter version, saving over 100 tonnes isolation: it needs to be addressed alongside hl water hl lager of steel a year.
food and energy security with businesses, 4.6 4.5 4.3 governments and civil society working in Building sustainable development into 4.2 4.0 3.7 partnership to develop practical, local our operations and business planning solutions.
In areas where water security Our 10 sustainable development priorities presents a potential challenge to our have provided a consistent framework for business, we are taking a lead in creating managing our most signi cant social, these partnerships.
environmental and economic impacts since their launch in 2006.
They support our Our Water Futures partnership, established strategic priority to raise constantly the in2009 to protect watersheds and boost pro tability of local businesses, sustainably.
2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 groundwater levels, covers local projects ineight countries.
In South Africa we are Our local operations use the 10 priorities afounder member of the Strategic Water toguide how they invest their resources, Partners Network part of the global Water depending on their local issues and Water to lager ratio down Resources Group WRG which brings challenges.
At a global level we focus on 8% to 3.7 hl hl and on track together businesses and other organisations three priorities material to all our operations: toreach 3.5 hl hl by 2015. to improve water ef ciency and infrastructure.
discouraging irresponsible drinking: making more beerusing less water: and encouraging Last year, water ef ciency within our operations enterprise development in our value chains.
improved by 8% while fossil fuel emissions per We believe that these three issues have the CO2e emissions from fossil fuel hectolitre of lager produced fell by 10%.
From greatest potential to impact on business energy used on site kgCO2e hl lager a2008 baseline, we are on track to meet our value and create the greatest bene ts for 14.9 14.3 goals of reducing water use per hectolitre of 14.2 thecommunities in which we work.
Our 13.8 12.4 lager produced by 25% by 2015 and to halve approach to water recognises that water, 11.1 our on-site fossil fuel emissions per hectolitre food and energy are connected and we oflager produced by 2020. therefore have an aggressive global carbon reduction target.
Brewing more ef ciently also reduces waste.
The waste we produce is mainly organic and Progress against our 10 priorities is overseen 94.4% is reused or recycled.
We also work by the group corporate accountability and hard to improve the sustainability of our risk assurance committee CARAC, a 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 packaging.
Over half of our beer is packaged sub-committee of the SABMiller plc board.
in returnable bottles and kegs which have Twice a year our Sustainability Assessment alower carbon and waste impact than Matrix SAM provides a detailed countrysingle-use types of packaging.
We work Fossil fuel emissions from withsuppliers to reduce the weight and Independent assurance has been obtained from energy use at our breweries  LLP on the 2013 data: excluding environmental impact of both returnable and data relating to MillerCoors LLC the water to lager ratio and one-way packaging.
For example, this year, down 10% to 11.1 kgCO2e hl.
CO2e emissions from fossil fuel energy used on site were 3.7 hl hl and 10.4 kgCO2e hl respectively.
For more information Grolsch changed its iconic swing-top bottle see our Sustainable Development Summary Report 2013.
Nexus animation Water, food and energy are interconnected.
Water is used to grow food and to generate energy: energy is needed to grow food and totreat and move water: and land is needed toproduce energy.
These three resources cannotbe managed in isolation.
This interconnectedness is often called the water-food-energy nexus.
Watch our animation to nd out more about the water-food-energy nexus at www.
com nexus Sustainable Development Report For more information on our approach tosustainable development and our performance, go to our Sustainable Development Report 2013 at www.
com sd 46 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2013 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Transparency and ethics Respecting human rights Contributing to the reduction of HIV Aids benefiting communities Encouraging enterprise development in our value chains Working towards zero-waste operations Packaging, reuse and recycling Reducing our energy and carbon footprint Making more beer using less water Discouraging irresponsible drinking Stairway level assessment criteria Improving our sustainable development performance Leading edge: performance that represents genuine global leadership on an issue.
5 Best practice: achieving what is currently considered to be global best practice in a 4 particular eld.
2013 average 2012 average 2011 average Developing leadership: applying a comprehensive approach including innovative 3 tools and widespread engagement.
Progressing: ensuring consistent performance 2007 average is achieved in a particular eld.
2 Minimum standard: all operations must achieve level one, or have a plan in place to do so, as it 1 represents management of our key sustainable development risks.
2013 2012 2011 level assessment of our sustainable Transparency and ethics Our work to ensure both that our ethical development performance.
Every country is This year we have continued to obtain procedures are integrated into business assessed against five levels of performance assurance as to the effective implementation asusual processes, and that transparency from a minimum standard level one to of our ethics and anti-bribery policies.
and ethics are a key consideration in all leading edge level five.
SAM data is used Ouranti-bribery programme includes signi cant business decisions, will continue toinform business planning and corporate internationally recognised good practice on an ongoing basis.
governance through our regional and group including training and communication, CARACs.
In many cases, sustainable vettingof relevant suppliers and We place a high value on reporting and development performance forms part of our communicating our ethical standards, communicating in an open and honest way senior managers performance objectives procedures in areas such as gifts and with our stakeholders.
We produced our and remuneration.
entertainment, donations and sponsorships, rstgroup sustainable development report and promoting our independent in1998.
This year, 16 of our businesses During the year, the groups average SAM whistleblowing hotlines and procedures.
produced their own local sustainability score increased from 3.2 to 3.3 the sixth Ourglobal procurement business, SABMiller reports and many others provide information year of continual improvement.
Scores Procurement, has also integrated ethics online.
We also contributed to several increased across nine out of 10 priorities andanti-corruption requirements into its independent reports, including the Water HIV Aids maintained a high average score bestpractice sourcing policies.
During the Funds Business Case Report which of3.8 as our local businesses focused year, we have also been working with some highlights how investing in water funds in ontackling the sustainable development of our key joint venture partners to understand several Latin American cities can create issuesthat are most signi cant in their their approach to transparency and anticompetitive advantage.
bribery issues, and to ensure that this is aligned with our commitment to high ethical Increasingly we use new ways of raising standards.
Our Internal Audit function is awareness of sustainable development engaged in a project to monitor the roll-out challenges.
For example, in February 2013, The average score achieved ofour anti-bribery programme within key SABMiller partnered with The Guardian to against our Sustainability operating business units.
hold a day of broadcasts and live online debates on how to achieve inter-connected Assessment Matrix was 3.3. action on water, food and energy security.
The debates were viewed online by over 3,000 visitors from 101 different countries, reaching an estimated 1.5 million people through social media.
