People Succeeding by valuing and empowering our employees Safety, health and wellbeing ofouremployees We believe that better business decisions Each of our businesses is responsible for come from groups of competent, high-calibre ensuring a safe working environment in itsbreweries, bottling plants and of ces.
individuals with a mix of skills, experience Weaim to create a healthy and positive andbackgrounds.
workenvironment and we know that absent orunmotivated employees can reduce productivity.
We support the World Economic Forums alliance on workplace wellness, aconsortium of companies committed to advancing wellness in the workplace.
Through 1 Providing a exible, fair and diverse which ishigher than the FTSE100 average this group, we share information about our place to work and three of our eight independent nonprogrammes with other members one SABMiller employs over 70,000 people executive directors are female.
example being our Employee Alcohol Policy.
Our success is driven by each individuals contribution and we Our employees play a crucial role in our We aim to make sure that our employees, recognise the advantages of a diverse success and it is important that we solicit contractors and visitors to our breweries, workforce with the right skills, commitment their views and listen to their ideas and bottling plants and of ces are safe.
This is done in almost all of our systems to identify and minimise the risk of operations through employee engagement accidents, including regular audits, and All our employees are compensated with surveys.
We respect our employees right robust monitoring and reporting of incidents afair wage and comprehensive bene ts tounion representation and 38% of our when they do occur.
andhave access to development workforce are union members 2012: 36%.
opportunities both within their role Many of our businesses have developed andtowards career progression.
productive partnerships with trade unions We employ over 70,000 people oncollective bargaining and other issues.
In many countries we offer our employees across six continents.
free medical healthcare if they need it.
We are signatories of the UN Global Incountries where HIV Aids prevalence Compact and have recently rolled out a isgreater than 1% we provide access revised approach to managing human rights It is with regret that we report 14 employee tovoluntary counselling and testing and risks, taking account of the UNs Universal andcontractor fatalities this year.
Two of managed healthcare programmes for Declaration of Human Rights and Guiding theserelated to accidents while undertaking ouremployees and their immediate Principles on Business and Human Rights.
maintenance or repair activities, nine related to dependants if they need it.
This approach helps our local businesses accidents involving vehicles, and three related toidentify and mitigate any signi cant risks to robberies or assaults on our staff while on On 31 March 2013 we had 1,733 HIV Aids within their operations and value chains.
In each case we have peer educators, equating to one peer undertaken an investigation and, where educator for every 12 employees in high This year, SABMiller Procurement launched applicable, implemented measures to minimise prevalence countries fide ned as greater anew Supplier Code of Conduct and the likelihood of such an incident recurring.
Sustainable Development Standards covering the protection of human rights and labour During the year, we recorded 15,695 days We treat all employees equally, respecting standards, transparency and business ethics lost through injury a 12% decrease on and promoting diversity in our workforce.
However, we recorded 1,788 industrial Wehave clear policies and processes in SEDEX, the Supplier Ethical Data Exchange, injuries, which represents a slight increase place to ensure that we recruit and treat and AIM-PROGRESS, a cross-sector forum onlast year 2012: 1,713. people fairly and on merit, regardless of age, that promotes responsible sourcing, we work gender, sexual orientation, religion, disability collaboratively to improve supplier standards This year we have undertaken a detailed or ethnic origin.
We believe that better and share best practices.
Two thirds of our review of our global health and safety business decisions come from groups of global suppliers sites have been assessed practices, the results of which have been competent, high-calibre individuals with a against our standards using SEDEX.
shared with the group CARAC.
A working mixof skills, experience and backgrounds.
group is now looking at strengthening our For many years, in South Africa we have health and safety management and reporting In an industry traditionally perceived as supported Broad-Based Black Economic structures across all of our operational male-dominated, we have various initiatives Empowerment BBBEE initiatives aimed at functions.
This review has a high priority for ensuring better representation for women.
growing the economy by including and within the business and we aim to implement These include MillerCoors Building empowering previously disadvantaged South any changes in the coming financial year.
Relationships and Empowering Women Africans.
More than 78% of SAB Pty Ltds BREW mentoring programme in the USA, workers are from previously disadvantaged Delivering business success through companywide and supported by a female groups and 61% of its workers are black.
This high performance executive sponsor.
As at 31 March 2013, year in the annual BBBEE veri cation, SAB We recognise and reward strong performance.
18.8% of our workforce were female 2012: achieved 73.11 2012: 72.9 and is therefore a Every year, each employee sets stretching 19.0% and 28.1% of our executives and Level 4 contributor to BBBEE.
Through its individual objectives in conjunction with their managers were women 2012: 27.8%.
BBBEE ownership programme, SAB Zenzele, manager.
These goals are linked to local Although only two of the 12 members the business has created almost 40,000 company objectives, ensuring that each oftheexecutive committee are female, shareholders among staff and retailers.
individual has clear accountability for 19%of SABMillers plc board are women, delivering the business strategy.
1 The Female FTSE board report 2012, International Centre for Women Leaders, Cran eld University.
48 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2013 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Bonus payments and salary increases and leadership programmes, using We seek to ensure that the talent we need arelinked to performance against these techniques from e-learning to programmes toprotect our growth and provide tomorrows individual goals and are calculated against facilitated by leading educational institutions.
leaders is identi ed early and properly acombination of individual achievement This year we introduced more functional nurtured.
The roles most critical to delivering andoverall company performance.
training in technical areas such as business strategy within SABMiller have been engineering and brewing to strengthen and identi ed, as has a global succession pool for Attracting and retaining talent boost our capabilities and so protect us from these roles monitored by the executive We aim to offer appropriate career potential skills shortages.
In the year ended committee with candidates from all regions.
development opportunities to all our 31 March 2013, we provided an average of In the past year, we have made 36 key employees and encourage each individual 3.7 training days for every employee.
appointments from this global talent pool totake ownership of, and manage, their with experienced executives taking up senior owndevelopment, whether in their current posts groupwide.
role or to prepare them for a new one.
3.7 days of training per employee on average.
Through our global learning strategy we offer over 200 courses from speci c functional programmes to management development Improving employee retention in India In recent years in India, we have seen high employee turnover rates of around 20%.
In a competitive labour market we have faceda particular challenge in attracting andretaining employees with the talent and skills to support the growth of the business.
To tackle the issue, we have run a comprehensive employee engagement campaign, Project Sangam Bringing Together in Sanskrit, to communicate our strategy and ensure consistent execution across the business.
Greater alignment has resulted in greater engagement and has reduced turnover to 8% this year.
The business has built also clear frameworks to show how employees can progress and enjoy a ful lling career with the company.
SABMiller India is also doing more to communicate its aspirations including holding regular town hall meetings with senior leaders so that allemployees feel part of future success.
Promoting prevention, testing andtreatment for life-threatening diseases in Africa We operate in regions where some lifethreatening diseases such as HIV Aids and malaria are prevalent.
Following successful pilots in Botswana, South Africa, Swaziland and Tanzania, we are rolling out our new Wellness Development Programme which focuses on these diseases as well as on sexually transmitted infections, hepatitis B andC and tuberculosis.
Under the programme, we train employees to become peer educators who can engage with their colleagues and thesurrounding community to promote prevention, testing and treatment.
As we tackle HIV Aids in countries of highprevalence, this approach has provedeffective in reducing the associated stigma and increasing voluntary testing andcounselling rates for employees and theirdependants.
