48 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Strategic report Governance Financial statements People and organisation Its our people who drive our results.
Its our people who show, time and time again, their incredible dedication to delivering an extraordinary customer experience.
As we continue to execute our global strategy our focus is to leverage and develop talent across our whole organisation Our guiding principles drive our culture they shape how we think, plan, behave and make decisions.
Staying true to them enables us to serve our customers and continue our success.
Simplicity Innovation Maintaining simplicity in a complex world is challenging, Were always looking at new ways to improve but we believe it is vital to work in an organisation where the customer experience.
From product innovation things are clear, easy to understand and direct.
We to how we work together, creativity can make all the believe it creates an environment that is more relaxed difference.
Thats why we encourage our teams to and which frees people to perform to their potential.
explore innovative ideas, because our future success depends on it.
Trust Agility By using Sage products our customers are committing to us, so they must be able to trust us to deliver.
Business is fast-paced and ever changing, so when Our customers need to know we are on their side, customers need us we have to respond quickly and providing tailored products and services that meet their efficiently.
However, being reactive isnt enough.
We needs and offering expert advice and support to help believe in a more proactive approach, which requires them run their businesses.
us to anticipate and interpret our customers needs so that were ready to meet them.
Having the agility to nd Integrity relevant, effective solutions and deliver them at the right Whether we are providing software products to time is what sets us apart.
our customers or giving them business advice and support, integrity is central to maintaining our credibility.
It is about delivering on our promises, being reliable and maintaining the highest of standards.
That is how we build trust and loyalty with our customers.
The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2013 49 People and organisation continued Transforming the way we work Equipping our people for change Our global strategy is exciting and we want our people Our people are at the centre of our ability to continuously to feel truly inspired by the important part they have deliver an extraordinary customer experience.
Ensuring to play in bringing it to life.
our people are equipped with the relevant skills and training is a key focus for us.
We also recognise the importance of supporting them through the organisational changes that our strategy In many regions weve invested heavily in bespoke demands.
Each region has introduced a phased and learning and development support for our people: targeted change programme including coaching and weve established a Development Academy in skill-building programmes, global brand immersion Switzerland to highlight career paths for potential future workshops, change champions and business-wide road leaders: introduced extensive online training resources shows.
Regional CEOs and their leadership teams have in Spain and North America: developed youth training relished the opportunity to personally share our vision programmes in France, Spain, and the UK & Ireland: and progress with their people and to hear their and helped people in our European mid-market responses first-hand.
business develop their English language skills.
In South Africa we have introduced a regional on-boarding A particular highlight has been the North American programme to engage employees in the re-branding Sage confidence Tour, which visited seven Sage ofces from Softline to Sage.
across North America during July and August 2013.
The purpose was to further engage employees with our We have continued to invest in global mobility with global strategy and help them understand the skills and over 30 key moves in 2013 to deploy talent around the behaviours we need to deliver on our plans.
Weve seen a number of notable success stories, included personalised talks from local leaders, shop including the secondment to Europe and North America local contests to promote our customers, and team of two of our research and development leaders working games designed to push our people out of their on hybrid cloud solutions.
To enable stronger tracking and delivery of projects, In addition, we have continued to build on some weve established clear project management of the processes already in place.
We have refreshed frameworks, including a Europe-wide project our induction programmes and redesigned intranet governance model and customised training programme.
systems to facilitate greater global collaboration.
Group and central In many business areas we have launched improved Employees Europe Americas AAMEA operations Total performance management frameworks to ensure our 2013 6,909 3,546 2,006 299 12,760 peoples personal objectives are clearly aligned to our 2012 7,593 3,695 1,929 292 13,509 business strategy.
This also allows us to more closely align our performance measures to the way we reward Leading the way with confidence our people.
Well continue to listen to them so that we In 2013 we continued on our journey to create a more can improve and embed these processes during 2014. common culture across Sage that has inner confidence at its heart.
We believe this work will help our people support our customers with conviction and also help us attract new talent.
2XU 59 YLVLWHG VHYHQ 6DJH RFHV LQ 1RUWK $PHULFD WR WDON WR RXU FXVWRPHUV DV SDUW RI RXU &RQGHQFH 7RXU 50 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Our leaders are a major inuence on the confidence Diversity Board diversity of everyone at Sage.
To help our leaders become more Were committed to treating everyone at Sage effective we have dened a clear and unique framework with dignity and respect.
Our policies and practices for leadership behaviours, known as The confident emphasise the importance of treating individuals in a Leader, against which each leader is measured with non-discriminatory manner across the full employment respect to their long-term capability and their short-term life cycle, including hiring, reward, development, performance and reward.
This was launched through promotions, mobility and departure.
Training is provided a series of global and regional workshops and events.
to those making decisions on these factors so that no We have also established a single consistent performance individual is disadvantaged and to prevent discrimination management process for our leaders, and invested in on the grounds of gender, religion, belief, race, global training and technical support.
creed, age, disability, sexual orientation, ethnic origin, 2013 2012 or marital status.
In many of our operating companies To facilitate truly global succession planning, we have Men 6 5 we have guidelines to help our businesses meet Group implemented a rigorous talent review process for our requirements and to manage diversity within the context Women 1 2 leadership population.
This led to meaningful career of different national legislation and cultures.
At Sage we % men 86% 71% and development planning discussions with over 270 are proud of the various initiatives taking place globally % women 14% 29% leaders and 15% of our top leadership taking on wider relating to gender, age, disadvantaged backgrounds, international responsibilities.
disabilities, ill health and ethnic minorities.
These include internships, apprenticeships, disability awards and Recognising our people targets, training events and schemes to support ethnic We continue to gain recognition for the great work our minorities and those with disadvantaged backgrounds.
people do: Turn to page 60 to read Our South African business won Best Helpdesk Gender about changes to the at the 2013 World Contact Centre Best Practices At Sage we value the aims and objectives of The Conference and Awards, and they came first for Board during the year Davies Report on Women on Boards.
In considering the second year running in Deloittes Best Company appointments to the Board and to senior executive to Work For survey in the Business and Professional positions, it is our policy to evaluate the skills, experience Services category: and knowledge required by a particular role with due Top leadership diversity In Spain, we won Ruban dHonneur: Employer regard for the benefit of diversity on the Board and at of the year at the European Business Awards senior management level and make an appointment 2012 13, and were awarded the Madrid Excelente accordingly.
Until Jo Harlow stepped down we had 25% Award for Customer confidence by the Madrid female representation at Board level.
Our top leadership Regional Government: population is 24% female, and this proportion is higher within the majority of our core operating companies.
We won European Call Centre and Customer 46% of our total workforce prole is female.
Service Large Contact Centre of the Year: and In North America, Sage Advisor won a Customer Examples of some local gender-specic initiatives Experience Innovation Award at the Customer include Spains Equality Plan and the UKIs Enterprise for Experience Professional Association 2013.
Women network aimed at supporting and encouraging 2013 2012 career development of women through networking Men 84 75 events and workshops.
Women 27 24 % men 76% 76% % women 24% 24% Total workforce diversity 2013 2012 Men 6,830 7,295 Women 5,930 6,214 Sage Day is an annual event where our people support local communities and charities.
% men 54% 54% % women 46% 46% The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2013 51
