Corporate responsibility Our Corporate responsibility CR activities oer Sage the opportunity to be a good corporate citizen and also to support our global vision Our CR policy Board reporting Our global CR policy focuses on four key areas Our CR policy has been endorsed by our Board who are updated on CR risks where we believe we can make the most difference.
and opportunities by the Company Secretary.
For three of these Industry, Environment and Ethics People we have established a global framework We are committed to conducting business in an honest and ethical manner.
We act for our operating companies to work within, allowing according to our Code of Ethics, which is integral to us and sets out a range of them exibility over which area to invest in according principles we adhere to.
In particular, we do not tolerate bribery and corruption and are to what will have the most meaning and impact locally.
committed to acting professionally, fairly and with integrity in all our business dealings Whilst local legal standards apply as an absolute and relationships.
We enforce effective systems and processes to counter bribery and minimum, we aim to achieve good practice in our local corruption and we continue to forge new ways employees can anonymously report any markets and share this across the Group.
The fourth concerns about these.
area Community is entirely locally driven, allowing our people to support causes close to them and to As a UK company, The Sage Group plc is bound by the laws of the UK, including the become involved in their communities.
Bribery Act 2010, in respect of our conduct both at home and abroad.
In addition, we will uphold all laws relevant to countering bribery and corruption in all the jurisdictions Sage has been independently assessed against the in which we operate.
FTSE4Good criteria and satisfied the requirements to become a constituent of the FTSE4Good Index Series, As well as ensuring our own conduct is appropriate, we have also put in place which is an equity index designed to facilitate investment procedures to prevent bribery being committed on our behalf by any associated in companies that meet globally recognised corporate persons, i. e. anyone that performs services for us on our behalf, such as subsidiaries responsibility standards.
and third parties we work with.
Our leaders sign a declaration relating to the Code of Ethics to make sure any additional business commitments or client and supplier Industry relationships they may have are clear and transparent.
We aim to leverage the unique relationships that we have with our customers across the globe to continue Data protection to understand and support the issues and challenges Data security and privacy are taken extremely seriously at Sage.
Customer data is that they face.
handled sensitively, with respect, and in a way that complies, as a minimum, with the Environment requirements of Data Protection laws in the countries in which we operate and, where We continue to analyse our impact on our environment.
We also work with local legislative bodies and data We remain committed to reducing our energy protection agencies and continuously look to strengthen our systems and procedures.
consumption and related emissions where possible, as well as reducing our wider impacts such as resource use and waste to landll.
People Given the nature of our business and our geographical spread we have not included information specically about human rights issues in this report.
We have a Code of Ethics available at www.
com which recognises the importance of treating all of our employees fairly, covering issues such as responsible employment, diversity and equal opportunities.
This is an effective way of communicating, at a high level, the principles which should be applied in the conduct of our business.
Further information regarding our people is available in this report on pages 48 to 51.
Community Our local communities are important to us.
We support a number of charities and community organisations Cycling 750 miles to Paris and Alpe dHuez raises thousands for charity.
worldwide in order to make a positive impact on the communities where we have a presence.
52 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Industry We pride ourselves on really understanding our customers, both their common needs as well as their unique requirements, and we look to deploy that empathy and insight in our CR activities Understanding the issues small and medium sized Developing the entrepreneurs of tomorrow businesses face We believe passionately in the value of developing future talent, both within Sage and Having a clear understanding of the challenges and in the wider business community.
opportunities our customers face is a vital part of We work with a number of organisations to help nurture the entrepreneurs of tomorrow, ensuring we deliver software and services that meet such as Young Enterprise in the UK, its afliate Junior Achievement in North America, these needs and ambitions.
Beyond the over 35,000 and Ashoka in Germany and France.
All of these organisations are involved in social customer conversations we have each day, we conduct entrepreneurship.
They equip the workforce of the future with the skills they will need to regular research surveys, locally and globally, to ensure succeed through, for example, the provision of entrepreneurship education programmes.
we have as much insight and information as we can.
Our support includes sponsorship of the Financial Management in Business Award at Our global Sage Business Index is one of the largest the Junior Achievement Young Enterprise Europe, Company of the Year Competition, surveys of small and medium sized businesses in and donations as a result of a global Sage Day competition in which our employees the world.
It polls over 11,700 businesses across selected Ashoka and Junior Achievement as recipients of the money raised.
Through 17 countries and provides a comprehensive study our Sage Cares programme, employees from all of our North American ofces of business confidence and the pressures faced by partnered with Junior Achievement in a variety of activities, which included hosting decision makers within companies around the world.
Job Shadow days, attending Career Fairs and providing job readiness training as part of school education days.
In total, nearly 1,400 students benefited from this activity.
For more information on The Sage Business In South Africa we have continued our long-standing relationship with the Life College, Index go to businessindex.
a non-profit organisation that develops entrepreneurship in students across the country.
We also sponsor The Life College Xchange annual competition in which students pitch We also replicate this kind of effort face to face in local business ideas to established business leaders in South Africa.
For instance, during the Sage Listens 2013 RV awarded funding to start their new business.
Sage South Africa also supports Enactus, Relay Tour in North America, Sage executives travelled a global non-profit organisation which targets students in tertiary education to make more than 6,300 miles over 50 days, visiting 17 cities.
a meaningful contribution towards developing entrepreneurs and business leaders.
They personally met and spoke in detail with more than In Portugal we support Energia fide Portugal, which helps entrepreneurs set up companies 75 customers to listen and gain insights into the issues and demysties the difficulties inherent in the process of launching a business.
At its and opportunities they face with a view to improving annual event, the CEO of Sage Portugal spoke about his experiences in business.
how we can support them in future.
Supporting local businesses and organisations Helping non-profit organisations with business software is an important part of what we do in the CR agenda.
In North America, Sage has continued a partnership with TechSoup, an organisation that provides free business software to non-profit organisations.
Since 2008 Sage North America has supported nearly 2,000 organisations with software valued at US$1.3m.
This year we donated software to over 250 non-profit organisations.
Our vision of being the most valuable supporter of small and medium sized companies by creating greater freedom for them to succeed extends further than giving our customers the right technology.
It also means helping them understand and navigate through the business challenges they face.
In the UK, Sage launched a Love your accountant campaign and teamed up with Yahoo!
Finance to launch a small business hub.
Both are focused on providing original content on news, advice and practical tips that will help small businesses understand the issues they face Sage provides work experience opportunities to young people.
every day from navigating the complexities of VAT, to working with mentors and their accountants.
The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2013 53 Corporate responsibility continued Environment We aim to reduce the energy our business uses and make the most of recycling opportunities.
We comply with local laws as a minimum standard and Sage continues to take part in the global Carbon Disclosure Project Greenhouse gas emission Organisation boundary and responsibility This section includes our mandatory reporting of greenhouse gas emissions pursuant We report our emissions data using an operational to the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Report Regulations 2013 control approach to define our organisational boundary, the Regulations.
We include this reporting data here in order to provide a complete which meets the denitional requirements of the Corporate .
Regulations in respect of those emissions for which we are responsible.
Reporting year We have reported on all material emission sources Our reporting year is the same as our scal year, being 1 October 2012 to 30 September which we deem ourselves to be responsible for.
This greenhouse gas reporting year has been established to align with our These sources align with our operational control financial reporting year.
We do not have responsibility for any emission sources that are Global greenhouse gas emissions data beyond the boundary of our operational control.
For period 1 October 2012 to 30 September 2013 For example, business travel other than by car Emissions from: Tonnes of CO e 2 including, for example, commercial ights are Combustion of fuel and operation of facilities 9,550 not within our operational control and, therefore, Electricity, heat, steam and cooling purchased for own use 17,943 are not considered to be our responsibility.
Companys chosen intensity measurement: Methodology Emissions reported above normalised to tonnes of CO e per total 2 The methodology used to calculate our emissions GBP1,000,000 revenue 19.98 is based on the Environmental Reporting Guidelines: including mandatory greenhouse gas emissions Total CO e by emission type reporting guidance June 2013 issued by the 2 Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs DEFRA.
We have also utilised DEFRAs 2013 conversion factors within our reporting methodology.
In some cases we have extrapolated total emissions by utilising available information from part of a reporting period and extending it to apply to the full reporting year.
For example, this has occurred where supplier invoices for the full reporting year were not available prior to the publication of this report.
For further details, our methodology document can be found Electricity, heat, steam and cooling purchased for own use 65% at www.
Combustion of fuel and operation of facilities 35% Sum of CO e tonnes 2 5,902 162 AAMEA 6,292 7,086 Europe 5,749 2,302 North America and Brazil 0 2,000 4,000 6,000 8,000 10,000 12,000 14,000 Electricity, heat, steam and cooling purchased for own use Combustion of fuel and operation of facilities 54 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Scope of reported emissions Baseline for 2013 targets Emissions data has been reported for our operations The current year data forms the baseline data in Australia, Austria, Brazil, France, Germany, Ireland, for subsequent periods.
Although the Group Malaysia, Morocco, North America, Poland, Portugal, has previously reported on emissions, it is not Singapore, South Africa, Spain, Switzerland and the UK.
appropriate to use these reports as baseline years due to differing methodologies applied.
Given the short time between the passing of the Regulations and the preparation of this report it has Carbon Disclosure Project not been possible to report on all emissions.
We are, We once again took part in this project during the however, putting procedures in place to enable us year under review by reporting on our gas Scope 1 to report on a wider range of emissions in the next and electricity Scope 2 emissions for the financial year reporting year.
The emissions that have not been ended 30 September 2012.
However, our emissions included in this years report relate to building usage reporting for the purposes of this Annual Report and business travel in our operations in Belgium, where & Accounts provides broader emissions information energy usage is not itemised on invoices.
We have also and is based on a different methodology.
Therefore, not included emissions relating to refrigerant gas usage no comparatives to prior year for gas and electricity for our operations in Austria, Australia, XRT Brazil, emissions for the year under review are included here.
Morocco, Poland and Singapore, as this data has not been gathered during the reporting year.
However, we Reducing carbon and waste are in the process of training relevant staff to capture We have made a concerted effort to reduce our carbon such data for future reporting.
For example, across our business we have tted telepresence communication units as part of a In respect of those countries where we have very project to reduce travel.
The promotion of recycling bins limited operations, being India where we have fewer continues, along with the installation of LED lights in many than 10 employees and the United Arab Emirates of our ofces as they use around 75% less energy.
Some where we have fewer than 20 employees, we have ofces have implemented new printing systems, enabling undertaken a materiality assessment and consider that us to monitor and reduce the use of paper and inks.
the related emissions are not material.
Emissions from these operations are, therefore, excluded from our We now provide many of our software and services reported emissions.
via the web rather than CDs or printed guides.
For example, our online Auto Update Service deals Intensity ratio with approximately one million update checks per In order to express our annual emissions in relation business day.
Our internal systems and communications to a quantiable factor associated with our activities, are increasingly paperless, whether it is through we have used revenue as our intensity ratio as this is electronic payslips or online document sharing and the most relevant indication of our growth and provides employee social networking via our global internal for the best comparative measure over time.
The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2013 55 Corporate responsibility continued Community Our involvement in local communities is about more than business, so we empower our operating companies to set their own targets and goals because they know best what will really make a dierence locally Giving our time to help charities Investing in young people We have a long history of actively supporting a number Sage South Africa has a long-standing joint initiative of charities and community organisations, with our with the South African Institute of Chartered Accountants people taking the opportunity to dedicate some of their SAICA, known as The National SAICA-Sage Pastel time to the local causes that matter to them.
This year in Accounting Olympiad.
The programme aims to address North America 190 employees utilised their volunteer day the imbalance of racial representation within the through our Employee Volunteer Day benefit programme, accounting profession and equip African learners with which provides employees with a day off to volunteer for financial literacy skills.
The winner of the Olympiad is a local charity.
Similarly, our UK business offers all our awarded a full bursary to further education in accountancy.
employees two days per year to volunteer, which resulted In Spain, we have been working with the Create in nearly 4,000 hours given to community volunteering Foundation to help deliver workshops where students and charitable events this year.
This included over 1,000 are encouraged to embrace their creativity, innovation hours supporting almost 250 children as part of the Right and entrepreneurialism.
In the UK, Sage launched an to Read literacy programme.
As it does every year, Sage apprentice scheme for 12 apprentices to join Sage, all of UK opened its call centre to take calls for Comic Relief whom are still with the business, as well as a formal work 2013, with our people volunteering to process donations.
experience programme for local senior school students.
Every year in July, Sage celebrates Sage Day, when our employees have the opportunity to get involved in local communities and charity work together.
As well as the global Sage Day activity to support Ashoka and Junior Achievement, there was widespread local activity.
In South Africa, Sage Day coincided with Mandela Day, a national day of celebration in recognition of Nelson Mandelas 67 years of dedication to South Africa.
To honour both events our people in South Africa, in partnership with Afrika Tikkun a long-standing beneciary of Sage South Africas support volunteered at the Diepsloot community centre, an informal settlement located close to Sage South Africas head ofce.
Afrika Tikkun is a well-established non-governmental organisation and works in six of the most impoverished communities in South Africa to full their mission of uplifting and empowering disadvantaged orphans and vulnerable children.
In the UK, 56 Sage employees took part in three charity bike rides as part of Sage Day Coast to Coast, London YHU HDU ZHUH DPD]HG DW KRZ PXFK HRUW RXU SHRSOH SXW LQWR to Paris and London to Alpe dHuez to raise funds for supporting our local communities.
Sage UKs chosen charity, Cancer Research UK, raising 53,000.
Overall donations to Cancer Research UK during our seven-year partnership with them have now reached 615,000.
For us, helping charities is not just about raising funds.
Sometimes a donation in kind can make a huge difference.
For example, our people in Spain donated 450 kilos of food to the National Food Bank, an extremely significant resource for many Spanish families at this difficult time.
Our employees in North America have donated a total of 3,480 items including food, toys and clothes to various charities.
56 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Our 2013 Strategic report, from page 2 to page 57, has been reviewed and approved by the Board of directors on 4 December 2013.
Guy Berruyer, Chief Executive The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2013 57
