STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION P EOPLE developing the capabilities and competencies of seniors employees to meet tomorrows customer requirements is critical to the future success of thegroup.
EMPOWERED LOCAL MANAGEMENT The Group benefits from having empowered, entrepreneurial, local management.
In recent years, the Group has increased its investment in DEVELOPING OUR PEOPLE PROTECTING OUR PEOPLE management development and training The quality of Seniors people is a core Safety standards strengthen our business by significantly, seeking to enhance underlying competency of the Group and how it recruits, producing higher performing teams, lowering performance and in particular strengthen trains and motivates its staff is pivotal.
Each costs and creating more resilient operations.
business development and operational of Seniors businesses operates a training and The Boards commitment to safety starts management whilst also maintaining the development plan and the skills of employees with the Group Chief Executive who chairs strength of Seniorsculture.
are typically reviewed through a performance the HSE Committee, setting the Groups review and development process.
EXPANDING CAPABILITIES objectives for safety.
The Groups employees are one of its For the last five years, Senior has operated a All operations are required to prepare an most valuable assets, with the financial Leadership Development Programme aimed improvement plan for HSE to further progress and operational progress made during at developing midto senior-level managers their safety and environmental performance.
2013, and earlier years, largely due to their so that they acquire the broader skills hard work and dedication.
In recognition, essential to operate at higher management The Groups safety performance improved in Senior has sought to improve employee levels.
The training provides an intensive 2013.
The overall number of injuries declined development at all levels of the learning and development forum for current 14% to 2.97 per 100 workers, 2012 3.47, organisation, from increasing the high-potential senior managers.
primarily as a result of reduced lacerations frequency and range of shop-floor health and muscular strain injuries.
Similarly, the EQUALITY AND DIVERSITY and safety tool-box talks to expanding number of lost time declined by 31% to 0.95 As a global business, Senior employed some theGroup Development Programme for per 100 workers 2012 1.36.
6,655 people at the end of 2013 6,171 2012 itsfuture leaders and investing in specialist in 13 countries: its management grades The Group operates a zero-harm policy.
To strategic leadership courses for its most alone comprise over fifteen nationalities.
improve the consistency of our approach and senior executives.
Employee development, Diversity is therefore anintegral part of how resilience of the safety controls, in 2013 we together with a renewed emphasis on Senior operates.
Toachieve this, the Group finalised the introduction of a series of global therecruitment and succession planning promotes a policy of equal opportunity in standards for the common HSE hazards.
processes, will remain an important focus employment and believes that employmentAudits have been conducted against these for the Group in thefuture.
related decisions should always be based on standards and improvements are ongoing.
relevant aptitudes, skills and abilities.
The These standards have complemented the Group promotes this policy, without unlawful process of organisational learning, including consideration of sex, race, nationality, age, sharing the lessons of incidents and best disability, religion or any other category practice and use of the Group online protected by law.
DIVERSITY INJURY RATE 20072013 cASe STUDY ApprenTiceSHip INJURIES PER 100 EMPLOYEES Like many Senior businesses, Senior Aerospace Weston has a track record of 6.51 19 14 13 training apprentices spanning back over 50 female total recordable injury rate years.
In 2013 Weston apprentice Daniel male lost time injury time Harland received the Regional Apprentice 4.96 87 86 A total group of the Year Award.
Daniel is not alone and 81 4.44 B executive committee Weston currently has 25 apprentices 3.75 C plc board 3.59 completing advanced apprenticeship 3.47 programmes to gain recognised 2.97 2.77 2.55 qualifications.
Weston also sponsors and supports apprentices in completing degree 1.94 1.61 courses.
The programme plays a key part 1.36 0.98 in the succession planning process, with 0.95 the majority of Westons engineering and manufacturing management teams being A B C 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 former apprentices.
com Senior plc | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2013 11 Number of employees % Per 100 employees
