Strategic Report not recorded at the start of the reporting period For countries where we have very limited on environmental issues is important.
Serco and before the regulations came into force.
operations, suchasDjibouti, Dominican recognises its responsibility to ensure that any , wherewehave adverse impact on the environment is reduced, The sum of all estimated emissions is below fewer than ten employees, or where our or where possible, eliminated by applying 3.15%ofourglobalemissions, soweconsider  the most appropriate management systems the potential error to be immaterial.
operationalcontrol, wehaveundertakena at contract level whether designed by our materiality assessment and consider that the customers or by us.
Scope of reported emissions related emissions are not material.
Emissions We have reported emissions data for our from these operations are therefore excluded  : from our reported emissions.
environment, we support our customers in applying their own environmental management While we have used a materiality threshold of systems and objectives.
5%, we have reported emissions for a number of sites that fall below this threshold.
Initiatives and progress Division Country  Intensity ratio management targets, we have implemented a AMEAA Australia To express our annual reported emissions in number of initiatives and made solid progress.
Bahrain relation to the scale of our activities, we have : Hong Kong  FTE asourintensity India ratio.
This is the most relevant indication of  New Zealand our growth and provides the best comparative divisional executive teams, to drive operational UAE measure over time.
performance improvement across the business, Americas USA in line with global and divisional targets.
Canada Emissions reported have been normalised to 4.04 tonnes CO e per FTE.
 Global Services Australia 2 Plan for 2014, which aims to reduce carbon India Ireland Baseline emissions at our largest facilities.
This approach UK  is enhanced across our wider portfolio of subsequent periods.
Although Serco has facilities by real-time monitoring and tactical UK & Europe UK previously reported on emissions, it is not interventions, where electricity and gas appropriate to use these reports as baseline .
years due to the differing methodologies used.
 The emissions that have not been included in Reducing carbon and waste engagement programme for 2014.
This  Across more than two thirds of our business, programme aims to ensure all employees air conditioning and refrigeration outside the  are fully aware of their environmental UK.
After analysis, we believe these emissions and are therefore not in direct control of the responsibilities and the role they play in are immaterial.
However, we are implementing environment in which we operate.
That is why supporting the delivery of our energy and processes to capture such data for future reporting.
