Strategic Report to provide oversight and challenge, consistent the nature of some of their contracts, including The chart below shows the activities that made processes and toolsets across the division, .
AMEAAhas upthistotal: and a core curriculum of online safety training.
reduced the potential for assaults through  controls such as intelligence reports and Community investment 2013 000  surveillance, training our people in fide-escalation business unit, with a focus on injury prevention and situational response, and a violence awareness.
reduction strategy in our New Zealand justice and corrections business.
UK & Europe has We also made organisational changes across continued to raise awareness of reporting AMEAA, to create a single HSE delivery function requirements and liaised with national HSE 622 supported by a centre of excellence that directs groups which focus on this topic.
We continue policy, systems, processes and reporting.
 997 Total  measures across the contracts.
2,575 cause of some incidents at the start of the 338 year.
 2014 objectives assessment and management to all divisions.
For 2014, we have set the following health andsafetytargets: 618 Objective 2: A major reportable incident rate of 57 per 100,000 employees, an8.5% representing a 15% reduction against the 2012 baseline to sustain a major reportable incident rate Cash donations under 40, and Gifts in kind The number of major reportable incidents Staff volunteering fellby45%to33in2013, resultinginarate a 4.6% reduction in the physical assault Management time .
Thiswas rate to 460 well below our target of 57 and the UK Health  Community benchmarkof91.5.
Our communities are primarily the people who Objective 2: To promote and support  the Serco Foundation One third of the major reportable incidents   organisations we partner with, to deliver  , which a number of our contracts.
Inpreparationforthis were addressed through the global guidance milestone, we had established the Serco on fatigue discussed above.
AMEAA has seen  Foundation in the UK during the previous year.
Ithelpstoenhance a result of our safety initiatives over the last our reputation and build trust with our customers Our employees voted for children to be the 18 months.
We also closely monitored major and the public, by demonstrating that Serco is .
reportable incidents in our UK & Europe a values-led organisation.
Engaging also gives Inresponse,  division, resulting in a continued reduction  Every Child, Everywhere initiative, a three-year .
needs, which can help us to win bids and commitment based on a belief that children to operate existing contracts successfully, everywhere deserve the best possible start Objective 3: A physical assault rate particularly where we are delivering services in life.
of 528 per 100,000 employees, directly to the public.
representing a 15% reduction against Duringtheyear, theFoundationengaged the 2012 baseline For2013, : our people and our communities to support nine child-related charities around the No employee should be subjected to either Objective 1: To continue to invest 1% of world.
Some incredible individual and team physical or verbal abuse.
The physical assault Adjusted pre-tax profits into wider society achievements raised more than 400,000 ratefellby23%to482in2013, beatingour for the chosen charities.
, through donations of money, assets and time.
 Thisrepresented1%ofourAdjustedprofit UK&, reflecting before tax.
 to our business success and gives us a better understanding of their needs.
