Strategic Report  wider leadership agenda.
This has seen us Chief Executive and Executive Committee,   and aligning engagement and leadership of Conduct.
Our Code and matters pertaining leaders around the world, to determine what development.
to our ethical position will be reviewed and we expect from leaders in Serco.
monitored by the CR Committee.
 on the ethical standards we expect from all  Serco.
For employees, feeling part of Serco employees and this is communicated through leadership model, which we will roll out in 2014.  the Code, which all employees receive.
This Our aim is to identify people who have the results.
To close the gap, we need to clarify is supported by training on the Code for all desire and capability to be leaders at all levels the role Serco plays in supporting great employees.
As part of the corporate renewal  service delivery, to enable our people to programme, we have refreshed our Code, potential.
Whether people are interested in realise their service vocation.
This effort will which will be relaunched in 2014. , managingasmallgroup  , themodel renewal, such as our review of our values Each division has a CR strategy, which is will enable them to understand what capabilities .
Itwillinclude owned by the divisional CEO and monitored they need to develop and demonstrate, so they a broader range of communication channels by the divisional board.
Our contracts can progress to the next level of leadership.
and greater recognition of best practice and   individual achievements.
strategies, their business and their local our values throughout the organisation.
 responsible for delivering these initiatives.
Objective 2: To improve our overall a strategic priority.
To meet our strategic employee engagement levels by objectives, we need to focus on engaging  focusing on the top engagement our people and using engagement data as a passionate involvement in local causes, drivers across Serco predictive indicator of ethics and compliance which often involve them volunteering to risks.
 raise money or provide direct help.
Eachyear,  wellbeing principles, with resources for .
Thisgivesusimportant all regions, and continue our focus on People  performance-related processes, such as  experienceatSerco.
In2013, weachieveda setting objectives and reviews.
commitment to deliver the services our response rate of 82%.
The survey showed that customers expect.
Our people contribute overall levels of engagement declined slightly Duringtheyear,  directly to our reputation and ability to grow.
inthelast12months, inpartreflectingthe Engage for Success, an independent and .
voluntary group of leaders, managers, trade Our human resources activities are designed However,  unionists, engagement practitioners and to create a robust and sustainable organisation, corporate culture, with most employees feeling experts, who all want to highlight the importance which can operate effectively in a complex  of employee engagement.
To do this, we follow a clear colleagues, that their contract provides a people strategy, as described in the strategy high level of customer service and that Serco Objective 3: To continue to implement section on page 11. values diversity.
MyHR our single HR programme and common core processes throughout For2013,   the business : , ifwetake action.
To optimise engagement, we therefore MyHR provides a range of self-service tools Objective 1: To continue to develop need to focus on what we do with the survey .
Itgives leaders who are fit for the future by results.
In2014,  managers better visibility and control of their embedding the talent review and senior sponsors of employee engagement and team information, the ability to carry out people succession planning process across .
Theseare: management activities online, and access a wider proportion of our to reports to support planning and decision management population 1.
 engagement is critical to the business easier for employees, for example by allowing Duringtheyear, weembeddedourtalent and improving the overall engagement them to maintain their personal information or management processes around the Group of employees.
and focused on consistently improving them.
focus groups with the leadership team  inallregions,   to deliver the services our customers expect.
