56 Corporate Responsibility Committee This report provides details of the role of the Corporate Responsibility CR Committee and the work it has undertaken during the year.
The members of the Committee are Dr Bernard Bulkin Chairman, Andrew Duff, Gordon Fryett and Tony Wray.
The purpose of the Committee is to provide board oversight of the management ofallnon-financial risks to the group.
This year we aligned the structure for our CRframework to Doing the right thing The Severn Trent way, our Code of Conduct.
This comprises nine key principles that we work to and provides a common framework for both our businesses regulated and non-regulated.
Keeping everyone healthy and safe 2.
Supporting employees rights and diversity Dr Bernard Bulkin 3.
Maintaining ethical and honest behaviour Chairman of the Corporate Responsibility Committee 4.
Staying free from bribery and corruption 5.
Keeping our communications open and responsible The Committee provides guidance and direction to the groups Corporate 6.
Delivering excellent customer service Responsibility CR programme, reviews 7.
Working within the community thegroups key non-financial risks and 8.
Protecting our environment opportunities and monitors progress.
The terms of reference for the Committee 9.
Standing up for whats right can be found on our website Within the nine principles of our CR framework, we have identied focus areas that www.
com and are also arecritical to our management of risk and reputation.
These areas were determined available from the Company Secretary.
through stakeholder dialogue, risk assessment and benchmarking within the The Committee reviews annually the waterindustry and the FTSE 100 and are reviewed annually.
adequacy of the groups formal whistleblowing policy and procedures The nine principles of our Code of Conduct provide the basis for the forward agenda of whichdeal with allegations from employees the Committee.
During the year the Committee has received papers on key business relating to breaches of the Code of Conduct programmes and strategies linked to the terms of reference of the Committee.
and reviews at each of its meetings the Theseincluded water efficiency, supply chain management, environmental whistleblowing incident log.
management systems, brand and reputation, occupational health, employee volunteering, vulnerable customers, employee satisfaction and diversity.
In addition, the Committee responds to emerging issues and received updates on disability access and pollutions performance.
The Committee also received reports from Internal Audit with respect to their work onnon-financial risk linked to the terms of reference of the Committee and regular updates on health, safety and environmental performance and whistleblowing.
Within Severn Trent Water we have an effective performance management system in place through our core business KPIs.
These are overseen by the Executive Committee and the board.
Many of the business KPIs relate directly to our CR focus areas and therefore contribute signicantly to our CR performance.
We report internally on our performance through both the Executive Committee and the Committee.
Externally, we report through a number of channels including our Annual Regulatory Returns to Ofwat, our websites and our annual report and accounts.
Corporate Responsibility Committee attendance in 2012 13 Dr Bernard Bulkin 3 3 Gordon Fryett 3 3 Andrew Duff 3 3 Tony Wray 3 3
