CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT SIG HAS A CLEAR APPROACH TO BUSINESS INTEGRITY AND ETHICS WHICH UNDERLINES THE GROUPS CORE VALUES OF OPENNESS, COLLABORATION, MUTUAL DEPENDENCY, SUSTAINABILITY, PROFITABLE GROWTH AND INNOVATION.
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AWARDS OUR PEOPLE SIG continues to recognise the strength of the FTSE Group confirms that SIG plc has been independently assessed individuals who work within the Group and we believe according to the FTSE4Good criteria and has satisfied the requirements that our people are the best in their particular field.
to become a constituent of the FTSE4Good Index Series.
Created by SIG believes that the continued support we provide the global index company FTSE Group, FTSE4Good is an equity index to our people is invaluable to our success.
series that is designed to facilitate investment in companies that meet globally recognised corporate responsibility standards.
Companies in the In 2013 the Group acknowledged the contribution our employees FTSE4Good Index Series have met stringent social and environmental make to SIG and continued to support our people in a variety of ways.
criteria and are positioned to capitalise on the benefits of responsible This included continuing to run the Executive Development Programme, business practice.
holding the SIG Driver of the Year competition for the third consecutive year and recognising the contribution of our outstanding employees at the annual Senior Management Conference.
SIG considers the safety of its employees of paramount importance.
The Group continues to maintain an integrated Health, Safety and Environmental HS&E management system.
The completion of the initial stages of a Group-wide health and safety programme, which saw the successful introduction of several health and safety measures across the Group, has provided the foundation for the next step in the programme.
It is SIGs philosophy that all accidents are avoidable, and therefore the aspiration for the Group is for Zero Harm every day.
SIG is a member of Business in the Community in the UK and has worked with that organisation to develop its approach and practices.
SIG plc 38 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Overview Strategic report Directors report Accounts SUPPORTING THE COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT The Group endeavours to contribute to the SIG acknowledges its responsibility to the communities in which it operates, particularly those environment as a leading distributor of building neighbouring its sites.
The Group Human Resources Director has responsibility for community SIGs UK operations continue to maintain accreditation to the issues within the Group and reports to the Chief Executive, who international environmental standard ISO 14001, with a roll-out plan in is responsible for community issues at Board level.
SIGs employees place for new businesses acquired in 2013 to gain certification in 2014. continue to take part in a range of activities which support our work The principles of this management system standard form the basis of in the community.
This includes, but is not limited to, participation the approach to environmental matters across the Group.
in the Sheffield Half Marathon, fundraising in branches and by our The main focus of the Groups environmental objectives and targets for graduates, and making donations through a payroll giving scheme.
2014 relate to the aims of SIGs Low Carbon Business Policy to reduce To help support the Groups contribution to the communities it fuel, energy and water consumption and to reduce waste.
operates in across the UK, SIG is a member of Business in the The Groups partnership with the Carbon Trust to carry out Community.
SIG continues to work with this organisation to help energy audits and develop an Internal Audit programme, along with develop its approach and practices.
This is mainly achieved through an employee awareness programme and Switch Off campaign, charitable donations and other initiatives that help the community.
have enabled the business to achieve an overall reduction of 4.8% During 2013 SIG has also raised funds and made donations for local in its carbon emissions in 2013 compared to 2012. charities and organisations throughout Mainland Europe.
A prime In 2013 SIG has ensured its commitment to reducing its environmental example of this is the sponsorship provided by WeGo Systembaustoffe impact has been upheld by also re-launching the Groups Switch Off GmbH to the seventh Hanau Soapbox Derby a local initiative that campaign, commencing installation of Solar PV at its branches in the UK, promotes community involvement, team working, creativity and continuing to recycle water for commercial processes in Southport UK inter-generational involvement.
The proceeds from the derby will be and Alizay France, introducing paperless delivery processes and used to build a child-friendly outdoor play area at a local after-school providing online activity reports, among other activities.
SIG Insulations was the main sponsor for the Sheffield Half Marathon for the sixth To help maintain the momentum in reducing waste and operating costs, the consecutive year, which raised 105,000 for good causes in 2013.
Switch Off campaign, which was originally launched in 2010, was re-launched in 2013.
The campaign encourages employees to turn off lights and other electrical appliances when not in use.
SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 39 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT CONTINUED e as a matter of policy, we do not make political donations: In 2013 SIG continued its drive to integrate Corporate Responsibility CR across the Group, with focus on e no bribes will be given or received: taking forward the key aspects of the CR plan.
SIG believes e conflicts of interest must be avoided and in all cases must be reported: and that the inclusion of broader social and environmental issues into its decision-making process will support the e employees are encouraged to report any suspected wrongdoings.
Group in achieving our business goals as well as helping us A confidential and independent hotline service is available to all employees so that grow Shareholder value.
they can raise any concerns that they have about how we conduct our business.
SIG continues to be a constituent of the FTSE4Good Index of socially responsible We believe this is an important resource which supports a culture of openness companies and the Group recognises its corporate responsibilities toward its throughout the Group.
The service is provided by an independent third party Shareholders, employees, customers and suppliers and is committed to good with a full investigation being carried out on all matters raised and a report practice in all its activities.
SIG seeks to continually develop its approach to CR prepared for feedback to the complainant.
and is pleased to be able to inform its stakeholders of the measures which HUMAN RIGHTS it is taking to monitor and improve its CR performance reporting.
SIG does not currently have in place a policy that deals specifically with human CR COMMITTEE rights.
SIG will give careful consideration to whether a specific Human Rights policy is required in future over and above existing policies.
The CR Committee was established in 2009 and provides the SIG Board with a regular account of the significance of social, environmental and ethical matters to ANTI-BRIBERY & CORRUPTION POLICY the business.
It has put in place a comprehensive risk management and internal control process which identifies and assesses the significant risks to the Groups SIG plc has a number of fundamental principles and values that it believes are the short-term and long-term value arising from such matters.
The Board receives a foundation of sound and fair business practice and as such are important to uphold.
report on CR issues at each of its Board meetings and reviews CR strategy.
CR One such principle is a zero tolerance position in relation to bribery and corruption, issues also form part of the overall internal control process and are covered in the wherever and in whatever form that it may be encountered.
The Groups training of the Directors.
Anti-Bribery & Corruption Policy supports our Ethics Policy and clearly states the The Committee has a rolling three year plan which informs the CR objectives standards and principles required to ensure conformance to legal requirements and target actions of the Group and drives continual improvement of its CR within the countries in which SIG and its subsidiary companies operate.
The objectives allow the Group to focus its CR efforts and work We have continued to roll out our Anti-Bribery & Corruption Policy training to continually improve the Groups index ratings.
which since 2012 has included competition law training via the comprehensive The Groups CR credentials are central to its commercial aspirations.
Throughout online training resource to all Senior Management through to branch managers 2013 the Group continued to provide access to tender lists for major contractors and external salespeople across the Group.
through formal assessment and pre-qualification questionnaires.
The Company values its reputation for ethical behaviour, financial probity and reliability.
It recognises that over and above the commission of any crime, any BUSINESS PRINCIPLES AND CODE OF ETHICS involvement in bribery will also reflect adversely on its image and reputation.
Its aim therefore is to limit its exposure to bribery and corruption by: SIG has a clear and unequivocal approach to business integrity and ethics which underlies the Groups core values of openness, collaboration, mutual dependency, e setting out a clear Anti-Bribery & Corruption Policy: sustainability, profitable growth, professional delivery and innovation.
The Group e training all employees so that they can recognise and avoid the use of has in place Group-wide Ethics, Anti-Bribery & Corruption and Ethical Trading & bribery by themselves and others: Human Rights policies.
These policies, which are regularly reviewed, underpin our CR programme and support our business integrity.
e encouraging its employees to be vigilant and to report any suspicion of bribery, providing them with suitable channels of communication and ETHICS POLICY ensuring sensitive information is treated appropriately: SIG has in place a Group-wide Ethics Policy, which has been issued to all e rigorously investigating instances of alleged bribery and assisting the employees.
The policy sets out the standards and behaviours that all SIG police and other appropriate authorities in any resultant prosecution: and employees are expected to meet throughout the Groups operations, and is e taking firm action against any individual s involved in bribery or corruption.
designed to ensure that the business conforms to the highest ethical standards.
The policy can be viewed on the Companys website at www.
A copy of the Groups Anti-Bribery & Corruption Policy can be viewed on the Companys website www.
The key business principles contained in the Ethics Policy are set out below: e SIGs policy is to operate within applicable laws: ENVIRONMENT e discrimination or harassment of any kind will not be tolerated: ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT e SIG aims to be a responsible partner within its local communities: SIG continues to operate an integrated Health, Safety and Environmental HS&E e the legal and moral rights of others will be taken into account in all of management system.
The Group Chief Executive is the Board Director SIGs business transactions: responsible for the implementation of the management system.
A copy of the e we will maintain a safe and healthy environment for people to work in: Groups HS&E Policy signed by the Chief Executive is displayed at each location in the local language.
e we will be proactive in managing our responsibilities to the environment: e we will not knowingly make misrepresentations: SIG plc 40 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Overview Strategic report Directors report Accounts SIGs UK operations continue to maintain accreditation to the international environmental standard ISO 14001, with a roll-out plan in place for new SIG INTERIORS PARTNERS WITH businesses acquired in 2013 to gain certification in 2014.
The principles of this ARMSTRONG WORLD INDUSTRIES management system standard form the basis of the approach to environmental matters across the Group.
TO DRIVE RECYCLING INITIATIVES The Groups policy for continuous improvement is supported through the maintenance of its Environmental Aspects and Impacts Register and Corporate Environmental Risk Assessment.
These documents record and assess the principal environmental hazards within the Group and were reviewed in 2013 through each business Management Review process.
The Group has maintained its excellent record of legal compliance and environmentally sound operations throughout 2013 and can continue to report that there have been no prosecutions, no actions from the authorities and no incidents reported through internal processes.
The main focus of the Groups environmental objectives for 2014 relate to the aims of the business Low Carbon Policy to reduce fuel, energy and water consumption and to reduce waste.
The progress that the business has made in this area in 2013 is covered in this report.
CARBON MANAGEMENT The initiatives enable new build ceiling contractors SIG plcs Low Carbon Policy was first published in 2010.
The policy was and refurbishment teams to recycle suspended ceiling reviewed in 2013 and signed by the Groups Chief Executive who retains responsibility for environmental performance.
SIG Interiors handles the collection and recycling, driving significant cost and time In addition to this annual CR Report, SIG continues to report its Carbon Footprint savings for new customers while supporting sustainable performance through the Carbon Disclosure Project, CRC Energy Efficiency Scheme CRC and the Carbon Trust Standard.
The CRC scheme is the UK Governments mandatory carbon reporting process, designed to encourage higher consuming businesses to take action to reduce their emissions.
The first phase of this programme comes to an end in 2014 and SIG has notified the Environment Agency that, following the sale of the manufacturing business in 2011, the Group now falls outside of the scope of the scheme.
In 2013 SIGs UK and Ireland businesses re-launched their Switch Off campaign.
Originally launched in 2010, the campaign encourages employees to turn off lights and other electrical appliances when not in use.
Also, as a founder member of the Association for the Conservation of Energy, SIG is active in promoting and encouraging the raising of mandatory standards for thermal insulation.
Carbon emissions p. 43 ROAD RISK POLICY SIG recognises that driving is among the most hazardous tasks performed by its employees across the Group and that its vehicles and drivers represent the Company while they are on the road.
It also recognises the potential impact that driving and vehicle use has on the local and global environment.
The UK business, in partnership with its insurers and brokers, operates a UK Occupational Road Risk Accident Review Panel.
The Panel meets monthly and reviews all serious accidents and incidents.
The aims of the panel are to improve the speed of reporting, the quality of investigation, identify the causes of accidents and take action to reduce the risk of reoccurrence including recommending further training where appropriate.
SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 41 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT CONTINUED ENVIRONMENT CONTINUED EKO PROJECT IN POLAND ROAD RISK POLICY CONTINUED In 2013 the panel focused on reducing the number of vehicle accidents across the Group through the New Focus on Accidents campaign.
There has been on average a 7% reduction in accident numbers over a five year period, with an average annual reduction in cost of 300,000 for the last four years.
The Occupational Road Risk Policy which has been developed within the UK was communicated across the Group as best practice.
This will pave the way for the introduction of the policy across the Group.
The aims of the policy are: e to take the risks associated with the use of vehicles into account during management decision-making processes: e to reduce the frequency and severity of accidents that occur during driving activities: e to reduce the adverse impact that driving and vehicles have on the local In Poland, SIG has developed an EKO project where and global environment: and every employee who receives a company car also e for SIG drivers to be acknowledged by customers, employees and the public receives a tree to plant.
A tree is also planted when as being socially and environmentally responsible in their approach to driving.
This will be achieved by improving the knowledge, developing the attitude and The project raises environmental awareness in its staff influencing the driving behaviour of employees.
and encourages its employees families to become In addition a Group-wide Commercial Vehicle Audit was commissioned and involved.
All trees that are given to staff to plant come commenced in 2013. with the slogan We plant trees which absorb the CO 2 Health and safety that our vehicles produce.
p. 44 TRANSPORT Emissions from road vehicle fuel consumption form the majority of the Groups carbon footprint.
SIG has targeted an absolute reduction in this Scope 1 category and has achieved significant reductions in each of the last three years, with an overall reduction of 8.9% in 2013 compared to the base year of 2010.
This has largely been achieved through the replacement of older commercial vehicles with new and low emission vehicles, and more efficient journey planning.
The Groups plans for growth and increased business will have a significant impact on the absolute consumption of vehicle fuel and the key thrust of the programme in 2014 will be the improved efficiency of road vehicles and better driving behaviours.
The Group maintains its policy to purchase commercial vehicles to the latest European standard and low emissions vehicles to facilitate deliveries into Low Emission zones across Europe.
These vehicles are less fuel efficient, but are designed to reduce harmful emissions from exhaust fumes to minimise the effect on the local environment.
The roll-out of the in-vehicle Telematics system in the UK to c. 1,000 commercial vehicles, along with a training programme for branch and transport managers, was a significant achievement in 2013.
This has enabled managers and drivers to assess opportunities for more efficient driving by reducing heavy braking and acceleration, speeding and engine idling.
SIG is also in the advanced planning stage for the roll-out of Telematics to Poland and France.
The EKO Driving and Eco Driving driver training programmes in SIG Poland and the UK and Ireland respectively continue to provide information and instruction to drivers over and above the training provided at induction.
For the third year running, SIG held its Driver of the Year competition at MIRA in the UK, recognising the best drivers from the UK branches.
The one-day competition SIG plc 42 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Overview Strategic report Directors report Accounts set driving tasks that allowed the competitors to prove their skills, including wet In accordance with the Groups policy of continuous improvement a full Internal handling, wet braking, fuel efficiency and vehicle defect checks.
Qualification to enter Audit of the processes will be completed in the first quarter of 2014 to identify the final was based on a years worth of safe and efficient driving practice supported further opportunities for improvement in the quality of recorded data.
Jed Hazelden of SIG Roofing in Huddersfield was the winner for 2013.
The Group achieved an absolute reduction of 4.8% in Scope 1 and 2 emissions ENERGY combined year on year, with an overall reduction of 9.7% compared to the base year of 2010.
Emissions from electricity consumption equate to 14.4% of the Groups Scope The overall footprint of the business for Scope 1, 2 and 3 improved with a 1 and 2 emissions.
reduction of 4.8% year on year.
The figures represent an overall reduction of Programmes including a partnership with the Carbon Trust to carry out 8.7% in emissions per m of revenue in 2013 compared to 2012 as a result of Energy Audits and develop an Internal Audit programme, along with an the measures taken to reduce road vehicle fuel and energy consumption.
employee awareness programme and the Switch Off campaign, have CO EMISSIONS SCOPE 1 DIRECT 2 enabled the business to achieve an absolute reduction of 8.4% in 2013.
Metric Metric Metric tonnes tonnes tonnes The programme for capital projects, which commenced in 2012, has continued 2013 2012 2011 with a capital investment of almost 600,000 providing annual savings of more 1 Road vehicle fuel emissions 68,560 72,223 73,252 than one million kWh of electricity, 650 tonnes of CO emissions and a payback 2 2 Plant vehicle fuel emissions 4,934 5,369 5,204 period of less than four years.
3 Natural gas 3,372 2,999 3,136 The principal savings have been achieved through the replacement of inefficient 4 Coal coke for heating 52 70 79 5 lighting with low energy systems fitted with both daylight and movement sensors.
Heating fuels kerosene and LPG 1,313 943 410 The Groups first Solar PV installation was completed in 2013 by SIG Energy Total 78,231 81,604 82,081 Management at an SIG Fixings branch in the West Midlands.
The system will Data source and collection methods: provide the site with almost all of its electricity, saving 500 tonnes of CO over 2 1.
Fuel cards and direct purchase records in litres converted according to Defra guidelines.
Direct purchase records in litres converted according to Defra guidelines.
Consumption in kWh converted according to Defra guidelines.
Running alongside the capital projects programme is the continuing business 4.
Purchases in tonnes converted according to Defra guidelines.
need for employees to use electrical equipment more efficiently and the 5.
Purchases in litres converted according to Defra guidelines.
Switch Off campaign saw the provision of sticky labels and notices in corporate colours with energy saving advice.
CO EMISSIONS SCOPE 2 INDIRECT 2 Metric Metric Metric GREENHOUSE GAS GHG EMISSIONS tonnes tonnes tonnes 2013 2012 2011 Providing quality and verifiable data is key to SIGs carbon footprint reporting 1 Electricity 13,142 14,346 14,855 programme.
We have reported on all of the emission sources required under the Large and Medium-Sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Data source and collection methods: Regulations 2008 as amended in August 2013.
Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard revised edition, data CO EMISSIONS SCOPE 3 OTHER INDIRECT 2 gathered to fulfil our requirements under the CRC Energy Efficiency scheme, Metric Metric Metric and emission factors from the UK Governments GHG Conversion Factors for tonnes tonnes tonnes Company Reporting 2014 to calculate our GHG disclosures.
These include 2013 2012 2011 Scope 1 CO emissions, for which businesses are directly responsible, and 2 Third-party provided transport Scope 2 CO emissions, which are indirect emissions from the generation 2 1 air and rail 308 349 449 of electricity.
We have also disclosed Scope 3 CO emissions over which the 2 business has limited control, being third-party air and rail transportation, which Data source and collection methods: fall outside of the scope of the GHG Protocol.
Distance travelled converted according to Defra guidelines.
In collecting this data, SIG has used a period non-coterminous with the Groups EMISSION PER M OF REVENUE financial year, with current year data reflecting the year to 30 September 2013.
Metric Metric Metric This is because much of the data is captured via utilities bills, which tend to be tonnes tonnes tonnes quarterly.
A September period end for carbon reporting therefore allows for 2013 2012 2011 actual data to be used as opposed to estimates in 2013, 93.5% of emissions are Scope 1 28.8 31.2 30.2 based on actual data.
Estimates are prepared on the basis of applying equivalent Scope 2 4.8 5.5 5.5 emission rates to the remainder of the Groups footprint.
Scopes 1 and 2 33.6 36.7 35.7 Scope 3 0.1 0.2 0.2 The comparatives are also twelve month periods, but are based on calendar years.
However the method of collecting data on CO emissions has not Scopes 1, 2 and 3 33.7 36.9 35.9 2 changed year on year: therefore the prior year numbers have been included within this report as the Group feels that they provide meaningful comparison.
The data relating to CO emissions has been collected from all of the 2 The method of collection for each component of CO emissions has been Groups material operations and is based on a combination of actual and 2 disclosed in the footnotes to each table.
estimated results where actual data is not available.
Discontinued operations as at the balance sheet date are not included in the data above.
The processes and procedures used have been audited and assessed by the Carbon Trust Standard and the UK Environment Agency for the CRC Energy Efficiency scheme.
SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 43 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT CONTINUED ENVIRONMENT CONTINUED NON-HAZARDOUS WASTE Absolute tonnes WATER CONSUMPTION 2013 2012 2011 Landfill 4,283 8,743 9,231 The Group uses very little water for commercial processes and its use is almost Incinerated 12 31 completely for welfare purposes at an estimated 99% of the total consumption.
However SIG recognises that potable water is a precious resource and continues Total 4,295 8,743 9,262 to maintain water recycling and reuse for the processes in Southport UK Volume per annum converted to tonnes.
In partnership with Waterscan in the UK, SIG has identified significant OTHER WASTE DIVERTED FROM LANDFILL opportunities for water consumption efficiencies including: improved automatic Absolute tonnes cistern controls, identification and repair of leaks and improved billing processes.
2013 2012 2011 The number of Group companies reporting their water consumption continues WEEE Waste, Electrical and to improve with only Germany and Austria not submitting data in 2013.
Electronic Equipment 5 3 5 Glass 3 3 38 Litres 000 Wood 1,324 2,058 1,372 2013 2012 Metal 977 1,234 1,158 Third-party provided water supply from national Plasterboard 1,258 390 480 network for processes and welfare 107,604 108,201 Paper cardboard 1,024 1,165 932 Plastic 440 762 914 The above data is based on a combination of actual and estimated data.
Other 10,860 8,250 7,306 WASTE MANAGEMENT Total 15,891 13,865 12,205 Volume per annum converted to tonnes.
SIGs key objective remains maximising the percentage of waste diverted from landfill.
The Group is continuing its programme to reduce the amount of waste Absolute tonnes generated, for instance by introducing paperless delivery processes and providing 2013 2012 2011 online activity reports.
Non-hazardous and other waste per Waste management is included in the branch HS&E inspection and Internal Audit m of revenue 7.4 8.7 7.9 process.
Branches provide dedicated waste bins for materials segregation and waste balers where appropriate.
Volume per annum converted to tonnes.
SIG continues to work in partnership with suppliers and manufacturers to The above data is based on a combination of actual and estimated data.
facilitate compliance with their Producer Responsibility Obligations under waste management legislation.
As part of this, branches provide dedicated waste facilities HEALTH AND SAFETY for plasterboard and plaster products, uPVC windows, fibre ceiling tiles and vinyl floor covering material.
SIG continues to maintain an integrated HS&E management system with SIG UKs operation accredited to the BS-OHSAS 18001:2007 Health As a break bulk supplier of products, packaging has the greatest potential and Safety standard for its operations.
The principles of the standard form the for waste production.
SIG continues to comply with its obligations under basis of the Groups approach to health and safety matters across the Group.
the Producer Responsibility Obligations Packaging Waste Regulations and A roll-out programme has commenced to bring new businesses acquired is a member of the Valpak compliance scheme.
in 2013 on to the certification in 2014.
Branches actively minimise waste though the use of second-hand packaging, the A copy of the Groups HS&E Policy, signed by the Chief Executive who is reuse of opened packaging and operating return schemes for pallets and bearers.
the Board member responsible for health and safety, is displayed at each As the measurement of waste generated is notoriously difficult, in order to ensure location in the local language.
that the data is as accurate as possible SIG works with waste management The Groups strategy for managing health and safety is founded on the key recycling companies to provide our best estimate.
The figures for 2013 indicate principles of competent assistance, common written procedures within each an increase in waste diverted from landfill from 62% in 2012 to 79% in 2013. business, risk assessment for hazardous activities and an HS&E inspection process HAZARDOUS WASTE across all locations with written reports detailing any issues and target actions.
Absolute tonnes The Group HS&E Manager is a dedicated resource employed to communicate 2013 2012 2011 and support the implementation of HS&E principles across the Group.
Landfill 13 21 28 With the exception of Benelux, where external advisors are employed Recycled diverted from landfill 139 279 339 when necessary, all other Group businesses have dedicated, qualified HS&E Incinerated 65 72 11 personnel directly employed to provide advice and support to the business and Total 217 372 378 the Group HS&E manager.
This lack of reliance on consultants has improved the internal communication of HS&E incidents and best practice and the facilitated Absolute tonnes introduction of local campaigns.
2013 2012 2011 Hazardous waste per m of revenue 0.08 0.14 0.14 Volume per annum converted to tonnes.
SIG plc 44 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Overview Strategic report Directors report Accounts SIG operates a robust Risk Assessment and Management Review process through which the key health and safety risks have been identified.
The greatest hazards within the business, in terms of the potential for severity, come from Occupational Road Risk Traffic Management and Machining Processes.
With the exception of road risk, manual handling and slips, trips and falls remain the largest cause of accidents in the Group.
In 2013, Traffic Management was a key focus for health and safety audits across the Group, and in France a programme to refresh traffic plans at each branch was implemented, including relining pedestrian and loading zones and providing informative signage and speed limitations.
This initiative continues to reinforce the safety of employees and customers alike.
SIG UK received its third consecutive Silver RoSPA Occupational Health and Safety award in May 2013.
This award recognises our ongoing commitment to Statement from Stuart Mitchell, Group Chief Executive raising the standards of Health and Safety Management across the Group.
issued following the Group Senior Management Conference in February 2014 : The New Focus on Accidents campaign has been a significant step forward The health, safety and wellbeing of our workforce and others we come in the Group HS&E programme, with the introduction of: into contact with are vital to the way SIG operates.
e a Group-wide web-based instantaneous accident reporting database and My vision is to provide a safe, healthy and efficient working communication process.
This has improved communication of accident environment that supports the long-term growth of the business and information and improved the ability of the business to investigate them puts our staffs welfare first.
fully and in a timely manner: I believe that this can be achieved through a knowledgeable, committed e a Group-wide Hazard Alert process for serious accidents, designed to and competent management and support structure that makes health share information about the occurrence, causes and preventative action and safety the primary consideration in the development, growth and associated with accidents: day-to-day operation of SIGs business.
e Accident Review Panels, which meet regularly in each business.
Chaired by Line managers at all levels are crucial to this vision.
They need to engage the operating companys Managing Director, the panels review accidents with all staff on health and safety matters and to challenge any unsafe that have occurred in the business to ensure that they have been practice.
Nobody should just walk by.
investigated and recorded properly, fully and in a timely manner and that I expect all management to deliver the safety message to target actions have been identified and taken to reduce the likelihood of the Zero Harm every day and to work hard so we can make SIG a safe accident recurring: and place that we can all be proud of.
e a formal routine branch inspection process carried out by branch management, line management and Senior Management specifically targeting housekeeping, manual handling and traffic management.
ACCIDENTS AND INCIDENTS Health and safety is high on the agenda for all of the Groups businesses.
UK & IRELAND A dashboard for accident statistics, along with supporting information about serious accidents and incidents, is included in the monthly Board report which Rate per 1,000 employees is reviewed and discussed by the Board at its meetings.
2013 2012 2011 The successful implementation of the above elements across the Group has Major injury 3.6 2.7 2.5 provided the foundation for the next step in the programme.
It is SIGs philosophy Injury resulting in over three absence days from work 11.2 11.2 12.8 that all accidents are avoidable and the aspirational target for the business is for All RIDDORs 13.4 14.1 15.4 Zero Harm every day.
Average UK and Ireland headcount 5,070 5,261 6,111 This will be achieved through the continuation of the SIG Certificate in HS&E Lost work day rate number of Management training programme, designed to ensure that managers know and work days per 100 employees 23.3 29.6 34.0 understand their legal, financial and moral responsibilities for health and safety.
This includes a programme of support through the HS&E competent assistance GROUP and the measurement of KPIs with accountability for those in control.
Rate per 1,000 employees The accident statistics indicate that there has been an increase in the rate of 2013 2012 2011 major injuries as defined in RIDDOR.
The increase is largely due to injuries Major injury 2.8 2.2 2.1 sustained from slips, trips and falls in the severe weather in the early months of Injury resulting in over three 2013 in the UK.
Whilst remaining static in the UK and Ireland, the Groups absence days from work 16.7 17.1 16.1 over three day accident rate has reduced.
Some caution is advised when All RIDDORs equivalent 16.5 17.9 18.3 comparing RIDDOR rates as the data for 2011 and 2012 has not been Average Group headcount 9,806 10,228 11,105 adjusted for the revised over seven day incapacity definition.
This includes accidents in non-UK businesses that would meet the criteria for reporting in the UK under RIDDOR.
SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 45 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT CONTINUED QUALITY ASSURANCE EMPLOYEES AT SIG INSULATION The Groups management systems are maintained to a high standard through LEEDS RAISED A GRAND TOTAL management review and internal auditing.
A supplier audit programme is in place to identify opportunities for continuous improvement.
The programme OF 10,000 IN 2013 is conducted by way of questionnaire and includes questions regarding the health, safety and environmental credentials of the supplier.
Where it is commercially advantageous the quality managements systems are externally certificated to ISO9001:2008 with Sitaco Poland and certificated branches in the UK achieving re-certification in 2013.
COMMUNITY SIG recognises the ethical obligation it holds to the communities in which it operates, both as a local employer and as a FTSE 250 company.
To help support the Groups contribution to the UK communities in which it operates, SIG is a member of Business in the Community.
The Group has worked with Business in the Community for a number of years to help develop its approach and practices.
This is mainly achieved through Over the course of the year employees took part in a charitable donations and other initiatives that help the community.
range of events and activities including sponsorship of head shaving, beard growing, runs and walks.
Funds have been As part of its work with this organisation, SIG has signed up to Business in the Communitys Business Class Programme to partner with a local UK donated to a variety of charities including Leeds Childrens School for a period of three years.
Commencing in 2014, the headteacher Hospital, Cancer Research UK, Dementia and British of the local school will drive the agenda with SIG working closely with the Heart Foundation.
school across several key areas: leadership and governance, enterprise and employability, the curriculum and wider issues.
The Business Class Programme targets secondary schools facing challenging circumstances, prioritising engagement in the most deprived communities in the UK, and will be a long-term approach to ensure that the lives of young people are transformed through their education.
In 2013, SIG Energy Management helped an inner city primary school by recycling materials from an ECO project.
SIG Energy Management in Leeds diverted excess pebbledash from landfill and instead used the leftover materials to help transform the school grounds.
The pebbledash has been used to landscape the outdoor areas and brighten up communal areas in the school which would otherwise have been left as scrubland.
The landscaping means the learning environment is cleaner and requires less maintenance.
SIG Insulations was the main sponsor for the Sheffield Half Marathon event for the sixth year.
In 2013 the Half Marathon raised 105,000 for good causes.
The Group Human Resources Director has responsibility for community issues within the Group and reports to the Chief Executive who is responsible for community issues at Board level.
CHARITABLE DONATIONS During the year the Group made donations of 109,000 2012: 124,000.
It is the Groups policy not to make political donations and no political donations were made in the year 2012: nil.
The Group supports charities and community projects that enhance SIGs engagement in the communities in which it operates, assist in managing the sustainability of the local environment and help to educate young people and assist disadvantaged groups.
In addition, the Groups policy encompasses other charities which its employees particularly wish to support.
SIG plc 46 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Overview Strategic report Directors report Accounts SIG employees have been involved in a wide range of activities and events to raise funds for the charities of their choice in 2013.
These included SIG GRADUATES RAISE OVER trekking up Killimanjaro, 24 hour football matches and walking the 5,000 FOR CHARITY Kennedy March in The Netherlands, as well as sponsored cycle rides, bake sales, summer ftes and quizzes.
A clear example of SIGs employees commitment to helping charities, local or otherwise, is the 10,000 raised by employees at SIG Insulation Leeds.
Over the course of the year employees took part in an array of events and activities to raise funds which have been donated to a variety of charities including Leeds Childrens Hospital, Cancer Research UK, Dementia UK and the British Heart Foundation.
The Group actively encourages its UK employees to help charities through a dedicated intranet forum for employees to highlight their fundraising efforts and receive support from their colleagues as well as the Groups matched funding initiative.
The matched funding initiative, whereby employees are able to apply for a The UK Graduates worked together on a number of donation matching the money raised by them up to 500 or equivalent, projects to raise money for The Childrens Hospital Charity, raised 34,000 in 2013.
A Charities Committee approves applications and including a sponsored hike, a raffle and bake sales.
Over ensures that they are in line with SIGs Charitable Donations Policy.
SIG matched donations from employee applications, to a variety of charities and 5,000 was raised for the Charity and it allows SIG to good causes in 2013, including Leeds Childrens Hospital, Motor Neurone sponsor an Ante Room at the hospital.
Disease Association, Roparun Foundation Netherlands, Comic Relief, Cancer Research UK, Mama Cash Netherlands and African Child Foundation Kenya, The International Graduates also raised over 1,000. among many others.
The funds were split between the Ronald McDonald charity in France and the Aktion Deutschland Hilft in Germany.
The Group also has in place a Payroll Giving Scheme, which is available to all UK employees.
Employees are free to choose any charity of their choice.
Donations of 20,000 were made through the scheme in 2013.
As a result of this, SIG has been awarded a Payroll Giving Quality Mark Silver Award in the UK for commitment to good causes and the local community.
During 2013, SIGs Graduates took part in a CR challenge to raise money for Sheffield Childrens Hospital by completing the three dams challenge, holding donut sales and organising a raffle.
They were successful in raising 5,000 which will be used towards creating an Ante Room at the hospital.
SIG also continued support of the Sheffield Childrens Hospital through replacing Christmas cards with an additional donation to the hospital.
OUR PEOPLE Throughout SIG, regardless of geography, business or function, we believe that we have exceptional people.
This is demonstrated by the levels of experience SIG has throughout the organisation, and in particular through the specialist and technical knowledge of our employees, which we believe gives real differentiation in the market for SIG.
The commitment and professionalism of our people and the dedication of our employees in consistently meeting and exceeding customer demands is key to the success of our business.
SIG has recently launched the new Group Vision, Mission and Values.
Our aim is to be stronger together.
This applies to the customers we serve, in terms of working closely with them to develop complete solutions to their problems.
It applies to our suppliers, partnering more closely with them to better deliver on time and in full.
Stronger together applies to our employees, as we can share best practice and knowledge and better utilise the skills and capabilities across the whole of our business by working more closely together.
It also applies to our shareholders, as by leveraging the strength of the SIG Group and working together as a team, we will be well placed to ultimately deliver better returns.
SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 47 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT CONTINUED OUR PEOPLE CONTINUED means all branches will operate collaboratively across local geographies and this will be promoted by the organisational structure and management style.
The SIG Our new Group Values have been developed through working with our Distribution re-organisation at the beginning of 2014 supports this vision and employees and asking for their views, to ensure that the values reflect the voice further embraces the matrix management concept.
The implementation of our of our people and that they are lived within the organisation.
Trust and respect are new ERP system in 2014 in the UK business has also led to quite extensive training very important to us and came through as being the values which employees felt across the business in the new ways of working.
However, teamwork and commitment were also In Europe during 2013, we continued to further develop our HR support to the identified as key and integrity was seen as critical this aligns with our customer business.
In Germany, we continue to permanently hire trainees upon successful ethos of always delivering on our promises.
Finally, it was felt having fun at work completion of apprenticeship and demonstration of excellence in both theory and was important and we see this reflected in our SIG spirit and the work that SIG practice, which has proved to be a very successful strategy for us.
In Europe generally undertakes for charity and in the community.
we are focused on the concept of professional career development and on SIG is committed to ensuring that all managers and employees know what is improving our capability to train and develop in a more consistent and aligned way.
expected of them in their roles and that performance is measured and managed The Group has continued with English language training to help support throughout the business.
Our Performance Development Review PDR process Group-wide working and proactively develop employees wishing to enhance their continues to help us in this regard, with improved standardisation in 2013 which language capabilities.
This training takes place in the Groups Sheffield Corporate enables clearer identification of Group-wide training and development priorities.
Office and attendees from all parts of the Group have the opportunity to meet DEVELOPING OUR PEOPLE colleagues in the UK business.
Going forward, we are exploring the option of an eLearning solution for English which is currently being tested with our European This review process assists in not only identifying high performance but also high employees and is planned for roll-out in 2014. potential employees, allowing us to provide specific fast track development options The Group has a strong track record of recruiting and investing in graduate talent and project work for this population.
We will continue to refine and further to help meet our future management requirements.
Our graduates have a mix automate this process in 2014. of backgrounds and experience which is relevant to our customer base.
As well SIG relies on the expertise and knowledge of its employees whose specialist skills as being recruited for specific functions, SIG also runs country and international and experience differentiate it in the marketplace.
Competency based training programmes which give graduates exposure across our European businesses and plans continue to form the basis of structured development in our business and allows us to develop cross cultural working and understanding.
During the two year are now rolled out across the UK, with plans to implement in our European programme, graduates attend six development events.
The programme develops businesses in 2014.
This competency framework has allowed us to improve the self-awareness, commercial acumen and personal impact in order to help the training that we offer to employees and ensure that it is up to date and relevant graduates significantly increase their effectiveness and value to the business.
We are developing our eLearning proposition to allow us to roll The graduates also complete a business challenge and take part in a CR project, this out more widely and cost effectively in 2014.
The Groups Coaching where they give something back to the community.
and Mentoring Programme, which was established in 2011, continues to develop Our Apprenticeship Programme, which was launched in September 2012, and will form a key part of our Talent and Development Strategy going forward continues to help us attract talented individuals to the organisation, as well in 2014.
An integrated approach to the identification of training needs and the as supporting people looking to gain qualifications and work experience.
development of talent is core to our People Development Strategy.
2013 saw the launch of our Apprenticeship Development Programme, Our Executive Development Programme with Sheffield Hallam University has bringing our apprentices together and building on key skills to support their been further developed in 2013.
This programme has six levels, ranging from career development.
The programme runs in our UK business and has been our three day entry level Management Development Programme MDP1 very well received with 16 apprentices now employed in various roles across up to our MDP VI, which leads to a BA Honours Degree in Professional our Head Office and branches.
We are looking to recruit upwards of five Business Practice.
All the programmes cover business planning and strategy additional positions in the course of 2014.
Along with our Graduate and and leadership, and combine theoretical concepts and practical exercises.
Placement Programme, the Apprenticeship Programme will help us to This programme has led to good interaction and cross-fertilisation of ideas develop a strong pipeline of future talent and is a key element of our Talent across all geographies and parts of our business, and is attended by a variety Strategy for 2014. of nationalities who benefit from exposure to their fellow team members.
SIG are now Gold Sponsors of Enactus, which is a community of student, In support of Stronger together, this programme helps connect people academic and business leaders developing outreach projects to improve and leads to a joined up approach to problem solving and innovation.
quality of life and standard of living of people across the globe.
In 2013, SIG Much of our development activity is organised locally on a business or country was involved in the judging process for the Enactus national competition, basis, depending on local priorities and needs.
In our UK business, SIG Distribution as well as attending a couple of training events for the Enactus students has taken a very customer focused approach by carrying out a customer survey in and taking part in careers fairs.
This year we will continue to build on this 2013 where customer service was a key issue.
Much of the sales training was then relationship and plan to link some business advisors with local universities focused around this.
In 2013, the SIG Roofing and Roofline business further to support their project development.
developed its Expert Workforce philosophy and focused on further developing its Strong Team Ethos.
The measurement of an Expert Workforce is determined by having 90% skills achievement, less than 10% poor performers, 20% able to progress to the next level and less than 10% staff turnover.
Strong Team Ethos SIG plc 48 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Overview Strategic report Directors report Accounts EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES voting and questions from the audience, which proved to be a great success.
Chief Executive led roadshows are held following the Senior Management SIGs policy is to provide equal opportunities to all existing and prospective Conference, to ensure that the message is disseminated throughout the employees.
The Group recognises that its reputation is dependent upon fair and business and use of videos and supporting material means that this equitable treatment of all its employees and specifically to prohibit discrimination communication is clear and consistent.
on the grounds of race, religion, gender, disability, sexual orientation, age, In addition to the Senior Management Conference, each business within SIG nationality or ethnic origin.
Employment opportunities are equally available to all.
holds its own conference annually, to set priorities for the year ahead and The Group values diversity of thinking and sees this as critical going forward communicate key imperatives.
in generating new ideas and innovative solutions for our customers.
RECOGNISING OUTSTANDING PERFORMANCE Employment opportunities are available to disabled persons in accordance with their abilities and aptitudes on equal terms with other employees.
If an We believe that recognition of success and excellent performance is key employee becomes disabled during employment, the Group makes every effort and continue to recognise this through our New Manager of the Year Award and to enable them to continue in employment by making reasonable adjustments our Emerging Manager of the Year Award programmes which are run biennially, in the workplace and with retraining for alternative work where necessary.
with the next awards being in 2014.
On an annual basis, we run awards for the EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT Business of the Year, Branch of the Year and Manager of the Year, with challenging criteria around both business and personal performance.
In addition, there is the The HR Director has responsibility for the Groups People and HR Strategy, Chief Executives Award for Excellence to recognise one individual who embodies which is designed to support the business strategy.
The HR Director reports the SIG values, has shown consistently excellent personal performance and had a directly to the Chief Executive, who is responsible for HR issues at Board level.
transformational effect on their business or function.
The winners of these awards are announced at the Senior Management Conference and give us a unique SIG is launching its first Group-wide Employee Engagement survey opportunity to recognise the great efforts of our people.
Through the survey, we are hoping to drive employee engagement, with a focus on excellence in customer service and business GENDER DIVERSITY delivery, to provide a clear link between customer and employer brand values and behaviours.
At 31 December 2013, across the total workforce, 1,959 21% of all employees are female.
One Board member 14% and ten senior managers 11% are The survey will give us a mechanism for employees to provide feedback female.
We continue to work towards improving our workforce diversity.
Most importantly, it will provide base line measures and benchmarks with respect to employee engagement and the EMPLOYEE BENEFITS employee journey across the SIG Group internationally.
SIGs policy with respect to salaries is to adopt a consistent approach, whilst As a result of the survey, we will determine targeted actions and priorities at the same time taking into account local practices and benchmarking data.
focused on improving the work environment, employee engagement and In respect of bonuses, schemes have been designed to reward exceptional thereby our customer service over time.
The survey will also be helpful in performance.
Senior leaders within the business are party to a bonus scheme, identifying leadership and management development requirements specifically as are leaders within the local operating business across the Group.
In all relating to mindset and behavioural development to drive an engaged workforce.
cases the underlying feature for an award is the level of improvement and We are committed to running a regular survey cycle process driving up achievement attained.
participation and our Employee Engagement Index in 2014 and beyond.
Employees are encouraged to become shareholders in the Company.
SIG sees two-way communication with employees as paramount and is The Share Incentive Plan SIP was introduced in 2005 and gives one continually looking to improve in this regard.
The organisation, keeps employees matching share for each share purchased by the employee up to a maximum informed through our Group-wide newsletter, Communiqu, as well as of four matching shares per month.
As at 31 December 2013, there were business specific publications and newsletters to keep employees up to date.
957 employees participating in the SIP.
In many of the countries in which we operate, we utilise the SIG intranet to The Group operates a number of employee pension schemes across its communicate, which we have recently spent time improving and refreshing.
In the UK, SIG operates a Group personal pension scheme which This is an ongoing process, with the aim of having global and local content is open to all employees.
In line with UK pension auto-enrolment, SIG started on all our intranet sites and ultimately providing an interactive forum for our a scheme with Peoples Pensions, B&CE on 1 June 2013.
Both the intranet and newsletters will help to communicate currently has 2,695 members.
operational changes, share knowledge and best practice, update on business performance and highlight success stories throughout the Group.
SIG holds an annual Senior Management Conference every February, to review the previous year and communicate the Groups aspirations and goals, both long-term and short-term.
This conference provides the forum to update our leaders on our progress against key strategic initiatives and financial objectives, and discuss how we can better collaborate and work together.
This year, we saw increased use of technology in real time key pad SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 49
