D irectors report | Governance | Corporate responsibility 40 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Associated British Foods is both diversified and decentralised.
We are successful because we trust the people who run our businesses...
The centre engages enthusiastically and deeply with leaders across our portfolio of businesses, but it doesnt dictate what operating companies agendas or methods should be.
The same is true of our CR agenda... Just as the centre engages with our businesses on their commercial progress, so we also engage with our businesses on the progress of their CR work.
We firmly believe this is the best way to be effective in taking our social responsibility seriously.
George Weston, Chief Executive abf.
co. uk responsibility Our corporate responsibility activities are guided by four business ENCOURAGING ETHICAL principles, outlined below.
Please refer to our corporate responsibility BUSINESS: DOWNLOAD OUR report to learn more about how CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY individual businesses have chosen REPORT 2013 TODAY to respond tothem.
Responsible stewardship of ourenvironment We have an obligation to our wider environment which we must protect as a common resource for future generations.
We acknowledge that we create a footprint wherever we operate.
Sometimes it is deep The following pages detail just a yoUnG GIRLS qUeUe FoR THeIR DonaTeD SUppLemenTS oF IRon anD FoLIC aCID TabLeTS, We recognise also that some raw aS paRT oF THe TWInInGS joInT InITIaTIVe WITH UnICeF To HeLp aDoLeSCenT GIRLS In aSSam, InDIa, WHeRe THe majoRITy aRe anaemIC DUe few of our achievements relating to To pooR DIeT.
FInD oUT moRe ReSponSIbLe on paGe 69. materials are produced in an FoR pRomoTInG corporate responsibility.
Please refer GooD HeaLTH unacceptable manner.
We will We must use science to inform us of the effect of a particular food type on the human body.
We will label our products to the website for more highlights, properly and market them appropriately to customers.
work with others to avoid using George Weston Chief Executive, Associated British Foods plc We provide affordable and nutritious food and ingredients as well as further details of our to millions of people around the world, and recognise we thesematerials.
have a part to play in helping people to lead healthy lives.
Consumer confidence in the quality and safety of our food products is essential, and this is a top priority for all accomplishments and case studies.
We are committed to giving our consumers the necessary information to allow them to make informed decisions about the type and quantity of food they want to eat.
George Weston, Chief Executive Our latest corporate responsibility Sugar p36 Agriculture p47 Grocery p70 Ingredients p79 LookInG aHeaD: OUR PRIORITIES report is available online at 1.
We will act responsibly We will support All our food will be of the highest quality in how we market to children organisations that encourage people to eat balanced diets and avoid overconsumption www.
51% 48 Associated British Foods plc Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 abf.
co. uk 49 proportion of energy obtained from renewable Retail intRoduction Retail sources in 2013 Our number one priority is, and immediate needs of those reducing poverty rates in the As one of the largest clothing retailers in Europe, and with 2013 has been a tragic year.
The collapse of the Rana always has been, the safety of affected by the incident with country over the last 20 years.
Plaza building in Savar, the 43,000 staff we employ directly food and financial assistance We have made a commitment an international supply chain, Primark recognises both the Dhaka, Bangladesh, claimed and the 700,000 who are employed and we promised compensation to Bangladesh and intend to work by our suppliers in the production for the families of victims and for with other stakeholders to ensure importance and necessity of being a responsible business.
at least 1,127 lives and of our clothing across three injured workers.
To address the that working conditions are safe.
The Savar tragedy root cause of the incident, we By doing so, we can be a force for everyone at Primark as well underlines and affirms that this became a signatory to the good.
For a full exploration of our Our top priority is to improve the working conditions of the must remain our top priority and Accord on Fire and Building response to the tragedy, please as many others around the that we must go even further to Safety, designed to ensure see page 52. people who work for our suppliers and our efforts have been world.
Our enduring thoughts remain with the enable change in the Bangladeshi improved and assured building Primark is one of Europes largest garment industry.
We also clothing retailers and, in order Our operations have an impact on the redoubled in response to the Rana Plaza tragedy.
families of those who lost We have tried to respond to instigated an interim programme to put our principles into action their lives in thetragedy.
of structural assessments on the tragedy in a manner that factories producing for us in across the world, we rely on many is consistent with the way Bangladesh, which led in June partners including NGOs, trade We also take care to use natural resources efficiently and to we conduct all our business 2013 to the termination of our unions and other stakeholders responsibly and ethically.
As contract with a supplier that we to advise and support us as we build relationships in the communities in which we operate.
a business that takes care of deemed to be operating in an strive to bring mutual benefits its people and recognises its unsafeenvironment.
to all those who work with and legal and moral obligations, alongside us.
We would like our response was guided by our There are some who say that to thank all our partners for the ethical principles and we acted retailers should not source from role they have played over many environment and we are committed to immediately.
Our first action Bangladesh but we do not agree, years in helping us to support was to acknowledge publicly that and neither do international and our workers, protect the Key facts and figuRes Primark did source products from local labour groups who know that environment and promote 18,596 4,818 Total no.
of employees 46,802 one of the factories in Rana Plaza.
jobs in garment manufacturing ethical businesspractices.
We moved quickly to meet the have played an important role in hours of training provided the number of supplier Employee type 8,145 full time to suppliers on Primarks audits conducted by Primark 38,611 part time expected standards between 2010 2012 46 seasonal contractors No.
of women in workforce 35,917 making this a positive impact wherever No.
of women in 50 management roles 85% 8,660 proportion of store waste number of people helped that is recycled by the Primark-supported HERproject possible, and to protecting the resources Primark recognises its We were shocked and Primark wants to be obligation to consider deeply saddened by the welcome to do business carefully its use of natural tragedy of the Rana Plaza anywhere in the world.
We are taking building collapse.
On the This means we need to we need to deliver sustainable business steps to reduce our impact following pages, we explain be a good neighbour to the on the environment, both the facts and describe communities located near in our store operations Primarks response.
our stores, and in the towns and in our supply chain, and countries where our from factory to farm level.
The environmental performance Right Read more on p50 Read more on p52 Read more on p57 People queue for food parcels distributed by Primark following the collapse of the Rana Plaza.
of each segment of the business is regularly reviewed by the board.
50 Associated British Foods plc Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 abf.
co. uk 51 Retail Retail ResPonsiBle steWaRdsHiP of ouR enViRonMent Since 2010, we have invested over 182m Primark recognises its In-store energy Store waste recycling provides opportunities to share Sustainable cotton garment back to the farm on which obligation to consider In 2010 Primark, in conjunction Of the waste from our UK stores stoRe Waste Recycling international and national best Cotton is one of the key fibres the cotton was grown.
In addition with the Carbon Trust, formed including cardboard, hangers and practices from the textile and used in Primarks clothing.
Unlike to ensuring traceability, the tool in aPRil 2013, carefully its use of natural an internal Carbon Strategy Group plastic, 85% is recycled through our dyeing sector with participating many commodity crops, cotton can also alert companies to risks PRiMaRK enteRed in environmental improvement activities.
We are taking We estimate that in 2013 14 suppliers and buying teams.
embedded at critical points in into a PaRtneRsHiP WitH steps to reduce our impact which prepared a carbon strategy centralised facility at Thrapston.
we will have: is predominantly grown in the the supply chain.
In 2012 13, on the environment, both in for the UK and Ireland.
This This recycling plant uses a closed These improvements include developing world, often in areas we carried out a third traceability cottonconnect to strategic roadmap included: loop system whereby the waste better control over, and reduction where knowledge of agricultural iMPleMent sustainaBle our store operations and in establishing Primarks carbon from one process or product is of, ground water consumption, best practice is limited.
study utilising the FLA tool cotton PRogRaMMes in our supply chain, from footprint: mapping likely future used in making another product: enhanced waste water treatment, for a garment manufactured factory to farm level.
energy costs: and identifying the it is a truly sustainable way of Primark does not purchase raw in Bangladesh and will continue BotH noRtH cHina and key activities for reducing in-store doingbusiness.
improved energy efficiency, cotton directly, but we do have to work with the FLA on specific noRtH india oVeR tHe energy use.
2010 also saw the significant operational cost a responsibility to work with supply chains in the future.
opening of our first model Green We estimate that in 2013 14 savings, improved quality control, farmers and organisations to we will have: and capacity building for workers support programmes that aim Store in East Ham.
to grow cotton more sustainably Supporting cotton was designed to reduce CO2 recycled 23 million hangers: recycled and improve the livelihoods farmers emissions by up to 40% compared recycled 14,000 tonnes of These longer-term programmes of those who depend upon it.
In April 2013, Primark entered into with a standard store, and cardboard to make the paper follow the completion, in 2012, a partnership with CottonConnect incorporates features such as carrier bags we use in store: 23,000,000 of successful pilot studies with Our sustainable cotton to implement sustainable cotton rainwater harvesting, low energy saved 238,000 trees: and a number of key suppliers in China programme enables us to work In 2013, our absolute use of energy was lighting, free cooling, efficient cut 21,576 lorry trips to our hangers and Bangladesh, to understand with cotton farmers in key programmes in both north China chillers, natural daylight, natural thoroughly the principal challenges and north India over the next ventilation, sustainable timber, stores, reducing road use by related to current processing growing countries to improve their threeyears.
160,525 miles and saving techniques, and design practical agricultural practices, specifically cycle racks and a wildlife habitat.
around the use of pesticides and Working directly with smallholder In 2011, trials were conducted solutions with both commercial water management, to improve cotton farmers as well as cotton across a number of Primark stores We are currently evaluating and environmental benefits.
working conditions and, farm workers on larger farms, whether the recycling plant ultimately, the livelihoods the aim of these programmes in the UK and Ireland to establish at Thrapston can be replicated In summing up the Bangladesh of farmers and theirfamilies.
is to improve the livelihoods the potential for energy savings for our stores in Ireland and pilot, M Hafizur Rahman, Executive of smallholders, workers and through technology and behavioural in Spain, which demonstrates Director of a participating Primark their families through expert 23,316 GWh compared with 22,727 GWh change.
Lighting controls have an actual reduction in energy supplier, said, The Cleaner Traceability of cotton support and training on since been introduced into all use relative tosales.
recycled Production pilot was undertaken supply chains sustainable agricultural stores and energy-efficient lighting and conducted in our factory with is now being rolled out across the a view to improving awareness Being able to trace the source practices.
We have also installed Cleaner Production 14,000 amongst all concerned, and to of cotton and identify its country lead to increased yields, reduced infrared sensors in staff areas so Textile factories with dyeing ensure economic and appropriate of origin is a key issue for all input costs, and the production and printing operations use large tonnes of cardboard consumption of water and energy retailers, if we are to have full of more environmentally that lighting and air conditioning amounts of chemicals, energy to make the paper carrier visibility of our supply chain.
The CottonConnect only function when rooms are in bags we use in store through close communication, training programme encompasses use.
All stores now operate a closed and water to wash fibres and to motivation and training.
The project In 2011, we began working with environmental, social and front door policy to minimise dye and wash finished products.
was found to be very fruitful and AB Sustain, a sister company economic initiatives, including in 2012, a 2.6% increase.
Overall, this is energy loss and delivery doors Looking at the whole life cycle helped the company to minimise within the Associated British water efficiency and irrigation are closed when not inuse.
of a garment, approximately 15% its system loss in power and energy Foods group, which has extensive of the water footprint of a single consumption.
The programme experience in tracing products practices, the management In 2012, further trials were item of clothing comes from the also guided us in selecting back from retailers through and reduced use of pesticides, introduced to reduce the energy manufacturing process itself and machines and equipment which agricultural supply chains.
soil management, health and used at night when stores are approximately 20% of the energy pose minimum threat to Through this partnership, we safety, and improvement not in operation.
Ten sites in used across a garments life cycle in labour conditions.
the UK and 14 sites in Ireland theenvironment.
are developing an in-house were included in the pilot and is linked to production.
In China, two knitting factories methodology and innovative tools so far they have shown an annual To address this, Primark is saved with in-house dyeing and washing to trace the cotton used in our participating in the International garments and to identify the a minor increase in the use of energy combined saving of 4.73 million facilities located along the Yangtze country in which the cotton was kWh with some stores achieving Finance Corporation IFC China 238,000 River were selected to participate grown.
A pilot programme will a reduction of 66%.
Today 80% Water programme and the in the Cleaner Production pilot.
be launched in 2014 in order to of our stores use Building Energy Partnership for Cleaner Textile trees Primark partnered with Solidaridad test the tools and assess their Management systems to control PaCT programme in Bangladesh.
to implement the pilot programme.
long-term viability for use in the energy consumption in stores Through our partnerships with the Improvement plans are now being by monitoring lighting and IFC and Dutch NGO Solidaridad, implemented at both factories, textile supply chain.
As a further we are enabling our suppliers to covering insulation of dyeing Primark has also partnered with indication of Primarks make significant environmental vessels, pipes and valves: detection the Fair Labour Association FLA improvements in relation to their commitments to reduce its energy of compressed air leakages: to pilot its cotton traceability tool considering the growth in our business, consumption, we were awarded washing, dyeing and finishing reduced road use by energy-efficient steam traps and on two of our supply chains the Carbon Trust Standard in operations, known within the water cooling systems: and the in India.
Its Product Tracking 2013, which demonstrates an sector as wet processes.
treatment and reuse of processing Tool and methodology aims to actual reduction in energy use water in conjunction with be a proactive risk identification relative to sales growth.
As well as improving factory 160,525 continuing capacity building and management tool.
It features energy and water consumption miles and quality control training an online resource designed and its waste management forworkers.
to aid companies and suppliers systems, the programme also in tracing the origins of a cotton which demonstrates the positive impact of the investments we have made in energy efficiency.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2013 D irectors report | Governance | Corporate responsibility 41 Agriculture: measuring the value and we have an obligation to foster Total consumption of energy ofnature good operating standards.
When In GWh, split by renewable and It is well known that the protection of things go wrong, most awfully non-renewable energy biodiversity, while complex to value and at Rana Plaza, we also have an quantify accurately, is essential for future obligation to contribute to tackling Non-renewable energy wellbeing and economic development.
Renewable energy To address this key issue, AB Sustain George Weston, Chief Executive 12,944 has developed Think.
Endorsed 11,151 11,864 10,805 11,726 by Natural England, this unique model enables the valuation of natural capital at farm level.
Farms are benchmarked and 450,000 provided with advice on how to increase annual number of patient visits to our free staff medical facilities in Africa natural capital without negatively 12,985 12,614 11,922 11,452 10,552 affecting productivity.
Being a responsible and ethical business Grocery: zero waste sites means doing everything we can to make Reducing waste to landfill is good for the sure the people who work for us or our environment, and good for the bottom 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 suppliers are safe, treated fairly and line too.
Our Jordans and Ryvita Company shown respect.
First and foremost, site and the Twinings Andover factory are we ensure our employees, contractors For a number of years, the proportion both zero waste to landfill sites.
Westmill and visitors to our factories, stores, of our energy use that has been from Foods and AB World Foods are following warehouses and offices are safe and renewable sources has been just under suit to ensure their sites meet this do not harm others.
half our total energy use.
This year 51% standard by 2015. of our total energy use has been from As such, we deeply regret a total of six renewable sources.
Being responsible for our people employee and contractor fatalities in Africa, China and South America in 2013.
What does it mean to us to be a In 2013, the volume of water which In each case, we have undertaken an good employer?
At one level it entered our premises, excluding water investigation and implemented measures means providing a safe working for irrigation and water for our Illovo to minimise the likelihood of such 3 environment as we have to do as business, was 42 million m. In addition, incidents recurring.
a matter of law, but we go beyond Illovos water usage in manufacturing that and we continue to be diligent was in the range of 30 million to The prevention of all deaths and serious 3 in reducing the injuries sustained by 36 million m. accidents is an absolute priority throughout our workforce, often in challenging the whole of the Associated British Foods The quantity of packaging used for our environments group and we are always seeking ways products in 2013 was 238,000 tonnes, to prevent them.
We also work with our We have an obligation to people down 3% from 2012. suppliers to encourage the same attitude who work for our suppliers, There has been a concerted effort to to health and safety in their operations.
particularly where other sources divert the amount of waste we send to of protection for them are absent landfill.
This year over two-thirds of our or only marginally effective.
This waste has been recycled or recovered is particularly true in Primarks for beneficial use.
sourcing of clothes, but it is also true in Twinings tea supply chain and in the sourcing of spices.
We have an obligation to work to prevent abuse and reduce risk wherever we can Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2013 D irectors report | Governance | Corporate responsibility 42 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED Every business in the Associated British to grow.
2012 13 was a record year, with Being a responsible neighbour Foods group has applied our Supplier the Foundation donating over 49m We have operations in over 200 Code of Conduct which is designed to benefiting around 1,500 charities.
Some are in ensure that our suppliers, representatives The Foundation holds a majority stake prosperous communities, some are and other people with whom we deal 79.2% in a privately owned holding in locations that are very vulnerable.
adhere to our values and standards.
As company, Wittington Investments Our management teams in each well as being compliant with all local Limited.
Wittington has a diverse location must decide what we must laws, we expect our suppliers and portfolio of investments, its largest being do to be welcomed wherever we representatives to comply with the 54.5% of the shares of Associated British are and to contribute to the local Codes 14 principles and to develop Foods plc.
The fact that donations have community wherever relationships with their own supply grown is a direct result of the success of we operate.
chains that are consistent with it.
the underlying investments such as George Weston, Chief Executive Retail: the power of partnerships Associated British Foods.
Primark believes that collaboration with Ingredients: Scholarship programmes other stakeholders is key to finding in South America sustainable and effective solutions to 136m AB Mauri recognises the value of offering the challenges faced by the garment donations made by the Garfield Weston education and work experience to help industry.
Since 2008, Primark has been Foundation in the last three years people into employment in its sites.
In a member of the Ethical Trading Initiative Columbia and Ecuador, it is working with ETI, an alliance of companies, trade We recognise our responsibility to the partners to develop local skills in baking unions and voluntary organisations that places in which we operate and encourage and industry.
In Uruguay, it offers four work together to improve the lives of our businesses to engage positively with internships a year and, already, three workers who make or produce consumer their local communities.
Our businesses former interns are now permanently goods.
Primark was pleased to be awarded engage with their neighbours in a variety employed with it.
In Mexico, it has a leader status by the ETI in June 2011 of ways, big and small, whether it is scholarship agreement with a university and again in June 2012.
This is the raising money for local good causes or in Veracruz offering final year students highest possible status and reflects working in partnership with global NGOs the chance to develop practical skills and, continued strong growth in auditing, to improve livingstandards.
typically, has six students engaged in remediation and training programmes, projects at its sites at any one time.
At a group level, we are committed and extensive external engagement.
to the support of local communities in Agri: supporting education in Ghana Sugar: looking after the health of the UK, where we are headquartered.
To help meet a growing need for workers in Africa This support is offered through the schooling in Ghana, AB Agri began We recognise that living standards and Garfield Weston Foundation and supporting the Shine Education Centre in working conditions in Africa can vary demonstrates what being a responsible Accra in 2006.
Since then, the company and sometimes fall below acceptable neighbour means in practice.
has provided books and computers as standards.
As farm labourers make up well as child development games and The Garfield Weston Foundation was set a significant proportion of Illovo Sugars teaching aids for pre-school.
It has up in 1958 by the creator of Associated workforce in Africa, the business has provided logistical support by combining British Foods, the late W Garfield Weston.
taken responsibility for creating a shipments of AB Agri products from the It is one of the UKs foremost philanthropic comprehensive welfare system to make UK with donations.
The centre is now organisations and donates money to sure its employees and their dependants one of the highest achieving schools in charitable causes across theUK.
are housed and healthy, and have access Ghana, and the student numbers have to education.
For instance, Illovo Sugar Each year the Foundation distributes swelled from 18 to 277. spends over 4m each year on running the income it receives.
Since it began, four hospitals and 24 health clinics, and the Foundation has donated more than providing medical insurance schemes.
735m and donations have continued Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2013 D irectors report | Governance | Corporate responsibility 43 We acknowledge, however, that we cannot fix every problem that exists around us, and that we cannot achieve anything alone.
We acknowledge that our agenda and priorities will not always coincide with those of others who also think and care deeply about social and environmental issues.
We will always respect other peoples agenda and try to learn from them, but we will have confidence in our own, always remembering that in feeding and clothing millions of people we do good every day.
George Weston, Chief Executive Responsible for promoting At the beginning of 2012, following goodhealth extensive technical and trials work, 165,000 Allied Bakeries achieved the salt targets donated by ACH Foods to Share Our I also believe that our principal value Strengths No Kid Hungry campaign, which set out within the Public Health to society lies in what we do every provides school breakfast and summer meals, Responsibility Deal, a reduction day: providing people with access and teaches low-income families to cook of around 20% since 2007. to good quality, affordable food and clothing.
People benefit Sugar: nutrition education Taking responsibility for promoting immensely when the real cost of AB Sugar works with a number of good health is a principle we put into their food comes down: and we are scientific bodies around the world to action every day through our products all liberated when we know that continue to understand and improve and businesses.
Our first priority is to food will be safe and plentiful the scientific basis of nutrition and the ensure consumers are empowered to constituents of a healthy, balanced diet.
We must also use science to improve make choices which are right for their In the UK, British Sugar has worked with productivity and to inform us of the lives, so we clearly label all our grocery the British Nutrition Foundation to effect of a particular food type on products with nutritional information.
develop a range of educational resources the human body.
We will label our for secondary schools covering areas We are also reformulating our products products properly and market them such as sugar production and processing.
to improve the nutritional value and appropriately to customers and we Illovo Sugar supports the South African reduce salt content.
constantly strive to improve food Sugar Association which has developed safety.
When we do all this well, Through partnerships in the UK, Australia, science-based nutritional information in then we are a powerful force Spain and South Africa, we are helping the area of sugar and health within the forgood.
to educate people about nutrition and medical community.
In particular, in the UK, our Sugar George Weston, Chief Executive the Spanish Sugar Institute, and during and Grocery divisions collaborate with the last two years has focused on We provide affordable and nutritious the government on helping to improve educating a range of stakeholders, food and ingredients to millions of people the health of British consumers.
predominantly schools, universities around the world, and recognise we have and housewives.
Grocery: product reformulation a part to play in helping people to lead In 2011, all the businesses within healthy lives.
Associated British Foods UK Grocery There is a challenge at the heart of the To read the full corporate responsibility group agreed to support the principles global food system, with most countries report, please visit our website at: set out within the UK governments www.
co. uk responsibility experiencing both increasing levels of Public Health Responsibility Deal.
obesity and a proportion of the population The businesses pledged to reduce salt that remains malnourished.
As a business content, remove artificial trans fats from that provides the raw ingredients and all products and improve catering and finished products that help to feed the occupational health standards within world, we have a role to play in combating Head Office and manufacturing facilities.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2013
