SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2013 34 GROUP STRATEGIC REPORT Sustainability Our sustainability strategy supports our five Strategic Priorities Smith & Nephew promotes sustainability to our stakeholders Sustainability strategy and targets through addressing economic, social and environmental Progress towards the 2015 targets has been indexed to the baseline year 2011. considerations.
In turn, our sustainability strategy is aligned with the strategic priorities.
Target by 2015 Reduce non-renewable energy use by 15% 1 ESTABLISHED MARKETS Energy consumption is decreasing but not in line with Making best environmental choices and manufacturing and -0.6% expectations.
This is largely in uenced by higher energy use in supply chain ef ciencies all contribute to reducing our cost China as we scale up for expansion.
The increased production base, facilitating access to our products and helping our levels at our Suzhou, China plant have given rise to an customers meet their sustainability ambitions.
underlying increase in Group energy usage of 2.6%.
2 EMERGING & INTERNATIONALMARKETS Reduce CO emissions by 15% 2 CO emissions re ect different carbon footprints of energy Cost base reductions facilitate wider access to our products.
2 0.8% production in different geographic locations.
Increasing Speci cally our focus on mid-tier products isaimed at production capacity at the Suzhou plant has contributed to supporting fundamental and affordable healthcare in the anunderlying increase in the carbon emissions of 3.6%.
Thecarbon footprint in China is roughly twice that of the UK.
3 INNOVATE FOR VALUE Reduce water useby 15% Building sustainability into our New Product Development Water usage continues to rise as new facilities are 11.9% processes, including reducing packaging and waste, helps commissioned and we make operational choices based on best environmental options.
For example, as we have expanded at us innovate to meet our customers expectations, deliver Suzhou we have chosen to use a cooling system based on mutual value and optimise patient care.
evaporation to reduce energy consumption.
4 SIMPLIFY AND IMPROVE Water consumption at Memphis and Suzhou account for 84% of 7.6% OUR OPERATING MODEL our total water usage and when excluded the increase was 7.6%.
Incorporating sustainability into our business processes Reduce packaging materials by 15% andoptimising our facilities and supply chain to reduce We are evaluating all the options for reducing packaging whilst ourresource consumption and environmental impact maintaining product safety and protection.
This is a challenging helpmeetthe expectations ofour customers and society.
area and details and examples of projects will be available in our Protecting our employees through the implementation of Sustainability Report.
globalHSE standards and responsible behaviours is not onlyright but also adds value to our business.
Reduce total wasteby 15% In 2013, there were two exceptional waste sources that 15.1% 5 SUPPLEMENT ORGANIC GROWTH contributed to the increase in total waste generated by the business.
Speci cally these were from the validation of WITH ACQUISITIONS manufacturing start-up in China and the disposal of obsolete Our due diligence approach includes sustainability stock in the US.
We continue to focus on waste reduction at considerations, our global policies and standards to ensure source and recycling opportunities.
we protect the integrity and reputation of our business.
The land ll component of our total waste was reduced by 21.7%.
Speci cally our acquisition of Sushrut-Adler in India is aimed -21.7% at providing fundamental and affordable healthcare into the Increase % oftotalwaste recycledby 15% emerging markets.
Recycling of wastes continues to rise as more opportunities 21.2% areexploited.
We are now reporting separately the waste that Excludes waste isdiverted for energy recovery.
to energy GROUP STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER INFORMATION SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2013 GROUP STRATEGIC REPORT 35 During the year, we have continued to make progress in Safety performance reducing our energy consumption at many of our operational Safety Reporting 2013 2012 2011 facilities.
CO emissions have not reduced in line with energy 2 due to the different carbon footprints of energy production in OSHA recordable incidents per different geographic locations, particularly China.
200,000hrs worked TIR 1.11 1.09 1.16 2013 2012 2011 Lost time incidents per 200,000hrs worked LTIFR 0.48 0.51 0.58 Global GHG emissions data for current reporting year Number of lost time incidents and comparisons arising from manufacturing CO2e emissions tonnes from: facilities 25 37 42 Combustion of fuel and operation There were no fatalities.
Lost time injuries in our manufacturing of facilities processand fugitive 10,102 10,922 10,894 facilities decreased by 32% over the previous year.
However, Purchased electricity, heat the number of injuries in our non-manufacturing and supply andsteam 66,659 64,991 65,241 chain operations increased mainly due to car accidents.
Improving driving safety is a particular priority in 2014.
We Total 76,761 75,913 76,135 aremaking signi cant progress with the deployment of Intensity Ratio riskbasedcontrol processes and our new HSE Integrated Emissions total normalised to: Management System.
CO e t per $m revenue i 18.9 18.3 17.8 2 CO e t per full-time employee ii 7.3 7.2 7.1 2 Greenhouse gases Notes Methodology, materiality and scope 2013 data adjusted to exclude Healthpoint.
We are reporting on the emission sources required under the ii Full-time employee data: 2013: 10,520, 2012: 10,477, 2011: 10,743.
Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Report Regulations 2013.
These sources fall within our consolidated Support for community financial statement.
We have used the Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard In 2013, Smith & Nephews support for community charitable Revised Edition as guidance for this process.
causes, grants, sponsorships and third party medical education was $10m.
The focus of our data collection has been on the areas of the business that have the most in uence on our environmental impacts and provide stakeholders with a level of detail that enables them to monitor emissions data, sustainability management and trends.
Wherever possible, primary datafrom energy suppliers has been used.
For more information on sustainability see our The largest proportion of our environmental impacts is from websitewww.
com sustainability manufacturing, warehousing and research.
Sales locations are included however some smaller, leased or shared of ces are Our 2013 Sustainability Report will be published not reported.
We estimate that these exclusions represent less inspring 2014. than 2% of our overall emissions.
The Biotherapeutics business acquired at the end of 2012 isexcluded from these gures along with other more recent acquisitions during 2013.
This is in line with our established policy for integration of acquired assets.
Our emissions have been calculated by using speci c emissions factors for each country outside the US and regional factors within the US.
We have used the US EPA Emissions & Generation Resource Integrated Database eGRID for US regions and the UK Government DEFRA Conversion Factors for Greenhouse Gas Reporting for elsewhere.
We believe that these factors are the most appropriate to use for our business and give more accurate conversion rates than the conversion factors we have used in previous Sustainability Reports.
The emissions from 2011, our baseline year for the sustainability targets, have therefore been recalculated using consistent rates.
Fugitive emissions are included from the manufacturing and research locations and arise from the losses of refrigerant gases.
References Emission factors have been taken from the following source: UK Government DEFRA Conversion Factors for Greenhouse Gas Reporting, http: www.
co. uk Emission factors for electricity from locations in the US have been taken from the following source: US EPA Emissions & Generation Resource Integrated Database eGRID http: www.
gov cleanenergy energy-resources egrid index.
