Group StrAteGiC report CorporAte GoverNANCe FiNANCiAl StAtemeNtS AND other iNFormAtioN Smith & Nephew ANNuAl report 2013 other FiNANCiAl iNFormAtioN 169 UK capital gains tax American Depositary Shares ADSs and American For the purposes of UK capital gains tax the price of the Companys Depositary Receipts ADRs ordinary shares on 31 March 1982 was 35.04p.
In the US, the Companys ordinary shares are traded in the form of ADSs, evidenced by ADRs, on the New York Stock Exchange Smith & Nephew share price under the symbol SNN.
Each American Depositary Share represents five ordinary shares.
The Bank of New York Mellon is the authorised The Companys ordinary shares are quoted on the London Stock depositary bank for the Companys ADR programme.
Exchange under the symbol SN.
The Companys share price is available on the Smith & Nephew website www.
com where the live financial data ADS enquiries is updated with a 15-minute delay.
All enquiries regarding ADS holder accounts and payment of dividends should be addressed to: ShareGift BNY Mellon Depositary Receipts, P. O.
Box 43006, Providence, RI Shareholders with only a small number of shares, which would cost 02940-3006, US more to sell than they are worth, may wish to consider donating Tel: 1-866-259-2287 inside the US toll free them to the charity ShareGift registered charity 1052686 which Tel: 1-201-680-6825 internationally specialises in accepting such shares as donations.
There may be no E-mail: shrrelations@.
com implications for Capital Gains Tax purposes no gain or loss and it may also be possible to obtain income tax relief.
The relevant stock A Global Buy DIRECT plan is available for US residents, enabling transfer form may be obtained from Equiniti at the address given on investment directly in ADSs with reduced brokerage commissions page 168. and service costs.
For further information on Global Buy DIRECT contact: The Bank of New York Mellon as above or visit Further information about ShareGift is available at www.
or by contacting ShareGift at: The Company provides The Bank of New York Mellon, as depositary, ShareGift, 17 Carlton House Terrace, London SW1Y 5AH with copies of Annual Reports containing consolidated financial Tel: 44 0 20 7930 3737 statements and the opinion expressed thereon by its independent auditors.
Such financial statements are prepared under IFRS.
The Bank of New York Mellon will send these reports to recorded Unauthorised brokers boiler room scams ADS holders who have elected to receive paper copies.
The Shareholders are advised to be very wary of any unsolicited advice, Company also provides to The Bank of New York Mellon all notices offers to buy shares at a discount or offers of free company reports.
of Shareholders meetings and other reports and communications These are typically from overseas-based brokers who target UK that are made generally available to Shareholders of the Company.
Shareholders offering to sell them what often turn out to be The Bank of New York Mellon makes such notices, reports and worthless or high-risk shares in US or UK investments.
These communications available for inspection by recorded holders of operations are commonly known as boiler rooms.
ADSs and sends voting instruction forms by post to all recorded If you deal with an unauthorised firm, you will not be eligible to holders of ADSs.
receive payment under the Financial Services Compensation Scheme if things go wrong.
If you receive any unsolicited investment Smith & Nephew ADS price advice, obtain the correct name of the person and organisation and The Companys ADS price can be obtained from the official check that they are properly authorised by the FCA by visiting New York Stock Exchange website at www.
com and is quoted daily in If you think you have been approached by an unauthorised firm the Wall Street Journal where the live financial data is updated with you should contact the FCA consumer helpline on 0800 111 6768 a 15-minute delay.
More detailed information can be found on the FCA website at ADS payment information www.
The Company hereby discloses ADS payment information for the year ended 31 December 2013 in accordance with the Securities and Social media Exchange Commission rules 12.
D. 4 relating to Form 20-F filings by foreign private issuers.
The depositary collects its fees for Smith & Nephew has a presence across a range of social media delivery and surrender of ADSs directly from investors depositing channels, including Twitter, Facebook and LinkedIn, which are linked shares or surrendering ADSs for the purpose of withdrawal or from below.
Information provided by Smith & Nephew through social intermediaries acting for them.
The depositary collects fees for media channels is not incorporated by reference herein and does making distributions to investors, including payment of dividends by not from part of our annual report on Form 20-F. the Company by deducting those fees from the amounts distributed or by selling a portion of distributable property to pay the fees.
The depositary may collect its annual fee for depository services by https: twitter.
com SmithNephewPLC deductions from cash distributions or by directly billing investors or www.
com SmithNephewPlc by charging the book-entry system accounts of participants acting for them.
The depositary may generally refuse to provide feehttp: www.
com company smith-&-nephew attracting services until its fee for those services are paid.
