Managing risk in delivering our strategy Continued Business challenges thematic risks Government customers Potential impact Risk and potential impact Mitigation High We derive a significant proportion of our revenues in mature The Group has a diversified portfolio Western economies and some 35% of the Groups revenues are of businesses that mitigates exposure directly related to government spend.
Additionally, a high proportion to any one country or sector.
of our products and services are in some way influenced by Trend Some of our government-related government regulation and certification.
No change business has a services or Smiths Detection, Smiths Medical and Smiths Interconnect consumables component, which frequently tender for government contracts.
The timing of contract can be more resilient during an awards and payments under these contracts may be uncertain economic downturn.
and uneven over a given financial year.
The Group has a government relations Any significant disruption or deterioration in relationship with these function so that it can inform policy governments could result in fewer contracts and lower revenues.
and maintain close relationships with customers.
At a time when government finances are under pressure, these headwinds may lead to slower growth across the business.
A decrease in spending by key government customers could materially affect the Groups results and financial condition.
Delays in awarding government contracts can affect the Groups sales, margins and cash conversion in a particular reporting period.
Technology and innovation Potential impact Risk and potential impact Mitigation Medium Developing new products and improving existing products is critical The Group has a diversified to our business and competitors may innovate more effectively.
technology portfolio in a range The emergence of a disruptive technology could have an impact of sectors and geographies.
on a major cash-flow contributor to the Group over time.
Trend Our continued investment in R&D No change The speed of innovation in certain markets may lead to shorter supports new product and service product lifecycles, increasing the need for innovation.
the entry of new competitors, the consolidation of existing The Group looks to expand the competitors and changed or irrational competitor behaviour could addressable markets of its key all significantly affect the Groups business.
businesses by building capabilities The failure of the Group to develop its products and services, or in adjacent markets, through organic more effective innovation by a competitor, could have a materially investment and targeted acquisitions.
adverse effect on sales growth.
Talent and succession planning Potential impact Risk and potential impact Mitigation Medium The loss of key personnel, or the failure to plan adequately for Each division or function holds talent succession or develop new talent may impact the reputation of and succession plan reviews at least the Group, or lead to a disruption in the leadership of the business.
These plans are reviewed by the Nomination Committee.
Trend Competition for personnel is intense and the Group may not be No change successful in attracting or retaining qualified personnel, particularly Remuneration packages, including engineering professionals.
In addition, certain personnel may be variable and long-term elements required to receive security clearance and substantial training of the compensation arrangements, to work on certain programmes.
The loss of key employees, the are evaluated regularly against Groups inability to attract new or adequately trained employees, market practice.
or a delay in hiring key personnel, could seriously harm the The Chief Executive has assessed and Groups business.
continues to assess the Top 25 people Over time, our competitive advantage is defined by the quality of in the organisation for performance, our people should we fail to attract, develop and retain key talent, skills and competencies and presents in time our competitive advantage will erode, leading to weaker development and succession plans growth potential or returns.
Read more on pages 20-26 and 66-67 60 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2013 Business challenges thematic risks Contractual liabilities Potential impact Risk and potential impact Mitigation Medium to high Failure to deliver, in a timely fashion or at all, the products Contracts are managed and delivered and services Smiths is obliged to deliver, or any fault in contract by programme management teams execution due to delays or breaches by its suppliers or other that regularly review contract risks counterparties, may lead to higher costs, liquidated damages and take appropriate action.
Higher Divisional boards review significant Differences between the estimated costs in Smiths medium and contracts.
long-term contracts and actual costs may arise from a number of The diversified nature of the Group factors including production delays, cost overruns and other items.
mitigates the exposure to any single Certain of Smiths contracts, particularly those with governments, contract.
may include terms that provide for unlimited liabilities on Smiths part or allow the government body or counterparty to terminate unilaterally, reduce or modify the relevant contracts or seek alternative sources of supply at Smiths expense.
Acquisitions and disposals Potential impact Risk and potential impact Mitigation Low to Medium The success of the Groups acquisition strategy depends on We perform comprehensive identifying targets, obtaining authorisations and having the necessary strategic and financial reviews of all financing.
Even if an acquisition is completed, the acquired products opportunities.
Detailed due diligence and technologies may not be successful or may require significantly and integration work is undertaken Trend greater resources and investment than anticipated.
and reviewed in accordance with No change Group policy.
The Group may not be able to integrate the businesses that it acquires.
If integration is unsuccessful, anticipated benefits are not Due diligence includes an assessment realised or trading by acquired businesses falls below expectations, of the acquisition targets talent and it may be necessary to impair the carrying value of these assets.
We also consider the In recent years, the Group has disposed of a number of businesses, integration process and management.
including its Aerospace operations, where it has given indemnities, The Board only authorises acquisitions warranties and guarantees to counterparties.
The Group is after completion of due diligence, and also party to a number of contracts relating to formerly owned approval is subject to meeting the businesses which it has not yet novated to the purchasers of capital allocation and other financial these businesses.
The Groups return on capital employed may fall if acquisition hurdle The Board regularly reviews postrates are not met.
The Groups financial performance may suffer acquisition performance and from goodwill or other acquisition-related impairment charges.
Insufficient allowance for indemnities and warranties given at disposal may affect our financial position.
The Executive Committee and Board review the acquisition pipeline.
There are monthly reviews with strategy leads for each division.
On disposals, the Group seeks to minimise its exposure to indemnities and warranties and any that are provided are reviewed on a regular basis.
Information technology and cyber-security Potential impact Risk and potential impact Mitigation Medium to high The Groups information systems, personnel and facilities are Extensive controls and reviews are subject to security risk.
The Group is dependent on information undertaken to maintain the integrity technology systems for both internal and external communications and efficiency of IT infrastructure and for the day-to-day management of its operations.
Trend of cyber-security crime is on the rise and some Smiths Group Higher There are also processes to deal with companies operate in sectors where cyber-criminals are active.
Any disruption to the information systems could have significant A Group-wide information security adverse consequences for the Groups operations or its ability to awareness programme has been trade.
It could result in the loss of confidential information and launched.
intellectual property, which could affect the Groups competitive position and cause reputational damage.
Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2013 61 Accounts Governance Risks and responsibility Business review Chairman and Chief Executive Group overview Corporate responsibility Promoting a culture of responsibility, transforming Smiths into a world-class organisation and delivering operational efficiencies to enhance margins form key elements of our six-point business strategy.
Behaving ethically, working safely, reducing our environmental impact, attracting and developing our people and contributing to our communities creates long-term value for our shareholders and our wider stakeholders.
Our Code of Business Ethics the Code Why Corporate responsibility CR Our strategic focus areas Our Code of Business Ethics sets out 12 is important to Smiths Our Code of Business Ethics provides broad principles for how we do business, Operating within the Code and the framework for the way we do business based on the common values of integrity, implementing our CR objectives enables in support of our business strategy and, honesty, fairness and transparency.
us to meet our obligations to our more specifically, how we manage many of It provides the framework for our policies, stakeholders and delivers real business our CR issues.
Within this, we focus on five programmes and procedures for a range benefits, creating long-term value for priority issues: ethics, the environment, of CR issues and is intended to enable shareholders.
It: health and safety, our people and the our employees to make ethical decisions communities in which we operate.
These Protects our reputation and ability every time.
priorities are shared across the Group and to grow our divisions are required to implement Helps us to win business from and support these strategies and actively Our Code of Business Ethics customers who value strong CR manage performance, with regular 1 We comply with the law performance reporting back to the corporate centre.
2 We compete fairly Enhances our efficiency How we manage CR Strong governance is essential to 3 We act with integrity in all our business Enables our people to work productively, embedding responsible business dealings in a safe and ethical environment practices across the Group.
Our Board 4 We treat suppliers, partners and Helps us to attract and retain talent, of directors is ultimately responsible for customers properly and encourages employees to take the stewardship of the business, including pride in working for us the Code.
The Board sets the tone for the 5 We treat our co-workers respectfully Group, establishes high ethical standards Reduces the risk of incidents and their 6 We contribute to healthy, safe and of behaviour and robust corporate associated costs.
secure workplaces governance and risk management Many of our products also benefit the frameworks, defines our strategic and 7 We respect the environment environment and contribute to the safety, financial objectives, as well as monitoring 8 We contribute to our communities health and security of people around the succession planning.
For example, Smiths Detections 9 We participate in relevant public The Chief Executive and the executive security scanners play a vital role in debates team are responsible for delivering our helping to prevent terror attacks, while strategic objectives, upholding the Code, 10 We respect human rights John Cranes seals help its customers implementing its supporting policies to reduce their environmental impacts.
11 We have high standards of financial and delivering both our overall business You can see examples of these throughout record-keeping and reporting strategy and specific CR strategies.
issues are typically the top agenda item at 12 The Code applies to all of us CR trends Executive Committee and Board meetings The business environment is constantly and our executive team champion our Read more at evolving and we recognise that there are commitments and strategies within www.
com responsibility number of environmental, social and the business, setting and continually regulatory trends that could influence reinforcing the tone from the top.
Further Smiths and the industries in which detail on how CR is managed between the we operate.
These trends include an corporate centre and the divisions can be increased regulatory focus on avoiding found in Our business model on p10.
bribery and corruption, increased Within this framework, we have distinct competition for talent, pressure on energy governance and management structures and water use, climate change and for each of our CR focus areas, reflecting materials safety.
the diverse nature of our activities and decentralised structure.
62 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2013 which provides continuous coverage and International Traffic in Arms Regulation Ethics support in 35 languages.
All issues are and the Export Administration Regulations Our global Ethics programme is focused addressed promptly and referred, as in the USA.
These laws prohibit export of on embedding a culture of ethical required, to relevant functions so we certain items to specific countries.
The compliance across Smiths so that our can investigate them.
Our non-retaliation Group adheres to all relevant government employees do the right things, the right policy means that any employee who guidelines designed to ensure that way, every time.
Our objective is not only in good faith reports an act of apparent products are not incorporated into to protect the reputation of our company misconduct or unethical behaviour will weapons or other equipment used for the and to safeguard the investment of our not be victimised or treated adversely.
purposes of terrorism or abuse of human shareholders, but also to protect rights, with internal controls to ensure Strategy and objectives the interests of every employee by compliance with these guidelines.
We embed the Code through ensuring individual legal and regulatory communication, training and awareness compliance as well as responsible Environment, health & safety EHS programmes in order to promote a culture behaviour.
of ethical compliance, as well as developing Promoting a culture of responsibility and enhancing the policies and control throughout the Group is part of our processes in place to ensure compliance business strategy and our Code of with laws and regulations across the 2013 Highlights Business Ethics.
We are committed to Held our second global ethics forum in jurisdictions in which we operate.
We achieving excellence in environment, continually review and update our policies So Paulo, Brazil, to reflect our growing health and safety management and presence in emerging markets and business controls to mitigate changing performance and providing effective areas of risk.
We also review and update Updated training in areas such as antileadership in the pursuit of injurybribery and corruption, international our Ethics programme, and systems and free and environmentally responsible procedures for fostering, monitoring and trade compliance and competition and workplaces.
anti-trust auditing ethical business conduct.
Expanded Code materials, adding In view of our strategic focus on expanding seven new translations and enhancing our presence in emerging markets, usability of intranet portal 2013 Highlights we have developed our programme to Updated our EHS and Energy & address the heightened, evolving risks Greenhouse policies of doing business in these markets.
Completed an EHS benchmarking Governance Other focus areas include expanding study to peers and high-performing Our Ethics and Compliance programme online training programmes, developing companies is led by the Code Compliance Council, additional policies to enhance governance Updated our multi-year EHS and which acts as the steering committee of key areas, and continued collaboration sustainability strategy and targets and reports to the Audit Committee.
The with Internal Audit as part of our risk Implemented Company-wide Council is responsible for determining management and assurance processes.
environmental awareness training priorities, reviewing key issues and making Policies and training recommendations to the Audit Committee.
We also expand and update training on The Council is supported by the Senior other key areas of compliance to address Vice President, Ethics and Compliance, EHS governance and management evolving global risks.
For example, in 2013 who serves as an adviser and resource on Our environmental, health and safety we updated and launched our training ethical issues and manages responses to EHS approach starts with our EHS on international trade compliance and all enquiries and allegations, and by legal policy, which was recently updated, and is competition & anti-trust to the relevant counsel, who provide compliance support supported by our EHS strategy, KPIs and personnel in several languages.
Our divisions adapt the Group EHS Similarly, in 2013 as part of a wider review strategy to reflect their specific impacts The Chief Executive and senior and any opportunities to improve their of the Smiths Group policies, we updated management champion the Code, setting policies on international trade sanction EHS management and performance.
and continually reinforcing the tone from and embargoes, import and customs, and the top.
The Code is also communicated We believe in the power of continuous international export compliance.
With our through a variety of channels and training improvement and use management growing presence in emerging markets, programmes.
systems to realise its benefits.
In addition, we have also continued to build on our management systems provide detailed Reporting concerns and managing programme to address the particular risk and issue identification that helps specific issues challenges associated with operating in sites to prioritise and focus on the We encourage employees who have these countries.
Following the success of most concerning risks.
We require all concerns or queries about the Code to our first global ethics forum in Shanghai, manufacturing, warehousing and service raise them with line management, human China in 2011, we held our second forum centre sites with more than 20 employees resources, their local in-house legal in So Paulo, Brazil in 2012 and the next to implement management systems counsel or our confidential Ethics Alertline.
one is scheduled for Dubai in October 2013.
OHSAS 18001 for occupational health and The Alertline answers queries and enables safety and ISO 14001 for environmental.
Controls on defence sales employees to report any concerns or All sales and exports of defence Sites with 50 or more employees are allegations.
It is available via email, the required to have their EHS management equipment are undertaken in accordance internet and toll-free phone numbers in 53 with international trade regulations and systems externally certified.
Employees can raise concerns that are required to be externally certified, national government export and approval at any time through call centres operated procedures and regulations, such as the by a contracted management company, Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2013 63 Accounts Governance Risks and responsibility Business review Chairman and Chief Executive Group overview Corporate responsibility Total energy Continued 000MWh 92 have completed certification.
Sites Our EHS KPIs are aligned to the strategy that have not completed certification have and allow us to assess our progress.
New acquisitions or Achievement of KPIs is also part of expanded operations have two years to our senior management performance 305 303 285 obtain certification.
279 277 Environmental targets Future priorities In 2010, we set new five-year targets Review the use of materiality for our environmental metrics and added assessments for identifying key issues an energy reduction target.
Our targets Re-evaluate our most serious EHS were to achieve 10% reductions in energy risks by performing Group and divisionusage, greenhouse gas emissions and level risk assessments waste generation, and a 5% reduction in Introduce a serious incident metric to water usage by FY2015, all normalised to 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 help monitor injury severity trends and revenue against a baseline of FY2010.
Also respond accordingly in 2010, we adopted a new reporting policy for our environmental metrics, which Total CO2 emissions expanded the number of sites required to 000 tonnes report environmental performance to the EHS strategy Group.
These reporting changes provide Our EHS strategy is designed to us with a more comprehensive view of our protect our employees, communities, environmental impact.
The environmental environment, and shareholder value metrics for FY2010 were therefore slightly through effective management of safety, 124 121 higher than FY2009, due to the inclusion of 115 and environmental risks.
During 2013, 110 data from more of our business.
we developed our next set of strategic 102 objectives and corresponding goals.
The current targets established in FY2010 The recent strategy development process were scheduled to be achieved by FY2015.
involved benchmarking to peer and highHowever, we had over-achieved against performing companies and evaluating these targets by the end of FY2013.
We identified strategic areas therefore revised our environmental that we will focus on during the next three targets as part of the benchmarking and years including safety culture, training, updating of our EHS strategy in FY2013.
risk identification and mitigation and The new targets require the following 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 energy management.
reductions over FY2013 performance by the end of FY2018, normalised to revenue: The Smiths Group sustainability strategy Water use provides direction for the divisions to Energy: 15% reduction 3 000m manage their sustainability agenda Greenhouse gas emissions: 15% based on evaluation of practical reduction sustainability application and importance to its business using processes such as Waste non-recycled : 15% materiality assessments.
Each division Water: 10% 515 identifies and defines the specific actions 485 465 462 for their businesses.
Sustainability Our environmental performance through 433 strategic improvement areas include FY2013 continued to be very favourable product stewardship, supply chain compared to our baseline year of FY2010.
corporate responsibility and value chain We achieved significant reductions in all environmental impacts.
metrics, and exceeded our FY2015 goals.
2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Performance against environmental targets Total non-recycled waste 000 tonnes Target FY2010-15 2013 progress against FY2010 Energy 10% reduction 19% reduction Greenhouse gas emissions 10% reduction 27% reduction Total non-recycled waste 10% reduction 21% reduction 6.2 6.1 6.1 Water consumption 5% reduction 25% reduction 5.5 5.5 Reduction targets are compared to the FY2010 baseline year and normalised to revenue consolidated at FY2013 closing exchange rates.
2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 64 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2013 Performance against safety targets Total energy efficiency MWh m revenue FY2013 target 2013 results Recordable incident rate Better than 0.5 0.54 per 100 employees Lost time incident rate No target 0.22 111 107 105 0.50 excluding business acquired within the last two years 93 87 Health and safety management Health and safety performance The Group is committed to working in Since 2004, we have achieved a steady a way that protects, as far as reasonably reduction in our RIR, with FY2013 being practicable, the health and safety of its our safest on record.
In keeping with our employees.
Our employees recognise continuous improvement commitment, this commitment.
In our Group-wide in FY2010 we established a three-year RIR engagement surveys, workplace safety goal of 0.50, to be achieved by July 2013. was the highest scoring dimension, 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 We improved our RIR over last year for exceeding the worldwide benchmark our established businesses, with an RIR for manufacturing industry.
reduction from 0.58 to 0.50, meeting our Total CO2 emissions goal.
Our recently acquired businesses Our Group-wide activities to reduce Tonnes m revenue are working to meet our operations and incidents have focused on leadership performance standards resulting in our and employee safety awareness and published RIR of 0.54, which is still our involvement.
We continue to implement best on record and lower than our FY2012 and build on these activities and are RIR of 0.60. monitoring them through our Safety 45 43 42 Leading Indicator Activities Programme.
After years of reductions in our LTIR, In FY2012, we added a safety leading we had a slight increase in FY2013 from 36 indicator activity score as a KPI for safety, 0.21 to 0.22.
Since FY2008, our LTIR has 32 complementing the recordable incident dropped from 0.54 to 0.22 in FY2013.
Sites are required to complete a minimum number of proactive safety activities, which count towards their score.
Annually, we create new leadership and employee training programmes to build 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 on the previous year.
An employee safety risk assessments activity was added in FY2013 to increase employee identification Water consumption Recordable incident rate and perception of risks.
Supervisor safety 3 m m revenue Where an employee requires medical attention management training will be added in beyond first aid per 100 employees per year FY2014 to improve supervisor safety skills required for managing a workforce.
Health and safety targets Our FY2013 safety performance metrics 187 1.03 172 were the Safety Leading Indicator Activity 170 Score, RIR and Lost Time Incident Rate 154 LTIR.
Smiths Group and all divisions 136 0.71 completed the required number of safety 0.66 0.60 leading indicator activities, which will 0.54 support our efforts to improve our safety culture and risk management.
As part of our strategic plan updating and benchmarking in FY2013, we also updated 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 our safety performance targets.
The new safety targets increase focus on safety leading indicator activities that contribute Total non-recycled waste Lost time incident rate to reduction in the risk of incidents.
We Tonnes m revenue Where an employee is unable to work the day after will place less emphasis on the lagging an incident per 100 employees per year indicator Recordable Incident Rate RIR.
However, we will continue to monitor RIR and lost time incident rate and investigate incidents for contributing factors and 2.3 0.51 trends to help focus risk assessments.
2.2 2.1 In FY2014, we will evaluate a new metric 1.8 to further aid in focusing on serious 1.7 incidents and risks.
However, our aim will be zero harm to employees: this is 0.30 0.29 our ultimate ambition and adopting it will 0.22 further emphasise to our employees and 0.21 other stakeholders the serious intent we have for EHS in the Company.
2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2013 65 Accounts Governance Risks and responsibility Business review Chairman and Chief Executive Group overview Corporate responsibility Continued people.
We will also continue to develop We encourage our people to share People our leadership capabilities throughout the in our success and periodically offer Attracting, retaining and developing organisation to ensure we have the depth employees in the US and UK opportunities the right people with the right skillset and breadth necessary to support growth: to participate in share plans, aligning is central to our ambition of transforming deepen our focus on our technological their interests more closely with those Smiths into a world-class organisation and engineering expertise in order to drive of shareholders.
and supporting our growth ambitions.
innovation and maintain our technological Diversity and inclusion leadership: and continue to build employee We believe that people growth is a With operations in more than 50 countries engagement across the business in strong enabler of business growth and and a strategic focus on innovation and response to the global MyVoice survey we develop our employees capabilities expanding into new geographic markets, and ongoing feedback.
so they can fulfil their potential and having a diverse, engaged workforce help us to fulfil ours.
Performance that reflects our footprint and brings Building the talent pipeline and local knowledge, fresh perspectives and succession planning constructive challenge is critical.
We Our focus on succession planning has aim to provide an inclusive, collaborative 2013 Highlights delivered significant progress in building culture that values every individual, fosters Strengthened our talent pipeline our talent pipeline, through a more collaboration, and provides the tools, through focus on talent assessment, rigorous and consistent approach to opportunities and challenges to enable personal development and succession assessing talent and a greater focus them to fulfil their potential and add value planning.
on preparing and monitoring personal to the business.
Rolled out junior and senior leadership development plans.
We have also invested development programmes It is our policy to provide equal significantly in our two leadership employment opportunities.
The Group Continued to address results of 2012 development programmes.
Horizons MyVoice global employee engagement recruits, selects and promotes employees fosters emerging talent at junior levels, on the basis of their qualifications, skills, survey while Aspire2 develops senior leaders.
Implemented new HR operating model aptitude and attitude.
In employmentThese programmes challenge and related decisions, we comply with to support business growth engage our employees, build their all applicable anti-discrimination understanding of the wider Group, requirements in the relevant jurisdictions.
increase their exposure to our senior People with disabilities are given full Governance leaders and enhance their core leadership consideration for employment and Since 2010 we have transformed our competencies.
The programmes will subsequent training including re-training, HR function to bring world-class people also improve the diversity of candidates, if needed, for people who have become management to Smiths and to leverage especially in the areas of gender and disabled, career development and our strength and scale.
Our new model emerging market backgrounds.
promotion on the basis of their aptitudes combines consistent, best practice We provide a wide variety of learning and abilities.
We endeavour to find approaches and programmes in key areas and training opportunities, ranging from appropriate alternative jobs for those who with divisional initiatives that address workshops and mentoring to online are unable to continue in their existing job specific business needs, supported by resources and internal and external because of disability.
GlobalView, Smiths first HR information training courses.
The utilisation of an e-enabled All our employees are treated with respect planning and identification of training and model empowers managers and and dignity.
Accordingly, any harassment development needs form a key part of our employees to take more responsibility or bullying is unacceptable.
The Group annual performance review process and for many aspects of their working lives.
respects the right of each employee to join we are rolling out a new, enhanced toolkit or not to join a trade union or other bona Strategy and objectives to support this as part of the development fide employee representative organisation.
Over the past three years, we have of GlobalView.
focused on strengthening our leadership Employee engagement We constantly challenge ourselves as capabilities and talent pipeline at both We recognise that an engaged and to whether we have the right skills and senior and junior levels, improving motivated workforce is critical to achieving competencies to support our growth succession planning, enhancing employee our objectives.
Our MyVoice survey is a ambitions and believe this is best achieved engagement and transforming our HR valuable tool for measuring engagement through a healthy balance of recruiting function to provide a strong platform and providing insight into our employees the very best external candidates to for growth.
We conducted bring fresh approaches and perspectives, our second survey in 2012 in partnership As we work to transform Smiths into while also strengthening our internal with Kenexa, a leading survey provider.
a world-class organisation, a talented talent pipeline.
We achieved a participation rate of more and determined workforce, united Performance and reward than 91%, up from 85% in 2011.
Results by commercial acumen, an appetite Managing performance is critical to were benchmarked against global norms for innovation, strong leadership and ensuring our employees fulfil their for the manufacturing industry and we a commitment to collaboration and potential and deliver business results.
have communicated divisional, local and responsibility, will be essential to achieving In a competitive marketplace, we functional results.
In 2013 we continued our ambitions.
In FY2014, we will launch recognise the importance of rewarding to address the results of our 2012 survey, a revised HR strategy, to build the enablers employees appropriately and aim to offer implementing action plans across the for growth between now and 2020.
A compensation and benefits packages business to address the most significant core part of this will be repositioning the that enable us to attract, develop and issues highlighted.
We will repeat the business with a clear Employee Value retain key talent.
Our new HR operating survey in 2014 in order to monitor progress.
Proposition, which reflects our multimodel is driving consistent best-in-class industry career offering and the global approaches to reward across the Group.
careers we can offer for the very best 66 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2013 Communication Communities Communication is fundamental to Contributing to the communities in engaging employees.
This having been which we operate benefits both local identified as a key theme in the last people and our business.
It helps to drive MyVoice survey, we have implemented prosperity in local communities, enhance a number of initiatives to improve our profile and reputation, promote information sharing, facilitate greater employee engagement and attract collaboration and improve news flow new employees.
at both Group and divisional levels.
These include developing a new intranet platform, more regular updates on performance and key business issues, Given the diversity of our business and our and providing greater opportunities for decentralised structure, our community feedback and dialogue.
This has built on relationships and charitable programmes the wide variety of well-established tools are primarily managed at a local level and channels used across the Group, to allow our businesses to focus on the including site meetings, team briefings, particular needs of their markets and presentations and newsletters.
We also offer some Grouplevel support to community and charitable In European Union EU countries we have organisations, considering charities and workplace information and consultation organizations that demonstrate how a arrangements at our sites.
These link donation will enhance the well-being of to the Smiths Group European Forum, people through improved education, health through which employee representatives and welfare or environment.
from across the EU meet annually to discuss transnational matters with Group In FY2013, we made charitable donations executives.
Our 2013 Forum was held of 453,000 as a Group.
This included in the UK and saw 16 representatives 303,000 to The Great Ormond Street from across the Group meet with senior Hospital in London by Smiths Medical executives to discuss matters such as HR, for sponsorship of the Professor of ethics, market conditions and business Anaethesia and Critical Care and the strategy and performance.
Feedback from Portex Anaesthesia, Intensive Care the event was extremely positive.
Our employees also raised money for a wide range of charitable Acquisition integration causes through a variety of fund-raising When new businesses are acquired, we initiatives across the business.
implement plans to integrate them into the Group, ensuring that our business ethics, employee development and EHS policies and programmes are well established.
We regularly review our processes in these areas, to identify opportunities to improve.
Priorities for 2014 Launch revised HR strategy Continue to develop leadership capabilities throughout the organisation Deepen our focus on technological and engineering expertise Continue the roll-out of GlobalView tools to support performance management and development Conduct our third MyVoice engagement survey Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2013 67 Accounts Governance Risks and responsibility Business review Chairman and Chief Executive Group overview
