y t i n u t r o p p o g n i s i n g o c e C R a p t u r i n g p Strategic Report Ed Story Corporate Social President and Chief Responsibility Report Executive Of cer Our Three-Part Core Strategy Incorporates Our Corporate Social Responsibility Commitment D ear Shareholders Relationship Operating building revenue Our sector has the ability to be a powerful force for economic development as hydrocarbons continue to have a central role in todays global energy supply.
A successful oil project can transform not only the prospects of a Access to Host country company and its shareholders, but also the economic and social wellbeing investment revenue opportunities of a host country by contributing to its ability to produce and supply its own natural resources.
Taxes and Early entry fees into regions At SOCO, we recognise that built into the heart of this opportunity is the business imperative to act responsibly and we re ect this in our business OUR CORE strategy.
This is based upon our belief that acting responsibly delivers the Host country Economic best value to our shareholders.
Ensuring honest and ethical business STRATEGIC revenue stimulation conduct, the health and safety of people, the protection of the environment OBJECTIVES and understanding the issues that matter to our stakeholders, whether financial or nonfinancial, local or international, remain business priorities.
I am pleased to present this introduction to our Corporate Social Commitment Capital Responsibility CSR Report for 2013 which describes SOCOs approach to to local expenditure economies CSR where we are the Operator or Joint Operator and how these principles permeate through to our operations on the ground and Skills and Operational engagement with our stakeholders.
More information is provided on our expertise management Economic Social and website, www.
com, which complements this report.
stimulation community projects Ed Story Training Local programmes employment President and Chief Executive Of cer Key Performance Indicators 2013 2012 2011 Employee tenure years 9 10 9 Employee turnover Lost time injuries frequency Emissions million tonnes CO2e 0.08 Negligible Negligible See Additional Information Key Performance Indicators on page 99 for all KPIs employed and their fide nitions SOCO International plc 32 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 o t e n t i a l e u l a v g n i s i l a e R Stra tegic Report Go vernance Fi financial Statements Additional Information SOCOs oil and gas interests are in Vietnam, the Republic of Congo Making a Contribution to Society Through Taxes and Other Levies Brazzaville, the Democratic Republic of Congo Kinshasa DRC and One of the signi cant ways in which SOCO makes a social contribution Angola.
All of the Companys production during 2013 was from interests in is via the payment of taxes.
By generating revenues from our operations, Vietnam.
Our interests in Africa are at the block evaluation phase or the we deliver economic value to the countries in which we operate.
IN 2013 SOCO PAID SOCO is committed to being a positive presence in the countries where we operate, guided by a responsible approach to oil and gas exploration and $153,000 production.
Our commitment to corporate social responsibility is an integral part of our business strategy: TO FUND TRAINING OF THE VIETNAMESE WORKFORCE Recognising opportunity relies on building strong relationships and being welcomed as a responsible partner by host governments and We are committed to the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative local communities.
EITI in both Congo Brazzaville and the DRC.
We participate in all EITI forums for those countries and annually provide details of all payments Capturing potential means applying our expertise, particularly in the to or on behalf of the relevant government, which are publicly available.
management of risks such as social, health and safety, security and environmental issues.
The Companys material impacts during the year were related to its two offshore producing assets in Vietnam, the Te Giac Trang TGT and Ca Realise value through locking in returns also creates value for Ngu Vang CNV elds, from where the entirety of the Groups sales society.
Our guiding principle is to make a net positive contribution.
Additionally, operated and joint operated drilling took place on the H5 fault block of the TGT oil eld and on the Marine XI Block offshore the Congo Brazzaville.
Value Creation Through Responsible Business During the year, our stakeholders expressed a high level of interest in Our business creates value for society through investment in developing SOCOs Block V project in eastern DRC, both in terms of the Companys countries, providing stimulus for local economies, the creation of jobs, plans for the project and also the Companys response to a high pro le training for local people, social investment projects, payment of fees and NGO campaign.
taxes to host governments and the preservation of the natural environment.
Our host countries are primary stakeholders.
This is because a successful oil project has the potential to transform not only the prospects of a company and its shareholders, but also the economic and social wellbeing of a host country by contributing to its ability to produce and supply its own natural resources.
The host country is also a primary stakeholder due to the direct interest DURING 2013 SOCO PAID OVER that the state retains through its own national oil company.
It is usually the case that the national oil companys interest will be carried for all or a portion of the costs prior to production.
This allows the state to receive $258MILLION both the financial and nonfinancial bene ts of a successful project without unduly exposing its economy to the risks associated with the IN VIETNAMESE TAXES AND LEVIES capital intensive early phases of a project.
SOCOs partnerships with INCLUDING CORPORATION INCOME national oil companies are shown in the table below.
TAX, ROYALTIES AND EXPORT DUTIES SOCOs Partnerships with National Oil Companies State SOCO Licence blocks National Oil Company State InterestInterest Block 16-1 PetroVietnam Vietnam 41% 30.5% Details of the Companys Block 9-2 PetroVietnam Vietnam 50% 25% involvement in Block V and the Marine XI SNPC Congo Brazzaville 15% 40.39% Virunga National Park are given on our website.
Mer Profonde Sud SNPC Congo Brazzaville 15% 60% Block V Cohydro DRC 15% 85% Cabinda North Sonangol Angola 20% 17% www.
com SOCO International plc 33 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic Report Corporate Social Responsibility Report continued Stakeholders Partnership and In uence We engage with stakeholders at an international, national and local level in SOCO partners with host governments through their state oil companies in order to better understand different viewpoints, listen to local concerns, all of its projects, as well as with other oil companies.
Our partner alliances adapt our programmes to meet local needs and communicate the activity mean that our portfolio varies by: that SOCO is undertaking.
In addition to our shareholders and the investment community, our stakeholders include: Our degree of ownership The host country Our level of operatorship National and local government SOCO applies its values throughout all of its projects.
However, our in uence and ability to implement is relative to the degree of operatorship The international community held.
Where we are the designated Operator, our in uence is high.
Where we are the joint operator or non-operator, we seek to in uence our Local communities where we operate partners to integrate responsible business practices into the project.
see the diagram below Our employees and contractors In Vietnam, where SOCO has its largest and its only producing assets, Partnering oil companies including national oil companies the operators of the TGT and CNV elds are the Hoang Long and Hoan Vu Joint Operating Companies, respectively.
SOCOs in uence is exercised We have a formal process of stakeholder engagement in place to meet through our membership on the operators Management Committee as with local communities and we set shared goals with community well as through the organisations key senior staff members who are representatives, ensuring that we get feedback on our approach.
In Congo Brazzaville and the DRC, SOCO is the we do not directly control an operation, we work with our partners to operator of each of its Blocks and accordingly is able ensure that communities in and around our operations are engaged.
The Degree of Operatorship and the Degree of In uence HIGH High degree Moderate degree of in uence of in uence We implement our We seek to approach to corporate in uence others social responsibility Low degree of in uence Moderate degree We seek to make our of in uence views heard and ensure We seek to minimum standards in uence others are met LOW LOW Degree of ownership HIGH Block SOCO Ownership SOCO Operatorship 40.39% Operator Marine XI: Congo Brazzaville 100.00% Operator Nanga II A Block: Congo Brazzaville Mer Profonde Sud: Congo Brazzaville 60.00% Operator Block V: DRC 85.00% Operator Block 9-2: Vietnam 25.00% Joint Operating Company Block 16-1: Vietnam 30.50% Joint Operating Company 17.00% Non-Operator Cabinda North Block: Angola SOCO International plc 34 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Level of operatorship Stra tegic Report Go vernance Fi financial Statements Additional Information Managing Social and Environmental Performance Providing a Safe and Fair Place to Work Our Chief Executive Of cer is responsible for corporate social responsibility SOCOs first responsibility is to the wellbeing of the people who work for performance.
Relevant issues are considered by the Board through a the company and health, safety and fairness are at the heart of SOCOs speci c agenda item at each meeting.
Day-to-day management is business code.
Responsibility for delivering safe working conditions lies implemented through our country managers, led by the Chief Operating with our executives and senior management who are kept informed of Of cer.
The effectiveness of our risk management and controls over our operational safety on a daily basis.
corporate social responsibility programme is formally assessed annually and reviewed periodically by the Audit and Risk Committee.
Through this The Companys Workforce process of review and feedback, our framework of policies is updated to We have recently updated our staff handbook and in 2013 have prepared ensure it re ects important issues for the Company and anticipates future human resources guidance for our international operations.
The system has been updated in 2013 to incorporate good fair, equitable and transparent employment and retrenchment process and international industry practice, in particular in regard to human rights, provides a grievance mechanism for all employees.
The occupational community engagement and biodiversity management.
safety of our workforce is managed through our risk management process and appropriate health monitoring programmes, training and equipment is SOCOs Code of Business Conduct and Ethics the Code sets out our provided.
Managing the employment rights and conditions of work for our values of honesty and fairness and promoting trust amongst those with employees is fundamental to the success of our business and by setting whom we work.
SOCO expects all staff and contractors to act in performance indicators and targets, we can track our performance.
accordance with the Code which applies to all our operations, irrespective of our level of ownership and control, and also extends to contractors and agents.
We consider environmental, health and safety, ethical and security criteria in our selection of suppliers and joint venture partners and our contracts contain commitments to ensure that suppliers have read and understood our approach.
We implement our Code through our corporate Health, Safety, Environmental and Social Management System HSES MS, the original version of which was launched in 2008.
The HSES MS was designed to conform to international best practice and was constructed with advice from a reputable and experienced rm of HSES advisors.
This framework of policies and processes allows the Company to manage and mitigate any impacts on local communities or the natural environment in cases where SOCO is the operator or joint operator.
Where SOCO is a minority owner and non-operator, the Company seeks to in uence its partners to integrate responsible business practice into the project.
The Group operates in an industry sector with inherent high risks associated with health, safety, local communities and the environment.
Additionally, it operates in regions where there is a greater risk of economic or social instability and where local attitudes to risk differ compared with nations with more established or developed economies.
Accordingly, Gender Analysis the Group may be exposed to speci c risks in relation to social and environmental factors as well as health and safety matters, including 2013 2012 2011 security, and attempts to mitigate such risks by actively engaging with Directors Female 2 1 local communities and governments, using specialist consultants and through the implementation of the HSES MS.
Male 10 10 10 Senior managers Female We continually update the HSES MS to ensure that it anticipates any future risks and changes to our operating environment.
For example, Male 1 1 1 in 2013 SOCO worked closely with its partners in Vietnam to prepare Employees Female 7 7 7 for the mandatory reporting of greenhouse gas emissions in 2014.
The Male 9 7 7 most recent review of the HSES MS has aligned our policies with World Bank Standards.
35 Strategic Report Corporate Social Responsibility Report continued An Outstanding Record of Safety Continues The Protection of Human Rights is Embedded in our HSES Polices SOCOs commitment to the fundamental principles of human rights is embedded in our HSES polices and throughout our business processes.
DURING 2013 IN ANY We promote the core principles of human rights pronounced in the UN OF OUR LOCATIONS Universal Declaration of Human Rights.
0LTIs WORLDWIDE We honour the internationally accepted labour standards of the International Labour Organisation ILO and are guided by the ILO Tripartite declaration of principles concerning multinational enterprises and social DURING 6 MILLION MAN HOURS policy MNE Declaration.
We support and respect the protection of human WORKED ON TGT AND CNV SINCE rights within our sphere of in uence.
This sphere extends across our 0LTIs OPERATIONS BEGAN internal and external business environment encompassing our own workers, that of our contractors and reaching out to our supply chain, affected communities and other stakeholders.
There were no Lost Time Injuries LTIs during 2013 to our staff in any of our locations worldwide and the LTI Frequency We respect the indigenous rights and cultures of the communities within was nil.
our host countries as fide ned within the ILO Indigenous and Tribal Peoples Convention C169.
We recognise the importance of engaging with our In Vietnam, the Te Giac Trang and Ca Nu Vang elds are communities and set up local engagement programmes in our areas of operated by the Hoang Long and Hoan Vu Joint Operating operation.
We have developed processes of engagement and procedures Companies, respectively.
Together they make up the second for addressing concerns and grievances.
largest producer of oil in Vietnam.
SOCOs in uence is expressed through its membership on the operators During the year, the Company was made aware by external sources, Management Committees as well as through the organisations including the media in some instances, of allegations of intimidation related key senior staff members, including the senior managers and to the Block V project in eastern DRC.
The Company investigated each of technical personnel that are SOCO secondees.
the allegations to the fullest extent possible based on the limited information provided and found that none of the allegations were directed No LTIs have occurred in the six million man hours worked against SOCO personnel or included suf cient detail that could be since operations began in Vietnam.
Ethical Conduct is a Condition of Working for SOCO SOCO does not tolerate corruption of any kind.
We train our staff and advise our contractors, partners and other stakeholders on our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics the Code so there can be no room for doubt about our values and our approach.
We believe that responsible and ethical business conduct is essential to protecting shareholder value.
We remain vigilant in enforcing the standards set out in the Code.
SOCO has a zero tolerance policy in regards to breaches of standards.
We further reinforce our standards through robust financial management processes that allow the Company to keep a close track on economic decision making and procurement.
Running in parallel with the Groups general risk management process, the Audit and Risk Committee has established a detailed bribery risk assessment and mitigation reporting procedure.
Bribery risks are monitored throughout the year along with implementation of procedures to mitigate any new risks identi ed.
If an allegation of misconduct is reported to us, it will always be investigated and, depending on the nature and seriousness of the information provided, the investigation may be carried out by an external party.
The employment status of staff, who report potential breaches of the Code or assist in ensuing investigations, is protected against reprisals.
The Company has arrangements for whistleblowing, whereby staff may SOCO International plc 36 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Stra tegic Report Go vernance Fi financial Statements Additional Information raise any concerns in con dence.
To enhance these arrangements the Company has introduced an Ethics Hotline Service using an independent, WE BELIEVE con dential telephone service that can be used by staff members and other stakeholders to report a suspected breach of SOCOs Code of THA T Business Conduct and Ethics.
No reports of such breaches were made to the Ethics Hotline during 2013.
RESPONSIBLE Engaging with Communities and Setting Expectations AND ETHICAL Managing expectations is an essential part of managing social impacts and SOCO aims to engage with local people from an early stage of a BUSINESS project.
It is important to the Company that it understands the communities in which it operates, and that engagement occurs in a way CONDUCT IS that helps us to ascertain the needs and priorities of that community.
Equally, we want to communicate how our operations work, so that communities can develop an informed view on what our operations may ESSENTIAL TO mean for them.
Any community is made up of a broad spectrum of individuals and PROTECTING groups, each with its own concerns and we seek to nd channels of communication such as collective forums that allow the Company to SHAREHOLDER connect not just with leaders, but with the wider community.
An oil project comprises separate phases, for example evaluation, VAL UE exploration drilling, appraisal, development and production, each being dependent on the success of the prior phase, lengthy in terms of timescale and intermittent in terms of presence on site.
It is also the case that making a commercial oil or gas discovery is not an inevitable outcome.
Despite the potential for a short term presence, the Company is committed to local involvement and sustainable development.
This was exempli ed through the work programme it ful lled on the Nganzi Block in western DRC between 2009 and 2013.
Social and Community Management Our social responsibility is embedded in our social policies which include the responsibility to our own workforce, that of our contractors and the communities in which we operate.
The consideration we give to the communities includes the protection of their cultural heritage and ecosystems, the services on which they rely, the exposure to health and safety risk from our projects, the protection of their human rights particularly where security provision is required, and the management of their expectations.
We identify indigenous communities and apply our policies to enable more informed consultation and participation from such groups.
We identify communities affected by our projects and potentially vulnerable groups.
We are working with the Government of the DRC and appointed bodies within Block V in eastern DRC to prepare a compensation action plan for the potentially affected shing communities around Lake Edward from proposed activity on the lake.
SOCO International plc 37 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic Report Corporate Social Responsibility Report continued Social Investment Funding of Commitments by Partners in 2013 operated projects Congo Brazzaville DRC DRC Marine XI Block Nganzi Block Block V $000s $000s $000s Roads and transport 120.0 Telecoms 69.5 Access to clean water 462.0 Schools 509.3 102.8 Education 61.3 Health services 130.4 54.5 187.5 Food aid 25.0 Other 46.6 31.4 60.7 Total 686.3 188.7 986.0 Delivering Lasting Value Through Social Investment The projects include: SOCOs social investments fall into two broad categories.
The first is The installation of a communications mast at Nyakakoma on the support for activities and programmes that are unrelated to our business shores of Lake Edward.
These typically include health, education, and other services that aim to improve quality of life for the individuals and groups concerned.
The second category of social investment relates to investments in The provision of medical aid programmes including a mobile infrastructure directly relevant to our business, for example transportation hospital and a disease mapping campaign to combat neglected and communications systems.
Infrastructure development can deliver tropical diseases.
many bene ts to a community: not only the utility of the infrastructure itself, but also the opportunity it can bring for training, employment and The rehabilitation of a dilapidated road between Nyakakoma further external investment.
In order to further support our principle of sustainability we make certain that any social infrastructure we build can operate independently of our support over the long term.
For example, we seek to ensure that local organisations have the capacity to staff any clinics or schools we build.
Similarly, where we create boreholes for water, we make sure that the water pumps we install are simple to maintain, so that they will continue to bene t the community long after we have completed our project.
Social Investment Funding Commitments The social investments in Vietnam made by SOCO and our joint operating partners support a number of in-country charitable organisations, primarily in health and education.
In Congo Brazzaville, SOCOs social investment focus has been on social infrastructure projects such as medical and school buildings.
Details of the SOCOs In the DRC, we have been completing our social investment commitments social investment relating to the Nganzi Block licence which was relinquished in 2013.
In the projects are given east of the country, SOCO launched its social investment projects related on our website.
to our Block V project in August 2013 after a period of engagement with the local communities and national and local authorities to ascertain the needs and priorities for the people.
The projects are being delivered in collaboration with aid support agencies.
com SOCO International plc 38 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Stra tegic Report Go vernance Fi financial Statements Additional Information Managing Environmental Impacts SOCO previously has reported GHG emissions from the Vietnam operations.
2013 is however the first year that the Company has extended SOCOs environmental management framework fide fines a systematic this reporting to all of its global operated and joint-operated projects.
As approach to the assessment, management and mitigation of potential such it has set 2013 as its base or benchmark year.
environmental impacts arising from SOCOs operations.
The main objectives during 2013 have been to: At the start of each new phase of a project, the Company carries out an environmental impact assessment relative to the next phase.
These Generate a reference set of emission data against which future years assessments highlight the risks that the proposed operational phase could can be measured: and pose to the environment and, importantly, recommend mitigating action to be taken before or during the phase of operation.
Identify any issues surrounding the data collection process with the ultimate aim of standardising the GHG emissions reporting To carry out such assessments, SOCO utilises quali ed and reputable methodology across Company operations.
A local engagement campaign ensues to inform the communities of how they may be impacted by SOCOs activities.
SOCO does not usually The following criteria have been used in calculating the results: publish the formal report unless there is speci c public interest in the findings, in which case permission is sought from the respective state SOCO has reported 100% of the GHG emissions from asset authority for the document to be made available.
partnerships over which it has operational control Marine XI, Nganzi and Block V, but only part of the emissions equating to its equity Greenhouse Gas GHG Reporting share from partnerships where it is not the Operator Block 16-1 and SOCO, as part of its annual HSES monitoring programme, reports the Block 9-2.
GHG emissions are not reported for SOCOs non-operated emissions of GHG on an annual basis that have been generated as a result projects Cabinda North Block.
of its exploration and production activities.
This has been undertaken to meet both: Scope One direct emissions reported include those from sources within the SOCO organisational boundaries sources owned, wholly or the requirement under the Companies Act 2006 for UK-listed in part, or leased by SOCO have been included in the calculations companies to carry out mandatory Carbon reporting: and these include, for example, flaring operations, fuel gas diesel use to generate power, vehicle use.
the internal SOCO requirement under its HSES MS to report GHG emissions annually.
Scope Two indirect emissions reported include electricity generated via the national grid in the UK.
Section 92 of the UK Climate Change Act categorises six GHGs carbon dioxide CO2, methane CH4, nitrous oxide N2O, IN 2013, SOCOS hydrofluorocarbons HFC, perfluorocarbons PFC and sulphur hexafluoride SF6.
Of these SOCO has reported calculated levels of SCOPE ONE AND CO2, CH4 and N2O: all of which are produced during combustion.
For simplicity, the results of all three have been reported as a single SCOPE TWO parameter carbon dioxide equivalent CO2e.
The other greenhouse gases, HFCs, PFCs and SF6, are not closely associated with the EMISSIONS WERE petroleum industry: the total emission of these gases is therefore expected to be small and has not been calculated.
80,546 AND The total GHG emission for SOCO during 2013, reported as carbon dioxide 27 TONNES CO2E equivalents CO2e is 242,624 tonnes overall or 80,573 tonnes based on equity share.
For producing assets, 11 kg of CO2e is emitted per barrel of RESPECTIVELY oil produced.
Tonnes t of C02e for 2013 Operations CO2e t Normalised emission Based on CO2e t per t 1 2 Country Reported Operations Operational Phase Overall equity share oil produced UK Corporate Administration electricity usage 27 27 n a Marine XI Exploration Appraisal 10,371 10,371 Congo Brazzaville n a Nanga II A Block evaluation Corporate Administration 144 144 Nganzi Block Exploration 333 333 DRC Block V Evaluation 165 165 n a Corporate Administration 210 210 Block 9-2 CNV eld Field development production 22,637 5,659 0.01 Vietnam 0.01 Block 16-1 TGT eld Appraisal eld development production 208,737 63,664 0.01 Total 242,624 80,573 11 kg of CO2e per barrel produced 1 Under equity share, SOCO reports 100% of the emissions from partnerships over which it has operational control Marine XI, Nanga II A, Nganzi and Block V and a share of the emissions from partnerships which are jointly operated Block 16-1 and Block 9-2.
2 Normalised emission is calculated per eld, and at country level, based on gross BOEPD produced in 2013 in CNV 8,235 BOEPD and TGT 48,876 BOEPD elds.
SOCO International plc 39 Annual Report and Accounts 2013
