Additional Information Responsible Business In this section, we describe our Employee safety, health and wellbeing: eight out of 22 criteria for 2013 compared approach to delivering business success Promoting the safety, health and to nine out of 22 criteria in 2012 including responsibly.
Summary information about wellbeing of all our people worldwide as customer relationship management, our commitment and performance in we continue to drive a high performance innovation management, labour practice key areas is integrated into the relevant culture and achievement of our business indicators and human rights, social sections of this Annual Report, while goals see page 69. reporting, occupational health and safety, further information about these and other Working with suppliers: Only working strategy to improve access to drugs or areas is available on our website, with suppliers who have standards products, health outcomes contribution www.
consistent with our own as we increase and addressing cost burden.
While these our outsourcing to drive business scores are encouraging, we lost ground Introduction efficiency see page 44. in some areas including corporate In the Strategy section from page 10, we Community investment: Making a positive governance, environmental reporting, describe our approach to creating value contribution to our local communities environmental policy management across the life-cycle of a medicine, our around the world, through community system, operational eco-efficiency, distinctive capabilities and our strategy.
support programmes consistent with climate strategy, talent attraction and All these efforts are underpinned by our improving health and promoting science retention, and stakeholder engagement.
commitment to operating responsibly see pages 70 and 71.
To better understand these lower scores, to ensure the future sustainability of the we commissioned an in-depth external Company in a way that adds value for our While we monitor performance in each benchmark survey and the analysis will be stakeholders.
To that end, our responsible of these areas of our business, we have used to inform our improvement planning.
business objectives are aligned to, and identified three areas of special focus: support delivery of, our business strategy.
access to healthcare: diversity: and the Responsible business governance Our responsible business framework is the environment.
In each case, we believe The SET is responsible for our responsible vehicle for managing commitments that are that we have both the capability and the business framework and Non-Executive agreed across the Group, taking account of responsibility to implement standards that Director, Nancy Rothwell, oversees external stakeholder insights and internal accelerate our business strategy while implementation and reporting to the Board.
delivering wider benefits to society.
Senior managers throughout the Group A core element of our business strategy are accountable for operating responsibly The framework encompasses: is value-creating business development within their areas, taking into account Bioethics: Underpinning our accelerated activity that strengthens our pipeline and national, functional, and site issues and drive for innovation with sound bioethics accelerates growth.
Line managers are accountable worldwide see page 38. acquisitions.
When we acquire companies for ensuring that their teams understand Access to healthcare: As we expand our we aim to work with them to align standards the requirements and that people are geographic footprint, exploring ways of of responsible business and incorporate the clear about what is expected of them increasing access to healthcare for more companies into the setting of targets and as they work to achieve AstraZenecas people, tailored locally to different patient measurement of performance.
Diversity and inclusion: Working to ensure Benchmarking Our Responsible Business Council that diversity in its broadest sense is As expectations of stakeholders evolve, the Council is chaired by our Executive reflected in our leadership and people we continue to engage with them and use Vice-President, Human Resources & strategies see page 67. the feedback to inform the development Corporate Affairs, and members include The environment: Managing our impact of our responsible business strategy and senior leaders from each relevant SET on the environment, across all our risk management planning.
Its agenda is focused on driving operations, with a particular focus on long-term value creation by agreeing, We also use the insights we gain from carbon emissions, waste and water use among other things: external surveys to develop our approach see pages 44 and 45. in line with global best practice.
A member responsible business priorities for the Patient safety: Maintaining a strong focus of the Dow Jones Sustainability Index since Group in line with strategic business on patient safety in everything we do, 2001, we were once again listed in the 2013 objectives minimising the risks and maximising the World Index the top 10% of the largest managing and monitoring the annual benefits of all our medicines throughout 2,500 companies.
We also retained our process of setting responsible business R&D, and after launch see pages 38 listing on the DJSI STOXX European Index objectives and targets recorded in the and 39. the top 20% of the 600 largest European Responsible Business Plan, as well as Sales and marketing: Working to companies for the sixth year running one reviewing performance against KPIs consistent global standards of ethical of only four pharmaceutical companies to appropriate policy positions to support sales and marketing practices in all our do so out of 14 assessed.
We achieved a AstraZenecas business objectives and markets as we work to restore growth total score of 85% 2012: 83% compared reputation management.
see page 42. with a sector best score of 86% 2012: Human rights: Continuing to develop and 87%.
We increased individual scores for embed a consistent approach to human rights across all our worldwide activities see pages 68 and 69.
220 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2013 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Carbon reporting Global greenhouse gas emissions data for period 1 January 2013 to 31 December 2013 Tonnes of CO e 2 2013 2012 2011 2010 Emissions from: 1 Combustion of fuel and operation of facilities 324,600 318,700 372,900 396,100 Electricity, heat, steam and cooling purchased for own use 275,100 277,100 333,700 359,100 Companys chosen intensity measurement: Emissions reported above normalised to million US dollar revenue 23.3 21.3 21.0 22.7 Supplemental information: Net electricity, heat, steam and cooling emissions, after write down due to voluntary purchase of electricity 2 supplied under certified low carbon supply contracts or carbon certificates 237,800 250,800 304,100 329,800 Supply chain emissions: Upstream emissions from personnel air travel, goods transport and waste incineration 155,400 169,800 193,100 176,600 Downstream emissions from HFA propellants released during patient use of our inhaled medicines 352,000 299,600 236,700 220,600 1 Included in this section are greenhouse gases from direct fuel combustion, process and engineering emissions at our sites and from fuel use in our vehicle fleet.
2 Some electricity supplied to our UK sites has been provided under a green power contract and is backed up with an equivalent quantity of Renewable Energy Guarantees of Origin and some of the electricity consumed at our US sites is covered by purchase of Renewable Energy Certificates.
The Council is supported by a Responsible Based on the evidence provided and These sources fall within our consolidated Business Working Group the Working subject to the scope, objectives and Financial Statements.
We do not have Group of SET area representatives.
limitations defined in the full assurance responsibility for any emission sources Among other things, the Working Group statement, nothing has come to the that are not included in our consolidated continuously reviews external issues with attention of Bureau Veritas causing them Financial Statements.
the potential to impact AstraZeneca and, to believe that the responsible business We have used the GHG Protocol Corporate as appropriate, prepares management information contained within this Annual Accounting and Reporting Standard and measurement proposals for the Report is materially misstated.
Emission factors for Councils consideration.
Veritas is an independent professional electricity have been derived from the services company that has a long history External assurance International Energy Agency and USEPA of providing independent assurance Bureau Veritas has provided external eGRID databases, and for all other fuels services in environmental, health, safety, assurance to a limited level on the and emission sources from the 2006 social and ethical management.
responsible business information contained IPCC Guidelines for National Greenhouse within this Annual Report: The assurance statement including scope, Gas Inventories.
methodology, overall opinion, and limitations Bureau Veritas has undertaken a limited Patient safety, pages 38 and 39 and exclusions is available on our website at assurance on the 2013 GHG emissions data: Clinical trials and Clinical trial www.
the assurance statement including scope, transparency, page 39 Carbon reporting methodology, overall opinion, and limitations Animal research, page 39 The above table provides data on our global and exclusions is available on our website at Increasing access to healthcare, greenhouse gas emissions for 2013. www.
pages 41 and 42 Sales and marketing ethics, page 42 We have reported on all of the emission Working with suppliers, page 44 sources required under the Quoted Environmental impact, page 44 and 45 Companies Greenhouse Gas Emissions Improving the strength and diversity Directors Reports Regulations 2013. of the talent pipeline, pages 67 and 68 Human rights, pages 68 and 69 Safety, health and wellbeing, page 69 Community investment, pages 70 and 71 Responsible Business, pages 220 and 221.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2013 221
