26 Ethics We believe that an ethical approach to business is integral to achieving our business strategy, as well as a vital element of effective risk management.
Spectris comprises four business segments which reflect the different Training, engagement and support applications and end-user industries we serve, but we share the We completed our ethics leadership engagement sessions that same values and the same commitment to managing our business commenced during 2012 in January 2013, with over 500 senior according to the highest ethical standards.
managers across the Group participating.
At the end of June 2013, 96% of employees had received face-to-face training from their managers and the remainder have since been trained.
Mandatory Absolute integrity Empowerment face-to-face ethics training forms part of the induction process for all of our new employees.
Upon receiving training, every employee is required to confirm that they have received and understand theCode.
Face-to-face training is reinforced by e-learning modules.
In 2014, all employees will be expected to complete a bespoke Code of Business Ethics on-line course.
All employees that utilise the Groups IT systems will complete an Information Security module and selected employees will undertake Export Controls and Fair Competition Our values training.
These bespoke tools focus on helping employees apply the principles of the Code to the practical challenges of their day-to-daywork.
Our Code requires senior managers to create and foster an open and ethical culture and lead by example, and they are required to provide High Customer performance focus certification to that effect annually.
For certification purposes, senior management includes the Executive team, operating company Presidents as well as the Regional Presidents for Asia and South America, the Finance and Administrative Head in Russia, VicePresidents, Country Managers and Senior Sales Managers and Ethics Restless innovation Officers.
100% of senior managers had confirmed compliance for the period ended 31 December 2013 as at the date of this report.
Our Code of Business Ethics the Code and continuous A culture of openness engagement with employees continue to be the cornerstone of our We actively encourage a culture of openness, and managers make ethics programme.
The Code provides a clear framework for how themselves available to employees so they can discuss any issues we do business, and covers areas such as working together, working that arise in the course of their work, and raise any concerns.
This is with partners and other stakeholders, working with company assets, especially important if they believe there has been a possible violation and working with information.
It also includes a section on our of either the law or our Code.
We also have an independent hotline responsibilities to our communities.
The Code provides guidance on www.
com which gives our people, business partners who to go to for advice and where and how to raise concerns.
and other third parties the option to report concerns, anonymously if they wish.
All reports are followed up and investigated and During the year, we continued to work on embedding ethical culture the results are communicated to the Audit and Risk Committee.
across the Group, with the main areas of focus on providing refresher Wemake a commitment to protect the careers and reputations and tailored face-to-face training to employees, the launch of a of employees who report wrongdoing, as long as they do so in formalised group-wide third-party due diligence framework and good faith and in the best interests of the Group.
Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 26 Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report Ethical issues During the year, concerns were raised by a Korean employee concerning the activities of a small number of local managers in relation to infringements of fair competition laws.
Our internal audit and legal teams, advised by external counsel, carried out a rigorous investigation.
The infringements have been brought to the attention of the local fair competition authority and the employees concerned are no longer employed by the Group.
Our internal audit processes also uncovered unethical and fraudulent activity committed by a sales leader at one of our businesses in China.
Again, the employee concerned is no longer employed by the Group.
Third-party management We have a specific framework governing how we manage relationships with third parties.
This is designed to help us assess not just the commercial viability of a business relationship, but also any potential anti-bribery risks that it might pose.
During 2013, we formalised this framework and developed a consistent risk Our interactive Decisions Guide assessment and due diligence process for all of our businesses.
We received a positive response from employees following the Having the same process across the whole group ensures that we introduction of our Decisions Guide in 2012, and we have manage relationships consistently and potential integrity risks are developed this into an interactive app for tablets and smartphones.
dealt with at the earliest possible opportunity with appropriate The Guide is a practical tool which sets out a simple set of questions mitigation.
This framework will be implemented during 2014 with to help employees address an issue in the right way and reach the initial focus on our sales channel.
The app also sets out our values, provides contact details for all our Ethics Officers as well as the hotline details.
The app will be launched during 2014.
Case study: Rolling out the Code Servomex is a good example of how the operating businesses within Spectris have taken on the Group values and Code of Business Ethics, where they are seen as integral to achieving their business growth aspirations.
As Chuck Hurley, President of Servomex says, We were first introduced to the new Code of Business Ethics at a leadership engagement session in Beijing.
Everyone in the leadership team had pretty much the same reaction: this way of working was already at the heart of what we do every day.
Once the leadership team had undergone training, it was rolled out to all employees.
Everyone had a chance to engage with the issues, and we made sure that the materials were directly relevant to the sort of decisions our people have to make every day.
We wanted business ethics to be something that everyone takes ownership of, and thats definitely happened.
Im really proud of this proud of how we did it, and how everyone responded, and every new employee now goes through the same process when theyjoin.
Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 27 Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report
