Corporate Responsibility Corporate responsibility encompasses all aspects of business decision-making and, as such, is fully integrated into our strategy, policies and processes in order that Spectris can continue to deliver shareholder value in a sustainable manner.
Introduction The key risks to our sustainability strategy include changes in The key opportunities for our business stem from our principal regulation, affecting both the products our customers require and objective of helping customers to increase yield, improve quality, the manufacture of our own products.
For example, regulations save time and streamline processes.
This enables a wide range of concerning the use and correct disposal of certain materials used in manufacturers to reduce their impact on the environment whilst the manufacture of our products may lead to increased costs and improving their productivity and reducingcosts.
potential fines for non-compliance: and increasing environmental carbon taxes may impact profitability.
Furthermore, loss of key This report focuses on those areas which are considered to be employees may delay projects, leading to loss of business: new material by our customers, our shareholders and our employees, products may not be as successful as originally projected, leading to and which are important to the success of our business at a Group loss of revenue: and having operations in many developing areas of level.
These areas comprise: developing products which help our the world presents ethical risks resulting from a different perception customers to be more sustainable: engaging and retaining our of the way business may be conducted.
These risks are mitigated employees: human rights: ethics: and minimising our own impact by the use of formal reviews throughout the business which are on the environment, for example by monitoring energy usage.
regularly monitored and updated and by detailed management Sincewe do very little manufacturing in-house, our direct emissions systems andprocesses.
are relatively low and our business in general does not use a significant amount of water.
Community involvement and decisions Minimising energy use on charitable donations and sponsorship are undertaken by local There are few industries more energy-intensive than cement management teams, and may vary from one company to another, manufacture, but our materials analysis instruments can help depending on business and regional priorities.
streamline the process, by assessing the shape and size of raw material particles prior to production.
This can generate substantial Opportunities for business growth stem from the issues our reductions in energy use and hence carbon emissions.
customers are seeking to address.
These include the requirement to use less energy driven by higher power costs and energy taxes and Another important sector for us is paper-making.
We manufacture regulatory pressures carbon taxes, landfill taxes, disposal of harmful instruments that assess and test the quality, consistency and colour substances, limits on vehicle industrial emissions.
As a result, we of pulp before it enters the production process, thereby reducing continue to innovate in order to provide appropriate products waste and improving quality.
We also make durable high-precision and services to our customers.
Our unique understanding of our ceramic blades which ensure that speciality papers and packaging customers business, together with our commitment to aftermarket receive exactly the right quantity and consistency of coating, which service, results in long-standing customer relationships.
We will again reduces waste.
continue to work in partnership to develop new products to help Supporting renewables meet the demands driven by increasing focus on the environment Renewable energy generation remains a major focus for and sustainability.
governments, and green sources of power such as wind, solar and Our business hydro continue to attract significant investment.
In many cases they We have always placed a high priority on the standards by which we are the fastest-growing energy sources, especially in the developing do business, because we believe that how we work is as important world.
We have world-leading expertise in the design and testing as what we do.
In recent years, we have improved our governance of new materials for wind turbine blades and towers, and as a processes and oversight, and enhanced our Code of Business Ethics.
growing number of turbines are sited offshore, it is vital that they can There is more on this on page 26. withstand these conditions without requiring constant maintenance.
Our systems can monitor turbine performance remotely, to ensure Our values are pivotal to how we operate and essential to our that the turbines are set up correctly for optimum performance business success and growth.
They underpin the way we work, and schedule preventive maintenance.
This minimises wear and guide our decision-making and shape our culture.
You can read tear, prevents damage and optimises efficiency, saving both time more about our values on our website.
The business of sustainability Hydropower is the largest renewable source for power generation At Spectris, sustainability isnt just how we do business, it is the on a global basis, providing approximately 20% of the worlds business we are in.
Our products help our clients become more total electricity supply.
As with offshore wind, maintaining the sustainable, both economically and environmentally, because they machinery involved can be expensive and time-consuming, and are designed to improve productivity, reduce waste, and save time, small improvements in efficiency can translate into major savings.
money and resources, including reducing power consumption.
Ourinstrumentation can monitor turbines and generators in real In our view, it is a virtuous circle: our products make a significant time, to predict and prevent problems before they require a full contribution to the achievement of a lower carbon world, and shutdown to be repaired.
these products, in turn, drive our own economic success and futuregrowth.
Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 22 Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report We also have a presence in the solar energy sector, where our Increasingly, our customers are asking us to provide information equipment helps ensure that the layers of photovoltaic film in solar on how we manage our supply chain.
Our strategic sourcing team panels are the correct thickness for maximum efficiency.
work alongside local managers to carry out regular inspections at our suppliers sites and we use the SA 8000:2008 Social Cutting emissions Accountability standard to assess key suppliers against criteria such Governments around the world are implementing ever stronger as workers rights, workplace conditions, and health, safety and legislation in relation to air quality, especially in cities.
In the Asia Pacific region, 42 of our top suppliers industries such as oil and gas and large-scale manufacturing are have been audited to date.
Where non-conformances have been facing the challenge of reducing their emissions, and automotive found, suppliers have been very co-operative in implementing any manufacturers are developing more fuel-efficient engines which improvements necessary.
Our instruments can measure the size of fuel particles, which helps to produce more efficient injection Our people systems.
Our gas analysis products can measure pollutants, enabling A positive and entrepreneurial culture combustion processes to be optimised, thereby reducing greenhouse Spectris is an extremely specialised and technical business, and we gas emissions generated by industrial processes.
This helps ensure rely on the skills and expertise of our 7,400 people, many of whom compliance with environmental legislation and often forms part of are highly qualified engineers and technicians.
We have built our certification testing.
success on a combination of operational excellence and intelligent innovation, and we know that such innovation requires a way Reducing noise of working which is open, positive and respectful, and supports With noise pollution a growing problem, especially in cities, our the development of new ideas, and the taking of reasonable and market-leading sensors can identify and monitor noise and vibration, measured risks.
and thereby help to reduce it.
We have expertise in monitoring airport noise, which is a highly regulated area and is preventing many Diversity and equality airports from expanding.
Our noise mapping and prediction systems Ours is a diverse business, with operations at more than 130 locations are in place at more than 200 airports worldwide, helping operators throughout the world, and employees from over 30 different to maximise their capacity utilisation within required noise limits.
We recruit, develop, and promote our people Weare now extending this know-how to other heavy industries, based on their talent, commitment and achievement: everyone such as construction, mining, heavy industrial, andtransport.
Case study: A diverse workforce Eliminating toxic substances Patricia Liu, Managing Director of Elimination of toxic substances is another area where legislative Asia Pacific for Omega Engineering, requirements are becoming more onerous, especially in relation to is based in Singapore.
Having spent heavy metal contaminants in foodstuffs, drugs and cosmetics, and in the production and disposal of electrical devices and electronics.
five years in academia, she then Our X-ray systems can analyse soil samples for these contaminants, worked at Hewlett-Packard for 15 and help determine the cause of the problem, whether caused years, before taking up her current by acid rain, industrial accident, or deliberate dumping.
The same role with Omega in March 2013. instrumentation can also detect substances such as lead and What attracted me to Omega was cadmium in products, and analyse the levels of sulphur in fuel.
that it was setting up its operation in Asia, Patricia says.
I was taken on to lead the Companys Improving safety expansion in the region and, in less than a year, weve Our safety monitoring systems enable the performance of turbines and generators to be monitored in real time so that preventive action opened in three new territories in quick succession.
In can be taken before any faults become serious.
We also supply gas many ways its like being an entrepreneur Im growing analysis instrumentation to industrial customers to measure harmful a business from scratch, with all the excitement that or explosive gases, enabling them to monitor areas at risk from always offers.
There are fewer women in the engineering hazardous emissions or potential explosions.
sector, particularly in senior roles, but Patricia says that engineering is no different from any other business you Working with our supply chain have to be good at what you do, and you have to work We collaborate on sustainability both up and down our value chain, hard.
People often ask how I got my big career break.
I tell working both with our customers and our suppliers.
We encourage our suppliers to reduce their own impact on the environment, and them, the harder you work, the luckier you get.
Im here to share our own expertise to help them do that.
We have strict criteria do a good job, and help others do a good job.
Some of our for selecting our suppliers, and expect them to share our principles products may be used in the space industry, but my job is and meet our standards.
Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 23 Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 24 Corporate Responsibility continued is treated equally and fairly whatever their race, colour, religion, Our Omega Engineering business runs an Omega University where national origin, gender, sexual orientation, age, or background.
new team members from around the world most recently from the Wevalue this diversity, believing it adds considerably to our working newly-established offices in Brazil and Asia Pacific go to the US for culture.
We do not tolerate discrimination or harassment in any six weeks for training.
Omega also runs Leadership Training classes at form.
Disabled persons are recruited, trained and promoted on the its majorlocations.
basis of aptitude and ability.
If employees become disabled, every Our compensation and benefits schemes are in line with other effort is made to retain them and, when necessary, re-train them for leading companies in our sector, and levels of pay and rewards appropriateposts.
are dependent on the achievement of individual and corporate We encourage our employees to maintain a healthy balance between objectives.
Our Savings-Related Share Option Scheme is available their working and personal lives, and offer flexible part-time and to all UK employees, and grants to senior management worldwide job-share opportunities to employees with family commitments, under our Performance Share Plan are designed to reward loyalty wherepossible.
We work hard to build a creative working environment for our In that spirit, we would like Spectris to have a better balance between people with scope for individual responsibility and personal male and female employees.
This is a common challenge in our achievement.
We assess our success in this area by monitoring the sector, and the trend over time is towards a more even balance rate of voluntary staff turnover.
between the genders, as more young women choose to study science and technical subjects.
The table below shows the number Voluntary staff turnover of Spectris employees by gender and management status: 2013 2012 2011 Male Female Total Total 5.98% 5.84% 6.91% Europe 3.23% 2.70% 3.34% Directors 8 1 9 Americas 6.07% 5.17% 5.78% Management 134 23 157 Asia Pacific 12.15% 13.91% 16.15% Other 5,135 2,109 7,244 Total 5,277 2,133 7,410 % of total 71.2% 28.8% 100% Our full employment policy is published on our website.
Health and Safety Includes Non-executive Directors of the Company.
T he new reporting guidelines are not specific on the definition of management.
As a responsible employer, we take the health and safety of our We have defined this as Company employees who are Presidents or Managing employees seriously.
We are proud to have an excellent record Directors and their immediate line 1 reports who are Directors or Vice-Presidents.
of safety in our workplaces, but we remain vigilant and track our D ata as at 31 December 2013.
Includes S Blair, who resigned as a Director on 25February 2014. accident incident rate as a key performance indicator.
We have not had a death or serious work-related injury for over ten years.
Training, development and compensation Our training programmes help our employees to develop both Accident Incident Rate KPI personally and professionally, and reach their full potential.
We carry 2013 2012 2011 2010 out annual performance reviews to assess each individuals training Reportable accidents per 1,000 needs, and assess their performance against the previous years employees 4.4 4.7 2.7 5.3 targets.
We also run a number of graduate recruitment programmes and student work placements at operating company level.
Our two Work-related accidents or ill health resulting in lost time in excess of three days.
principal UK businesses, Malvern and Servomex, have received the Excluding acquisitions and disposals made in the year.
Investors in People award for their training, appraisal, employee development and skills programmes.
Each of our operating companies is responsible for implementing the Group-wide Health and Safety policy, and in some cases there are At PANalytical, a new management development programme additional local regulations they also have to comply with.
The interactive training model focuses policy covers our own employees and sub-contractors and where on leadership skills and, especially, performance appraisal, and appropriate our suppliers.
You can read the full policy on our website.
is designed to help managers and supervisors conduct effective All our major locations are audited annually by independent assessors appraisals and identify appropriate training and development for their compliance with Health and Safety policy and procedures.
to enable their staff to set goals and objectives and develop Anyrecommendations for improvements are put intopractice.
2014 will see leadership competencies added to theprogramme.
Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 24 Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 25 3.
Data on vehicle emissions, refrigerant gases and other GHG processes is not readily Human rights available, however processes have been put in place to enable reporting for 2014.
In Our human rights policy is consistent with the Core Conventions addition, we have also introduced processes to report Scope 3 air travel emissions.
of the International Labor Organization, and we comply with Whilst this is not yet a legal obligation, we understand the importance of this in determining, and reducing, our total carbon footprint.
 human rights standards at all our sites.
Thepolicy includes our position on non-discrimination, harassment, 4.
Our reporting processes, and the above data derived from them, are verified by Lloyds Register Quality Assurance.
Human rights considerations are also included in the due diligence process we undertake before any potential 5.
Excluding acquisitions and disposals made in the year.
acquisition, which ensures that whenever we are considering buying We also provide environmental data to the Carbon Disclosure another business, we are fully informed of their approach in areas Project, a not-for-profit organisation which collects data from such as non-discrimination, equal opportunities, and freedom of companies around the world and compares their disclosure and association.
Our full human rights policy is available on our website.
The environment Management systems and certification Minimising our own environmental impacts Approximately 60% of our own manufacturing operations by We have lower environmental impacts than might be expected of turnover are certified to ISO 14001:2004 for Environmental a company in our sector, because we outsource a high proportion Management Systems, including our head office which achieved of product manufacturing.
We still take responsibility for our certification to both ISO 14001:2004 and OHSAS 18001:2007 manufacturing, however, by working actively with the relevant Occupational Health & Safety Management Systems in January 2013. suppliers to ensure that our products are made in a responsible manner, and meet our environmental performance standards Lloyds Register Quality Assurance LRQA have independently ISO14001 SA 8000 assessments.
verified the data associated with energy consumption, GHG emissions, voluntary labour turnover, accident incident rate, and Increasingly, our customers are asking us to provide information the text within the Supply chain management process section.
on how we manage our carbon usage.
We monitor our use of key TheLRQA Assurance Statement confirming scope, methodology and sources of energy electricity, gas, oil, and steam.
The tables below recommendations is available on our website at www.
We have made energy consumption relative to revenue a key performance indicator.
Looking ahead We will continue to grow our business in a sustainable way both Energy consumption KPI by developing products and services which help our customers 2013 2012 2011 2010 to reduce their impact on the environment and by looking at our MWh per m revenue 77.6 79.6 79.5 90.5 own processes and those of our suppliers in order to lower our directimpact.
Business ethics will remain central to the way we operate, and in We are also required to report on greenhouse gas emissions GHGs, 2014 we will be looking in more detail at how we apply our Code as below: of Business Ethics to our relationships with third-party partners and Greenhouse gas emissions tonnes CO 2 suppliers.
The training and development of our own people will again be an important area of focus and investment in the coming year.
2013 2012 Scope 1 3,030 2,934 We will continue to audit our supply chain in Asia Pacific against Scope 2 37,024 40,533 the SA 8000 standard, and support our businesses in applying our Scope 3 7,152 7,564 ethical and technical standards to their own supply chains.
Total gross emissions 47,206 51,031 Total carbon emissions per m revenue 39.27 41.46 Notes 1.
Raw Scope 1 and Scope 2 data is measured and reported by all Spectris operations worldwide.
This data is converted into carbon emissions tonnes CO e using the 2 conversion factors from the 2013 DEFRA DEC Guidelines for GHG Reporting.
Due to the changes introduced to Defras 2013 conversion factors, there is a reduction in our Scope 2 emissions due to the disaggregation of electricity, gas and oil emissions associated with electricity transmission and distribution T&D losses and Well to Tank WTT which have now been officially classified as Scope 3.
The 2012 emissions have been restated to provide a like-for-like comparison with 2013 emissions.
Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 25 Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report
