48 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic report continued Sustainability report Enhancing the sustainability of our operations is a key strategic priority for the Group.
Good progress has been made against our sustainability objectives during 2013.
Nick Anderson Group Chief Executive Sustainability is one of the six key strategic priorities through which Achieving our sustainability objectives requires a clear and wellwe are driving growth and achieving shareholder value, while defined management structure.
The Group Chief Executive has managing our environmental and social impact.
overall responsibility for the Companys sustainability strategy and is fully supported by the Board of Directors.
We have a senior We recognise the importance of corporate sustainability and believe Group Health, Safety and Environment executive who ensures that that sustainability is synonymous with resiliency.
A sustainable appropriate policies, systems and reporting metrics are in place business is one that can survive shocks and economic challenges to achieve the Groups sustainability objectives.
Regional and because it has been managed with an eye to both the present and general managers have responsibility for ensuring that the Groups thefuture.
sustainability policies are upheld and implemented by our operating companies, and at a local level individuals and groups are organised Our sustainability strategy is focused on three core areas: our to oversee and report on key aspects of sustainability within business, our communities and our environment.
Within these three their workplaces.
broad areas we have identified eight key objectives: During 2013 we focused on developing the mechanisms by Our business: which we share best practice across the Group.
For example, in September 2013 a health, safety and environment HSE conference To govern the business ethically and uphold our was held at Spirax Sarco, USA, attended by delegates from corevalues the Spirax Sarco HSE user group.
The conference provided an opportunity for attendees to learn more about the Behavioural Based To achieve consistent and sustainable growth and Safety programme that is in operation in the USA see page 52 and shareholder value to discuss how the programme is to be rolled out across the Group.
Our environmental targets were also discussed, as were strategies To maintain professionally challenging and for achieving them.
safe workplaces To ensure that we are recording, measuring and reporting key To provide for the on-going training and development sustainability metrics accurately, and to provide transparency in our of our people sustainability reporting, during 2013 we appointed Carbon Clear, an independent third-party organisation, to help us achieve limited assurance of our carbon emissions data, with assurance provided Our communities: by TV see page 54.
To engage positively with the communities in which During 2014 we will continue to invest management time into weoperate developing and furthering our sustainability agenda.
We recognise that we have an ethical responsibility to manage our economic, To offer financial support to approved charities through environmental and social impacts, but also believe that it makes the Spirax Sarco Group Charitable Trust good business sense to do so.
A focus on sustainability drives behaviours which cut costs and increase operational efficiency, Our environment: while also creating new market and business opportunities and mitigating risks.
Put simply, we believe that sustainability enhances To manage and minimise the environmental impacts our competitive edge, ensuring financial progress and the delivery ofour operations ofshareholder value.
To help our customers to achieve their sustainability targets.
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc is a constituent of the FTSE4Good UK Index About us Welcome to our Chairmans Our Our Our business Our business Our Our 2013 report statement structure marketplace model model in action strategy KPIs Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 49 Our business: Equal opportunities Objective: B Bo oa ar rd d gen gend der er d di iv ver ers si it ty y To govern the business ethically and to uphold our core values We believe that good governance is essential to the success and sustainability of our business.
We define good governance as managing the business transparently and in accordance with best practice, the UK Corporate Governance Code 2012, the UK Stewardship Code and all applicable laws and regulations.
During 2013, we were delighted to receive a nomination for a Transparency in Governance Award, by the Institute of Chartered Males: 8 Females: 1 Secretaries and Administrators, within the category: FTSE250 Best Board Disclosure.
S Seni enio or r m ma an na age gemen ment t gen gend der er d di iv ver ers si it ty y In July the strength of our governance and business performance was further recognised when Watson-Marlow won a prestigious PwC 2013 West of England Business of the Year award.
The award recognised various aspects of business achievement such as financial performance, product and service innovation, business management, future prospects and contribution to the region.
Our core values of respect, accountability, passion, integrity and delivery provide the foundation upon which we make decisions, drive innovation and manage our global operations.
During 2013, Males: 449 Females: 84 1,000 of our employees and senior managers participated in Doing the Right Thing training, designed to increase understanding of T To ot tal al w wo or rk kf fo or rc ce e gen gend der er d di iv ver ers si it ty y the core values and anti-discrimination law, and to improve diversity awareness.
All employees have responsibility for ensuring that the Group operates ethically and have an obligation to report breaches of Company policy.
The Group will not permit retaliation of any kind against employees for making good faith reports about an actual orsuspected violation of Group policy.
We communicate regularly with our employees through a variety of channels and undertake employee surveys.
Our aim is to ensure that all employees are informed about, and engaged in, their part of the business locally while having a wider understanding of the Group Males: 3,794 Females: 1,025 and its future direction.
Our Group Management Code articulates the standards that We recognise that diversity of gender, age, culture, experience we expect everyone within the Group to meet.
It includes the and expertise serve to enhance our ability to govern the business requirement to comply with laws, regulations and Group policies: effectively and ethically.
therejection of bribery and corruption: the promotion of ethical Target: 25% female Board members by 2016. business practices: the fair treatment of customers: the confidentiality of information: and respect for our people, communities and the We are fully committed to the principle of equal opportunity environment.
It is Group policy to conduct business free of bribery in employment and ensure that all applicants and employees or corruption.
The Group will not enter into contractual relationships receive equal treatment during their recruitment, transfer, with third parties who are known to participate in corrupt practices promotion, training and assessment of salary and benefits.
and will not engage in the giving or receiving of bribes.
We do not make political donations.
We give full and fair consideration to applications for employment made by disabled persons, having regard to their particular The Group supports the Human Rights principles set out in the aptitudes and abilities.
We have procedures in place to facilitate Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the Core Conventions the continuing employment of those who may become disabled of the International Labour Organisation.
We recognise that all during the period in which they are employed by the Company, individuals have the right to lead a dignified life, free from fear and disabled persons are entitled to the same opportunities for and want, and free to express independent beliefs.
Our Group career development as all other employees.
Human Rights Policy includes the right of all employees to equal opportunities and non-discriminatory treatment, security of person, During 2013 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc became a member a safe working environment and a fair wage.
We also recognise of the Business Disability Forum, an organisation that offers the rights of children and reject the use of forced or compulsory help and support to companies that are striving to increase their labour.
We endeavour to ensure that our direct operations and any disability awareness, through giving practical advice and sharing interactions with business partners do not make us complicit in best practice.
Human Rights violations and seek suppliers who meet the same high standards we set for our own businesses.
Our Group performance Group Chief EMEA Asia Americas Watson-Marlow Financial S Su usta staiin na ab biilliit ty y risks at a glance Executives report Pacific review r re epor port t 3.
Strategic report 50 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic report continued Sustainability report continued Our business continued: Financial performance Objective: Sales from energy management products m To achieve consistent and sustainable growth 2013 XXX.
X Managing our business sustainability has a positive impact on our over 30% growth 2011 XXX.
Through reducing energy consumption and managing waste we optimise process efficiency, resulting in 2010 XXX.
For example, by managing our energy 2009 XXX.
X consumption, we not only lower our energy bill but we also reduce outlay on carbon taxes incurred through the UKs Carbon Reduction Commitment Scheme and Climate Change Levy.
While many of our products and services aid effective energy management, we have identified a specific range as falling within A focus on sustainability is a core component of our risk mitigation the energy management sector of our marketplace see page 8. strategy see pages 2627.
Weak environmental, social or These include our metering products, boilerhouse products, heat governance performance can have a significant, negative impact transfer packages and energy services.
We recognise a direct link on a companys reputation and can incur a subsequent financial between the sales of energy management products and three of cost.
By managing all aspects of our business with our sustainability our strategic objectives: deliver solutions to reduce energy usage: objectives in mind, we mitigate the risk of breaching regulatory grow market share and achieve sustainability.
As a result of our requirements, avoid non-compliance with health, safety and strategic focus and investments, during the last five years sales of environmental legislation and manage our corporate reputation, our energy management products have increased by more than contributing to the sustainability and long-term financial viability of 30% at constant currency.
Our energy management products form a core component of The wellbeing of our employees is a key sustainability objective.
many of our engineered solutions.
During the last five years we We recognise our responsibility to treat our employees with have invested in R&D to enhance existing energy management respect and to provide safe and professionally challenging products and to develop new, unique energy recovery packages, workplaces.
We believe that high standards of safety and employee ensuring that we deliver effective solutions to our customers.
engagement can mean less time lost to absence and lower voluntary employee turnover.
This also helps us to recruit the best and most We have been able to grow our market share through widening talented people.
We take seriously our governance, social and our range of products, including energy metering and heat environmental responsibilities.
recovery packages, which have contributed meaningfully to our We believe that a focus on sustainability helps us to access new sales growth.
markets for existing products and gain market share, as well as As we continue to increase our capacity to solve our customers acting as a catalyst for the innovation of new products and services.
process issues, improve their productivity and help them The strategic integration of sustainability helps us to anticipate the meet their sustainability targets, particularly in relation to needs of our customers who are increasingly turning to us for help energy management, we are investing in the sustainability of to meet their sustainability targets.
A core strength of our direct our business.
sales business model is that our expert sales and service engineers can walk our customers plants and identify ways to improve their operational efficiency and reduce their energy consumption, carbon emissions or water use.
Through investing in R&D we continuously improve our product range and develop new products to meet our customers needs, thereby ensuring the long-term viability of our business.
During 2013, the new Qdos 30 metering pump from Watson-Marlow won a Vaaler Award, from Chemical Processing, in the USA.
The award recognises products and services that can significantly improve plant operations and economics.
Our wide product range, ability to design bespoke engineered applied solutions, and the expert knowledge of our people help to build trust, enhance our reputation and ensure that we provide outstanding customer service.
Through helping our customers to meet their sustainability targets we develop customer loyalty which, in turn, helps us to deliver long-term sustainable growth and shareholder value.
A Spirax Sarco heat transfer package About us Welcome to our Chairmans Our Our Our business Our business Our Our 2013 report statement structure marketplace model model in action strategy KPIs Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 51 Our business continued: Health and safety H&S Objective: Accidents with over seven days of lost time To maintain professionally challenging and per1,000 employees safe workplaces 2013 4.4 Our people are one of our greatest assets.
Looking after their 2012 5.5 health and wellbeing is a key priority for the Group.
We remain 2011 6.0 committed to improving our health and safety H&S record and 2010 to maintaining a safe environment for our employees, visitors and The over seven day lost time accident rate decreased by 20% subcontractors worldwide.
Our goal is to embed a health and safety culture across the Group through providing our employees with the training and tools needed Total number of accidents with over seven days of to recognise and understand both the importance of H&S practices lost time per 1,000 employees and how to proactively mitigate H&S risk.
This year we began to roll out a Behavioural Based Safety BBS programme across all our 2013 21 manufacturing sites.
BBS was first implemented in our operating 2012 26 company in the USA.
The success of this programme see page 52 has resulted in the decision to adopt it across the Group.
We anticipate 2011 28 a steady improvement in our H&S performance over the next 2010 few years as a result of the cultural change brought about by The total number of over seven day accidents decreased by 19% the programme.
Our H&S management and governance structure is well developed.
As with the other elements of our sustainability strategy, the Board Target and Group Chief Executive have overall responsibility for H&S.
We want all of our employees to return home safely at the end of The Board formally reviews H&S matters at least bi-annually and each day.
As such, we have a long-term target of zero accidents.
is supported by a H&S Executive, appointed during 2013, who In the short term, however, our H&S targets are to achieve a monitors H&S practices across the Group, facilitates the sharing of year-on-year reduction in our over seven day accident rate and best practice and ensures that appropriate processes are in place to achieve a better than benchmark H&S record.
The H&S for collecting and reporting H&S data.
benchmark that we use is the RIDDOR over seven day accident All H&S accidents and near misses are recorded at a local level and rate in the UK manufacturing sector, which was 4.0 accidents per reported regularly to the Board.
All RIDDOR recordable accidents 1,000 employees in 2012 2013. and incidents are reported immediately, with a follow up report We have made good progress during the last three years and within two days detailing improvements made to prevent a repeat of have reduced our accident rate by 27% and are now close to the accident.
We are taking action to reduce All of our operating companies are expected to adhere to the Group our accident rate further, including the adoption of BBS and the H&S Policy, and to have local H&S policies in place.
The Group sharing of best practice across the Group.
Policy is reviewed annually and outlines minimum expected H&S standards for each of our operating companies.
Our operating Group H&S management structure companies define local strategies and objectives which are reviewed and approved by local management teams.
Group Chief The Board Executive Each of our operating companies has its own occupational H&S management system in place with documents that define the local H&S policy and procedures.
The occupational health and Group HS&E safety systems of our operating companies generally follow the Executive requirements of the OHSAS 18001 standard, but not all operating companies have yet been assessed and certified.
By the end of 2013 seven of our operating companies had OHSAS 18001 Divisional Directors certification in place 2012: five and we aim to increase this number year-on-year.
In addition to the H&S policies, procedures and management General Managers systems that we have in place, annual H&S risk assessments are conducted within each operating company.
Regular staff training also occurs, including daily H&S briefings in our manufacturing Heads of H&S officers plants, and we provide our employees with personal protective department equipment.
Taken together, these actions, policies and procedures help to minimise risk in our workplaces.
Through ensuring that our people are safe, we protect one of our most valuable assets and All staff H&S committees contribute to the sustainability of our business.
Our Group performance Group Chief EMEA Asia Americas Watson-Marlow Financial Sustainability risks at a glance Executives report Pacific review report 3.
Strategic report 52 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic report continued Sustainability report continued Our business continued: Case study: Behavioural Based Safety and Wellness Objective: Programme, Spirax Sarco USA.
To provide for the on-going training and development of our people Average number of formal training days per customer facing employee 2013 7.2 2012 5.6 2011 XXX.
X Whatever their position within the Company, all employees are encouraged to develop their skills.
We support applications for 2009 XXX.
X training and professional development from workers from the factory During 2011 Spirax-Sarco Inc, USA, launched a floor through to senior managers and Directors.
Behavioural Based Safety and Wellness Programme.
The knowledge and skills of our customer facing sales and service The programme aims to engage all employees in engineers is a key differentiator and is central to our ability to H&S, enabling them to better identify and eliminate offer value to our customers.
Ensuring that our sales and service risks: to drive cultural and behavioural change: and engineers have unrivalled industry expertise is crucial to achieving to incentivise staff tolive a healthier lifestyle.
our first strategic objective of strengthening our global market position through local expertise and customer insight.
Core components of the programme include: We spend approximately two years training all new engineers.
A start with safety culture Once trained, our engineers are expected to participate in on-going 2.
Regular and formal reviews of all accidents, near misses, risks training and professional development and we provide opportunities and risk behaviours for them to do so.
During 2013 we launched a Group-wide e-learning programme, with approximately 50 online courses 3.
Ongoing training for all employees currently available, directed at enhancing the knowledge and skills of our sales and service engineers.
By the end of 2014 we plan to add a 4.
The identification of job specific safe behaviours further 30 courses to the programme.
While we view e-learning as 5.
A combination of both leading and lagging indicator KPIs.
an important mechanism for the on-going training of our engineers, it is designed to supplement, and not replace, traditional classroom The company has seen significant success: the reportable based and on-the-job training.
We have over 40 state-of-the-art accident rate has fallen by over 40% from 2010 to 2013.
However, training centres worldwide, in which we train both our people and perhaps even more significant has been the phenomenal our customers.
reduction in the number of light duty days which have fallen from 925 in 2010 to 230 during 2013.
In addition, by 31st December We increased our average number of formal classroom based 2013 the company had completed 483 days without a lost training days per customer facing employee by nearly 30% time incident.
Kris Brown, Safety Supervisor at Spirax Sarco USA, stated, Talent management is essential to prepare promising employees Behavioural Based Safety was a natural progression for for leadership and senior management positions within the us.
Over the years our employees have become excellent at Group and to ensure the long-term sustainability of our business.
identifying hazards and safety issues.
The next logical step was During 2011 we launched our Spirax Sarco Leadership Academy.
to help employees to start to identify positive H&S behaviours that During 2013, 15 of our future leaders attended a two week Advanced not only they exhibit but their fellow co-workers as well.
One of Management Programme, run by the Ashridge Business School.
the keys of Behavioural Based Safety is to identify behaviours, The course covers such topics as: effective people management: positive or negative, that have an impact on health, safety and driving growth and innovation: and delivering results.
By investing in wellness, and address them in a manner reflective of our core the professional development of our future managers we meet their values.
ongoing development needs while equipping them to support the long-term success of the business.
Chip Stokes, Vice President Supply of Spirax Sarco, USA stated, Our efforts in Behavioural Based Safety and Wellness is a In addition to supporting and facilitating the professional significant part of the foundation we are building to support our development of our people, we provide training to ensure that journey for organisational excellence.
We have a passion to foster they have the necessary knowledge to uphold the Companys a safety-first culture that encourages all levels of the organisation core values.
During 2013, 1,000 of our employees participated in to take a proactive role in continuously improving our health Doing the Right Thing training see page 49 and since launching and wellness.
This allows everyone to be part of creating an our anti-bribery@work online course during 2012, over 2,800 environment that motivates us to take care of each other.
It is part customer facing employees and senior managers have participated of Spirax Sarcos DNA to do the right thing for our greatest asset: in the training.
A Ab bo ou ut u t us s We Wellc co om me e to to o ou ur r Chairmans Our Our Our business Our business Our Our 2 20 01 13 3 r re epor port t statement structure marketplace model model in action strategy KPIs Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 53 Our communities: Charitable donations Objective: Objective: To offer financial support to approved To engage positively with the communities in charities through the Spirax Sarco Group which we operate Charitable Trust We are committed to improving the social and economic conditions of the communities in which we operate.
We recognise that the most effective way of doing this is through managing the business Group Charitable Trust donations 000 effectively to ensure its on-going success and providing employment that fairly remunerates people for the work that they do.
However, 2013 136 we also seek to positively engage in our local communities, 2012 132 particularly through improving educational access and helping 2011 132 disadvantaged children.
2010 112 For example, Spirax Sarco UK is a sponsor of the annual Cheltenham Science Festival.
Each year the Company designs a 2009 86 stand, which is manned by our employees, through which it engages local people and, in particular, school children in the science of By making charitable donations to worthwhile causes we can steam and its modern applications.
The theme of the stand in 2013 focus our efforts on helping specific groups of people e. g. was the elements.
the less advantaged, disabled or abused : promote education: improve access to healthcare: or offer assistance following natural disasters.
During 2013, the Spirax Sarco Group Charitable Trust Trust made 49 donations, ranging from 1,000 to 15,000, in accordance with its charitable donations policy.
Donations made by the Trust included 15,000 to Cobalt, a leading medical charity that helps in the prevention, diagnosis and treatment of cancer and other life-limiting conditions: 15,000 to Open Door, a local Cheltenham charity that offers food, hospitality and support to the homeless: and 10,000 to the Philippines Typhoon Disaster Appeal.
In addition to the donations made by the Trust, a further 64,000 2012: 40,000 was donated to charitable causes by our operating companies during 2013.
During 2013 our MasoSine business in Germany part of the Watson-Marlow Pumps Group donated several old computers Our employees frequently undertake independent fundraising to a local school.
The computers, which were fully depreciated, initiatives and raise significant funds to donate to charitable had reached the end of their serviceable life for MasoSine, but causes that have particular meaning and importance to them.
were gratefully received by the school, which has limited access to Since 2008, Spirax Sarco has donated more than 80,000 to IT equipment.
the National Star College NSC in Cheltenham, UK.
The NSC Furthermore, throughout 2013 MasoSine offered several school provides specialist further education, training and personal children, aged 13 to 14, the opportunity to undertake a week-long development for young people aged 16 to 25 with complex work experience placement within the company, as well as offering a physical, educational and emotional needs.
In September six month internship to an engineering student from a local university 2013, a group of 24 runners from Spirax Sarco completed and employing an apprentice within the factory.
the Cheltenham Half-Marathon, and raised over 1,600 in sponsorship for the NSC.
During 2013, MasoSine offered their local fire department the use of the companys buildings for training.
Finding locations to undertake training in real conditions is crucial for emergency services but access to suitable locations is often limited.
Allowing the fire service access to company buildings has also helped MasoSine to review its emergency fire procedures.
Spirax Sarco, Koreas Jo Club Jo meaning help in Korean has continued to make a positive impact on its local community.
On a monthly basis throughout 2013, club members donated money to local charities, visited and assisted at a centre for the disabled and volunteered in a soup kitchen.
Twice during the year, club members delivered coal, bread and rice to the elderly.
The club is financed by donations from the company as well as from money raised by collections and fund-raising events organised by the club members.
Strategic report 54 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic report continued Sustainability report continued Our environment: CO emissions 2 Objective: Total Group CO e emissions scope 1 and 2 2 To manage and minimise the environmental tonnes impact of our operations 2013 33,961 2012 29,266 Climate change is widely recognised as a global threat, with the potential to affect world environmental, social, political and economic 2011 29,392 systems.
We have a responsibility to address the threat of climate 2010 29,579 change by managing our energy consumption and reducing our CO e emissions.
2 2009 32,150 In accordance with national and international directives on climate Scope 1 Scope 2 change, we endeavour to continuously reduce the carbon intensity of our business and implement strategies to minimise our carbon 2012 figure restated due to improvements in our methodology footprint.
We have measured and reported our CO e emissions 2 for several years and welcome the new requirement for listed CO e intensity companies to disclose their CO e emissions.
We report on all of the 2 2 emission sources required under the Greenhouse Gas Emissions tonnes per m of inflation adjusted sales, at constant currency Directors Reports Regulations 2013.
2013 49.3 We have employed an operational control definition to outline 2012 43.0 our carbon footprint boundary.
Included within that boundary are manufacturing facilities, administrative and sales offices where we 2011 44.0 have authority to implement our operating policies.
For each of these 2010 47.7 entities we have measured and reported on our relevant Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions.
Scope 1 refers to direct emissions from 2009 57.5 sources owned or controlled by the Company: Scope 2 refers to indirect emissions resulting from the purchase of electricity generated off site, including electricity.
Excluded from our footprint Target: To achieve a year-on-year reduction in our CO e 2 boundary are entities where we do not have operational control.
In 2013 this included Spirax-Marshall Ltd. Also excluded from the footprint boundary are emission sources from operating companies To demonstrate our commitment to measuring, managing and established during 2013 and from companies acquired during the disclosing our emissions, in 2013 we appointed Carbon Clear, year.
We have used the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and an independent third-party organisation, to help us calculate Reporting Standard revised edition and emission factors from the our carbon emissions, with TV providing the assurance.
UK Governments GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting TVs statement of limited assurance can be found in full in the 2014 to calculate our total CO e emissions figures.
2 interactive online Annual Reports and Accounts 2013, on our Company website: www.
A short Our total CO e emissions increased during 2013.
This was primarily 2 version of the assurance statement is given below.
due to an increase in energy-intensive R&D testing at our worldleading steam testing facilities in the UK and the expansion in TV NORD UK, is acting as the independent verifier of the manufacturing capability in the Asia Pacific region.
Although an carbon footprint of SPIRAX SARCO.
Based on our checks and increase in emissions is undesirable, through R&D we develop reviews, taking into consideration a materiality level of 10% and a products that improve our customers energy efficiency and reduce limited level of assurance we have found no evidence suggesting emissions.
Furthermore, our regional manufacturing strategy is that the calculated greenhouse gas emissions are materially improving the efficiency of our manufacturing process and reducing misstated and, hence, they are not an unreasonable assertion emissions associated with transportation of products.
ofthe greenhouse gas related data and information.
Our Group Environmental Policy sets minimum standards that we Further, no facts became evident, which led us to the assumption expect all of our operating companies to adhere to and requires that the calculation was not carried out in accordance with the them to implement local policies to manage their environmental applied international norm for the quantification, monitoring and impact.
Our operating companies are all expected to take steps reporting of GHG emissions GHG-Protocol.
to minimise their environmental impact and reduce their CO e 2 The emissions for the reporting period 1st January 2013 to 31st emissions.
For example, when upgrading its fleet of vehicles, December 2013 inclusive are: 17,266 tCO e for Scope 1 and 2 minimising environmental impact was a top priority for Spirax Sarco 16,695 tCO e for Scope 2.
They chose the hybrid Toyota Prius because of its excellent fuel efficiency and low emissions.
TV NORD UK Through taking steps to manage our CO e emissions, we are 2 London doing our part to mitigate climate change and are improving the March 2014 sustainability of our business.
About us Welcome to our Chairmans Our Our Our business Our business Our Our 2013 report statement structure marketplace model model in action strategy KPIs Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 55 Our environment continued: Case study: Spirax Sarco delivers steam solution for Objective: pioneering carbon capture project To help our customers to achieve their sustainability targets, by improving their process efficiency, energy and water management, through the application of our products and the utilisation of our services Tonnes of CO e emissions our customers saved as a 2 result of purchasing ourenergy management products 2013 4.6 m 2012 4.9 m 2011 4.0 m 2010 XXX.
X Helping our customers to achieve their environmental targets 2009 XXX.
X is central to our sustainability strategy and business model.
Reducing CO emissions is one of the key drivers that our customers 2 have for improving their on-site energy management.
Using methodology externally verified by AEA Group, we estimate that the Spirax Sarco energy management products sold this year will reduce our customers CO emissions by 4.65 million Spirax Sarco delivered a comprehensive steam- 2 tonnes annually.
These savings are calculated with reference to a driven heat exchange package for a groundspecific range of products, for which we can quantify savings with breaking carbon capture project at Ferrybridge reasonable accuracy.
Many other products, such as pressure and coal-fired power station in Yorkshire, UK.
The Spirax temperature controls, will also provide CO savings but, as these 2 Sarco system is a key element in the success of are not easily quantifiable, they are excluded from our methodology.
this cutting-edge project to develop large-scale The total amount of CO that we save our customers can vary year- 2 technology to mitigate the environmental damage on-year as a result of product mix.
Our direct sales business model enables us to build close Carbon Capture and Storage CCS technology aims to capture relationships with our customers.
In doing so, we develop a carbon dioxide from the flue gas of major emitters such as power comprehensive understanding of their needs.
We then deliver stations and store it underground, preventing it from contributing bespoke engineered solutions to improve process efficiency to climate change.
and reduce energy or water consumption.
In addition, our comprehensive plant-wide energy audits and steam trap monitoring At Ferrybridge the capture part of the process takes place: systems are used by our customers to monitor and manage their an amine-based solvent is used to absorb up to 100 tonnes of energy consumption.
Spirax Sarcos steam system is used to re-boil and 2 regenerate the CO saturated solvent for reuse by stripping out 2 Many applications for our peristaltic and niche pumps help the CO under carefully controlled high-temperature conditions.
2 our customers to improve their environmental performance.
The temperature and pressure in the clean-up column has to be For example, within the mining industry the installation of a Bredel controlled precisely and steam is the ideal heating medium.
slurry pump, from Watson-Marlow, can reduce water consumption by as much as 70%.
This typically equates to water savings of over Spirax Sarcos all-round steam expertise and project 3 900,000m of water a year for each pump installed.
management capability made us the ideal company to work onthe project.
Spirax Sarco has an excellent reputation in In the water and wastewater industries, our customers treat dealing with steam and condensate management, said Scott industrial municipal effluent and return it to clean, usable water.
Hume, Process Engineer at Doosan Power Systems.
They The precision pumping offered by our pumps prevents overdosing supplied everything as a package, from the steam interface of chemicals and reduces the need for additional chemicals to back to the condensate return line, including the heat exchanger.
That simplified the scope of work for our team and it really helped.
As a Group, we have doubled our R&D spend during the last five years.
We are continuously updating our products and developing new ones to ensure that we maintain our market-leading position as an expert provider of energy efficient steam solutions and niche pumps.
Through maintaining our position as a leading supplier of energy management products and services, we are responding to the threat of climate change, driving growth and increasing the sustainability of our business.
Strategic report 56 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Governance Our governance 2 Governance Pages 56 to 99 Chairmans introduction 58 Board of Directors 60 Corporate governance report 62 Audit Committee 66 Nomination Committee 69 Risk Management Committee 70 Remuneration Committee letter of introduction 73 Remuneration policy report 2014 75 Annual report on remuneration 2013 83 Regulatory disclosures 96 Statement of Directors responsibilities 99 Our governance Chairmans introduction Board of Directors Corporate governance report Audit Committee Nomination Committee Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 57 We are committed to high standards of corporate governance and disclosure and recognise that effective management of the business is central to our long-term sustainability and the generation of shareholder value.
Governance Regulatory overview Committee reports Remuneration disclosures Our Chairman outlines our The Audit, Nomination The Chairman of the Regulatory disclosures approach to corporate and Risk Management Remuneration Committee are made.
governance and we give an Committees give their reports.
outlines our approach to overview of governance remuneration, we set out during 2013. our policy on Directors remuneration and report on the implementation of our remuneration policy during 2013.
Read more: Read more: Read more: Read more: Pages 58 and 6265 Pages 6672 Pages 7395 Pages 9698 Risk Management Remuneration Committee Remuneration policy Annual report on Regulatory disclosures Statement of Committee letter of introduction report 2014 remuneration 2013 Directors responsibilities 3.
