SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 Corporate social responsibility statement The Board takes ultimate responsibility for CSR with a fundamental Corporate responsibility is integral to commitment to create and sustain long term value for shareholders, recognising that acting responsibly and sustainably creates value.
the way Spirent conducts its business Spirents CSR strategy covers our accountability to all of our and we are committed to advancing stakeholders, this includes striving for the highest ethical standards of business practice: how we support, develop and reward our our policies and systems across the employees: how we minimise our impact on the environment: and how we support and engage in the communities in which we operate.
Group to ensure that we address all aspects of corporate social responsibility CSR.
Our responsibility framework Ethics Spirent expects that all of its business is conducted in compliance with high ethical standards of business practice.
We apply these standards to all dealings with employees, customers, suppliers and other stakeholders.
Health and safety Spirent is committed to continually improving its health and safety performance and is also committed to employee wellbeing by encouraging the adoption of healthier lifestyles by its staff members.
Sustainability and environmental The Group is committed to the concepts of pollution prevention, minimising environmental impacts and eco-efficiency.
Community Spirent aims to build stronger and healthier global communities through education, charitable donations and support of non-profit agencies in the communities in which we operate.
38 STRATEGIC REPORT SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC GOVERNANCE ANNUAL REPORT 2013 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The Group Health and Safety Policy places responsibility for the Ethics management of health and safety on local management who are supported by local external advisers where necessary.
It is the Spirent expects that all of its business is conducted in compliance Groups policy that each business unit should have a senior with high ethical standards of business practice.
We apply these individual designated as being responsible for ensuring the business standards to all dealings with employees, customers, suppliers unit conforms to local statutory health and safety regulations as well and other stakeholders.
An annual questionnaire on health and safety performance is completed by our business units and any issues Spirent has continued to ensure that all its systems, controls and are addressed and resolved.
Independent external reviews of the training comply with the anti-bribery and corruption legislation in all Companys health and safety performance are conducted annually the countries where we operate and that a culture of prevention and at selected business units.
Regular designated health and safety detection of all forms of bribery and corruption is in place.
This policy awareness training programmes are also carried out.
applies to Spirents subsidiaries and business partners.
Spirent recognises that it is important that health and safety is The Groups Ethics Policy, which has been approved by the Board, is managed to high standards successfully throughout all levels of the available on our website at http: corporate.
Successful health and safety management contributes Policy has been developed to ensure that the Groups business is to Spirents overall success by preserving and developing staff and conducted in adherence with high ethical and legal principles and physical resources, thereby reducing costs and liabilities.
It is an sets standards of professionalism and integrity for all employees and essential element of its corporate responsibility.
Spirent is committed to continually improving its health and safety The following is a summary of the Ethics Policy: performance and to employee wellbeing by encouraging the adoption of healthier lifestyles by its staff members.
Regulatory requirements all employees have the right and responsibility to ensure that and the outline of care form the basis upon which Spirents Spirents business is conducted with high ethical and legal commitment is achieved.
By realistic planning, review and principles: development, Spirent maintains a successful health and safety our policy is to operate within applicable laws: management programme and appropriate resources are made discrimination or harassment of any kind will not be tolerated: available for this purpose.
as a matter of policy, we do not make political donations: no bribes shall be given or received: conflicts of interest must be avoided: we aim to be a responsible partner within our local communities: and employees are encouraged and supported to report, in confidence, any suspected wrongdoings whistleblowing.
Appropriate ethical behaviour is reviewed as part of the Groups internal control process.
Health and safety The Chief Financial Officer is the director appointed by the Board to have responsibility for the health and safety performance of the Group.
No major health and safety issues were reported by the Chief Financial Officer to the Audit Committee and Board during the year.
The health and safety risk profile of the Group remained low during 2013.
The main risks of the Group continue to be based around final test and assembly of products and working environment issues such as ergonomics and repetitive strain injury.
The Group continued to have very low accident rates in 2013 and no incidents required any hospitalisation.
39 SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 Corporate social responsibility statement continued Product design and manufacturing processes take into consideration Sustainability and environmental the recycling and disposal of products at the end of their life, as far as is possible.
Product design also seeks to reduce power consumption The Group continues to make significant progress in integrating in use.
For our 10G products, the following reductions in watts per sustainability and environmental strategy into its operations.
port have been achieved: Environmental and sustainability performance has improved in a 2013 2012 number of areas throughout 2013 with the focus reflecting the issues considered material by the Group.
Existing initiatives on logistics and Reduction in 10G product power power consumption in products were extended, and several energy consumption % 9 33 efficient and low-carbon technologies have been installed across the Groups global estate.
The Group has also continued to implement The Groups business units comply with the Waste Electrical and the recommendations of a major review of environmental strategy Electronic Equipment Regulations, the Batteries Directive and the that was commissioned in 2011.
California Electronic Waste Recycling Programme.
New products are designed to meet the Restriction of Hazardous Substances Directive Environmental policy and compliance RoHS, also known as Directive 2011 65 EU, even though Spirent The Group Environmental Policy applies to the Company and to all Communications hardware products are classified as Category Nine, subsidiaries worldwide.
It commits the Group to prevention and Monitor and Control Equipment and are therefore currently out of control of pollution, minimising environmental impacts, ecoscope with the RoHS Directive.
All Spirent Communications hardware efficiency, and to adopt responsible environmental practices.
products will be in compliance with the RoHS Directive at such time they are brought in to scope.
The Group is also committed to compliance with all applicable environmental regulation in all of the jurisdictions in which it operates.
The Group is not directly required to comply with or report under Section 1502 of the Dodd-Frank Act, the US Conflict Minerals Law.
To meet these objectives, the Group endeavours to continuously However, it has robust procedures to ensure that it would be in improve environmental performance and to make robust compliance if it were brought in within the scope of this legislation.
environmental management integral to its overall strategy.
Environment strategy and materiality The full policy can be found at: http: corporate.
The Group commissioned external consultants to perform a comprehensive review of our sustainability strategy and management As in previous years, the Groups main direct environmental impacts in 2011.
The review included a materiality assessment identifying the result from offices, laboratories and assembly sites accommodating business critical sustainability issues and this study continues to employees, IT systems, and travel.
Business units across the Group inform the Groups understanding of the impacts that it has on the continue to take measures to reduce impacts, including installation environment and on the communities in which it operates.
of energy efficient and low-carbon technologies, and improved waste management.
There have also been a number of initiatives The following material issues were identified: at different business units to reduce environmental impacts, particularly those related to energy consumption.
The Group has greenhouse gas emissions and climate change: also continued to reduce total floor space used: energy consumption in offices and manufacturing: 2013 2012 environmental management: and environmental reporting.
Floor space reduction % 10.4 4.2 The key environmental issues of energy consumption and greenhouse Almost all products continue to be produced by external contract gas emissions continued to be the main focus of the Groups efforts manufacturers and the environmental performance of suppliers in 2013. is monitored through audits and surveys.
Our largest contract manufacturer is responsible for 65.5 per cent of our production and Significant progress was made in 2013 by the Group managing they have an ISO 14001 certified environmental management sustainability issues and improving performance, building on the system, alongside an extensive carbon reduction programme.
The work of 2011 and 2012 to act on greenhouse gas emissions in the UK table below shows their emissions performance for the last two years business and to broaden our sustainability project to cover more of for which data is available.
2012 2011 Change in greenhouse gas emissions in CO e % 11 9 2 40 STRATEGIC REPORT SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC GOVERNANCE ANNUAL REPORT 2013 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013 work progamme Site energy audits and environmental compliance reviews During 2013 the emphasis of the project has been on driving forward Energy audits were carried out at the corporate headquarters in the Groups strategic sustainability objectives and taking concrete Crawley, UK, and in four of the Groups largest US sites during the steps to improve sustainability performance.
These audits consisted of a thorough review of the buildings, continued the programme begun in 2012 to develop the Paignton building services and associated energy use and opportunities to location as a low carbon centre of excellence.
improve energy efficiency were identified at each site.
A preliminary review of the potential for on-site renewables was also carried out, The 2013 work programme comprised: based on local climatic, market and regulatory factors.
continuing performance improvement at the low carbon centre of Environmental compliance reviews were also carried for these sites excellence at the site at Paignton, UK: to ensure that the Group had the necessary understanding of site energy audits at the Groups corporate headquarters in the UK environmental regulatory requirements and to identify any areas where and at four major US sites: practices could be improved.
It was found that overall knowledge of environmental legal compliance reviews at the Groups corporate and compliance with environmental requirements was strong with headquarters in the UK and at four major US sites: and no material issues noted.
Some opportunities to improve current participating in the Carbon Disclosure Project for the first time, practices were noted and these are currently being addressed.
completing both the Investor Climate Change return and the Supply Chain return.
The actions resulting from the energy audits and the compliance reviews form the basis of the 2014 work programme for sustainability Paignton: low carbon centre of excellence at these sites.
The toolkits developed for these reviews will also be The Positioning site located in Paignton, UK, has had an ISO 14001 rolled out to the rest of the Groups material locations over the course certified environmental management system for several years and of 2014. has a good track record in improving environmental performance.
This location was therefore selected to act as a low carbon centre of Carbon disclosure project and greenhouse gas reporting excellence for the Group in 2012 and it has since piloted a number of The Group responded to the Carbon Disclosure Project for the first sustainability initiatives.
LED lighting has been installed across the time in 2013, completing both the Climate Change and Supply Chain site and ceiling insulation, voltage optimization and smart metering is questionnaires for the calendar year 2012. scheduled to occur in early 2014.
The Group also reports greenhouse gas emissions for 2012 and 2013 The installation of a solar PV array in late 2012 has been successful in its Annual Report this year for the first time.
in its first full year of operation and the array generated the following in 2013: Global GHG emissions data for the year ended 31 December 2013 Greenhouse gas 2013 tonnes 2012 tonnes % of electricity emissions avoided Emissions from: of CO e of CO e 2 2 kWh generated consumption kg CO e 2 Combustion of fuel and operation of facilities 238 216 2013 39,658 10.9 17,667 Electricity, heat, steam and cooling purchased for own use 6,268 6,359 There has also been a revitalisation of employee engagement and the Total emissions 6,506 6,576 employee Green Team at Paignton in 2013.
Regular internal reporting Companys chosen intensity measurements: of environmental KPIs and a committed team are in place to ensure Emissions reported above normalised per that the position of the Paignton site as a centre of excellence is square metre of gross internal area of our maintained and that environmental performance continues to improve.
facilities 0.15 0.15 Emissions reported above normalised per million of revenues 15.76 13.92 41 SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 Corporate social responsibility statement continued Methodology Community We have reported on all of the emission sources required under the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Reports Spirent supports technical education and local charitable Regulations 2013.
These sources fall within our consolidated programmes, and encourages employee volunteerism and statements.
We do not have responsibility for any emission sources participation within the communities where they live and work.
that are not included in our consolidated statements.
Employees not only donate their time they enthusiastically embrace We have used the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting the true spirit of volunteerism in their local communities, where they Standard revised edition, data gathered to fulfil our requirements support a broad variety of causes.
These include organisations, and under these Regulations, and emission factors from UK Governments activities ranging from health organisations, educational GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting 2013. programmes, food banks and environmental causes.
They serve in many different ways: as fundraisers, board members, coaches 2014 work programme and mentors.
The work programme for 2014 has three main areas of focus: In 2013 we introduced the Voluntary Time Off VTO policy, part implementing recommended actions from the 2013 site energy of the Giving Back programme.
The purpose of this programme is audits and environmental compliance reviews: to support activities that enhance and serve communities in which undertake energy and compliance audits on all other material we live and work.
The VTO policy encourages employee involvement sites across the Groups estate: and in volunteer efforts supporting the community.
At the same time, review and update of environmental strategy and management.
participating in these sorts of activities enriches the lives of employees.
As discussed above, a significant part of the 2014 project will consist of implementing the recommendations generated from the in-depth site reviews carried out in 2013 and further driving environmental performance improvement at these locations.
The toolkits that were developed for these reviews in 2013 will also be utilised at the Groups other locations to embed sustainable business processes across the Group and ensure that potential environmental impact and cost reductions are identified and realised.
In addition to these specific measures to reduce the impact of the global estate, the Group will also review and update environmental strategy.
This exercise was last undertaken in 2011 and an update will enable the Group to incorporate changes in the strategic landscape and continue to focus on the material issues for the Group and its key stakeholders.
Employees from our Fort Worth office join with the Trinity Habitat for Humanity programme.
In October, several employees from the Fort Worth, USA office chose to make a difference in their community by joining forces with the Trinity Habitat for Humanity programme.
The employees spent a full day framing out the interior and roof of a home already in progress.
The teamwork was grueling and challenging for all involved but the progress made towards the completed project was worth the reward of contributing towards a safe and decent place for an underprivileged family to live.
To help students prepare for the future, Spirent works with local public and private non-profit educational organisations.
In addition to internships, our managers routinely work with local universities and industry groups to assist in other ways.
42 STRATEGIC REPORT SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC GOVERNANCE ANNUAL REPORT 2013 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Employees from the Eatontown office used some of their VTO to participate in an event coordinated by Jersey Cares, enabling local corporations to support the community where they live.
In September 21 Spirent employees and family members participated in one of the largest volunteer events in California, Coastal Cleanup Day.
During the three hour event, volunteers collected tons of rubbish and debris from shorelines and inland locations.
In total during 2013, Spirent made charitable cash donations of $104,000.
Spirent supports organisations that serve the local community in the vicinity of its offices worldwide.
In 2013 this included the sponsorship of the Ashington Cougars Football Club under 13s football team in Sussex.
Ashington Cougars FC is an FA Charter Development Standard club which provides children from the ages of 5 to 16 with the opportunity to play football in a safe and enjoyable environment.
Pages 2 to 43 form part of the Strategic Report.
By Order of the Board Rachel Whiting Company Secretary 27 February 2014 The Ashington Cougars under 13s football team are supported by Spirent.
Spirent has a long history of helping those in need and throughout 2013, continued to provide aid to charitable and non-profit organisations through corporate sponsorships and contributions.
Following the devastation of Typhoon Haiyan, we responded with a donation of $10,000 to the International Committee of the Red Cross to assist with the disaster relief efforts in the Philippines.
Spirent is proud of its employees, who generously donate their time, expertise, and money to many different organisations around the globe.
Our Calabasas team raised $17,434 for the American Cancer Societys Relay for Life of Calabasas.
Employees and their families from all departments participated in the 24-hour walk in support of the Societys efforts in research, education, advocacy and patient services.
