SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 Our employees Our 1,500 talented employees, working in 29 locations in 15 Spirent is its employees it is our highly countries, provide a matchless competitive advantage for us creating innovative products for our customers.
To sustain our competitive skilled, motivated and empowered advantage and bring together this culturally diverse group of employees that drive the success of employees, Spirent has built a global culture based on four values being creative, competitive, customer focused and collaborative.
For more than 75 years, These values form the foundation of Spirents ability to inspire innovation and enrich the lives of millions of people around Spirent has sustained a globally the world.
effective organisation and provided To attract, keep and grow our people, we constantly review and a great place to work through career improve our benefits, retention, development programmes and career growth opportunities.
Our efforts continue to bear positive advancement opportunities, fruit, with global voluntary turnover at 8 per cent.
workforce diversity and transparent Rewarding our people communication.
Our compensation and benefit schemes are aligned with performance and are regularly benchmarked to ensure that Spirent rewards employees competitively in every country in which we operate.
Our key values Spirent believes in sharing its success with its employees, with all employees participating in some form of variable compensation Competitive tied to the achievement of key goals such as revenue growth and profitability: Growth Sharing Plan for individual contributors through Engage and develop our employees to relentlessly managers: Sales Commission Plan for sales employees: and out-execute the competition every time, whilst Management Incentive Plan for senior managers and above.
maintaining the highest ethical standards.
Another way in which we reward and recognise excellence is through Creative our Global Recognition Programme, which provides Spot, Excellence and Executive Awards.
These awards are one-time cash incentives as Innovation that inspires our customers, our customers recognition for exemplary contributions that demonstrate one or customers, our employees and shareholders.
Customer focused Dedicated to every customers, every employees and every shareholders success.
Collaborative One global team, sharing knowledge, ideas, technology, resources and talents to achieve and sustain profitable growth.
Employees in our Crawley, West Sussex Corporate office.
36 STRATEGIC REPORT SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC GOVERNANCE ANNUAL REPORT 2013 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS In addition, we provide project based incentives to recognise and Diversity Spirent is committed to upholding human rights and fully believes reward employees for extraordinary work that results in significant overachievement of critical projects.
The Patent Award programme that diversity fuels business success in a multicultural world.
Our rich diversity is reflected in our work environment including ethnicity, rewards employees for being innovative, while protecting the Companys investment and intellectual property rights.
In 2013 race, gender, age, sexual orientation, faith, culture and global experiences.
We believe that this variety of backgrounds, Spirent awarded 20 patent based incentives to our employees.
experiences, beliefs, personalities, knowledge, skills and ideas not only creates an enriching experience for our employees, diversity also Growing our talent We recognise that our competitive advantage can only be maintained yields the innovation and creativity demanded by our customers.
by developing our own talent internally as well as recruiting the best skills from outside of our organisation.
The Group is committed to providing equality of opportunity to all existing and prospective employees without unlawful discrimination In 2013 we established an Employee Value Proposition in order on the basis of religion, disability, gender, age, marital status, sexual orientation, race, ethnicity or any other protected status.
to clearly communicate our brand to current and prospective employees, and thereby retain and attract the best people.
Spirent is large enough to provide a wide range of career possibilities, but small enough for individuals to be noticed and recognised, we offer 1 an ideal environment for people to unleash their innovative spirits 2 Board diversity and collaborate to discover the future together.
2013 2012 1 Male 5 5 Throughout 2013, we continued to support education by offering internships and work experience programmes that not only help 2 Female 1 1 students develop professional knowledge, but also to provide 1 Male 83% 83% future talent for our entire organisation.
In 2013 Spirent offered 2 Female 17% 17% 28 internships in the US, seven in Europe and 20 in Asia.
Our challenging work environment inspires innovation, with continuous learning as an essential part of our human resources philosophy.
1 1 Employee diversity In 2013 employees in all regions around the globe participated in 2013 2012 2 courses designed to enhance our ability to service the customer and 1 Male 1,194 1,172 to create innovative, leading products.
Leadership bench strength was developed through various programmes including 360 degree 2 Female 331 314 feedback, succession management, organisational and individual 1 Male 78% 79% accountability, and financial acumen.
Our career development 2 Female 22% 21% emphasises tailored, flexible pathways that give employees the opportunity to explore their potential in the right direction and at the right speed.
1 Senior manager diversity Employee engagement At Spirent we recognise the importance of two-way communication.
2013 2012 2 Our employees opinions matter to us.
We regularly invite our 1 Male 157 160 employees for their views on a wide range of issues.
Based on 2 Female 51 48 the feedback, we develop specific action plans to increase the 1 Male 75% 77% engagement of our employees and foster a stronger organisational 2 Female 25% 23% culture.
In addition, informal meetings between many of Spirents executives and small groups of employees continue to be held on a regular basis, with the aim of sharing perspectives among a broad cross section of our team members.
Other tools aimed at facilitating Disabled persons two-way communication include regular all employee meetings with Disabled persons, whether registered or not, are accorded equal our Chief Executive Officer and other executives, employee focused opportunities when applying for vacancies, with due regard to their group meetings and the continued expansion of our employee intranet.
In addition to complying with legislative requirements, procedures ensure that disabled employees are fairly treated in respect of training and career development.
With regard to employees who become disabled during the course of their employment, the Group is supportive and will take all reasonable steps to ensure that they can remain in employment wherever practicable.
