Sports Direct plc Annual Report 2013 52 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT corporate responsibility is central to our vision to be an industry leader.
our established corporate responsibility framework focuses on five key areas: employees, health and safety, the environment, customers and the community.
sports direct has developed key performance indicators kpis to ensure we deliver on our commitments.
these kpis are further discussed in this report and in the chief executives report and business review, and are based solely on our uk operations.
EMPLOYEES our people are at the very heart of our business, and as we continue to grow Salaried staff turnover since FY09 it is the skill and enthusiasm of our c. 24,000 employees that are key to our success.
our ability to attract, retain and develop the best people is crucial to 30% achieving our strategic objectives.
we have an established bonus share scheme that is applicable to employees at every level of our business, and robust training initiatives to ensure our employees best understand the essential role they play in driving the business forward.
Key Highlights: total employees: 24,000 hours invested in training 40,000 Attracting our People in no small measure, the progress we continue to make is down to the dedication and expertise of our staff.
we believe that performance-based rewards motivate colleagues, help improve employee retention and align the interests of employees and shareholders.
we incentivise our staff by enabling them to share in the business success through the bonus share scheme.
if the 0% group reaches the ebitda targets detailed in the table below and employees performance is deemed satisfactory, eligible employees will receive sports FY09 FY10 FY11 FY12 FY13 direct shares.
2012: underlying ebitda of 215m the group also has several policies and systems to in place to ensure employee welfare is monitored and maintained.
these are laid out in the diagram below.
2013: underlying ebitda of 250m EQUAL OPPORTUNITY & DIVERSITY POLICY 2014: underlying ebitda of 260m TAILORED EMPLOYEE RIGHT TO A HANDBOOK TRADE UNION 2015: underlying ebitda of 300m STAFF FORUM approximately 27 million shares will be distributed between eligible employees upon successful completion of the scheme, c. 6 million shares will vest in 2015 and c. 21 million in 2017.
Developing our People Retaining our People sports direct is committed to encouraging and developing our people.
we employee retention is extremely important in order for us to retain expertise and believe that offering the right training and development for our staff will not only measure employee satisfaction.
for this reason it is one of our key performance help each individual progress, but will also enhance productivity and the overall indicators.
this year 15.5% of our uk employees left the business, down from customer experience.
we have invested significantly in training over the last few 17% in 2012: the vast majority of them were from our stores.
years, and in 2012 alone over 40,000 hours were spent on training at sports direct.
we are proud to offer a great portfolio of training courses, all housed in state of the art facilities at our shirebrook campus.
this ensures every member of our team has the opportunity to be inspired, stimulated, motivated and to be better in their role.
29% 17% 17% 17% 15.5% the business review Management & Governance financial statements & notes additional information 53 we have extensive operational and skills training at sports direct, as well as The Future of Training general job performance and management development courses.
our operational 2013 is set to be another groundbreaking year as we work to develop a bespoke and skills training takes place in four specialised training environments at our online training platform that will form the basis of every new starters induction shirebrook campus, focused on running, football, womens and sku sports to the business.
designed to be informative, interactive and fun, the platform will knowledge underground.
these specialised environments ensure that our staff be available on any mobile device and will provide knowledge, consistency and are equipped with the most up-to-date knowledge to enable them to confidently improved selling and service skills to all employees.
advise customers on specific product choices, such as the most relevant trainer for their running style.
Nike Training our international nike academy is the only such facility in the world and offers an unrivalled training experience.
sports direct uses an online training programme in conjunction with nike, called sku sports knowledge underground.
full completion of the academy training programme means that staff have invested 15 hours of their time in learning about nike products, nike technology and how best to sell it.
we are the world number one in terms of the percentage completion for a multiple door retailer.
Key Highlights of Training Programme Include: 32 specialist nike training days have taken place since august 2010 252 staff have progressed to graduate level 64 graduates have also attended a bespoke post-graduate training day further product and graduate training will take place in 2013 adidas and Puma and Training we also work closely with adidas and puma to create extensive training programmes to support in-store initiatives and products.
in 2012, 358 people attended adidas sessions on product knowledge and selling skills.
this year we opened new puma training rooms at our shirebrook campus and, throughout nike training academy - shirebrook 2013, will continue to offer training to capture new product releases.
Induction Training all of our managers attend a two-week residential induction programme at shirebrook to ensure that they are able to perform their job effectively.
the modules covered consist of a mixture of shop floor-based training and classroom activities, and focus on merchandising, product training, administration, delivery process, health and safety, shop closure procedure and retail business skills.
Management Development Training we have an internal promotion programme aimed at full-time staff and supervisors who are aspiring to move into management positions.
as part of this, we hold a 5-day residential programme at our shirebrook campus which consists of a combination of trainer-led modules.
the modules focus on operational training and the skills and behaviour measures that form part of an employees role, covering areas such as communication, leadership, and decision-making.
HEALTH AND SAFETY sports direct is committed to appropriate standards of health and safety.
Key Figures: our board has ultimate responsibility for health and safety across the group, no environmental prosecutions or work related fatalities and we regularly review our procedures to ensure safety management is robust.
the continued emphasis on in the business has improved awareness of in fy13, 1854 2012: 1711 accidents were reported to head office, reporting and recording of incidents.
of which 67 2012: 65 were reportable to the health and safety executive 63% of accidents occurred in store and 29% were slips, trips and falls the increase in accident figures has coincided with the increase in store portfolio.
Sports Direct plc Annual Report 2013 54 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT continued ENvIRONMENT we recognise that we have a responsibility to manage the impact our business Waste Reduction has on the environment, and we are committed to reducing this both now and we are actively reducing the amount of waste we send to landfill and segregate in the future.
we continue to comply with the governments carbon reduction waste to ensure that we recycle as much as possible.
commitment, and have identified key areas where we can make a difference, in particular energy usage in our stores, transport and waste management.
This year we recycled: Carbon Footprint 6,425 units of electrical equipment 2012: 5,546 units we are continuously aiming to reduce our carbon footprint.
the single most significant element is electricity, which makes up 83% of the footprint.
the 58 tonnes of waste paper 2012: 55 tonnes carbon footprint spread across all uk sites is detailed in the chart below.
8,893 tonnes of cardboard 2012: 6,622 tonnes Carbon Footprint Analysis 1st April 2012 - 31 March 2013 107 tonnes of metal 2012: 127 tonnes 508 tonnes of plastic 2012: 453 tonnes electricity 83.4% all stores now use biodegradable carrier bags and provide the option of a bag for life.
this is actively promoted in-store through high levels of diesel 12.9% employee engagement.
other 1.0% looking ahead, we will continue our commitment to minimise waste and improve energy efficiency across our stores.
CUSTOMERS the effect of increased trading hours in the run up to the olympics has contributed to a small increase in energy consumption across 239 like stores, customer service is at the forefront of our business.
we aim to provide and therefore an unavoidable increase in the amount of electricity used.
we set customers with an enjoyable experience both in-store and online and ensure all our energy efficient benchmarks against fy08 year, compared to which we have our products are safe and fit for purpose.
made significant reductions of 25% across the like stores.
monitoring customer satisfaction and responding to queries is a continuous Energy Consumption Indexed on 2008 kWh per 000 sq ft process.
all written complaints are recorded, including an analysis of the nature of the complaint so that trends can be assessed and appropriate action taken.
100 90 we have an online customer contact form that reduces the time it takes for our customers to contact us and increases the volume of contact.
online 80 communication has reduced the amount of time it takes for us to respond to 70 queries thereby increasing our service levels, while reducing the print and postage costs for both the group and customers.
60 50 we are continuously working to improve customer service at all levels within the 40 group from the retail stores, head office and through to our website.
30 COMMUNITY 20 10 Supply Chain we are committed to responsible business practices in our own business 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 and within our supply chain.
we continue to procure merchandise from manufacturers who have proved to uphold ethical employment and trading the table below details electricity vs. sales and shows a pro rata saving of 5% practices, and we have a strict code of ethics that we require every supplier to across the year.
the code provides for the fair treatment of workers, ensuring a safe environment in accordance with the local and national laws where workers are treated with respect and paid fairly for what they do.
the code also ensures Carbon Footprint Report across 239 Sports Direct Like stores CRC Statement Period there is no child labour and no use of illegal means or materials in the production 01 April 2012 - 31 March 2013 of goods.
Year 2012 2013 we have longstanding relationships with our suppliers who have demonstrated that their work practices are consistent with the sports directs standards.
CO Emissions from electricity Tonnes 29,353 30,952 2 approximately 40% of our current suppliers have been working with the Electricity vs.
Sales Turnover Index 100 95 company for 10 years or more.
we have worked with two leading supply chain companies in singapore and the emissions for electricity and gas are based on crc scheme methodology south korea for a number of years.
using their local knowledge and experience and only include co emissions.
the emissions declared are for the period 1 2 helps benefit the business and the communities in which they operate.
both april 2012 31 march 2013 in line with the crc protocol.
businesses have the highest social and business ethics code which aligns with our own code of ethics, the bsci code of conduct which is based upon the united nations declaration of human rights, iso9001 and the social accountability 8000 sa8000 code.
the business review Management & Governance financial statements & notes additional information 55 sports direct relies on those supply chain companies to inspect the premises of Lonsdale all suppliers and manufacturers.
frequent inspections are carried out randomly lonsdale is the official equipment and fight sports apparel supplier for all to ensure that goods meet our quality standards as well as assessing continued three individual armed services in the uk consisting of the raf, the army and compliance with sa8000 and our code of ethics.
we cease immediately to work the royal navy.
product to the value of 10,000 is provided each year and used with suppliers who do not meet our criteria.
we comply with an internationally recognised list of chemicals that are banned for use in fabrics.
the supply chain companies conduct random tests on fabric which are then taken to a recognised laboratory for quality testing and to ensure that banned chemicals are not being used.
Charity sport is our passion.
we believe that everyone should have a chance to participate in sports and enjoy the health and lifestyle benefits it brings.
we provide a wide range of equipment and clothing to promote sports participation amongst people of all abilities, including those who would not normally have access to equipment and facilities.
Slazenger Chance to Shine slazenger are the exclusive cricket equipment supplier to the countrys most at a grassroots level, lonsdale is also a sponsor of the amateur boxing recognised grassroots cricket development programme, chance to shine associations junior and school boy finals and provides 100 pairs of golden supported by brit insurance.
each project provides structured coaching and a gloves, worth 2,500 to the finalists.
competition programme for a group of schools who would not have otherwise Everlast had the chance to participate in the sport.
everlast supplied usa boxing, the national governing body of amateur olympicstyle boxing, with training and competition apparel, footwear and equipment for the 2012 olympic games in london.
everlast contributed over $200,000 to help the womens and mens teams prepare for and compete in the summer games.
everlast will continue to support the new york golden gloves, the most prestigious amateur boxing competition in the us, in 2013. late last year, the golden gloves headquarters were flooded during hurricane sandy and all equipment and ring dressings were lost.
everlast supplied the new york golden gloves with over $30,000 worth of apparel, footwear and equipment in order to replace what was lost or damaged in the storm.
everlast also provided approximately $5,000 worth of equipment to local area gyms affected by the storm.
by 2012, the programme had reached one third of all primary and secondary schools amounting to almost 7,000 schools and has supported two million young people, almost half of whom are girls.
over 500,000 worth of cricket equipment has been supplied by slazenger to enable the programme to run successfully.
Dunlop dunlop works together with its sponsored professional golfers lee westwood and darren clarke to supply clothing to their golf schools.
these are junior player development schemes which provide qualified coaching and mentoring to youngsters.
everlast is also a major supporter of the dr. theodore a. atlas foundation, a nonprofit organisation that provides financial support to those in need, particularly children.
in 2012, everlast gave $10,000 in charitable donations.
everlast has also been a proud supporter of the breast cancer research foundation bcrf since 2006. each year, everlast donates a portion of sale proceeds from select everlast pink products, to help the foundation raise money for clinical and genetic research.
in 2012, for the second consecutive year, everlast made its largest donation to date, handing over a cheque for $122,000 to the foundation.
Antigua Group also in the us, the antigua group has been a consistent supporter of a number of charitable efforts, including: the salvation army, cystic fibrosis research, over 20,000 worth of clothing has been provided through sponsorship to the men against prostate cancer, the teddy atlas foundation for hurricane sandy schemes so far.
relief and the phoenix childrens hospital.
the antigua group also provides significant support for Junior golf in arizona.
Junior player initiatives include the Junior golf association of america, girls golf through the lpga foundation and the antigua national high school golf invitational.
