Governance Safety Health and Environment Advisory Committee Report The Committee advises Members and meetings providing a link between the nonExecutive Directors of the Board, the the main Board of SSE Attended Management Board and other members Members scheduled and works alongside of the management team with Thomas Thune Andersen, responsibility for SHE management: and the SHE Committee of Committee Chairman 6 6 making recommendations to the Board the Management Board, where action or improvement is needed.
Jeremy Beeton, which implements Non-Executive Director 6 6 Authority SHE Policy within Jim McPhillimy, The SHEAC has no executive powers but SSEs businesses.
The Managing Director Group Services 6 6 it can recommend executive action it Committee provides a Paul Smith, considers necessary to the Board.
Managing Director Generation 5 6 forum for non-Executive Policy Iwan Tukalo, Directors to contribute People in SSE have many different working Group SHE Manager to improving SSEs environments from full-scale industrial April to December 2012 4 4 processes to offices but the SHEAC is SHE performance.
Mark Patterson, clear that the Company expects everyone Group SHE Manager to play a part in achieving safe working January to March 2013 2 2 practices.
SSEs Safety Management System focuses on five Ps: The Safety, Health and Environment Advisory Committee SHEAC met six times during Policy: defining how things get done: the year.
People: helping employees to act safely: Processes: managing risks and The Chief Executive attends when required.
delivering safe systems of work: The Assistant Company Secretary is Plant: maintaining the integrity of plant Secretary to the Committee.
and equipment: and Performance: managing and improving Function SHE performance.
The SHEAC advises the main Board of SSE and works alongside the SHE Committee of Value, goal and priorities the Management Board, which implements In SSE Safety is the first value: we believe SHE Policy within SSEs businesses.
The all accidents are preventable, so we do SHEAC provides a forum for non-Executive everything safely and responsibly or not at all.
Directors to contribute to improving SSEs SHE performance.
The SHEAC endorses SSEs overall goal: work without anyone getting injured.
All members of the SHEAC share a common To meet this goal the SHEAC, and SSE goal with SSEs Board: to protect the health as a whole, will retain a healthy level of and safety of all employees, contractors dissatisfaction until the highest levels and the environment.
This ensures there is of SHE performance are met.
strong SHE leadership within SSE, including an active commitment from the Board, and The SHEACs priorities are to: the integration of good SHE management with business decisions.
support progress towards SSEs ultimate goal of working without anyone getting Responsibilities injured: The SHEAC is responsible to the SSE Board for: promote the health and well-being of people working for SSE: and ensuring that SSEs SHE Policy, including encourage effective environmental the Major Accident Prevention Policy, management throughout SSE.
is adhered to: setting Group SHE targets and strategy Managing SHE matters in SSE for improved performance: To effectively manage SHE risks SSE needs monitoring Group SHE performance both rigour in systems and passion to make against targets: them work.
This is achieved through the encouraging greater awareness implementation and rigorous application throughout SSE of the importance of dedicated SHE Management Systems, Thomas Thune Andersen of SHE management and higher and through a positive safety culture based achievement in SHE performance: on fairness, trust and co-operation.
Governance 4. permit conditions associated with SSEs All members of the SHEAC share a common goal with SSEs operations and minimising the Board: to protect the health and safety of all employees impact of operations and projects in environmentally sensitive areas.
and contractors and the environment.
Together we ensure there is strong SHE leadership within SSE, including an A key objective each year is to ensure there are no environmental incidents which result active commitment from the Board and the integration in SSE receiving an enforcement notice from of good SHE management with business decisions.
There were no such incidents during 2012 13.
Good environmental stewardship SSEs fundamental principles are that SHE During the year SSE has made increasing involves on-site energy efficiency and risks are best managed by those who use of more positive leading indicators waste management.
A key goal is to create and work with the risk and that of SHE performance and these are used minimise waste and unnecessary use everyone has their part to play.
To meet throughout SSEs business to set targets of natural resources by re-using and this challenge everyone, every supervisor and improve performance.
During 2012 13, and every manager will need to fulfil their measures specifically designed to monitor the recycling and recovery rate for SSEs responsibilities for their safety, the safety improvements in the management of internal waste collection and management of others and that of the environment.
process including office waste and scrap Successful delivery of SSEs behavioural metal from SSEs facilities increased to safety programme, The Safety Family, Contractors safety performance 97.8% 96.9% in 2011 12. reinforces this.
The safety of contractors working on SSE projects and sites is fundamentally the Priorities for 2013 14 SSE safety performance responsibility of their employers but is The key priorities for 2013 2014 are: The SHEAC carefully monitored SSEs an increasingly significant issue for SSE.
The SHEAC believes SSE must work closely embed The Safety Family, by The results in key areas were as follows with its contractors in increasing their implementing action plans and previous years performance in brackets : safety standards.
delivering enhanced behavioural safety training for supervisors across SSE: the Lost Time Reportable Injury Rate SSEs contractors TRIR was 0.50 per 100,000 identify and manage high-impact risks, AFR was 0.05 per 100,000 hours hours worked, compared with 0.56 the such as asset integrity, process safety worked 0.02 : previous year.
While this represented an and major accident hazards: and the Total Recordable Injury Rate TRIR improvement in safety performance, improve contractor SHE performance, covering lost-time, reportable and there were two contractor fatalities during a particularly important issue given the medical treatment injuries was 0.14 2012 13, both on the major Beauly-Denny scale and scope of SSEs investment per 100,000 hours worked 0.11 : Transmission project.
These very tragic programme, by engaging with this key the number of dangerous or potentially events have re-emphasised the requirement group in different ways.
dangerous road traffic incidents for improvement in safety performance in involving SSE employees driving 2013 14.
Thomas Thune Andersen Company vehicles was 0.16 per Chairman 100 vehicles 0.23.
Health promotion SSEs Health and Well-Being Action Plan The most common measures of safety provides the basis for workplace health performance, AFR and TRIR, increased programmes and initiatives, all designed slightly compared to 2011 12.
When to help employees optimise performance.
viewed against long-term trends there have been significant improvements in SSEs policy is to deal with sickness absence performance.
Acknowledging the slight in a sympathetic and constructive way, decline in 2012 13 performance the helping people make a speedy return SHEAC welcomed the identification to health and to work.
During 2012 13, of three Priorities for 2013 2014 the average number of days of sickness set out below to maintain an overall absence from work was 6.69 days per improving performance trend.
person, compared with 5.87 the previous year.
It is pleasing to note the reduction in serious incidents involving employees Environmental management driving Company vehicles: this follows SSEs main environmental impact is an investment in systems to monitor generally regarded as emissions of CO 2 driving habits and performance in associated with electricity generation.
In addition the focus remains on meeting 85 Governance Remuneration Report Introduction The Remuneration SSE has always embraced the transparency Committee agreed should be disclosed in and accountability that goes with being a SSEs results statement on 22 May 2013, Report sets out the FTSE 100 company and so it was particularly are derived solely from his current terms Companys policy on encouraging that the Company received in of remuneration no more, but actually October 2012 the Building Public Trust Award some less because of his decisions to Executive Directors for Executive Remuneration Reporting in the waive his right to participate in the 2012 remuneration for the FTSE 100.
The Award was a clear reminder of Performance Share Plan and to waive any year ended 31 March the importance of transparent remuneration payment under the 2013 Annual Incentive disclosure, underpinned by a fair and Scheme.
The Committee has preserved 2013. appropriate approach to remuneration his participation in the 2011 Performance itself.
This report, and the approach to Share Plan on a pro-rata basis which remuneration that it sets out, has been it believes is fair and appropriate.
No prepared with that firmly in mind.
termination payment was asked for or given.
Key issues The Remuneration Committee has had to Notwithstanding those decisions, consider three specific issues in the course the financial sums involved are clearly of the last year: substantial: but they are what he has earned and accumulated as a result of a the decision by a long-standing and long period of service in a complex sector.
highly-regarded Chief Executive to step During this time he has had serious and down after 17 years Board service, wide-ranging responsibilities and has including more than 10 as Chief Executive: discharged them in a highly effective the decision to appoint to the role of manner.
The Committee believes Chief Executive an internal candidate fairness has prevailed.
who already has more than 10 years of Board service: and Fair value the announcement by Ofgem that SSE After a rigorous process based on should be fined for non-compliance objective criteria, the Board concluded with its obligations under two Standard that Alistair Phillips-Davies is the right Conditions of the Electricity and person to become Chief Executive.
Gas Supply Licences for varying Amongst other things, this decision periods between October 2009 demonstrates the benefit of effective and September 2012. succession planning.
With 10 years service on the Board already, Alistair In dealing with each of these issues, will bring to his new role extensive the guiding principle of the Committee knowledge of SSE, detailed understanding has been fairness.
On the one hand, the of energy markets, clear ability to learn Committee has to reflect the long-term from experience and to deliver change commitment and success of the Executive where needed to meet the needs of Directors, who have led the company all of SSEs stakeholders, including to deliver 14 successive annual abovecustomers, and successful experience inflation dividend increases and extensive of a leadership role in a FTSE 100 operational improvements of real benefit company.
He will, therefore, be able to customers: on the other hand, the to hit the ground running.
Committee has to respond appropriately when things go wrong, as they clearly In view of that, and in view of the did for a period in domestic energy sales.
significantly increased accountabilities that he will have as Chief Executive, I believe that this is what the Committee it is only fair that he should receive an has done.
appropriate increase in salary reflecting the value of the role itself, consistent with Fair approach the principles of SSEs policy on executive Ian Marchant has been an employee of remuneration and that is exactly SSE and one of its predecessor companies what he will receive.
The same principle for 21 years.
Across all of SSEs core values applies in respect of Finance Director, safety, service, efficiency, sustainability, Gregor Alexander, and his additional excellence and teamwork he can point accountabilities.
These changes take to an impressive record of progress.
effect on 1 July 2013 when their salaries Lady Rice will be increased to reflect their new roles The financial arrangements, which the and responsibilities.
The consistent features of simplicity, acceptability and longevity underpinned by the vital principle of fairness have guided the Committees deliberations in 2012 13.
Fair response core values of safety, service, efficiency, As I have said before, fairness works sustainability, excellence and teamwork.
While the Executive Directors have ensured SSEs success in so many The second feature is acceptability.
The areas, one activity in one part of the Remuneration Committee is specifically business was, for a period, not of the mindful of this period of austerity in the standard that SSEs values require and wider economy and of the breadth of that its customers rightly expect: domestic views on remuneration.
We pay attention energy sales.
The Committee always to the external environment at the same stays close to the concerns of stakeholders time as we also seek to do what is right in and shareholders.
a large, highly complex business and one that pays dividends to shareholders.
The In 2012 13, the Retail business, of which Executive Directors at SSE are clearly well Energy Supply is part, contributed 23% paid, and a key feature of remuneration of SSEs operating profit.
In light of the policy is to make sure they are not overpaid, Ofgem decision, the Committee agreed especially given the sector in which they that the Executive Directors award operate.
For this reason, their reward is under the Annual Incentive Scheme for kept below market median for FTSE 20-50 2012 13 should be reduced by at least that companies excluding financial services.
In addition, the Committee recognised that the issues in Energy The third is longevity.
SSE is a long-term Supply fell short of the standards it would business.
This means it is important that expect, and exposed the company to remuneration for the Executive Directors trenchant criticism from a wide range and other senior managers reflects of stakeholders.
It concluded that this and encourages sustained, long-term should also be reflected in the reduced commitment balanced with consideration payment of the Annual Incentive scheme.
of the environment within which SSE The Executive Directors overall award operates.
It is not our goal to make SSE was therefore reduced by 40% in total.
the kind of company people work for The Committee believes this represents a simply because they can make more fair response to the issues in one of SSEs money with it than elsewhere, but it Retail businesses, given the significant is our responsibility to make sure people progress made in other parts of the do not lose out because they are loyal SSE group, including its Networks and and committed over the long term.
These consistent features simplicity, Consistent features acceptability and longevity underpinned While the Committee has been considering by the vital principle of fairness have these specific issues it has also retained guided the Committees deliberations its focus on the consistent features of in 2012 13 and will continue to do so remuneration in SSE.
in the new financial year and beyond.
What Executive Lady Rice CBE Directors are paid is made up of just four Chairman elements: base salary, plus benefits in kind: pension rights: an annual incentive scheme, with cash and shares: and a longterm incentive scheme, with shares.
This provides the right balance between fixed and variable remuneration.
Two of the four elements are performance-related and the whole package is about reinforcing SSEs 87 Governance Remuneration Report continued Introduction 2012 voting Role of the Remuneration the Director of Human Resources and At the SSE Annual General Meeting held Committee SSEs Head of Reward advised on HR on 26 July 2012, shareholders approved strategy and the application of policies the Remuneration Report for the year Governance across the organisation: ended 31 March 2012.
Below is the result The Remuneration Committees Deloitte LLP provided a range of of the resolution, which required a simple composition, responsibilities and operation advice to the Committee which majority of the votes to be cast in favour complied with Section D of the UK Corporate included market information drawn in order for the resolution to be passed.
In forming remuneration from published surveys, governance policy, the Committee has given full developments and their application to Votes for % Votes against % consideration to the best practice provisions the Company, advice on the appropriate 556,243,654 98.9% 6,166,812 1.1% set out in the Code.
This report sets out the structure of short-term incentives, Companys policy on Executive Directors long-term incentives, and comparator remuneration for the year ended 31 March Terms of Reference of the Committee group pay and performance.
Deloitte 2013 and complies with the regulations sets the Total Remuneration Policy on LLP received fees of 75,550 in relation made under the Companies Act 2006. behalf of the Board: to their work for the Committee.
They The report will be presented at the AGM on approves the detailed remuneration were appointed by the Committee.
25 July 2013 for approval and shareholders terms of the Executive Directors Deloitte LLP also provides ad hoc tax will be able to ask questions on the report including their service contract and advice to SSE plc.
Deloitte LLP is one of at the AGM.
the impact on senior management the founding members of, and adheres remuneration: to, the Remuneration Consultants Members and meetings approves the remuneration of the Group Code of Conduct.
During the Chairman, however the Chairman is year the Committee reviewed Deloittes Membership Attended scheduled not present for discussions on his own performance in relation to this Code remuneration: and remained satisfied that the advice Lady Rice approves the design and performance provided was independent: and Committee Chairman 5 5 targets of incentive schemes: Bank of America Merrill Lynch provided Richard Gillingwater 5 5 grants awards under the Companys advice on shareholder views.
They were Lord Smith of Kelvin 5 5 Long-term Incentive Plan to all senior appointed by the Committee for these managers: and services.
They did not receive any fees Katie Bickerstaffe 5 5 reviews the total remuneration of the relating specifically to these services, Management Board and other senior and they are retained as SSEs brokers.
The membership of the Committee executives below Board level.
comprises three independent nonShareholder consultation Executive Directors plus the Chairman of Advisors Lady Rice, on behalf of the Committee, SSE.
They represent diverse backgrounds the Chief Executive, the Director of undertook a consultation with a number and experience.
This is designed to Human Resources, and SSEs Head of of institutional shareholders in April and provide balance and diversity within the Reward, advised the Committee on May 2013 regarding a broad range of Committee.
Informal consultation among matters relating to the appropriateness remuneration issues including the leaving the Committee members, and also with of awards for the Executive Directors arrangements for Ian Marchant, the other non-Executive Directors, takes and senior executives although they appointment terms for Alistair Phillipsplace outside the scheduled meetings were not present for any discussions Davies and Gregor Alexander in their as necessary.
on their own remuneration: new roles, and changes to the Dividend Remuneration agenda 2012 13 Regular items Other items May Directors Remuneration Report.
Approval of Discussion around introduction of clawback.
Performance Share Targets and 2012 Grants.
SSE response to BIS consultation.
November External governance environment update.
Review of Remuneration Consultants Group Performance Share Plan forecasts.
January Discussion around leaving arrangements for Ian Marchant.
March 2 meetings Review of Chief Executives salary and Chairmans Review of remuneration arrangements for fee.
Establishment of the 2013 14 annual incentive Alistair Phillips-Davies and Gregor Alexander performance targets.
Governance Remuneration Report continued Remuneration in 2012 13 Ian Marchant will for the purposes The Committee fully embraces the objectives of the of his share plans be treated as a good Department of Business, Innovation and Skills BIS in leaver and based on the number of months that he will have been employed creating a transparent and consistent approach to full he will be entitled to receive 27 36ths of reporting.
We have aimed to adopt a number of the any award that may vest under the 2011 Performance Share Plan.
At his request, draft recommendations in this report.
participation in the 2012 plan, where he could have received 15 36ths of any award that may vest, has been cancelled.
Per Share DPS metric in the 2013 adopt a competitive and straightforward Performance Share Plan.
Lady Rice and approach to total remuneration, which The Committee also noted that Ian the Committee find these consultation meets shareholder expectations: Marchant decided to waive his annual meetings a valuable opportunity to receive reinforce the culture and teamwork incentive payment for 2012 13 see page 95. feedback on the work of the Committee to deliver the long-term growth and and the key issues that it is considering.
sustainability of the business: and Alistair Phillips-Davies will replace Ian The feedback received has been helpful set Total Remuneration Policy at Marchant as Chief Executive and Gregor in informing the Committees decisions.
levels which promote the long-term Alexander will also take on increased development of the business and reward responsibilities in his expanded role in Employee representatives individuals in line with performance.
supporting and deputising for the Chief The Head of Reward provided an Executive in July 2013.
With this in mind, update to all SSE-recognised trade What was new in 2012 13?
their remuneration arrangements were unions in March 2013 explaining the Ian Marchants retirement was announced reviewed, resulting in both receiving Companys position on Executive in January 2013.
The remuneration terms to increases in basic salary to 755,000 remuneration.
This covered many of the be applied on exit are derived from his terms and 610,000 respectively with effect policy positions explained in this report.
of employment or through the rules of the from July 2013.
They received no He explained the Committees view relevant incentive plans.
The Committee increase in salary on 1 April 2013 on current items such as the recent agreed that the terms should be disclosed and their next formal salary review Department of Business, Innovation in SSEs results statement on 22 May 2013. will be in April 2014. and Skills BIS proposals on Executive remuneration, career shares, clawback, Specifically, Ian Marchant will continue The Committee also considered revised the remuneration position regarding to receive his salary until he steps Performance Share Plan criteria to take the outgoing CEO and the approach to down on 30 June 2013.
He will also account of the dividend policy from April senior management pay and benefits.
have the opportunity to receive a pro- 2013.
The Committee introduced a revised The Company will continue to liaise with rata annual incentive payment based DPS target to align to the policy.
This has employee representative bodies in the on the Committees assessment of his been discussed with key stakeholders future and welcomes their views and performance up to 30 June.
Ian Marchants as part of the Committee Chairmans opinions on remuneration issues.
terms of employment provide for a pension consultation exercise.
The new target of around 420,000 payable from age 60. will mean a threshold payout of 25% At a glance for achieving DPS growth at RPI, rising to This pension is provided by two schemes, 100% payout if RPI plus 4% is achieved.
How has this Remuneration Report the Southern Electric Pension Scheme been put together?
SEPS and an Unfunded Unapproved When considering the level of vesting In January 2012 the UK government Retirement Benefit Scheme UURBs.
at the end of the performance period, recommended that remuneration reports As previously disclosed, Ian Marchant the Committee will ensure that a should comprise two sections: one setting has the option to request that the SEPS suitable level of dividend cover has out how remuneration policy has been element of his pension is payable from been maintained throughout the implemented in the previous year for SSE, age 55.
If this request is made it would performance period.
2012 13 : and one setting out future policy be subject to actuarial reduction.
With sections The Committee continued to discuss the on Remuneration in 2012 13 pages 89 Ian Marchant also has the option to evolving developments in respect of the to 93 and on Remuneration for 2013 14 request that the portion of his pension BIS proposals on Executive Remuneration.
and beyond pages 94 to 97, this Report provided through the UURBs is paid as The Committee agreed to adopt a number follows that structure.
If Ian Marchant of the proposals at an early stage rather makes this request, the Committee than wait until they become a formal What are the principles of the SSE would consider the financial health requirement in 2014.
of the Company and, if appropriate, attract and retain Executive Directors would offer him a cash-out payment, The Committee was also mindful that who run the Company effectively for which in its judgement and that of its a number of the BIS proposals remain the benefit of shareholders, customers actuaries was deemed to be broadly in draft form at the time of writing this and employees: cost neutral to SSE.
89 Governance Remuneration Report continued Remuneration in 2012 13 What is SSEs Total Executive Remuneration Policy?
Summary of remuneration policy Fixed remuneration Variable remuneration Base salary Short-term annual Long-term three years Annual Incentive Scheme 75% maximum Performance Share Plan PSP 3 years cash and 25% deferred shares 25% linked to relative FTSE 100 TSR, 25% MSCI Pension final salary Linked to individual and team performance, Eur.
Utilities TSR, 25% dividend growth, 25% corporate, financial and operational measures adjusted annual EPS growth Benefits-in-kind car, private medical Minimum shareholding requirement equal to 100% base salary What did the Executive Directors earn during the year ending 31 March 2013?
The main reason for the growth in total earnings from 2012 to 2013 is due to the PSP vesting at 51% in 2013 compared with zero in 2012, reflecting a three-year measurement period.
There is also an increase in the pension values year on year.
This represents Ian Marchant moving from a pay freeze in 2011 to a 3.5% increase in 2012 and 10% increases in base salary for Gregor Alexander and Alistair Phillips-Davies in 2012 following increased responsibility in their roles after the departure of the Chief Operating Officer in 2011.
The pension value represents the cash value of pension accrued over one year times a multiple of 20 in line with anticipated statutory reporting requirements.
Current statutory reporting on pensions is shown in Table B page 98 which describes the value of pension accrued over one year under the heading Increase in year including inflation.
Note Benefits relate to car and private medical insurance.
Annual Incentive represents the total value awarded for the year.
75% of this value will be paid as cash in June 2013 and the remaining 25% will be used to fund the purchase of shares which are deferred for a period of 3 years.
The deferred shares are not subject to further performance conditions and will be payable in 2016 should the director remain in employment with the company.
Ian Marchant decided to waive his annual incentive for 2012 2013 which would have been 329,000.
PSP value is the number of shares vesting including dividend shares accrued at the closing market price on 28 March 2013 of 14.84 initial grant price in 2010 was 10.79.
How do the earnings of the Executive Directors compare with other financial dispersals?
On same basis as What did the Executive Directors earn?
Includes Corporation Tax, Employers National Insurance Contributions and Business Rates.
Wages and salaries and share-based remuneration for all employees, as per Note 7 i of the accounts, excluding Executive Directors.
Why do Executive Directors earnings SSE has set out the position for each Executive Directors earnings compared appear to have gone up so much in of these areas in the table above.
It shows that for every 1 spent on 150 The main reason for the year-on-year Executive Directors earnings by SSE increase in Executive Directors earnings is in 2012 13, 50 was paid in tax, 124 120 the fact that SSEs financial performance was spent on employee costs, 122 90 over three years meant there was an was made in dividend payments to award of 51% of the maximum under shareholders and 236 was spent on 60 the Performance Share Plan for 2010-13, capital and investment expenditure.
whereas there was no such payout in the 30 previous year, under the PSP for 2009-12.
SSEs contribution to government 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 revenues in the UK is also included What issues did the Remuneration in the table, and the overall position Dividend payments to shareholders Committee take account of in making on taxation is set out on page 25.
Executive Directors earnings its decisions?
In addition: The Remuneration Committee Chairmans Introduction on page 86 and the table on Incentive Scheme for 2012 13 and shares Executive Directors earnings as page 88 summarises the issues that the vesting under the Performance Share Plan described in this report are subject Committee took account of in making 2010 in 2012 13.
This is in line with the to taxation in the UK: and its decisions for 2012 13.
The Committee proposals outlined by BIS.
in line with the countries in which it also considered carefully and in detail has substantial commercial operations, the appropriate appointment terms The table opposite sets out what each SSE is liable for taxation in the UK for Alistair Phillips-Davies and Gregor Executive Director earned in 2012 13 and Ireland.
Alexander in their respective new roles.
When considering incentive payment levels the Committee reviewed positive What is the position with regard to aspects of performance, including members of the Management Board?
effective teamworking, achievement In addition to the three Executive Directors, of important personal objectives and SSE has eight Managing Directors who another increase in adjusted profit are also members of the Management before tax.
It did however, for a second Board, the role of which is summarised year running also have to consider on pages 62 and 63.
On the same basis the financial and reputational impact as that used for determining Executive of the Ofgem decision in relation to Directors earnings in 2012 13, the total Domestic Energy Sales, and the most earnings of the eight Managing Directors appropriate way to respond to this issue.
How has SSE presented one single How does Executive Directors figure for total remuneration for remuneration compare with other each Executive Director?
The calculation of what Executive BIS has said that, to provide context, Directors earned in 2012 13 is made companies should outline how up of salary, benefits-in-kind, the cash remuneration for Executive Directors value of pension accrued over one compares with other dispersals such year times a multiple of 20 which is as dividends, capital and investment the anticipated method of statutory expenditure, taxation and general calculation, the award under the Annual staffing costs.
91 Governance Remuneration Report continued Remuneration in 2012 13 Remuneration and performance Executive Directors salary and incentive plans 2012 13 Performance measure Purpose link to strategy Policy and decisions Base salary Reflects market data, role, business and individual Following an increase in responsibilities, Alistair performance measured against SSEs strategy as Phillips-Davies and Gregor Alexander will receive set out on pages 2 to 30. increases in July when Ian Marchant departs.
There were no increases for them as at 1 April 2013.
Following the annual review in March 2013 the salary for the Chief Executive was increased by 2.5%, in line with the pay budget for the wider SSE senior management team.
Annual Incentive Scheme Maximum award 100% of base salary 38% of maximum awarded The Annual Incentive Scheme is determined by The performance targets are clearly linked to Maximum award up to 100% of base salary: the Remuneration Committees assessment of SSEs strategy, which is to deliver sustained real 75% in cash non-pensionable : 25% compulsorily the performance during the year, based on the growth in the dividend through the efficient deferred into shares which only vest, subject three key areas below: corporate performance: operation of, and investment in, a balanced to continued service, after three years.
There teamwork: and achievement of objectives.
is no share matching award in place.
Corporate performance 60% Corporate performance 60% Corporate performance max 60% Group corporate performance is measured by Sustained real dividend growth can only be During 2012 13, SSE delivered a 5.1% increase adjusted profit before tax, which reflects the delivered if it is supported by an adequate level of in the dividend per share and a 5.6% increase underlying profits of SSEs business and the adjusted profit before tax.
At the same time, the in adjusted profit before tax.
This means it basis on which it is managed.
long-term nature of SSEs dividend commitments achieved its first financial objective of annual means that adjusted profit before tax has to be above-inflation dividend increases for the 14th earned in a way that is responsible and durable.
The increase in adjusted profit before tax was the biggest since 2007 08 and was also the 14th consecutive increase.
In addition to enabling it to pay dividends, on which investors like pension schemes depend, adjusted profit before tax allows SSE to improve its operations for the benefit of customers, invest in the energy infrastructure that customers will depend on in the future and employ people throughout the United Kingdom and Ireland.
Teamwork 20% Teamwork 20% Teamwork performance max 20% Teamwork is measured by performance SSE believes it will only be successful financially During 2012 13: Safety: the Total Recordable against the SSE SET of core values: Safety: if it exercises a wider corporate responsibility to Injury Rate increased but the rate of road traffic Service: Efficiency: Sustainability: Excellence: others, such as customers and employees, on accidents involving company vehicles decreased: and Teamwork.
Performance against these whom its success ultimately depends.
Its core Service: SSE was the leading large supplier in values is assessed through SSEs performance values summarise this approach.
customer service surveys: Efficiency: outstanding management process.
performance in restoring electricity supplies in Arran and Kintyre in March: Sustainability: continued progress in the development and deployment of more sustainable sources of energy: Excellence: increasing success in converting innovative ideas into new business practices: and Teamwork: independently assessed Employee Engagement Index score up from 73% to 81%.
Personal objectives 20% Personal objectives 20% Personal objectives max 20% SSE believes personal objectives should Personal objectives set during the year covered During 2012 13, the Executive Directors, form a part of the Annual Incentive Scheme.
areas such as performance in respect of safety, in addition to their normal responsibilities, In keeping with its Teamwork value, SSE seeks customer service and delivery of new sources for have been working individually and collectively to avoid potentially conflicting personal generating electricity from renewable sources.
to ensure that SSE is well-prepared for the objectives.
Focusing on operations and the Success in each of these areas is central to SSEs management changes that will take place on investment programme, they are designed emphasis on efficient operations and investment 1 July 2013.
SSE is well-placed for those changes.
to support achievement of SSEs strategy to support dividend growth.
Remuneration and performance Executive Directors salary and incentive plans 2012 13 Performance measure Purpose link to strategy Policy and decisions Annual Incentive Scheme continued 38% of maximum awarded When determining overall performance against Impact of Ofgem decision incentives what other factors did the committee On the basis of the above, the Executive consider during the year?
Directors would qualify for an Annual Incentive Whilst recognising strong underlying Scheme payment of 63% of the maximum.
performance of the business, it is key to the The Remuneration Committee concluded that Committee that profit is earned in the correct the breaches in Energy Supply licence conditions manner.
As such, the Committee gave detailed set out by Ofgem on 3 April 2013 fell below the consideration to the issue of the Ofgem standard it would expect and also exposed SSE authority decision in relation to domestic to significant criticism from key stakeholders.
Therefore this should result in the Annual Incentive Scheme payment being reduced by 40% to 38% of the maximum.
Performance Share Plan 2010-2013 Maximum award 150% of base salary 51% of maximum awarded For awards granted in 2010, performance is The elements of TSR, EPS and DPS reflect relative Maximum award of 150% of base salary measured against the following criteria over and absolute measures of performance.
Awards are released to the extent a three-year period.
Total Shareholder Return TSR compared The relative TSR measure is dependent on SSEs TSR FTSE 100 max 25% to FTSE 100 relative long-term share price performance and Out-turn between median and upper quartile of 100% vests at or above 75th percentile dividend return.
It is therefore directly linked to FTSE 100 constituents at rank 32, and 79% of TSR 25% vests at median the strategic objective of sustained real dividend element awarded.
straight-line basis between median and 75th growth.
percentile no vesting of award if median performance not achieved Total Shareholder Return TSR compared to TSR performance is compared to a dedicated TSR MSCI max 25% peer group of UK and other European Utilities peer group of around 30 UK and other European Out-turn above upper quartile of MSCI MSCI utilities the MSCI Europe Utilities and provides constituents and 100% of TSR element awarded: 100% vests at or above 75th percentile a sector emphasis whilst continuing to bring a 25% vests at median market perspective to the plan.
straight-line basis between median and 75th percentile no vesting of award if median performance not achieved Adjusted earnings per share EPS Adjusted EPS is used to monitor SSEs EPS max 25% 100% vests where EPS is 8% above RPI performance over the medium term because it Out-turn growth below the EPS minimum growth 25% vests where EPS is 2% above RPI is straightforward: it defines the amount of profit target RPI 2%, and 0% of EPS element awarded.
straight-line basis between 2% and 8% above after tax that has been earned for each Ordinary RPI Share.
Profit is required to support the payment no vesting if EPS minimum growth of RPI 2% of, and increases in, the dividend.
is not achieved Dividend per Share DPS The DPS growth target reflects the Companys DPS max 25% 100% vests where DPS is 6% above RPI objective to deliver strong real dividend growth Out-turn growth above the DPS minimum growth 25% vests where DPS is 2% above RPI in the future while maintaining a dividend target off RPI 2% at 2.05%, and 26% of DPS straight-line basis between 2% and 6% cover consistent with its established range.
above RPI In assessing performance against DPS the no vesting if DPS minimum growth of RPI 2% Committee was satisfied that a reasonable is not achieved level of dividend cover has been maintained during the performance period.
93 Governance Remuneration Report continued Remuneration for 2013 14 and beyond 2013 14 and beyond an Annual Incentive Scheme: and regular dialogue between shareholders a long-term incentive plan.
and the Remuneration Committee, During 2013 14 the Committee will: and shareholder feedback was taken The current incentive plans are shown in into account by the committee when consider the incoming CEOs views on the table on pages 92 and 93. making decisions.
what the long-term strategy means As a matter of policy the Committee for the accountabilities of senior Total Remuneration Policy takes account of any changing or managers and for ensuring effective Remuneration policy for Executive Directors increasing responsibilities when long-term performance: is to remain below median of the FTSE determining the appropriate continue to review its Total 20-50, excluding financial services.
Remuneration Policy to ensure it is also monitors its generally conservative The Committee reviews the long-term aligned to the long-term needs of the positioning against direct peers and UK total reward of the Executive Directors, business, shareholders and customers: listed companies in related sectors.
SSEs to ensure that it is suitably aligned and goal is to retain Executive Directors who with the long-term performance of continue to engage with key are motivated by the long-term success the business.
of the Company, rather than short-term remuneration.
The balance of fixed and Total Remuneration Policy variable remuneration This policy and goal reflect the SSE culture Taking into account the SSE business Total Remuneration Policy is integral to in which Executive Directors and Senior profile, the Remuneration Committee overall HR Strategy and the SSE set of core Managers are motivated by developing believes that around 40% of the total values are supported in the objectives, the Company for the future, and explains remuneration should be performanceplan design and application of the policy.
why long-term growth and sustainability related, increasing up to around 60% of the business are of such importance for exceptional performance as shown The principles when determining remuneration policy.
in the table below as this rewards The core principles of the Companys performance sufficiently without remuneration policy are outlined in The Committee reviews regularly the causing undue risk taking.
the At a glance section on page 89 total compensation, including pensions, together with policy details and charts of the Executive Directors compared Senior executives, managers which illustrate performance variation to FTSE benchmarks to make sure that and employees between the target and maximum values the Company is not disadvantaged by The Committee appreciates the importance of the packages.
the current position nor are there any of an appropriate relationship between adverse consequences stemming from the remuneration levels of the Executive The policy comprises: the long service of the leadership team.
Directors, senior executives, managers and A number of institutional shareholders other employees within the Group.
There is a base salary and benefits: were consulted on key aspects of the wider group of senior executives who have a a defined benefit pension plan: Total Remuneration Policy as part of a significant influence on Group performance.
Balance of fixed and variable remuneration: Directors scenario charts Ian Marchant Maximum Total Fixed 42% Total Variable 58% Target Total Fixed 60% Total Variable 40% Minimum Total Fixed 100% Actual Total Fixed 70% Total Variable 30% Gregor Alexander Maximum Total Fixed 44% Total Variable 56% Target Total Fixed 60% Total Variable 40% Minimum Total Fixed 100% Fixed Actual Total Fixed 63% Total Variable 37% Salary Pension and Benefits Alistair Phillips-Davies Maximum Total Fixed 43% Total Variable 57% Variable Target Total Fixed 60% Total Variable 40% Annual Incentive Scheme 1 Minimum Total Fixed 100% Long Term PSP Actual Total Fixed 62% Total Variable 38% 0 500k 1,000k 1,500k 2,000k 2,500k 3,000k 3,500k 4,000k 1.
Excluding impact of share price and dividend.
The Committee seeks assurance that the purpose of the Annual Incentive The Committee will continue to be there is a consistency of approach to Scheme is to reward Executive Directors mindful of and exercise its discretion to remuneration and that remuneration performance during the year, based on reduce or withhold an incentive, if it is is of sufficient value to attract and an analysis of corporate performance, not satisfied that the Company is holding retain key executives for the longer term.
team working and personal objectives.
itself to the very high standards that the Performance is considered in the context Committee expects and demands of SSE.
Base salary of targets set in each of the areas at the The Committee is mindful of the start of the financial year.
In addition, For 2013 14, the structure of the annual remuneration of different groups of the Remuneration Committee considers incentive will remain the same as in 2012 13. employees and considers wider internal Executive Directors management of, The maximum annual incentive payable will pay arrangements and other relevant and performance in, all of the business be 100% of salary, split between: external indices such as inflation in the issues that arose during the year.
process of reviewing base salary for the corporate performance 60% : Executive Directors.
For 2012 13, the total annual incentive paid team working 20% : and to the Executive Directors was in the range of personal objectives 20%.
The Committee conducted a review of 0%-38% of salary, compared to 20%-30% in salaries for Executive Directors in March the previous year, both against a maximum In any single year, it is expected that 2013.
It considered the following factors in payable of 100%.
The incentive payable for the annual incentive paid will be around the light of recent market and governance 2012 13 reflects the elements in respect 50% of Executive Directors salary for ontrends, and increased responsibilities: of team working and performance against target performance.
The annual incentive personal objectives.
Executive Directors is paid 75% in cash, and 25% deferred the Executive Directors continue to salary and incentive plans 2012 13, on into shares which vest after three deliver a strong financial performance pages 92 and 93, sets out performance years, subject to continued service.
with significant results to shareholders metrics used in the assessment of the The Committee retains the discretion in a difficult trading year with dividend annual incentive for the year.
to vary this award level in exceptional growth exceeding RPI inflation for the circumstances.
fourteenth consecutive year: Based on business performance the management and Collective Executive Directors would have been Long-term incentive plan Agreements which provide an average eligible to receive a payment in the range The Performance Share Plan rewards 3.5% salary increase this year: and of 63% of maximum opportunity but the Executive Directors and other senior in line with policy, total remuneration Committee decided to reduce this by 40% executives over a three-year period and basic salary, when benchmarked in light of the Ofgem decision regarding for the continued profitable growth where relevant to FTSE 20-50 excluding sales processes for domestic energy of SSE as measured by Earnings Per financial services, remain behind market customers.
While the Committee had also Share EPS, Total Shareholder Return median for the Executive Directors.
reduced incentive levels in 2011 12 as a TSR compared to the FTSE 100, TSR result of the sales compliance issues, it compared with the MSCI European In selecting and appointing the right recognises that SSE has got things wrong, Utilities Index and Dividend Per Share leadership team to take SSE forward, the and believes that it is appropriate to DPS.
Awards equivalent to 150% Committee was minded to offer a fair and implement a further reduction in 2012 13. of salary are granted annually to competitive package, reflecting the role Executive Directors and at lower and the experience of the candidate.
The Committee has also sought assurances rates to other senior executives.
that the Company is reviewing incentive After taking careful consideration of all arrangements for employees with Awards will be released after three factors, the Committee decided to increase leadership responsibilities in the area years subject to meeting demanding the base salary of the Chief Executive by of Domestic Energy Sales.
performance conditions relating to 2.5%, in line with the wider senior employee the Companys relative performance.
In addition, in recognition that it is his This is in line with the need to achieve After detailed and careful deliberation on last year in employment at SSE, and the correct balance of fixed and variable the issue of the salary levels for the new wishing to give back to employees in SSE, remuneration.
appointments, Alistair Phillips-Davies Ian Marchant has requested that the salary will be increased to 755,000 with remaining portion of his incentive payment, Since 2010, awards have had four effect from 1 July 2013 when he assumes 329,000 be waived, with the value of performance criteria of 25% each.
his new role as Chief Executive and Gregor the payment being used to set up a new Threshold vesting delivers 25% of Alexanders salary will be increased by fund to provide support and funding for each element, with full vesting 12% to 610,000 on the same date for personal development opportunities for delivering 100% of each element his significant additional responsibilities.
current and future employees of SSE.
as follows: The opportunities to be provided will Current incentive plans be clearly additional to those that are relative TSR performance compared to Annual Incentive Scheme currently available through the Company.
FTSE 100 threshold vesting for median 4,000k In line with the need to achieve the correct The Committee is supportive of this, performance and full vesting for upper balance of fixed and variable remuneration, and has agreed to this request.
quartile performance : 95 Governance Remuneration Report continued Remuneration for 2013 14 and beyond relative TSR performance compared or 50 years service respectively with SSE TSR performance: 31 March 2008 to to a selected peer group of UK and other the Group.
31 March 2013 European utilities threshold vesting for 160 median performance and full vesting Funding of share schemes and dilution for upper quartile performance : Shares are purchased in the market to 140 EPS growth of RPI plus 2% threshold satisfy the exercise of awards under the 120 vesting to 8% full vesting : and deferred Annual Incentive Scheme, the dividend per share growth of RPI plus 2% Performance Share Plan, and the SIP.
100 threshold vesting to 6% full vesting.
80 The Companys Sharesave Scheme uses The 2010 PSP award vested at 51% of unissued shares to satisfy the exercise of Mar 08 Mar 09 Mar 10 Mar 11 Mar 12 Mar 13 maximum.
Further details are given in share options.
As at 31 March 2013, there the table on page 90 of the report.
were approximately six million share options SSE outstanding under this scheme, and if all FTSE 100 As previously stated, the Committee the outstanding options were exercised this Source: Datastream agreed to an amendment to the PSP would amount to 0.65% of the issued share target from 2013 onwards.
The revised capital of the Company at that date.
DPS target will have a threshold payout As reported on page 67, 48% of SSE of 25% for achieving DPS growth at RPI, employees are members of the Share Pensions policy rising to 100% payout if RPI plus 4% is Incentive Plan.
Pension planning is an important part of achieved.
When considering the level of 38% of employees are members of the remuneration strategy because it is vesting at the end of the performance the Sharesave Scheme.
consistent with the long-term goals and period, the Committee will ensure that horizons of the business.
SSE welcomes a reasonable level of dividend cover Directors shareholdings as percentage the introduction of auto-enrolment, has been maintained throughout the of annual salary an approach it has been practising for performance period.
Each employee is 2013 2012 encouraged to join and remain a member % % salary salary The Committee has in place from 2012 of the relevant pension plan and SSE is onwards the power to review the final encouraged by high employee participation Ian Marchant 379 367 award of shares, when they vest, made rates of over 90%.
Gregor Alexander 266 242 under the Annual Incentive Scheme and Alistair Phillips-Davies 294 268 the Performance Share Plan and to operate In common with all members of the pension a claw back if it deems appropriate.
2013 Based on a share price at 28 March 2013 of 14.84. schemes who joined at the same time as the 2012 Based on a share price at 31 March 2012 of 13.29.
Executive Directors, the following provisions Share ownership policy relating to leaving the Company apply: Employee share ownership is a key part of All-employee share schemes Total Remuneration Policy and is designed Executive Directors are eligible to for retirement through ill-health an to help maintain long-term employee participate in the Companys all-employee unreduced pension based on service commitment and business understanding, share schemes on the same terms as other to expected retirement is paid: offering the opportunity to benefit from employees.
These schemes comprise: in the event of any reorganisation or any growth in shareholder value.
redundancy an unreduced accrued the Sharesave Scheme which allows pension is paid to a member who is The interests of the Executive Directors employees options to acquire shares aged 50 or above, with at least five and other senior executives are closely using the proceeds of a monthly savings years service or, for a member who aligned with those of other shareholders.
contract of up to 250 per month.
has not yet reached that age, it will The Performance Share Plan, the deferral Exercise of the options is not subject to be payable with effect from 50: and of 25% of the annual incentive award satisfaction of any performance target.
from the age of 55, a scheme member and participation in all employee share The option price is set at a discount is entitled to leave the Company and schemes facilitate this alignment.
maximum of 20% to market value: receive a pension, reduced for early The Executive Directors and certain the Share Incentive Plan the SIP payment, unless the Company gives other senior executives are required which allows employees to allocate consent and funds this pension being to maintain a shareholding equivalent part of their pre-tax salary to purchase paid on an unreduced basis.
to one years salary built up within a shares up to a maximum of 125 per reasonable timescale.
Participants receive two free The Executive Directors are members shares is not normally given unless in matching shares monthly for each share of either the Southern Electric Pension exceptional circumstances or to fund purchased up to a maximum of six free Scheme or the Scottish Hydro-Electric a connected tax liability until this level shares: and Pension Scheme and their plan membership of shareholding is reached.
the long service award scheme which predates their Board appointments.
It is also expected that all non-Executive purchases 10, 20, 30, 40 or 50 shares on These are both funded final salary Directors should hold a minimum of behalf of an employee on the occasion pension schemes and the terms of these 2,000 shares in the Company.
of the employee reaching 10, 20, 30, 40 schemes apply equally to all members.
The Directors service contracts provide for The Company may at its discretion Outside appointments a possible maximum pension of two thirds terminate any Executive Directors Executive Directors are able to accept final salary from the age of 60.
In relation contract by making a payment in a non-Executive appointment outside to Executive Directors who are subject to lieu of notice equal to the base salary the Company with the consent of the the scheme-specific salary cap which which would have been received during Board, as such appointments can enhance mirrors the provisions of the previous HM the notice period excluding any annual Directors experience and value to the Revenue and Customs cap arrangements incentive and any other emolument Company.
Any fees received are retained the Company provides top-up unfunded referable to the employment.
arrangements which are designed to may be made in staged payments, and provide an equivalent pension on retirement will either reduce or cease completely In 2012 13 Ian Marchant was a nonfrom the age of 60 to that which they would where the departing Executive Director Executive Director with John Wood have earned if they had not been subject to gains new employment.
Group plc, and received 46,250 in fees.
There are no arrangements to compensate members for any change If an Executive Directors employment Gregor Alexander was appointed as a in their personal tax liability.
Dependent terminates in certain circumstances such non-Executive Director with Stagecoach upon the circumstances surrounding the as death, ill-health or other circumstances Group plc with effect from 1 April 2013. departure of the Executive Director and that the Committee deems appropriate, He is also Chairman of Scotia Gas Networks financial health of the Company at the the PSP shares will be reduced to and receives no additional fees for this.
time, the Committees policy is to give reflect the point during the three-year consideration to a cash commutation of the performance period when the Directors Non-Executive Directors unfunded unapproved retirement benefit employment ends and will remain subject UURB pension at the time of leaving.
If the Executive Directors The non-Executive Directors have letters of cash commutation would limit SSEs liability, employment ends for any other reason, appointment, and are appointed for fixed taking into account valuations provided by PSP share awards will lapse.
terms of three years, subject to retirement independent actuarial advisors, and would by rotation and re-appointment at AGMs.
be undertaken on what was judged to be In March 2013 Ian Marchant decided to a cost neutral basis to SSE.
relinquish in full his entitlement to any They do not participate in the Annual award under the 2012 PSP which may Incentive Scheme, deferred Annual Incentive Full details of the Executive Directors vest in 2015.
He decided to do this so Scheme, any of the share option schemes, pension plans can be found in Table B that all aspects of his remuneration or contribute to any Group pension scheme of the audited information on page 98. will be concluded during the financial although as indicated above they are year 2013 14. required to hold 2,000 Company shares.
Service contracts In the event of a change of control of The fees of the independent non-Executive It is the Companys policy that Executive the Company, performance in the PSP Directors are agreed by the Board.
The Directors have service contracts with the will be measured to that date and the non-Executive Directors do not participate Company which can be terminated on 12 award will normally be scaled down to in the review process for their fees.
The months notice given by either party.
reflect the period prior to the change fee for the Chairman is agreed by the of control.
The Committee is updating the contracts to reflect changes to employment law and will issue updated contracts to Alistair Phillips-Davies and Gregor Alexander Service contract key items effective 1 July 2013.
There will be no Provision Detailed terms material changes to their existing terms and conditions.
Notice period 12 months by either Company or Director Termination payment Up to 12 months salary excluding any annual incentive The current Executive Directors service or other emolument contracts contain the key items shown Payment in lieu of notice in staged payments subject in the table opposite.
to the Executive gaining new employment No special change of control provisions Length of service Obligation on departing Executives to mitigate loss Length of Remuneration Salary, pension and benefits Industry Board service service Company car or cash allowance Participation in Annual Incentive Scheme, employee Ian Marchant 21 17 years share schemes and Executive incentive plans Gregor Alexander 22 10 years Private health insurance Alistair Phillips-Davies 16 11 years Non-competition During employment and for six months after leaving I ncluding two years as Finance Director of Southern Contract dates All contracts dated 11 March 2005 Electric plc.
97 Governance Remuneration Report continued Remuneration in detail The fees are reviewed against companies of The Auditors are required to report on the pensionable pay, together with similar size and complexity.
To be consistent information contained in Tables A, B and D. a capital sum equal to four times with wider remuneration policy, fees are set pensionable pay.
If death occurs at below median.
The following is information relating after attaining the age of 55 an to the pension of Gregor Alexander additional lump sum between three Fee history as a participant in the HM Revenue to five times notional pension is & Customs approved Scottish Hydropayable dependent upon age and 2013 2012 Electric Pension Scheme.
000s 000s Board 56 54 i Dependants pensions on death ii On death in retirement, the Directors Audit Committee are half of members pension spouse will receive a pension equal Chairmanship 14 14 entitlements, together with a capital to two-thirds of that payable to the Remuneration Committee sum equal to four times pensionable Director.
In addition, on death within Chairmanship 12 12 pay.
On death in retirement, the the first five years of retirement, SHEAC Committee Directors spouse will receive a pension a lump sum is payable equal to the Chairmanship 8 equal to half of that payable to the balance outstanding of the first five Senior Independent Director.
In addition, on death within years pension payments.
Director 10 10 the first five years of retirement, Company Chairman 353 341 a lump sum is payable equal to the iii Post retirement increases are expected balance outstanding of the first five to be in line with inflation guaranteed With an expanding Committee workload, years pension payments.
up to the level of 5% per annum and the Board decided to introduce a discretionary above that level.
Chairmanship fee of 10,000 per annum ii Post retirement increases are expected for the Safety, Health and Environment to be in line with inflation.
All the Executive Directors have unfunded Advisory Committee SHEAC.
This fee retirement benefits which are included in was introduced on 1 June 2012.
The following is information relating to their pension benefits above with provision the Directors pensions of Ian Marchant in respect of their accrued value included From 1 April 2013, the fees for all nonand Alistair Phillips-Davies, as participants in the Companys Balance Sheet.
Executive Director roles were increased in the HM Revenue & Customs approved by 2.5% in line with the average salary Southern Electric Group of the Electricity increase of SSEs wider management Supply Pension Scheme.
Reasonable travelling and other expenses for costs incurred in i Dependants pensions on death the course of their duties are reimbursed.
are four-ninths of the members Table A Directors remuneration excluding LTIP and pension information 2013 2012 Salary fee Cash incentives Benefits Total Total 000s 000s 000s 000s 000s Executive Directors 1 Ian Marchant 870 0 20 890 1,017 Gregor Alexander 545 154 16 715 655 Alistair Phillips-Davies 545 154 16 715 634 Colin Hood retired 31 10 11 481 Non-Executive Directors Thomas Thune Andersen 66 66 54 Jeremy Beeton 56 56 41 Katie Bickerstaffe 56 56 41 Richard Gillingwater 74 74 54 Lady Rice 72 72 76 Lord Smith of Kelvin 353 353 341 Ren Mdori retired 25 6 12 17 17 68 2,654 308 52 3,014 3,462 Notes In addition to the annual cash bonus amounts for this year, Gregor Alexander and Alistair Phillips Davies will be awarded 51,000 in the form of deferred shares in respect of the bonus due to them for 2012 13.
These share awards will not be made until June 2013 and therefore the number of shares to which they will be entitled will not be known until that date.
These shares will, subject to continued employment, be released on the third anniversary of grant in June 2016.
Ian Marchant decided to waive any entitlement to incentives in the year.
Table B Directors pension information Accrued benefit Transfer value of accrued benefit Increase Increase Increase At in year in year At At Increase less in year Years of 31 March including excluding 31 March 31 March Directors excluding industry 2013 inflation inflation 2013 2012 contributions inflation service 000s 000s 000s 000s 000s 000s 000s Ian Marchant 21 422 34 22 10,457 9,188 1,250 570 Gregor Alexander 22 255 25 19 5,900 4,999 882 463 Alistair Phillips-Davies 16 200 23 17 4,373 3,676 678 427 The transfer value of the accrued benefit has increased over the year.
There has been no change in the Directors pension entitlements over the year and the increase in value is largely the result of the change in financial conditions and updated valuation since 31 March 2012, notably the significant reduction in bond yields.
If bond yields were to go up, the value would go down.
Members of the scheme have the option to pay additional voluntary contributions: neither the contributions nor the resulting benefits are included in the table above.
If a members accrued fund exceeds the lifetime allowance LTA, the benefits payable by the scheme from that excess will be subject to a higher rate of income tax.
The Company has maximised the use of the allowance to provide Executive Directors with the maximum benefits via the registered schemes.
Table C Directors share interests 31 March 2013 31 March 2012 Shares Shares Shares held under option Shares held under option Gregor Alexander 97,787 198,170 93,915 204,019 Thomas Andersen 2,000 2,000 Jeremy Beeton 4,000 4,000 Katie Bickerstaffe 2,000 2,000 Richard Gillingwater 2,000 2,000 Ian Marchant 222,439 235,742 232,023 349,978 Alistair Phillips-Davies 107,886 197,550 104,062 202,483 Lady Rice 5,875 5,533 Lord Smith of Kelvin 22,600 22,600 Ren Mdori retired 25 6 12 2,050 2,050 Notes From 31 March 2013 to 21 May 2013, the following changes to the interests of Directors took place: Under a standing order for reinvestment of an ISA, on 8 April 2013, Gregor Alexander acquired 14 shares.
Under the Share Incentive Plan SIP on 5 April 2013 Ian Marchant and Gregor Alexander each acquired 15 shares and Alistair Phillips-Davies acquired 14 shares, and on 3 May they each acquired 14 shares.
The Register of Directors Interests which is open to shareholders inspection contains full details of Directors shareholdings and options to subscribe for shares.
Table D page 100 shows the interests of the Executive Directors in awards granted under the Deferred Bonus Plan 2006 and the Performance Share Plan PSP and in options granted under the Sharesave Scheme during the year ended 31 March 2013.
Ren Mdoris holding covers to the date of leaving on 25 June 2012.
99 Governance Remuneration Report continued Remuneration in detail Table D Directors long term incentive plan interests Normal No.
of Shares Option Additional No.
In addition to the shares released under the DBP 2006, as indicated in the table above, the following shares were realised arising from such notional reinvestment of dividends: Ian Marchant 2,076 shares, Gregor Alexander 1,192 shares, Alistair Phillips-Davies 1,192 shares.
The performance conditions applicable to awards under the PSP since 2007 are described on page 92.
The 2009 award under the PSP did not vest.
25% of annual bonus payable to Executive Directors and Senior Managers is satisfied as a conditional award of shares under the DBP 2006.
Vesting of shares is dependent on continued service over a three year period.
In view of the linkage to annual bonus, no further performance condition applies to the vesting of DBP 2006 awards.
The market value of a share on the date on which these awards were made was 1,376p.
The market value of a share on the date on which these awards were realised was 1,372p.
Ian Marchant waived his 2012 PSP award over 94,360 shares on 28 March 2013.
Ian Marchants 2011 PSP award has been pro-rated by a factor of 27 36ths, to reflect his service to 30 June 2013.
The closing market price of shares at 28 March 2013 was 1,484p and the range for the year was 1,294p to 1,488p.
Awards granted during the year were granted under the DBP 2006 and the PSP.
The aggregate amount of gains made by the Directors on the exercise of share options and realisation of awards during the year was 377,549.27 2012 337,628.68.
This report was approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by: Lady Rice CBE Remuneration Committee Chairman 21 May 2013 100 SSE plc Annual Report 2013
