Governance People and values Values and responsibilities Teamwork: We support and value All employees Core values our colleagues and enjoy working SSE employed 19,795 people on 31 March SSE believes that the behaviours and together as a team in an open and 2013, an increase of 306 on the previous culture of an organisation should honest way.
Fundamental to the Companys be guided by its values, and that an success is the professionalism and organisations values should be at its The team enthusiasm of employees, guided by core.
SSE has six core values which seek The Board of Directors and the SSEs teamwork value, which states: to bound the behaviour and attitude Management Board We support and value our colleagues of its employees and those it works The Board of Directors is accountable to and enjoy working together in an open with.
These are: SSEs shareholders for the good conduct and honest way.
SSE is committed to of the Companys affairs.
It is responsible ensuring that it is a great place to work Safety: We believe all accidents are for creating and sustaining shareholder and its policies on human resources are preventable, so we do everything value in a responsible way through the developed and delivered in support of this.
safely and responsibly or not at all.
overall management of the Company.
Service: We give our customers In doing so, the Board must ensure that Of all employees, 71% are men and service we are proud of and a sound system of internal control and 29% are women.
The average age of make commitments that risk management is in place.
there was a 9.2% turnover of employees, Efficiency: We keep things simple, The Management Board is the group compared with 8.2% in the previous year.
do the work that adds value and of Executive Directors and Managing avoid wasting money, materials, Directors which is responsible for Developing and recruiting people energy or time.
implementing strategy and policy as Building the SSE team Sustainability: Our decisions and agreed by the Board of Directors and for During 2012 13, SSE recruited externally actions are ethical, responsible the operational management of all of SSEs a total of 2,200 people to jobs in England, and balanced, helping to achieve businesses.
The members of the Board Scotland, Wales, Northern Ireland and the environmental, social and economic are listed on pages 62 and 63 and the Republic of Ireland.
Of the people recruited wellbeing for current and future Management Board are listed below.
during the year, 69% were men and 31% generations.
While it was difficult to find Excellence: We strive to get better, A total of 60 senior managers report candidates for a very small number of the smarter and more innovative and to members of the Management Board.
jobs, because of the technical requirements be the best in everything we do.
Of these, 15 are women and 45 are men.
or location issues, the vast majority were Management Board Mark Mathieson Rob McDonald Jim McPhillimy Will Morris Martin Pibworth Managing Director, Managing Director, Managing Director, Managing Director, Managing Director, Networks Regulation and Strategy Group Services Retail Energy Portfolio Management Mark Mathieson is Managing Rob McDonald is Managing Jim McPhillimy is Managing Will Morris is Managing Martin Pibworth is Managing Director, Networks.
He joined Director, Regulation and Director, Group Services.
Director of SSEs Retail Director, Energy Portfolio SSE in 1988 and is responsible Strategy.
He joined SSE in He joined SSE in 1995 and is business.
He joined SSE for SSEs Electricity Networks, 1997 and is responsible for responsible for the Groups company in 2012 and is in 1998 and is responsible Lighting Services and regulation, energy economics, corporate services including responsible for the customer for the operation of SSEs Telecoms businesses.
legal services, new ventures safety, human resources, facing retail business in Energy Portfolio Management and strategy.
Governance 4. filled by well qualified people in a timely which features a range of options for are identifying blockers which could hold way and SSE remains pleased with the the development of key individuals: and them back from realising their ambition number of high quality applications that recognising that the most effective and are experiencing an increase in it receives.
employees over the long term are those confidence in their own abilities.
who are able to maintain a balance SSEs priorities in maintaining and between their working and personal lives.
In 2013 14, the diversity and inclusion developing the right team of employees are: agenda is focused on understanding the Diversity and inclusion skills and employment challenges faced making SSE a great place to work, SSE has established a Diversity and by SSE over the short, medium and long therefore retaining engaged, motivated Inclusion Working Group which focuses term, and identifying creative solutions to and committed people and attracting on ensuring a diverse mix of candidates is address these.
This will include looking at a strong and diverse number of quality attracted for all available job opportunities, alternative recruitment routes and markets applicants for new roles: while helping to build a culture of inclusion to tap into, structure of working patterns and making a long-term commitment to so that everyone has the same opportunity acceleration of high potential staff within employees, giving them the time to to progress regardless of background or the business.
Another key focus for the year build their professional skills and the personal circumstance.
ahead will be ensuring that SSEs talent opportunity to advance their careers: pipeline and management leadership traits maintaining a preference for recruiting In support of this, an Equality and Diversity promote diversity and inclusion.
and promoting from within the e-learning module is being rolled out to organisation where possible, while all 2,800 people managers in SSE.
This Youth unemployment recognising that some specialist promotes the creativity and innovation The level of unemployment among 18 to skills may only be available through benefits that can be achieved by building 24 year olds has been a particular cause external recruitment: SSE teams which reflect a wide range of for concern as a result of the economic taking steps to ensure a balanced skills, thinking styles, personality types slowdown in the UK and Ireland in and diverse list of applicants for roles and perspectives.
Overall around 11% of SSE within SSE: employees are aged under 25 around ensuring effective succession planning, In 2012 13, a coaching and mentoring 2,100 in total.
based on a comprehensive annual programme was piloted, to specifically review process which extends beyond support those returning from maternity SSE supports the Barnardos Works the Board and the Management Board leave or women with young families.
programme, which aims to give long term to other levels in the organisation and Those participating in the programme unemployed young people the opportunity The Board of SGN SSE is entitled to appoint four out of the eight Directors on SGNs Board reflecting its 50% shareholding in SGN.
The SSE employees who serve on the Board of SGN are: Gregor Alexander, Finance Director: Natalie Flageul, Director of Metering: Rob Jim Smith Paul Smith Alan Young John Morea McDonald, Managing Director, Regulation and Strategy: and Managing Director, Managing Director, Managing Director, Attends SSEs Jim McPhillimy, Managing Renewables Generation Corporate Affairs Management Board Director, Group Services.
Meetings Jim Smith is Managing Paul Smith is Managing Alan Young is Managing John Morea attends meetings Director, Renewables.
He joined Director, Corporate Affairs.
He joined SSE in 1988 and SSE in 1998 and is responsible He joined SSE in 2001 He is the Chief Executive is responsible for renewable for operational generation and is responsible for of SGN, which owns and energy development and and gas storage businesses, corporate communications, operates gas distribution construction.
which include coal, gas, hydro public affairs, community networks in Scotland and and all operational onshore programmes and sustainable southern England and in and offshore wind.
65 Governance People and values continued to gain comprehensive paid work SSE has three technical and general training centres, opportunities, training and industry-related located in Berkshire, Rhondda Cynon Taf and Perthshire.
Since it began in 2008, a total of over 130 young people have These centres enable people to train in the types of taken part in the programme with SSE.
environment in which they will eventually work, providing a In addition, SSE offers a range of structured realistic experience in a safe and controlled setting.
development programmes suited to the needs of school leavers, trainees, trainee engineers, graduates and apprentices.
The focus of each programme is to ensure that those participating gain skills which create SSEs latest training facility, in Rhondda SSE also runs a policy development sustainable career opportunities and that Cynon Taf, is focussed on delivering skills to group with representatives of its recognised can be used for their future benefit and for support the delivery of services in key areas Trades Unions to ensure that revisions the benefit of SSE.
This sustainable creation of energy efficiency and smart metering.
to existing policies and development of of jobs is key to SSE.
Currently around 340 Training is supplemented by operational new policies are discussed and reviewed individuals are progressing through these awareness days, during which best-in-class with employee representatives prior to programmes and the Management Board working practices are demonstrated to implementation.
has agreed an increase in the numbers of employees through detailed coaching and participants in these programmes with the assessment in operational environments.
SSE also keeps employees and managers introduction of new training programmes SSE has an internal training team who updated with key changes to employment planned for 2013 14. are equipped to run a range of technical, policy and legislative requirements customer, business and management through the use of e-learning which has Performance management training interventions.
been used to train managers, for example SSE has in place a wide ranging performance on the Bribery Act provisions.
management system, designed to make During 2012 13, SSE also invested sure that employees are able to fulfil 2.5m in externally provided training and Employee participation their potential and contribute as much as development, taking the total to 7.8m Employee engagement possible to the achievement of SSEs goals over the last three years.
This helped to SSE recognises the value in attracting and the delivery in practice of SSEs values.
deliver training to over 4,000 employees.
and retaining an engaged workforce For this reason, the performance appraisal Training interventions included the delivery and runs a Company wide annual system is focused on: of a number of development programmes externally facilitated survey of employee run in partnership with selected universities engagement.
The results of the 2012 performance in the past year, including focused on supporting the development survey, which had a 90% response a review of performance against each of employees across the business.
These rate and was completed by almost of SSEs core values Safety, Service, programmes included an MSc in Leadership 17,700 of the 19,684 employees invited Efficiency, Sustainability, Excellence and diploma and degree programmes in to participate, showed that SSE has and Teamwork : Business and Customer Management.
an above benchmark employee key objectives for the year ahead: engagement score of 81%.
SSE shares expectations, aspirations and ambitions Employees and the law the details of the survey results with for the year ahead and beyond: and SSE has in place a comprehensive range all employees and publishes detailed personal development requirements of policies to safeguard the interests of business by business action plans based and aspirations for the future.
on the findings of the survey.
Like all responsible organisations it has Performance management therefore in place an actively-managed equal Within SSE, employee participation is focuses on the skills and competencies of opportunities policy, in keeping with the encouraged through adherence to the employees, which are critical to SSE and to spirit as well as the letter of the law in the Companys Teamwork value.
The appraisal the energy sector in the UK, the Republic of UK and elsewhere, designed to ensure process for employees, including the senior Ireland and elsewhere.
Above all, SSE needs fair and equal treatment of employees management team, specifically evaluates to ensure the safe and efficient operation and potential employees across the seven their performance in teamwork, along of its businesses and the reliable provision protected characteristics, as defined in with performance in respect of SSEs of services to customers.
the Equality Act 2010 sex, race, religion other core values.
or belief, disability, pregnancy and Training and development maternity, sexual orientation and gender In addition to a wide range of internal SSE has three technical and general reassignment.
The Employment Equality communication media and events, training centres, located in Berkshire, Age Regulations 2006 have now been employee participation in SSE is also Rhondda Cynon Taf and Perthshire.
incorporated into the Equality Act 2010. encouraged through internal blogs, These centres enable people to train in There were no occasions during 2012 13 interactive online forums, divisionthe types of environment in which they when SSE was found to have failed to and subject specific employee surveys, will eventually work, providing a realistic comply with legislation on equality.
Director-led regional roadshows and the experience in a safe and controlled setting.
Licence to Innovate scheme, established 66 SSE plc Annual Report 2013 1.
Governance 4. in 2007, which enables employees to Instead, SSE will make an annual donation research, the idea may then be piloted research, review and trial new ideas.
to a fuel poverty charity on their behalf.
Joint Negotiating and SSE believes that all employees should Over 8,400 Licences to Innovate were Consultative Committee invest for retirement and offers pension received from over 3,600 employees during SSE has a well established Joint schemes to all employees.
It has been 2012 13, of which 729 were implemented.
Negotiating and Consultative Committee automatically enrolling all new starts A number of these Licences have helped JNCC which includes lay and full-time into Pension Schemes since 2005. create value of around 40m, building on representatives from four recognised the 70m of value created in the previous trade unions.
This company wide forum The UK government has created a new year.
Others have contributed to improved meets to consider key employment issues initiative to help those in employment build performance in specific areas such as impacting SSE employees.
This group was up a pension through their workplace.
This safety, service and sustainability.
responsible for negotiation of a three year requires all employers to enrol their workers modernisation agreement which has into a workplace pension scheme if they are SSEs focus on innovation complements led to a move to performance related not already in one.
From 1 March 2013 SSE its work in research and development.
pay, and has introduced a number of re-registered all eligible employees, into a SSE is, fundamentally, an adopter employment safeguards in return for competitive pension scheme.
This amounted of technology, choosing to focus on increased employee flexibility.
development, demonstration and JNCC is supported by Joint Business deployment rather than on basic Committees JBCs which seek to deal In addition, in recognition that it operates research.
Against this background, with key employment issues within in a competitive employment market, SSE has two broad categories of each of the main business areas.
SSE provides a wide range of employee research and development projects: benefits including: a range of salary Employee benefits sacrifice offerings: access to the SSE Extras thematic, addressing pre-selected SSE believes that there is a commonality programme which provides employees knowledge gaps or development of interest between employees, customers with discounts and offers from a range needs within SSE: and and shareholders.
To reinforce this it: of retailers: and EmployeeCare, a service responsive, which arise when an which provides counselling during times opportunity and associated funding provides opportunities for employees of need and a health and wellbeing emerges that can add value to SSE.
to become and remain shareholders advisory service.
in SSE through a Share Incentive Plan There is a considerable amount of and a Sharesave Scheme.
Employee SSE and the external environment research and development-related work participation in these schemes is now taking place in SSE.
In total, during 2012 13, 48% and 38% respectively: Innovation, research and development SSE incurred research expenditure with provides opportunities for employees to In an industry which has seen significant a value of 5.9m, compared to 11.2m be involved in its Community at Heart technological advancement in recent in 2011 12. employee volunteering scheme, which decades it is ever more important that, allows up to 20,000 days of employee to maintain its position in a competitive A snapshot of activity SSE is involved time to be given to assist worthwhile market, SSE is engaged in innovation, in today shows that the total value of projects within the communities that SSE research and development.
projects is in the order of 300m, spread serves.
Volunteering activities in 2012 13 over several years, depending on project saw teams help create an innovative SSEs employees have extensive lengths, and made up of funding from story-telling area for Inverness Primary knowledge, expertise and know-how.
multiple partners and public bodies.
SSEs School pupils, transform a woodland New ideas, improvements to process contribution to this project portfolio is in area near Poole into a sensory garden and design and innovation have been the order of 20m to 25m, again spread for nursery children and refurbish dated key to SSEs successes in the past and over several years and including in-kind changing facilities for Newport High are fundamental to the Companys support.
Therefore SSE stands to benefit Schools rugby club: and ability to adapt to the challenges from projects worth over ten times its has encouraged all employees to of the future.
become and remain customers by providing them with a 12% discount on SSE takes a systematic approach to Community development its prices for electricity and gas supply, implementing ideas that add value to and charitable giving plus discounts on other SSE products the business.
This is through its Licence SSE continues to establish close working and services such as energy efficiency to Innovate scheme, under which any relationships with local community groups, installations, central heating and wiring employee can suggest ideas for improving organisations and charities in the regions maintenance and telephone and the way SSE operates, consistent with in which it operates.
With its origins in broadband services.
People with ideas with the north of Scotland, central southern significant potential are granted a Licence England, south Wales and with over In 2012 13, SSE introduced a scheme to Innovate, under which they can spend 19,500 employees throughout the whereby all eligible employees have the up to two months researching further their UK and Ireland, SSE can make a positive option to waive their employee discount.
Subject to the outcome of the impact to hundreds of local communities.
67 Governance People and values continued SSEs community development programme long-term success of its business.
has three principal features: It aims to promote responsible practices within its supplier and contractor base.
Action employee volunteering, under SSEs aims in this area include: which employees are given one day of leave to support community initiatives.
improving contractors safety During 2012 13, 6,268 volunteer days performance: and were given to 622 projects in the UK reducing the CO footprint.
SSE teams supported a range of projects.
In support of this, SSE has set up a supplier Investment financial support for registration system which provides it community projects and initiatives with information on suppliers, including in regions where renewable energy categories relating to where they work projects are developed.
During 2012 13, on site, data on safety, health and the SSE provided around 2m to community environment and quality.
projects in Great Britain through these funds, supporting initiatives including Continuing the focus on reducing carbon local sports team kits: the purchase of emissions, SSE has successfully completed essential mountain rescue equipment, the Certified Emissions Management including a new 4x4 vehicle: and helping and Reduction Scheme CEMARS and renovate a disused cinema, reopening encouraged 86 of its main suppliers it to help drive visitors to the area and to sign up to the programme.
allowing the community to share in the profits.
SSE successfully launched an Open4Business Education support the work of schools initiative which specifically targets small to by promoting safe and responsible medium enterprises and is an easy-to-use use of energy.
During 2012 13, SSE platform for local companies to do business established a partnership with Keep with SSE and its core contractors.
Through the partnership, SSE has sponsored the The portal is backed by The Highland Eco-Schools initiative which works with Council: Highlands and Islands Enterprise: schools to change attitudes towards Inverness Chamber of Commerce: trade the environment.
Furthermore, SSE is bodies including The Scottish Council for supporting the work of the Wood Family Development and Industry SCDI and Trust in helping to support the Youth and Energy North: and two key contractors, Philanthropy Initiative which engages R J McLeod and BAM Nuttall.
young people in creating social change.
More generally, SSE recognises that SSE took the decision not to reopen its prompt payment is vital to the cash flow visitor facilities in Dorset and Perthshire.
of suppliers, especially smaller businesses Following a detailed review, SSE concluded within the supply chain.
In the UK, the that, in order to bring the buildings up to Prompt Payment Code is designed to modern standards, including the addition encourage and promote best practice of suitable disabled access, a significant between organisations and their suppliers investment would be required.
and enable suppliers and customers to maintain effective relationships.
SSE is SSE is now seeking to create more committed to the objectives of the Code sustainable options for delivering a quality and to being a signatory to it.
education programme to schools and visitors in the future.
In particular, it is developing proposals for a brand new visitors facility close to its hydro-electric power station in Pitlochry.
More information on SSEs community programmes can be found online at www.
Suppliers and contractors SSE depends upon an extended team of suppliers and contractors for the 68 SSE plc Annual Report 2013
