Developing Our People I Investing in our Key Asset Stobart Group believes that training and developing our people lies at the heart of our success and ability to remain market leaders in an increasingly competitive industry.
Developing the Right People 3P - People, Performance, Progress is the vehicle we use to Our formal interactive training courses place special focus on identify and nurture our talented emerging leaders of the future.
the sharing of learning from work experiences.
The 3P suite of programmes is open to anyone in the business Training materials are all dyslexia-friendly and we now have who has the desire, drive and commitment to continuously grow seven work based dyslexia assessors throughout the Group to and develop within the Group.
Our programmes are designed to support our employees.
ensure that all of our people have every opportunity to achieve their maximum potential within the business.
Introduction to Management ITM 3P has successfully developed and grown year-on-year since ITM is ideal for employees new to management who are looking its launch in 2010, with delegates being promoted into new to improve their managerial skills.
Delegates complete a range roles as a direct result of the programmes.
Since its inception, of formal training courses, as well as work with other delegates Stobart Group has invested in the delivery of 10,130 formal on the working with schools campaigns.
training course hours within the 3P programmes.
Our learning and development programmes are key to driving Introduction to Leadership ITL business activities forward, as well as forming the cornerstone of the Groups succession planning.
Each programme ensures The Introduction to Leadership programme has been developed that delegates are developed in line with their individual needs to provide training opportunities for existing managers who are and learning styles, as well as the Groups strategy.
Our looking to improve and enhance their leadership skills.
The programmes have been designed with our strategy in mind, programme comprises formal training courses ranging from listening and responding to the on-going needs and aspirations Managing and Improving Performance and Finance for of the business.
We believe by delivering these programmes Non-Financial Managers, through a  in-house using our own experienced trainers - who understand assignment, which focuses on personal development worth 20 and share our mission - we enable delegates to apply learning university CAT points, to Working with Schools, which can back in the workplace effectively.
range from road safety campaigns to inspirational talks.
Leadership Development Programme This flagship programme has been designed to identify, nurture and develop our emerging leaders.
As with every Stobart Group development programme, it combines skills development and aspirations with positive contributions towards wider business objectives.
The intensive 10 month programme requires delegates to complete the following: Formal Training Courses: These courses range from Strategic Leadership to Improving Performance Management.
Group Project: This is sponsored by an Executive Board Director, designed to meet a specific business need.
Work Placements: Placement in a demanding new role enables delegates to gain experience and greater understanding of another part of the Group.
These placements present an opportunity for delegates to face new challenges in a different role, whilst delivering business benefits from a fresh perspective.
Mentor Support: Personal mentoring is carried out by a nominated Senior Manager or Director within the business.
Coventry  Assignments: Assignments focus on business acumen and project management Key facilities at London Southend Airport are completed.
allowing delegates to gain university CAT points and work towards gaining a Diploma in Professional Development.
Annual passenger numbers are predicted to hit 800,000 by the end of the year.
Stobart Group Annual Report 2013 28 Investing in Our Key Asset Case Study I Jerri Byrne LDP Delegate 2012: Jerri Byrne is a shining example of an employee who has fully engaged with our 3P programmes over the last three years.
Joining the Company as an Adminstration Clerk in 2006, she has moved up through the ranks to become Tesco, Daventry Campus Transport Manager, managing a team of 50 staff and two major Tesco transport sites.
Jerri started her 3P development journey in 2010 on our First Line Managers FLM programme which is now called ITL, assisting her greatly in her role, at that time, of Assistant Transport Manager in Tesco, Teesport.
During 2011 she went on to complete the FLM Graduate programme whilst being part of the team responsible for launching the Daventry Campus.
By sharing her valuable 3P experience Jerri has now encouraged some of her team to successfully apply for the 3P programmes last year.
Jerri then successfully gained a place on the flagship Leadership Development Programme and by working extremely hard alongside other delegates has maximised the learning benefits of the programme.
Our 3P graduates who would like to continue to develop can The People, Performance, Progress programme enter a bespoke programme designed in conjunction with their Line Manager and tailored around their personal needs and aspirations, in line with business objectives.
These programmes 100 may include mentoring of current delegates, special project work 95 Male Candidates as well as taking part in internal or external work placements.
90 Female Candidates As part of our on-going development of our programmes, this year 85 has seen the introduction of our working with schools initiative, which engages with schools to promote awareness of the career 80 options within the logistics industry.
Current research shows that 75 Logistics is misunderstood by 66% of 14-19 year olds, this 70 programme aims to increase awareness and improve the knowledge levels of young people making a logistics career 65 choice.
By 2017, the sector will need over 400,000 new recruits: 60 engaging with youngsters as early as Primary School level will 55 help promote our industry.
The working with schools initiative 50 also provides many benefits for 3P delegates, giving them the opportunity to apply the learning they have gained 45 from programmes such as leadership, delegating, project 40 management and presentation skills to these projects.
35 In response to the demands of the business and the need 30 to support the continuous personal development of its 25 employees, Stobart Group are introducing a series of one day courses for employees who are not already on formal training 20 programmes during Summer 2013.
15 10 5 0 2010 2011 2012 18 Total 62 Total 99 Total Stobart Group Annual Report 2013 29 Number of delegates successfully completing 3P programmes Your Say Employee Survey Staff Recruitment The results of our employee survey carried out in Autumn 2011 The Training Academy manages all recruitment, from Drivers to established that people really DO want to work for Stobart Directors.
This service includes advertising of all roles on the Group.
However, communication between our people and their Stobart Group website and internal Gateway.
The Academy managers was identified an area for development.
Over the past also manages external recruitment suppliers, negotiating cost- 12 months we have been working on a number of initiatives effective rates for the best service.
aimed at making Stobart Group an even better place to work.
The Academy is currently developing an online recruitment Survey results have been incorporated into some of our formal system aimed at increasing brand awareness and attracting the training courses to help improve our communication and most suitable candidates whilst avoiding the need for external management skills identified as an area for improvement in the recruitment suppliers and their associated costs.
Stobart News, now on its fifth edition, has also been introduced to keep every employee abreast of the exciting Driver Training changes that have been happening across the divisions.
The Academys Driver Training Team continues to deliver the Development of a new performance management appraisal Driver Certificate of Professional Competence DCPC to all system, currently being trialled, involved representation from all Eddie Stobart Drivers.
It is currently ahead of schedule for departments and divisions in its creation to ensure it reflects meeting the statutory requirement of 35 hours DCPC training precisely the aims and aspirations of our employees in line with for every driver by September 2014.
Non-Eddie Stobart drivers, the Companys strategy and vision.
Full roll-out across the including agency and sub-contractors who drive for the Group is planned for Summer 2013.
Company, as well as some external customers, also attend Bens Den has been developed as a vehicle for encouraging DCPC courses at the Academy.
our employees to communicate their ideas and suggestions for An equivalent of 10,000 drivers were trained by the Driver making Stobart Group even better.
We have received some Training team between 2010 and 2012 and we are on course fantastic ideas that are already being implemented.
for 6,000 drivers to complete their annual DCPC training Stobart Group remains committed to achieving Investors in requirement in 2013.
This equates to over 700 courses being People status by the end of 2013.
This key standard will assist delivered, totalling 42,000 training hours.
The team also us in sustaining a culture in which every individual feels valued continues to deliver Safe and Fuel Efficient Driving SAFED and able to make a positive difference.
courses alongside courses covering a variety of other areas complementary to driving activity, including Health and Safety, Eddie Stobart Training Academy Customer Care and EU Working Hours.
Eddie Stobart has seven JAUPT-accredited training rooms The Eddie Stobart Training Academy is now into its third year where DCPC courses can be delivered around the country, and continues to build its reputation as a flagship training centre including a state-of-the-art fully IT equipped training trailer that for the transport and logistics industry.
The Academy is seen can be used anywhere in the UK.
as a beacon of good practice, with customers and competitors alike making visits to learn about the way in which the Group The Driver Training team now also includes a DSA-registered has created a successful training resource for it employees.
instructor and LGV examiner which means employees can undertake Advanced Driving Instruction and also complete their Driver Training is managed and delivered at the Academy.
The Academy is a DSA registered Test new Eddie Stobart driver attends a two day induction course Centre.
The aim is to now complete 100 driving tests during upon joining the Company.
Additional training is provided on 2013, as well as launching a warehouse-to-wheels scheme that specialist equipment, such as walking floor trailers, chipliner offers staff the chance to complete their Category C and C E trailers and the new fleet of Stobart Automotive car transporters.
Class 1 licence and move into driving roles within the business.
The Academy has recently also taken responsibility for warehouse training.
A dedicated practical area has been installed for forklift Driver Apprenticeships truck license assessments and training on other warehouse equipment, complementing the theory courses provided in our Since the Driver Apprenticeship started in August 2011 we have fully equipped training rooms.
successfully introduced more young drivers into the business.
All non-driving staff attend an Employee Induction at the Our first Driver Apprentices graduated from their programme in Academy or their own operational site.
A suite of technical March 2013 and are now working within Eddie Stobart.
courses are delivered at the Academy for non-driving The Driver Apprenticeship is a two year programme which sees employees, including training on our in-house systems, such each Apprentice complete their theory training during the first as GTS and Isotrak, as well as training in the use of Microsoft six months, including Driving Theory, a Case Study and a Office.
First Aid and Fire Marshall courses are also delivered at Hazard Perception test.
The Apprentices then complete the Academy, with further courses aimed at ensuring all Category C and C E licence acquisition.
employees are offered training and career development opportunities constantly in development.
Stobart Group Annual Report 2013 30 Investing in Our Key Asset Eddie Stobart Apprentices have achieved an average 90% ensuring training and development is continuously improved.
In licence pass rate, significantly higher than the national Driving this, its first year of inspection, Stobart Infrastructure & Civil Standards Agency average of 46%.
Once our Apprentices have Engineering gained a Good report from the inspectors.
passed their theory and gained their licence, they are enrolled Some key areas were highlighted and, with the help of the 3P in a ten week mentoring programme with one of our experienced programme, some exciting projects have delivered fantastic driver mentors.
Upon successful completion, they are given the results, helping ensure the Divisions continuing success at opportunity to become an Eddie Stobart Driver.
attracting young people to the industry.
Our apprentice scheme goes beyond Driver Training, as it aims to identify our leaders of the future.
Every apprentice spends Construction Training time working within different elements of the business, enabling To prove competence in the workplace, the industry established them to gain an indepth understanding of our brand values and the need for specific Diplomas NVQs to be gained by staff the way in which different parts of the business operate.
With a wealth of training qualifications and experience within the Rail Training team, Stobart Infrastructure & Civil Engineering delivers training Stobart Infrastructure & Civil Engineering plays an integral role and testing in 35 categories to Construction Plant Competence in the competence management of its workforce.
In response Scheme CPCS level, providing the business and many client to the ever-changing demands of the rail and construction companies with trained and competent workers.
sectors that it serves, the Division has become accredited to In addition to plant and rail training, in order to ensure works deliver training and assessments, and is ISO9001, ISO14001 were carried out in a safe and efficient manner, Stobart and ISO18001 approved.
Infrastructure & Civil Engineering identified the need for staff to Network Rail have appointed the National Skills Academy for gain qualifications in a broad spectrum of other areas, including Rail Engineering as the driving force behind up-skilling staff Scaffold Access Tower PASMA, Manual Handling, Abrasive working in the sector.
Operating within the OFSTED framework, Wheels, Small Plant and Equipment and Fire Safety approvals.
Tribal Group have been appointed as inspectors responsible for Case Study I Chris Grice Developing our Drivers: Chris joined the business in 2003 as a Driver following a 16 year career in the Armed Forces.
Chris progressed to become a Driver Trainer in 2006 and in 2010 became Eddie Stobarts Driver Training Manager, responsible for The Academys Driver Training team and advising customers and competitors on Driver Training and challenges within the industry.
As Driver Training Manager, Chris designs our in-house training material and all of our DCPC accredited courses.
Chris has a real passion for training and recognises the importance of developing our drivers to ensure that they can perform to the highest standards whilst driving efficiently and observing road rules and regulations.
Chris invests a lot of time identifying new ways to deliver driver training and designs innovative courses that meet the DCPC regulations and engages with drivers to deliver interesting and relevant courses.
