Corporate Social Responsibility I Positive About Community Stobart Group operates in line with its Corporate Social Responsibility mission statement: Embracing responsibility for our actions and encouraging positive impacts through our activities.
One year on from the Group wide adoption of our CSR policy and the strong foundations it provides, we are able to build on a number of positive environmental activities we were already engaged with.
In addition, we have further developed our CSR strategy and committed to a three year plan of data collation and improvement.
The Group has developed a three year plan driven by its CSR Responsibility 2013 report, published separately and also now Committee CSRC.
The Committee is chaired by CFO, Ben available on our website, www.
com Whawell who, as an Executive Director, also holds main Board Having identified the parameters of the Groups CSR policy, we level responsibility for CSR.
The committee comprises a number are in the process of establishing benchmarks from which we of Senior Executives within the Group, each of whom has a can chart progress.
This exercise is being carried out by the specific area of expertise and responsibility, ensuring that every CSRC.
Its parameters encompass Environmental Responsibility, division and every employee is represented and considered.
Business Integrity, Community and Stobart People.
One year into the plan and we have taken considerable steps towards improving CSR reporting and the capturing of data on Environmental Responsibility activities that are taking place across the Group.
The next phase Stobart Group engaged with a variety of stakeholders and is to pilot projects that will deliver additional tangible CSR benefits independent bodies in formulating its environmental responsibility whilst positively engaging every employee in the delivery of commitments, including independent consultants, Defra and the environmental benefits and fundraising for local communities.
CDP, formerly the Carbon Disclosure Project.
The plan has been created using the Group Mission Statement Working alongside our customers to ensure we deliver a costas the driving force behind activity and has stakeholder effective solution is key to our business success, but we also engagement at the heart of its delivery.
We have detailed strive to drive home environmentally sound solutions as part of a number of case studies, our CSR strategy and future our complete multi-modal logistics package.
plans in depth within the Stobart Group Corporate Social Group Emissions Data CO2e - 2009 Base Year tonnes UK Ireland International Group Total Scope 1 235,300 2,830 7,270 245,400 Scope 2 8,470 16 4 8,490 Tonnes per m Turnover 589 CO e - 2013 Current Year tonnes UK Ireland International Group Total 2 Scope 1 256,077 17,640 6,660 280,377 Scope 2 10,910 210 1 11,121 Tonnes per m Turnover 472 Emissions data presented for 2013 has been verified by the Carbon Trust Standard.
Stobart Group Annual Report 2013 32 Corporate Social Responsibility Stobart Group is committed to dealing with environmental issues, Stobart Air and London Southend Airport aiming to recycle paper and plastic wherever possible, conserve Leading the way to a more sustainable future, London Southend water and energy resources and encourage pollution reduction.
Airports terminal extension takes at least 10% of energy from renewable onsite sources.
This is achieved by solar photovoltaic Group Emissions Data panels supplying around 9% of energy needs and air source heat pumps, which provide around a further 3% of energy needs.
In This information has been prepared using the operational addition to these measures the airport is saving energy by: control approach following guidance issued by The Greenhouse Gas Protocol and Defra.
The basic premise is that the CompanyExtensive use of LED lighting.
has responsibility for the day-to-day operations of the measured Use of concourse lighting that automatically dims in assets, essentially recognising that the Company has effective response to daylight levels.
operational control over the consumption of resources resulting Use of PIR sensors on lighting in the office spaces.
Utilising a highly insulated building envelope.
Having set the boundary of measured emissions, we have Selection of tinted glass and solar shading to reduce solar identified significant Scope 3 emissions.
We now plan to gain and limit cooling requirements.
implement more robust capture of this data as part of our CSR work programme in years two and three.
The CSRC is currentlyUse of an energy saving mode on escalators.
working on developing a relevant recalculation policy for Rainwater harvesting that delivers an average 60% emissions data following stringent research into the most reduction in water consumption.
appropriate significance threshold for Stobart Group.
Once these Use of waterless urinals and sensor taps.
steps have been completed the CSRC will then tackle the Integrated leak detection systems that are linked to the challenge of setting a reduction target.
This year the Group has chosen to change the way in which we Extensive monitoring of electric and water usage, recorded report our total CO2 emissions data and have opted for a financial within the BMS.
As the Group itself is diverse and has five very different operating divisions we have now chosen to report CO2 per m sales revenue for the Group.
Stobart Biomass Total Scope 1 and 2 emissions for Stobart Group were 291,498 tonnes CO2e, equating to 472 tonnes of CO2e per m sales Stobart Biomass is at the leading edge of the sourcing and revenue.
In comparison to the 2009 base year total of 589 tonnes distribution of renewable biomass fuels, a key contributor towards CO2e per m sales revenue this shows a 20% reduction in the meeting the UKs drive for more sustainable power generation.
In addition, we will continue to produce This operating division has performed well in 2013, transporting a CO2 per loaded mile figure that displays our performance for some 650,000 tonnes of fuel to renewable power generation our single largest emissions causing activity our fleet of trucks.
Much of the raw materials processed into biofuel would CO2e per loaded mile was 1.61kgs, showing a reduction of 3.84% have been destined for landfill.
The Group has also recently secured planning permission for a 20MW biomass plant to supply heat and power to its Mersey Recycling Multimodal Gateway site in Widnes.
In 2012 we entered into a contract with Biffa waste that set a target of 50% reduction in waste to landfill for year one.
We are Fleet Utilisation and Efficiency pleased to report that this equates to over 1,000 tonnes of waste Stobart Transport & Distribution division is the sole driver for the that would have previously been destined for landfill being efficiency of our fleet and our excellent utilisation statistics.
recycled in this year alone.
As a founding member of the Freight Transport Associations Logistics Carbon Reduction Scheme LCRS, we are committed Water to reducing carbon emissions throughout our operations in line Stobart Groups Transport & Distribution division is the home of with the FTAs targets for 2015. the iconic Eddie Stobart brand.
At any one time around 86% of Stobart vehicles on the road are Part of what makes this brand so special is the way in which we carrying a load, compared to an industry average of 71.3% as present ourselves.
Eddie Stobart proactively encourages its reported by the FTA.
drivers to keep their trucks clean and tidy at all times.
To assist The additional 13.5% utilisation equates to a saving in excess them in presenting a shining image, Eddie Stobart has ten truck of 38 million miles, or 56,000 tonnes of CO2.
For every 1% of washes strategically located across the country.
increased Eddie Stobart fleet utilisation, carbon emissions are Operating 24 7, in total these washes are capable of cleaning reduced by over 1,000 tonnes.
Each truck wash utilises 100% recycled water, helping conserve this limited resource.
Stobart Group Annual Report 2013 33 Stobarts Driving Fuel Efficiency initiative is also playing a key Despite the environmental benefits that this new technology role in helping to reduce Stobart Groups carbon footprint.
Unlike offers, Eddie Stobarts ability to increase the vehicle fleet requires most Safe and Fuel Efficient Driving SAFED programmes, considerable investment, not only in the vehicles themselves, but which merely rely on a pat on the head to encourage best also in increasing the limited number of specialist LNG refueling practice, Stobarts cash incentive scheme ensures drivers are facilities.
The small number of fuelling points significantly limits genuinely rewarded for their positive contribution to the the range offered by dual-fuel vehicles and therefore the potential environment and the cost savings that fuel efficiency delivers.
In response to this issue, Stobart Group and BOC have been selected by the Government to receive The system, which is based on on-board telematics, records funding to stimulate the market for dual-fuel trucks.
The funding and transmits four key causes of increased fuel consumption provided by the Technology Strategy Board TSB will be in real time.
As a result drivers directly benefit from their own matched by investment from the Group.
driving efficiency through bonuses paid on a sliding scale that reflects best practice.
Business Integrity The Group made the first ever UK delivery using its new highvolume Enviro-trailer in 2012.
With its emphasis on achieving Stobart Groups approach to business integrity underpins our sustainable distribution, Eddie Stobart has long championed values of transparency, mutual dependency, collaboration, the use of high-volume trailers to realise environmental benefits.
professional application, innovation and sustainable profit growth.
We were granted a licence to operate 90 of the longer trailers The Group has long been at the forefront of new developments across our fleet under the governmental drive to boost the and response to legislative changes, and is committed to the economy, cut congestion and slash carbon emissions.
implementation of robust policies that provide a foundation for The Groups rail freight operation now comprises five UK train our business integrity and values.
Detailed policy statements, services each day and continues to make a major contribution to which include Stobart Group Quality, Whistle Blowing, Ethics and reducing carbon emissions, pollution and road traffic.
Increased Anti-Bribery & Corruption, are available on the company website train lengths on the Barking to Magor services have also increased www.
This significant modal shift has taken over 12,000,000 The Group considers suppliers as partners in our success.
We lorry miles off our roads and reduced CO2 emissions by more than engage with them to ensure our product and service delivery 15,000 tonnes.
The company is committed to working Eddie Stobart has been testing a small fleet of Volvo dual-fuel with them to ensure products are ethically sourced and that, vehicles with selected clients.
These vehicles utilise Liquid once life-expired, they are disposed of in a way that minimises Natural Gas LNG to replace up to 90% of the diesel fuel used environmental impact.
The award-winning programme uses More detailed information is available in the Stobart Group standard Volvo engines, mated with a specialist dual-fuel Corporate Social Responsibility 2013 report which is available management system.
In the event of the system running out of on our website www.
com LNG, the engine switches automatically to normal diesel mode.
Case Study I Name that Truck!
When the company was set up in 1970, the first Eddie Stobart truck was named after the supermodel Twiggy, from this first truck to the present day, every truck in the Stobart fleet carries a girls name which is displayed on the front and side of our iconic cabs.
Members of the Stobart fan club have the opportunity to name a truck however the waiting list for this can be up to three years.
Realising that this is a sought after element, Stobart Group now donate the opportunity to name a truck to various fundraising events.
During the reporting period these name a truck opportunities have been donated to 11 fundraising events, raising a total of 51,225 for charity.
Stobart Group Annual Report 2013 34 Corporate Social Responsibility Reducing Risk Stobart Academy Customers are concerned about health and safety, the Centrally located at the Groups Mersey Mulitmodal Gateway hub environment and quality, but are also constantly driving for leaner in Widnes, Stobart Academy was originally established to provide pricing and even better on-time, in-full delivery standards.
premium quality training for Eddie Stobart drivers.
The DSAapproved Training Centre comprises seven JAUPT-approved Stobart Groups business strategy is underpinned by its brand, multi-media training rooms and a large presentation space people, and business systems: it is the coherent development containing a state-of-the-art LGV driving simulator, trailers and a and improvement in all these areas that will allow the business tractor unit for hands-on training.
It provides induction training and to achieve its vision by working with our customers in a way that statutory Driver Certificate of Personal Competance training for all works for us and them.
of the Groups professional drivers and is now an approved Class Extensive business management systems, which embrace all 1 LGV driving licence test centre.
appropriate policies, procedures and continuity planning, are The success of the Academy, which is now recognised as a aimed at reducing risk and ensuring compliance with legal, benchmark facility within the industry, has resulted in extension company and client requirements.
Many of the Groups business of its remit to encompass a broad spectrum of other courses, management systems are also formally accredited.
including general staff inductions, IT and safety courses and The Groups robust internal operational audit process is training for warehouse personnel.
supported by additional external accreditation and licensing audits, ensuring that approvals are retained and that the business Stobart Infrastructure & Civil Engineering continues its upward drive for constant improvement.
In this way, we ensure employee and public safety, maximise customer Stobart Infrastructure & Civil Engineering is accredited to ISO9001 satisfaction, increase profitability and improve the Stobart brand.
quality management standards, ISO14001 environmental Stobart Gateway is the Groups internal web-based information management standards and the Occupational Health and Safety hub which clearly communicates business management Management standard OHSAS 18001. systems to every employee.
The annual programme of risk-based internal operational audits Committed to Communities is carried out by highly experienced, fully qualified auditors.
This Stobart Groups 6,700 staff form an important vehicle for making stringent programme, comprising some 300 different internal a real difference to the communities in which we operate.
audits each year, ensures compliance and performance levels We recognise that we have an important role to play in the are maintained.
development and enrichment of these communities: not only as Business risk and compliance standards are constantly tested, an employer, but also through collaboration and financial and inmeasured and reviewed at Directorial level within each kind investment.
By encouraging our staff and business units to operational division and sub-division with results being reported support and develop local initiatives, Stobart Group helps drive at every Board meeting.
This process encompasses the use of positive change within our surrounding communities.
a balanced scorecard that includes economic, customer, brand, There are a broad spectrum of initiatives led by our business, process and people parameters: providing management with ranging from charitable giving and support for educational consistently reported, reliable information.
projects through to road safety campaigns.
The Group also provides the opportunity for children to visit our depots, providing The Fleet an insight into career opportunities within the business.
Eddie Stobart holds ISO9001 quality management and ISO14001 environmental accreditation for its provision of fleet management Working with Schools services.
As part of the Stobart Group internal Management Development Programmes all delegates are required to take part in the Groups Warehousing Working With Schools initiative.
Provision of warehousing and distribution services, including There are four elements to this initiative: road safety campaigns customer-specific requirements within the retail trade, are all in conjunction with Brake, Young Enterprise mentoring, Stobart accredited to ISO9001.
depot visits and Inspiring the Future careers talks.
The Warehousing business is also European Food Safety Inspection Service EFSIS approved for the receipt, storage, Road Safety Campaigns order picking and dispatch of chilled and ambient stable food Our employees have launched a number of campaigns around products at Nottingham, Belshill and Lutterworth.
the country aimed at making Primary School children more aware The Daresbury site is ISO9001 accredited for the storage, of the dangers associated with roads and road traffic.
distribution and depot handling of third party goods.
Daresbury As a company we have an enormous visible presence on UK also holds a Wholesale Dealers Licence from the Medicines and roads and it is vital that we encourage children and young people Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency.
to take care when out and about on our roads.
Stobart Group Annual Report 2013 35 Young Enterprise Mentoring Stobart Group is closely involved with the Young Enterprise Since September 2012, over a hundred employees have programme that provides students with a taste of employment engaged with schools through the Inspiring the Future and equips them with useful skills for post-education success.
programme, donating a total of 400 hours.
The hugely successful and popular initiative also offers benefits to volunteers, as it Over the course of an academic year, students set up and run enables them to utilise the communication skills they have their own real company, working together to elect a Board of developed within the Management Development Programme.
Directors, raising share capital, and marketing and financing a product or service of their choice.
Schools have also found the programme to be hugely beneficial, as it offers children access that they would not have Stobart Group employees attend fortnightly meetings with the otherwise had to an iconic business operating in their area.
students, acting as mentors and providing valuable advice and guidance.
A teacher resource section has also been developed on our Steady Eddie website to further assist and support education.
This valuable resource includes lesson plans and Stobart Depot Visits accompanying information that touches on many areas of the Enabling students to visit one of our sites offers an invaluable core curriculum, including literacy and numeracy.
insight into the operations of a large company, providing them with the opportunity to relate their real life experiences to their Detailed Reporting studies.
Throughout the 2012 13 financial year, Stobart Group have As secondary and sixth form students are considering future implemented a highly detailed reporting system which now career paths, these visits also offer an opportunity to exchange enables the business to capture all cash and in-kind donations ideas with industry professionals and decide whether a career made by staff across all initiatives.
Following any donation, the within Stobart Group, or the wider logistics sector, is of interest new Group-wide process requires staff to complete a CSR Site to them.
Activity Report which is in turn sent to the CSR Officer who is These depot visits can also be arranged for primary school age responsible for logging it on a central database.
children, providing them with an insight into the world of logistics.
We can report that a total of 1,031 staff hours were donated during the reporting period, this equates to a total value of more Inspiring the Future Careers Talks than 15,500 in-kind donations.
In addition, Stobart Group itself has contributed over 185,000 in further cash donations.
Aimed at secondary, sixth form and further education students, Inspiring the Future is an initiative that sees Stobart Group volunteers visiting schools and colleges to talk about their Employee Sponsorship Scheme careers and the education paths they followed.
We firmly Stobart operates a Group-wide employee sponsorship scheme believe that engaging young people in this way can make a real comprising some 12%, or 2,850, of total company donations.
difference to their perceptions of potential within Stobart Group This scheme which is open to every employee entitles them to a and the sectors in which it operates.
Our aim is to inspire them minimum 50 donation for their chosen cause.
with exciting options that they had previously not considered.
Total Cash Donations Cash versus In Kind Donations Working with Cash Donations Schools Donations 763 185,426 Employee Sponsorship Donations 2,850 Ad Hoc In Kind Donations Donations 181,813 15,579 Stobart Group Annual Report 2013 36 Corporate Social Responsibility The Future During the reporting period, 62 charitable causes received a In order to further encourage community engagement, a Groupdonation through this scheme.
The broad spread of charities wide employee engagement initiative is currently in development benefitting included the Bobby Robson Foundation, Macmillan which will be rolled-out during 2013.
Cancer Research and the Childrens Brain Tumour Research This evolving initiative will further promote and formalise Stobart Centre.
The Groups programme also considers adhoc requests for support.
23 donations were made through this initiative in 2012- 2013, totalling over 180,000.
Case Study I Road Safety Campaigns Talking of the visit teacher David Godfrey said The whole On Monday 16 March 2013 pupils at Warwick Bridge Primary session has been good really useful.
The children have School near Carlisle received road safety lessons from listened really well to the messages and taken them on Stobart Group staff.
Working as part of the Introduction to board.
Leadership programme, Project Leader, Ruth Pratt and colleagues, Cheri Ellis, Joanne Carson and Mark Shead, Seven year old Olivia McPherson added I really enjoyed it.
carried out the educational visit with the assistance of Stobart Ive learned to always wear bright colours so you can be driver Ian Titterington and PC Owen of Brampton Police.
During the visit, Year 3 and Year 4 pupils learned the Green Eddie Stobart driver Ian Titterington commented This visit Cross Code and the importance of wearing clothing thats highlighted just how wary drivers and children need to be highly visible to drivers.
The pupils also took part in an on the roads.
The children really engaged with the session exercise involving a Stobart truck and its driver.
The children by asking lots of questions and making suggestions about were walked around the vehicle until the driver could see how they can ensure they stay safe when out on the roads them, highlighting how hard it is for LGV drivers to see them.
