SuperGroup Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 35 Directors Report The board has a Long-Term Incentive Plan for certain executives as a way of encouraging involvement and association with the long-term success of the Group.
At the AGM in 2011, the Group obtained shareholder approval for the introduction of a Save As You Earn SAYE scheme to give employees the chance to buy shares in the company at a discounted value.
Following this approval the Group has introduced a SAYE scheme annually, and it is intended to launch another one in October 2013.
The Group has in place a whistleblowing policy so that employees are able to raise concerns without fear of reprisal.
Equality and diversity are fundamental values supported by SuperGroup.
The Group has an equal opportunities policy and takes its responsibilities under that policy seriously.
In addition, the company and the Group give full and fair consideration to applications for employment by disabled people.
In the event of members of staff becoming disabled, every effort is made to ensure that their employment with the Group continues and that the appropriate training is arranged as necessary.
It is the policy of the Group that the training, career development and promotion of a disabled person should be, as far as possible, identical to that of a person who does not suffer from a disability.
The Group strives to keep employees closely informed about matters of importance to them, whether financial or business, through an open culture of trust and two-way communication.
This is complemented by a mix of informal briefings and electronic media.
Health and safety The Group is committed to providing a safe place for employees to work and customers to shop.
Group policies are reviewed on an ongoing basis to ensure that the policies regarding training, risk assessments, safe systems of working and accident management are appropriate.
As part of this process, a rolling audit programme is in place to ensure that health, safety, environmental and security risks are stringently assessed and that robust control measures are in place to limit these risks.
Disclosure of information to auditors Each director who held office on the date of approval of this Directors Report confirms that, so far as he or she is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the companys auditors are unaware.
Furthermore, each director has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken as a director to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the companys auditors are aware of that information.
Independent auditors The directors will put a resolution before the AGM to reappoint  LLP as auditors for the ensuing year.
Annual General Meeting The AGM of the company will be held at The Cheltenham Ladies College, Bayshill Road, Cheltenham, Gloucestershire, GL50 3EP on 10 September 2013 commencing at 11.30am.
The Notice of this years AGM is included in a separate circular to shareholders, and will be sent out at least 20 working days before the meeting.
This Notice is available to view under the Investor Centre section of the companys website www.
In accordance with the Code all valid proxy appointments are properly recorded and counted and made available at the AGM and published on our website after the meeting.
The directors consider that each of the proposed resolutions to be considered at the AGM is in the best interests of the company and its shareholders as a whole and are most likely to promote the success of the company for the benefit of its shareholders as a whole.
The directors unanimously recommend that shareholders vote in favour of each of the proposed resolutions, as the directors intend to do in respect of their own shareholdings.
By order of the board Wendy Edwards Company Secretary 10 July 2013 Registered Office: Unit 60 The Runnings Cheltenham Gloucestershire GL51 9NW Company number: 07063562 22225.04 25 July 2013 7:38 PM Proof 8 Financial Statements Governance Performance Introduction
