Overview Business review Governance Financial Statements Corporate Social Responsibility Introduction Caring for our people Synergy Health continues to expand its engagement with issues Employee engagement ofCorporate Social Responsibility CSR.
We recognise the Employee engagement is important to the success of our business importance of managing day-to-day activities in a responsible way, and we have a number of systems in place that enable us to being accountable for the impact of all operational activities on the understand the opinions of our employees.
The recent employee environment and our local communities, and creating a working engagement survey is a useful tool for feedback, but we also hold environment in which our colleagues can flourish.
Our regional several employee forums and works councils within the Group.
teamsincorporate CSR within their roles and responsibilities.
We continue to utilise an internal social media platform to We categorise our CSR efforts into the following four areas: communicate with our employees, and we have also launched an internal magazine within the last year.
These methods enable our Caring for our people senior leaders to communicate with employees across the Group, Caring for tomorrow whether they have computer access or not.
Caring for our community The internal magazine focuses on company achievements, our daily challenges, an insight into our different business units and interviews Caring for our stakeholders with our employees.
To coincide withthe launch of our magazine, we In the past year, we have welcomed a number of businesses into also initiated a celebrating success programme.
This programme theGroup through acquisition.
These acquisitions fit with our vision provides our employees with the opportunity to recognise their tobuild a lasting reputation as the trusted experts in global health colleagues for exemplary performance and customerservice.
In particular, the acquisition of SRI brought within Diversity the Group the Reusable Surgical Solutions RSS business, which offers an  range of reusable products to the Synergy embraces diversity, with an objective to create the right US healthcare market, minimising our customers contribution to environment for people from all walks of life.
We passionately believe landfill waste.
that our future success is dependent on our ability to attract, develop and retain people from a cross-section of our communities, and in Our internal branding project, which focuses on the vision and values doing so we will create competitive advantage for Synergy.
Our recent of our business, has been rolled out to the employees who joined the growth in Asia and the Americas has helped diversify our senior Group in the past year.
When our branding team was developed in leadership community.
2011, its objective was to develop our internal brand identity to create a sustainable, Group-wide culture.
We promote a supportive and inclusive culture for all our employees, and third party business partners.
However, we also recognise that In early 2012, the Group deployed an employee engagement survey there is a need to create the right environment to support our to understand the strengths and weaknesses of Synergy today.
The senior leadership team continues to look at Wewere proud to learn that the vast majority of our employees are developing our business to improve its attractiveness to new recruits, committed to their teams, support the change and evolution of our as well as to provide support networks for minority groups to support business and enjoy working for Synergy Health.
More importantly, we their personal development.
are addressing those areas highlighted for improvement in the survey.
The past few years have seen an improvement in energy efficiency 60 & over 100% levels across the business.
Between 2010 and 2013, we improved 50-59 our carbon intensity by 48%.
This demonstrates that our efforts to 80% 40-49 reduce energy consumption are having a desirable effect.
30-39 60% Under 30 40% Case study 1 20% Champion for Change 0 Practice Greenhealth, the leading healthcare membership community in the US, has presented its 2013 Champion for Change award to Synergy Health for our success in helping our customers to set the highest standards for environmental practices in their operating rooms.
The Champion for Change Award honours Female 100% businesses that supply the healthcare sector who have not only taken steps to improve Male 80% their organisations environmental impact, but have also gone the extra mile to help their 60% clients and associates make a commitment to sustainable, eco-friendly practices.
40% 20% 0 Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2013 27 Americas Asia & Africa Europe & Middle East UK & Ireland Total Americas Asia & Africa Europe & Middle East UK & Ireland Total Business review Corporate Social Responsibility continued Employee training and development Energy and carbon reduction Our employees continue to be integral to our success, and it is Our utility consumption has increased by 26% in the past year, due vitalthat we retain talented and committed people.
Our human to the continued growth of the business.
The majority of this increase resources department works closely with managers and employees is attributable to the rapid development of the Americas region to meet their aspirations for personal growth and development.
Our through our MSI and SRI acquisitions.
organisation capability review has evolved to assess our management Total MWh in thousands 2013 2012 teams performance against leadership competencies.
In addition, Gas 177,600 141,700 we hold a number of internal development centres and workshops, Electricity 70,000 54,200 and assist management teams to create development plans.
Oil 1,300 1,100 Our employees have semi-annual and annual performance reviews.
We continue to implement our new performance management Total 248,900 197,000 system, which is designed to promote regular reviews with line The success of our carbon management policy is measured through managers, define objectives that are aligned with Synergys strategies the change in carbon intensity year-on-year.
From 2010 to 2013 we and lay the foundation for career development.
We are continuing to have improved the overall carbon intensity of our businesses by over expand the use of 360-degree feedback in all business areas, and 48% on a like-for-like basis.
use development centres to monitor the skills and development areas of our employees.
Carbon intensity tCO2 per unit ofproduction 2013 2010 Variance Synergy continues to invest in its graduate programme, established UK & Ireland 4.22 5.41 22.0% in2008.
Our graduates perform a variety ofroles on the two year programme, and report to a seniormanager to ensure they receive Europe & Middle East 1.67 3.63 54.2% the necessary development needs.
A number of employees recruited Asia & Africa 2.06 6.41 67.8% through the programme have progressed into senior and middle Group Total 2.65 5.15 48.6% management roles in the Group.
A number of sites across the regions are not part of this calculation Our values as they were either not part of the Synergy business in 2010 or Achievement We believe our success comes from our focus on have closed since that date.
exceeding expectations and our commitment to go that extra mile, however small the difference may seem.
We continue to pursue more efficient ways to offer our services.
Ourinitiatives in this area include: Accountability We take personal responsibility for our actions and are equipped to take the right course of action.
Energy efficient lighting Integrity We believe that the way we work is as important as what Heat recovery systems we do.
We care deeply about the quality of our work and inspire trust Voltage optimisation technology by delivering on promises.
Flash steam recovery Innovation We achieve the best possible results by working with customers to develop new ways of solving problems and reducing risk.
Exploring solar thermal power heating Ethics Our ethics policy can be found online at: http: www.
com investor-relations code-of-ethics Case study 2 Caring for tomorrow Innovation to reduce carbonfootprint Synergy is committed to minimising the impact of our services on Since our acquisition of SRI in July 2012, theenvironment.
As a consequence of the services we supply to thebusiness has significantly reduced its impact thehealthcare market, the demand for energy in our business is onthe environment.
high, however we continue to reduce carbon emissions and our This improvement has been realised throughan environmental impact per unit by striving for greater energy efficiency.
improved awareness of utility consumption, a Our initiatives have resulted in some substantial reductions in our reduction in hours of operation, improvements to carbon footprint this year.
facility insulation and installing energy efficient lighting systems.
Taken together, these measures have reduced utility consumption by: Electricity consumption reduced by 8.8% Gas consumption reduced by 4.0% Water consumption reduced by 5.0% Our reduction in electricity consumption is particularly impressive, given that our comparison does not include the summer months where we traditionally see a greater use of air conditioning units.
28 Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2013 Overview Business review Governance Financial Statements Transport pollution Caring for our stakeholders Our delivery network is important to the service we offer our customers, Quality management especially in time-critical businesses such as HSS.
However, each Synergys businesses are regulated by international healthcare ofour facilities has an objective to provide our logistics services as standards, and our facilities are certified to applicable standards efficiently as possible, reducing the impact of vehicle pollution.
We have begun to install devices to track driver performance and Regulatory bodies such as the US FDA and UK MHRA routinely fuelefficiency.
In addition, we have increased our focus on route inspect our operations, and all our facilities have implemented management in our US business, improving the efficiency of our effective quality management systems, which are maintained delivery services.
The organisation continues to operate a company car policy, which We take pride in the level of compliance we achieve, and this is defines acceptable emission levels.
valued by our customers and the many multinational medical device manufacturers who use our services.
All of our UK and European Caring for our community hospital sterilisation services sites are CE certified, and comply with the appropriate clauses of the European Medical Devices Directive.
Charitable and community partnerships Our employees choose to support various charities, both local Our AST sites are certified to EN ISO 13485, which is mandatory andnational.
Teams across the Group are involved in charitable forthe processing of CE marked medical devices.
In addition, activity, both inside and outside of the workplace.
Charitable eachofthe EN ISO 13485 certificates references, in the scope of givingisactively promoted on our internal social media platform, certification, the specific ISO sterilisation standard that is relevant andouremployees can fundraise and raise the awareness of tothe sterilisation technology at the site.
This gives added assurance theirselected charities through our fundraising page at to our customers of the authenticity and validity of the service www.
Using our knowledge We are currently embarking on an initiative to harmonise the key elements of our quality management systems across the Group, Since the company was formed in 1991, Synergy has built up toensure consistent quality irrespective of the location of the facility.
aknowledge and experience in the healthcare-related markets it During the process we will identify areas of best practice across the serves.
Innovation is one of our four core values, and we continually Group, and ensure implementation at all sites, providing a look to build strategic partnerships with a range of healthcare mechanism for continual improvement.
organisations to promote continuous development in the industry.
We have a pool of technical expertise within our management team, An example of the work we undertake to develop healthcare markets and we harness this expertise using technical working groups so that is our education day, aimed specifically at the requirements of we can continue to develop and improve our quality management designing a healthcare product for the sterilisation process.
Thisexpertise can be called upon to help find solutions presentations and discussions which took place provided an overview forcustomers in relation to the processing of their product.
At of the various sterilisation techniques available, and their effects on Synergy we have a philosophy of entering into a mutually beneficial polymers, to help manufacturers develop new products for the future.
partnership with our customers to ensure we deliver excellent service Throughout the year we have been involved in many exhibitions, each time we process customer product.
We have identified experts training and educational events, sharing our knowledge and expertise within our management teams and are in the process of appointing with the industry.
For a list of upcoming events please visit: technical managers.
This will provide a more consolidated approach http: www.
com our-company events to providing appropriate support to our customerbase.
We are in the process of introducing two major computer software Case study 3 applications for our AST and HSS businesses, which will improve Work in the community thequality of our systems and enhance our service offering.
Synergy recently partnered with Age UK East London We are fully committed to providing a quality service in all regions to help the charity reduce the risk ofinfection in the and all aspects of the business.
We strive to continually improve community, by donating ayears supply of our Assure ourquality systems to benefit our diverse customer base.
Antimicrobial Hand Sanitiser to ensure excellent hand hygiene among the charitys staff.
This will help protect the health of vulnerable older people, whose immune systems may be weakand susceptible to infection.
Synergys RSS division in the US continues todonate its reusable gowns to third world countries.
This not only reduces waste, but also helps reduce the risk of infection in areasof the world where Synergy currently has nopresence.
Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2013 29
