Our people At Synthomer, we are continually working to develop our position as a key industrial partner as we drive for operational excellence.
Our staff are fundamental to the success of our strategic objectives and are at the forefront of striving for excellence and innovation across all areas of our business.
The R&D facilities in Harlow, UK: Marl, Germany and Kluang, Malaysia together with local specialist teams for technical sales and marketing continue to develop new products which help Synthomers customers separate themselves from their competitors.
We also have a significant proportion of employees located in our numerous operations in emerging markets where they can best serve c c cu u us s st t to o omer mer mers s s r r req eq equ u uir ir ire e emen men ment t ts s s... 2, 2, 2,0 0 09 9 97 7 7 T To ot ta al G l Gr ro ou up p e em mp pllo oy yees ees 235 Employees working in innovation Diversity Total Male Female 43% Board 8 80 Employees Senior management 21 18 3 in emerging Employees 2,097 1,707 390 markets 10 Synthomer plc Annual Report 2013 Strategic report e c n e l l e c x E G r o Innovation Developing greener products The trend to make products more Investment in our Oulu, Finland facility sustainable by using renewable raw has been completed to allow the consistent materials is irreversible and applies to and efficient production of the bio-polymer almost all industrial markets, no matter hybrids, with full production starting in how mature they are.
The second phase of developed a new range of SBR bio-polymer investment is now underway in our Marl, hybrids that not only provide improved Germany facility to allow the transfer of environmental aspects, but also give the technology for the production of the opportunity of optimising the costemulsions in the second half of 2014 performance balance in the use of the for both the paper market and other emulsion products.
The technology is applications segments.
applicable to a wide range of application areas and, working with suppliers of biopolymers and our customers, we have an active R&D programme looking at the commercial exploitation of the new materials.
During 2013, the first two new products using this technology have been launched for use in the paper market.
The grades in the Litex PX range have been developed as pre-coat and top coat binder systems for coated paper and board applications.
These products demonstrate excellent stability and runnability on high speed paper coating lines, whilst maintaining print performance of the final paper.
