Directors report: Overview Directors report: Performance review Directors report: Governance Financial statements Other information TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual report 2013 People We have an ambitious and progressive approach to engaging with our employees.
In FY13 we issued every employee with a one-off giftof employees, while our highly popular TalkTalk Heroes Wehave protected anddeveloped our 1,000 nil priced share options, created a consistent set scheme allows employees to nominate colleagues for of employment terms and saw a significant increase in their outstanding contribution in a widerange of areas, uniqueculture, expressed in our employee engagement: all keycontributors to our from charity work to customer engagement.
Heroes are publicly recognised at company events.
Brighter Basics Customer, Innovate, Value, People Harmonisation programme Employee benefits and share ownership andCommunity.
During FY13, following an extensive period of consultation, We offer a comprehensive range of flexible employee we created a simple banded jobstructure with benefits which we are continually improving, so consistent terms, conditions and benefits for all our employees can make choices to suit their lifestyles.
This programme is delivering consistency, Share ownership is an important part of our culture.
transparency and the foundation from which our InSeptember 2012 we issued every employee, who employee development programmes can operate.
wasnot currently part of another share option plan, Italso offers a clearer proposition to help us attract with aone-off gift of 1,000 nil priced shareoptions and retain the best talent.
through the All Employee Share Option Award.
This isin addition to the employee share ownership already Leadership development promoted through the annual TalkTalk SAYE Scheme, We recognise that the quality of our managers is vital inwhich over 40% of our employees participate.
toour future success and we have continued our We believe in our employees being users of, and commitment to leadership development through our advocates for, our products.
In FY13, we extended on-going programme, Leading a Brighter Business.
ouremployee offers to include free home phone, 550 of our managers have now been through the fibreand TV, as well as half-price mobile packages.
firstparts of the modular programme and showing improvements in leadership capability.
The programme Great Getaway will continue in FY14.
In September 2012, we held our family friendly summerevent the Great Getaway again, which Employee engagement wasforall employees and their families, with over Our engagement survey and plan enable us to listen 2,000 people attending.
andrespond to our employees and help us to create and sustain an environment where they are motivated, stay Employee consultation One Voice forum with us and enjoy working for TalkTalk.
One Voice, is a consultation andinformation forum Following our first survey in December 2011, we consisting of 80 nominated employee representatives, committed to specific actions that would enable management and members of our People Services higherlevels of employee engagement.
The forum meets regularly to discuss how the wasrepeated in January 2013 with significantly greater key issues we face as a business might affect our participation 89% vs. 72% and an 11% increase in employees and to discuss relevant employee matters.
Employee communication Employee performance and development We communicate with all employees on a weekly basis In the past twelve months, we have delivered a number via TeamTalk, a newsletter that incorporates various of new toolstosupport employee development.
updates from across the business.
We also produce TalkTalkU isouronline hub for all learning and abespoke online newsletter for our people managers, development and includes extensive face-to-face and informing them about matters that affect them or eLearning options.
We have also delivered interactive theirteams.
The weekly blog from Dido Harding tools to enable employees to chart career progression continues tobepopular with employees allowing routes through TalkTalk.
Our annual performance forcommunication and feedback on topical issues management process has continued to provide a inthe Group.
mechanism todrive performance and development with all employees participating in a performance Every six months, Senior Managers provide a face-to-face related variable bonus pay scheme.
update on the performance of the business to allour employees, including those employed by our partners.
In June 2012, we brought every UK based employee Employee recognition together for a one day conference, following which 87% Recognising employees who drive our culture by of attendees said that they had a better understanding actively demonstrating our Brighter Basics is extremely of TalkTalks strategic priorities.
Wewillbe repeating important to us.
Our On-the-Spot award scheme the event in FY14.
enables Senior Managers to give instant recognition to 15
