Directors report: Overview Directors report: Performance review Directors report: Governance Financial statements Other information TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual report 2013 Sustainability review Leading the way to a digital society, environmental sustainability and community.
We believe that innovative digital communications The new category of Young Digital Hero, open to canimprove our society and environment.
anyone under 18, was won by May Gabriel, founder ofItsOK, a campaign which tackles the stigma Our strategy is to help make our community a brighter arounddepression.
and more sustainable place by motivating our people, customers and supply partners, and by creating TalkTalk Digital Champions innovative services that empower our customers.
The year saw the Group launch its enhanced Give Something Back programme that gives all our people Our efforts this year were focused on the paid time off to volunteer and fundraise for good causes.
followingprogrammes: In FY13 our people were given the opportunity to be trained by the Online Centres Foundation, to become Digital safety TalkTalk Digital Champions.
Once trained, the Digital Households and businesses are connecting ever Champions were matched with their local UK Online moredevices to the internet, and we want toempower Centre, so that they could pass on their learnings.
customers to protect themselves from security risks Go ON UK and inappropriate content.
The Group is a Founder Partner of the charity Go ON UK, We offer HomeSafe, which automatically protects with the likes of Age UK, the BBC and Big Lottery Fund.
every device on a home broadband connection, free with The charity is chaired by Baroness Lane-Fox.
Together all our Consumer broadband packages.
HomeSafe is we work with the Government to help make the UK built into our network and prevents users from reaching theworlds most digitally capable nation.
Aside from sites in categories deemed inappropriate by the account funding, welend our online safety and digital inclusion holder.
It is also capable of automatically blocking expertise and central London office space.
access to sites that are believed to harbour viruses A key piece of collaborative work in 2012 was orother threats.
thepublication of a study in partnership with TalkTalk is the only broadband provider to offersuch Booz&Company that concluded that there is aservice, and nearly three quarters of amillion homes a63bnpotential GDP uplift in the UK achieving across the country have enabledHomeSafe.
In FY13 we tailored a similar service specifically for Talk about autism Business customers called WorkSafe.
This service This year we continued our support for long term isfree with all Business broadband and Superpowered partner Ambitious about Autism, the national charity Fibre Business broadband services.
that makes the ordinary possible for children and young people with autism, including Aspergers Digital inclusion Syndrome.
Talk about Autism is the safe, friendly, online community where affected families can share Talk Digital Heroes Awards 2012 their experiences, get support and help others to We continue to sponsor these awards, run in conjunction understand the condition.
For more on autism visit with charity Citizens Online and TheDailyMirror.
awards aim to reward individuals, nominated by their communities, who use digital technology in the most North Kensington Estate project socially positive way.
In FY13 we awarded over 70,000 We have continued to fund the IntoWork programme in grants and prizes to twelve regional finalists, including ofNorth Kensington-based charity The ClementJames 10,000 to the 2012 TalkTalk Digital Hero.
We focus our support on IT outreach by taking broadband to the local housing estates and community The judges were our Chairman Sir Charles Dunstone, centres.
The project has been able to help individuals, the UK Digital Champion Baroness Lane-Fox and the most often immigrant women, who are typically unsure Editor of The Daily Mirror Lloyd Embley.
They judged about engaging online.
Next year our focus will be on the 2012 TalkTalk Digital Hero to be Clare Sutcliffe of training local women as IT Ambassadors, empowering Code Club, an organisation aimed at giving children them to run IT classes for beginners.
thechance to learn computer programming for free.
Their mission is to give every child in the UK the chance Brownie Computer Badge to learn to code, and they want a Code Club in 25% of This year weve worked with Girlguiding, in support primary schools in the UK by 2016.
The clubs are free ofthe Brownie Computer Badge, specifically to help toboth the schools and the pupils.
ensure that girls are supported in using the internet safely.
In addition to lending our expertise in this area, we also provided funding for the project.
13 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual report 2013 Sustainability review continued 2012: 129,600.
In addition, we invested over Environmental sustainability 75,000 incommunity projects that we added to our CO emissions 2 NGN footprint.
The Group did not make any political This year we have continued our focus on measuring donations in the current or prior year.
and reducing our environmental impact.
In particular: the CO emissions related to our consumption of We focus primarily on providing time and money 2 energy by far our biggest impact.
viaengagement with four key stakeholder groups: Our continuing strategy to reduce our CO emissions is Engaging with our supply partners 2 twofold.
Firstly, to reduce our energy consumption and In November our Directors hosted the Night of secondly, to carefully consider the energys provenance.
Ambition, our third annual fundraising auction on behalf of Ambitious about Autism.
Over 250 of our Our NGN is one of the biggest and most advanced in supply partners and senior managers attended, with the UK.
It grows in line with our customer volume and many donating unique lots for the auction.
A total of their rapidly expanding broadband consumption habits.
220,000 was raised for children and young people We therefore measure our CO emissions relative 2 with autism.
tothe networks scale, so that we stay focused on improving our efficiency or emissions intensity.
Engaging with our customers We continued three customer driven cause-related In 2011, our Chief Executive Officer set our objective: fundraising campaigns throughout the year.
The first toreduce our CO emissions intensity, in tonnes of CO 2 2 was the continuation of our pledge to donate to equivalent per Gigabit tCO e Gb, by 25% by April 2021, 2 Ambitious about Autism for every call made to our relative to 2010.
This focus on improving our emissions intensity has We also continued the initiative to reward customers produced tangible results.
We participate in the who return to us routers that have been diagnosed as Governments CRC Energy Efficiency Scheme, and end-of-life.
We pay for the postage, refurbish or safely were 148th out of 2,097 participants 2012: 381st.
recycle the equipment and then donate 1 to charity Our internal tracking also shows that our approach on their behalf.
isworking, as despite growing the network in line with The year also saw the introduction of a donation customer usage and volume, we have improved energy totheunique charity Cool Earth, when customers intensity for the second year running: added our unique Global Minutes Boost option to their tCO e Gb 2013 2012 2011 2 phone package.
Supported by Sir David Attenborough 1 2 Energy, transport and Professor Lord Stern, Cool Earth is the only charity and hotels 145 193 317 dedicated to protecting endangered rainforests 1 Primarily electricity, but also some natural gas and back-up generator fuel.
through engagement with indigenous communities, 2 Includes rail, air and car travel.
one of the most effective ways to minimise CO 2 reaching our atmosphere.
100% renewable electricity All of the units of electricity consumed by our Engaging with our colleagues NGN, offices and UK call centres come from The Groups Give Something Back initiative includes renewablesources.
matched donations for our people who raise funds foraRegistered Charity.
Hundreds of people took Sustainable forestry partinfundraising over the year.
We display FSC and PEFC certification marks on the envelopes of our consumer direct marketing and bills, Engaging with our new communities recognising our decision to source paper from certified The year saw us bring our NGN to additional exchanges sustainable sources.
In fact, where possible, we replace as part of our LLU programme.
Each new addition sees printed materials with an online equivalent.
This Annual our broadband and phone services become available to Report is printed on certified 100% recycled paper.
thousands of families and businesses for the first time.
To celebrate our arrival in these communities, we make Community investment an investment in something important to them, for During the year, the Group was responsible for generating example, improvements to the community centre.
517,700 2012: 357,900 of income for Registered Thisyear, we supported over 100 communities, Charities, including 283,200 of direct cash donations investing over 75,000.
Other achievements We retained both our FTSE4Good Index membership and Carbon Saver Gold  inthe year Corporate Responsibility Group 14
