Operational Review Operational Review Corporate Responsibility Our sustainability journey We think about corporate responsibility CR from a stakeholder perspective, and so we define our reporting in terms of our workplace, the environment, our marketplace, and the communities of which we are a part.
We want to continuously improve the way that we perform in, manage and report on CR matters across all aspects of our business.
Overview of the year Workplace The key CR considerations for us in terms Management of corporate Performance of our workplace are health and safety, This year we: responsibility and how we manage our relationship with This year we: continued to be above average for employees.
In line with our values, we safety performance compared with reviewed and strengthened our believe that everyone should be safe at our own and other industry sectors.
contractor safety programme work and be treated fairly and with respect.
We take safety very seriously and rolled out our new Code of Ethics seek to continuously improve our to replace our Code of Business Employee profile programmes and performance, Conduct At 31 March 2013, Tate & Lyle employed which is outlined on page 30 reviewed and updated the CR 4,326 people.
We have further developed reduced CO2 emissions, water requirements in our standard purchase our employee base in the last year through use and waste to landfill at our contract terms and conditions the opening of our new global Commercial manufacturing facilities, per tonne implemented a new sustainability risk and Food Innovation Centre in Chicago, USA of production assessment and evaluation tool for our and by expanding our commercial teams.
were included in the FTSE350 Carbon product development pipeline.
Disclosure Leadership Index, having scored in the top 10% of FTSE350 Reporting and communication companies responding to the Carbon This year we: Employees by business unit Disclosure Project CDP 2012 as at 31 March 2013 raised the profile of CR matters with information request employees, suppliers, customers and developed new global community 1 51% Bulk 1 investors, including having discussions 3 involvement programmes and Ingredients with customers on CR issues to 2 40% Speciality partnerships.
explain our approach, to understand Food Ingredients each others programmes, and to 3 9% Central explore ways of working together to functions improve our collective performance completed the transition to 2  reporting in this Annual Report gained external assurance Employees by geography over selected environmental as at 31 March 2013 data in this Annual Report from  LLP 1 47% North 4 1 see page 36.
America 3 2 37% Europe, Middle East and Africa 3 11% Latin America 4 5% Asia Pacific More online Read more about our approach 2 to corporate responsibility at www.
Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2013 29 Operational Review Corporate Responsibility continued Safety Safety performance We have no higher priority than safety, not only for our employees but for everyone Recordable incident rate who comes to our sites.
Our ultimate goal Number of injuries requiring treatment beyond first aid per 200,000 hours is no accidents or injuries.
Employees Contractors Our Executive Safety Committee, chaired by our Chief Executive, met throughout the Number of Number of year to review our safety performance and incidents incidents 0.69 1.62 1.55 improvement programmes.
Our senior 0.63 1.43 0.55 executives are personally involved in safety management and undertake annual 33 30 executive audits at our major sites around the world.
2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 Performance We measure and report safety against two 1 US industry sector averages 2011 and Tate & Lyle overall 2012 key performance indicators: 6.90 Beverage and tobacco Recordable incident rate 5.60 Food manufacturing Employees and contractors combined: no change at 0.85.
3.90 Construction 3.50 Private industry Lost-work case rate 2.40 Chemical manufacturing Employees and contractors combined: 0.26 compared with 0.21 last year, 2.00 Energy industry due to 19 lost-work cases globally in 0.85 Tate & Lyle calendar year 2012 compared to 16 in 2011.
Despite a low number of accidents in the spring and early summer, and very good Lost-work case rate results at many facilities, we ended the year Number of injuries that resulted in lost-work days per 200,000 hours with the overall recordable incident rate Employees being the same as 2011 and the overall Contractors lost-work case rate increasing due to three more lost-work cases than last year.
Number of Number of cases cases 0.83 0.34 Many of our locations achieved excellent safety performance: a number of sites had zero recordable incidents: several reached 0.19 10 9 0.43 0.17 milestones of four million hours worked 0.31 without a lost-work case: and one site had an accident in December after 20 years 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 without a lost-work case.
1 US industry sector averages 2011 and Tate & Lyle overall 2012 Two of our US plants, both of which are in Lafayette, Indiana, won US Corn Refiners 1.50 Food manufacturing Association awards during the year.
1.50 Construction Lafayette South won three Incident Rate Excellence, One Million Hours and Zero 1.10 Private industry Lost Work Days and Sagamore won one 0.70 Chemical manufacturing Zero Lost Work Days.
0.50 Energy industry 0.26 Tate & Lyle 1 Source: US Department of Labor, October 2012.
Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2013 30 Operational Review t n e m e v e i C h r c e A a t i v i t y s e u l a V e S c p n e Operational Review External benchmarking Looking ahead Gender diversity To put our safety performance in Having seen employee hand and arm as at 31 March 2013 perspective and because many of our safety incidents increase in 2012, we have employees are located in the US we made this area a priority for 2013, along Board of Directors monitor US industry averages.
In 2012 our with our ongoing work on contractor safety.
safety performance was better than the 1 70% Men 1 average achieved by companies across our Relationship with employees 2 30% Women own and other industry sectors, as shown Our values define what we stand for and in the graphs on page 30. how we behave with our customers, suppliers, investors, the communities we Safety projects and activities operate in and with each other.
We believe During the year we made progress with a 2 in equal opportunities for all, regardless number of safety initiatives, these included: of gender, sexual orientation, age, marital status, disability, race, religion or other Contractor safety programme: we beliefs and ethnic or national origin.
have worked hard in the past year to Managers improve contractors safety practices, Our Values including: reviewing their safety 1 78% Men 1 programmes: setting up a contractor 2 22% Women safety improvement task force: asking 2 contractors to share best practices: Safety revising our global contractor safety expectations document: and addressing specific issues by meeting the executive managers of the relevant companies to Core Values discuss performance and their safety Respect Integrity improvement plans.
All employees Safety management systems: 1 76% Men we implemented new procedures for 1 2 24% Women hazardous activities: we developed a Code of Safety Leadership to ensure 2 colleagues are clear on what their Our policies, practices and procedures safety leadership responsibilities are: for recruitment, training and career and renewed Road Safety Guidelines to development promote equality of promote safe driving and travel.
An employee who becomes further improved machine guarding at disabled would, where appropriate, be our facilities and enhanced training for offered retraining for a more suitable role.
employees working at height, for example We are committed to treating people with Progress during the financial year included: on ladders or elevated platforms.
disabilities fairly in all respects, including regarding applications, training, promotion continued increase in awareness Safety awareness: we held our and career development.
among senior managers of diversity first global office and laboratory safety and inclusion issues, having included conference, as well as our annual Diversity and inclusion consideration of these issues in their Global Safety Week with many We believe in a culture where all employees annual performance objectives employees and their families taking contribute to the performance of the taking the opportunity provided by part across the Group.
Company and have the opportunity to our new global Commercial and Food develop fully according to their individual Innovation Centre in Chicago and at Occupational health and well-being abilities.
As part of that, we aim to attract our new global Shared Service Centre We contract with occupational health a diverse workforce that reflects the inPoland to recruit diverse workforces professionals to monitor and safeguard communities in which we operate.
In 2011 at those two locations the health of employees at work, and to we established a Diversity and Inclusion piloting of a diversity and inclusion provide information, advice and support Council.
The Council works on creating coaching programme for key staff.
to them on health matters.
awareness of diversity and inclusion issues, establishing and tracking inclusion metrics, and championing our diversity and inclusion programme across the Company.
Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2013 31 a e d m r o f r e P T e a m y t i w l i o b r a k t n u o c c A Operational Review Corporate Responsibility continued Employee engagement Within our own operations and joint Environment We believe that employees who are ventures we focus on those aspects of our engaged in the business, by which we We seek to operate our business in a way activities that have the greatest potential mean committed to the Group, its goals, that is as environmentally sustainable as impact on the environment, namely our use values and strategy, and to each other, are practical.
By using resources such as of energy and consequent air emissions happier and ultimately deliver better results.
energy and water more efficiently, and and carbon footprint, our water use, and Good internal communication is essential reducing waste, we aim to improve our waste management.
We communicate with our environmental sustainability further while employees in a number of ways, from controlling operating costs.
Beyond our own operations we focus our Company-wide media including our attention on our agricultural raw material intranet and our quarterly employee and ingredient supply chain, the Our approach magazine which is published in eleven transportation of our products to our Tate & Lyles environmental policy and languages, to face-to-face dialogue such customers, and our products packaging.
standards apply to all our activities globally, as site-wide meetings, functional meetings and we aim to integrate environmental and small group or team meetings.
considerations into all major decisions.
Operational performance In calendar year 2012, compared with 2011: In 2012, we conducted our first global Our facilities operate under local Energy use per tonne of production employee survey which was designed to environmental authorisations and permits increased by 1.6% due to changes in enable employees to give candid opinions and we require strict compliance with these our production mix with the about Tate & Lyle and to facilitate at all times.
If a site inadvertently breaches manufacture of more speciality products, conversations about how we can make an operating limit we seek to take steps and site-specific factors such as the the Company a better place to work.
immediately to resolve the issue and installation of new air emissions Participation in the survey was encouraging prevent reoccurrence.
at 81%, and the overall survey score was just above 3.5 on a scale of 1 to 5 where Wehave procedures and programmes Since 2008 we have reduced energy use 5 is the best score.
The results highlighted in place to manage and minimise the per tonne of production by 10%.
Energy clear strengths as well as areas where we environmental impact of our operations, efficiency projects implemented this year can do better, and have been translated our packaging and our supply chain.
included optimisation of the steam system into action plans for individual teams as at our joint-venture plant in Boleraz, well as the Company as a whole.
We have internal and external auditing Slovakia: and the installation of energy processes.
Our annual internal global efficient lighting at Sycamore, Illinois.
Looking ahead compliance audit programme confirms We are working to continue raising compliance with our environmental and Carbon footprint from energy use awareness of diversity and inclusion: food safety, quality and health and safety decreased by 1.1% per tonne of provide more support to our leaders across management standards.
Additionally, our production due to changes in our fuel the Company to help them engage with rolling programme of external, independent mix, alongside energy efficiency projects their teams: to implement a new set of environmental compliance audits assures at many locations.
global training courses for middle and compliance with regulatory requirements.
senior managers: and to strengthen further Since 2008 we have reduced CO2 our recruitment and induction processes.
We include annual environmental emissions per tonne of production sustainability targets in the performance by 11%.
objectives of employees from Executive Committee to plant level.
These include Water use per tonne of production energy use, water use and waste reduction, decreased by 2.1% due to various water amongst others.
efficiency projects including: at Dayton, Ohio, where water re-use and recycling Overall, we are working to address implemented in 2012 will save up to 45% environmental considerations across the of the plants annual water use: and at life cycle of our products, from our Decatur, Illinois, which received General agricultural supply chain to how our Electrics Return on Environment and products are packaged and transported.
Proof not Promises awards for water saving initiatives in 2012.
Since 2008 we have reduced water use per tonne of production by 9%.
Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2013 32 Operational Review Operational Review Waste to landfill decreased by 11% Environmental performance per tonne of production, due to good progress with waste reduction, re-use Energy use Primary carbon footprint and recycling programmes at many facilities.
For example, at Lafayette GJ per tonne production Tonnes CO2 per tonne production South, Indiana, external waste recovery facilities, which use anaerobic digestion 2 to produce energy from waste, were 4.49 2 4.44 4.42 0.375 0.374 0.370 used to reduce our waste to landfill following on from similar work at our Sagamore plant in Lafayette, Indiana, the previous year.
Water use Waste to landll Looking ahead We aim to improve environmental Cubic meters per tonne production Tonnes per 000 tonnes production performance in the coming year by focusing on the following areas: 4.35 2 4.27 4.18 7.92 2 7.23 7.05 capital projects and operational practices to reduce our energy use, CO2 emissions, water use and waste to landfill per tonne of production working with our customers on reducing 1 1 our combined environmental impact 1 1 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 working with our suppliers and others 1 Previously reported numbers for 2010 and 2011 have been adjusted to remove the energy use, carbon to promote sustainable agriculture.
footprint, water use and waste arising from the Sucromiles joint venture, our share in which was sold during calendar year 2012.
2 Refers to 2012 data that has been assured by  LLP see page 36.
Environmental sustainability targets We have four medium-term environmental sustainability targets Target by end of 2016 Calendar year 2012 status Comment Reduce CO2 emissions from energy use 11% reduction in CO2 emissions per tonne In 2012 our joint-venture facility in Hungary by 12.5% per tonne of production of production versus 2008 started up a new biomass boiler 1 baseline year 2008 Implement packaging reduction Programmes initiated with customers In 2012 we changed from a three-ply to a two-ply programmes with customers representing representing 9% of sales paper sack for several products, reducing paper 50% of sales use by approximately 1,500 tonnes per year Implement transport efficiency Programmes initiated with customers In 2012 we piloted a new liquefied petroleum gas programmes with customers representing representing 9% of sales LPG truck design with a transport contractor in 50% of sales Europe which can reduce CO2 emissions by up to 70% per trip Implement sustainable agricultural In 2012 we evaluated our principal 25 agricultural A number of updated sustainable sourcing sourcing programmes for our top 20 raw materials and ingredients and progressed criteria and new initiatives are currently in agricultural raw materials and ingredients sustainable agriculture initiatives development or implementation by volume 1 We recognise that installing new air emissions control equipment at several locations over the next few years and the manufacture of more speciality products will make it more challenging to reduce our energy use and CO2 emissions in the medium term.
Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2013 33 Operational Review Corporate Responsibility continued evaluate sustainability issues as we We support our employees and business Marketplace proceed with product development, to partners in coming forward with any The food and beverage sector is our most avoid or reduce any potential adverse information concerning actual or alleged significant market comprising over 70% impacts such as the use of energy breaches of the Code of Ethics.
We provide of Group sales.
Other markets we sell and non-renewable resources, and access to Safecall, an independent, into include industrial, animal feed, and to leverage positive impacts such as anonymous third-party reporting service, pharmaceutical and personal care.
Our product health and wellness benefits.
through free phone numbers in 46 customers include many of the worlds countries and by email.
Information on largest food and beverage manufacturers.
In line with our strategy, we are focusing accessing this service is communicated particularly on growing our Speciality Food across the Company and externally via Sustainability in the marketplace for us is Ingredients business unit, and as such the our intranet and our corporate website.
about: the safety and functionality of our majority of our new product development products: the origin of our agricultural raw is in this area.
For example, our Health & Any issues reported through Safecall are materials: the conduct of our commercial Wellness platform delivers innovative investigated by members of our Speak Up relationships: and standards within our ingredients with substantiated health Committee, a group of senior Tate & Lyle supply chain.
executives who are responsible for Additionally, many of our speciality ensuring that any concerns flagged to sweeteners and fibres have health and them through our normal internal reporting Product safety and quality wellness benefits.
Our aim is to help our processes or via Safecall are investigated Our products adhere to the highest customers provide consumers with healthy, and that appropriate action is taken.
standards of food safety, quality and nutritious foods and beverages as part of a traceability.
This is particularly relevant normal balanced diet.
We aim to ensure that when producing ingredients for Standards in our supply chain our ingredients, and any claims we make specialist customers such as baby food We require our suppliers to uphold regarding their benefits or efficacy, are manufacturers.
All our manufacturing international business standards and to be supported by clear, demonstrated science.
facilities are certified to the Global Food fully compliant with all applicable laws and Safety Initiative, and we have wellregulations, including but not limited to: Our portfolio of speciality food ingredients established processes and procedures those regarding freedom of association ranges from low-calorie sweeteners to across our manufacturing and R&D and collective bargaining: nonsoluble fibres.
For example, SPLENDA facilities to ensure we comply with this discrimination: working hours and wages: Sucralose is exceptionally stable, so that it standard.
These include an annual internal health and safety: protection of the helps to extend consumer product shelf life global compliance audit programme and environment: anti-corruption anti-bribery: and thereby assists in avoiding food waste, annual external, independent food safety and the prevention of child or forced labour.
and SODA-LO Salt Microspheres allow audits of every manufacturing site.
food manufacturers to reduce salt levels This year we reviewed and updated the by 25-50% in various applications.
specific corporate responsibility Developing sustainable products requirements built into our standard We want our products to be sustainable: Conduct of commercial purchase contract terms and conditions.
as well as the fact that our raw materials and ingredients are largely derived from relationships renewable agriculture sources principally We are committed to ensuring a safe, open Looking ahead corn, we aim to consider sustainability and responsible culture in all our business We are currently focusing particularly matters throughout the product lifecycle.
dealings wherever we operate, in line on sustainable agriculture, a growing area To this end, for our innovation pipeline, in with our newly-launched Code of Ethics.
of importance for the food and beverage 2012 we developed a new sustainability The Code of Ethics, to be available in industry and its stakeholders.
risk assessment and evaluation tool.
14 languages, is communicated internally We use this tool to: through several means including our intranet, and by local Ethics Ambassadors undertake a sustainability risk being appointed across the business.
assessment at an early stage in the Externally, the Code of Ethics is being product development process, in order integrated into our supplier and business to identify any potential concerns in the partner relationships, in particular through supply chain, manufacture or use stages the terms and conditions of our standard of the product life cycle purchase contracts.
Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2013 34 Operational Review Operational Review Global partnerships Community Community spend by area During the year, we also started to develop Year to 31 March 2013 We have a strong history of community global partnership programmes in our three involvement and during the year we community involvement areas.
For 1 44% Education 4 1 continued to support communities local to well-being, we have become a business 2 39% Well-being our operations.
Additionally, we have made alliance partner with the Global Alliance 3 3 11% Environment good progress in implementing our new 4 6% Other for Improved Nutrition GAIN, and for community involvement strategy as defined environment we have become a corporate last year, including the establishment of partner of the environmental research and new global programmes and partnerships.
We are working with both charities to set up our 2 Our approach own specific programme.
For education, For Tate & Lyle, community involvement we expect to announce educational is about having a positive and lasting partnerships during calendar year 2013.
Local programmes partnerships relationship with the community: specifically We aim to engage with local communities changing things for the better in the areas of Looking ahead where our manufacturing, R&D and office education, well-being and the environment.
We recognise that being a responsible facilities are located.
Different locations can corporate citizen includes having a strong make their own decisions as to the specific Education: to develop young peoples and forward-looking community projects they support and the partnerships knowledge and understanding of involvement programme.
that they develop, thereby catering to science, technology, engineering and relevant local needs.
mathematics STEM subjects, and their We plan to develop our community preparedness for a career in a STEMinvolvement programme by: We support a wide range of initiatives and based discipline, either academically organisations in our local communities.
expanding the geographical reach further developing our global and local Education: we support local schools, Well-being: to provide practical partnership programmes for example by assisting with new assistance in the area of well-being making a larger financial commitment.
equipment or facilities, and provide from health issues including nutrition scholarship funds to assist students to general welfare, such as supporting to go to colleges and universities.
Well-being: we support a wide variety Environment: to promote environmental of local health and well-being initiatives.
sustainability and good environmental management, addressing issues of This year, our e-Christmas card climate change, water resources and supported the homeless charity Crisis conservation.
at Christmas in London, UK and the Northern Illinois Food Bank in Chicago, We aim to increase our investment in these USA.
Both of these organisations three areas each year, in line with the provided practical, immediate assistance growth of our business.
to those in need over the holiday period.
Overview of the year Environment: we support a number In the year ended 31 March 2013, of local environmental initiatives.
We expect to increase contributions further in the year to 31 March 2014.
Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2013 35 Operational Review Corporate Responsibility continued Corporate responsibility governance Independent assurance Governance of CR matters is overseen by the Corporate This year we gained external assurance over selected Responsibility Committee see page 49, the responsibilities environmental data in this Annual Report from of which include monitoring the Groups approach to CR and  LLP.
ensuring that it aligns with Group strategy.
The Chief Executive is the director with specific responsibility for CR matters.
Full details of the principles and methodologies we have used in reporting CR performance in this Annual Report can be found CR matters are integrated into the Groups enterprise-wide in the CR Reporting Criteria Annual Report 2013 available risk management and reporting process see page 26. on the Companys website, www.
Corporate responsibility reporting notes The selected environmental data as referenced on page 33 Here we outline the scope and definitions of the CR data has been subject to independent assurance by presented in this Report.
Their assurance report can be found on the Companys website, Safety and environmental data www.
We report safety and environmental performance by calendar year 1 January to 31 December because we are required to do so for regulatory reporting purposes.
We report safety data from Tate & Lyle-owned and jointventure manufacturing facilities, and from our offices and other facilities worldwide, for example, R&D centres.
We report environmental data from Tate & Lyle-owned and joint-venture manufacturing facilities worldwide.
For our SPLENDA Sucralose facility in McIntosh, Alabama where we restarted production in March 2012, we include safety performance data for calendar year 2012 in this Annual Report.
We will start reporting environmental performance data once we have two full calendar years of data to better assure reporting accuracy.
Employee and community involvement data We report employee and community involvement performance by financial year 1 April to 31 March in line with the financial reporting systems providing that data.
Employee data comprises Tate & Lyle employees and a percentage share of joint-venture employees in line with the percentage of those businesses that we own, except for gender diversity where a full share of all joint-venture employees are included Note 9.
Community involvement data comprises Tate & Lyle-owned and joint-venture operations and a percentage share of joint-venture operations in line with the percentage of those businesses that we own.
Internal assurance Our internal audit function carried out a review of the CR information and data presented in this Report and confirmed its accuracy.
Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2013 36
