Governance Governance Corporate Responsibility Committee Report The Committee met four times during the Product safety continued to be an area of Dear Shareholder year.
Membership of the Committee and focus and the Global VP Quality and Food attendance during the year were as follows: Safety provided an update on the operation As explained in the Corporate of the Groups quality assurance processes.
Responsibility statement on page 30, Number of Directors as at Number of meetings the Group has no higher priority than Diversity and inclusion 31 March 2013 meetings attended safety and we continued to review the The Committee received an update on the William Camp Groups safety performance at each implementation of diversity and inclusion 1 Committee Chairman 4 4 meeting.
While our recordable incident initiatives and agreed the parameters for Liz Airey 4 4 rate remained the same, we had three external reporting on the Groups 1 Sir Peter Gershon 4 4 more lost-work cases in the year.
Dr Ajai Puri 4 4 oversight of ongoing safety initiatives Business practices to address this is a key focus for the 1 William Camp succeeded Sir Peter Gershon as The Committee reviewed the Committee this year.
Chairman of the Committee on 1 August 2012. implementation of the Groups new Code We also undertook a detailed review of Ethics and agreed an ethics and of the business continuity management Main responsibilities of the compliance strategy for the Group which controls and processes.
Senior will continue to be subject to regular review CR Committee managers with specific responsibilities by the Committee.
The main responsibilities of the for these processes presented to the Committee include: In addition, the Committee discussed the Committee as part of this review increased use of the independent Monitoring the Groups approach to process, in line with one of the key confidential reporting whistleblowing line corporate responsibility and ensuring actions arising from the 2012 Board which had been achieved through the it aligns with Group strategy: effectiveness review see page 43. implementation of actions in 2012 to Reviewing the effectiveness of the The Committees role within the Groups improve awareness of that line.
Groups policies and procedures governance framework continued to relating to a safe working environment: Having approved the scope of a new global evolve during the year and we updated Approving, or recommending to the Community Involvement Programme in the terms of reference to clarify the Board for approval, CR policies: 2012, the Committee received an update Committees role in the Groups overall Reviewing the implementation of on implementation and also approved two system of internal control.
appropriate environmental policies: new global partnerships, details of which Monitoring the effectiveness of The annual review of Committee can be found on page 35. workplace policies concerning effectiveness indicated that the Environment employee relations, equal Committee continued to operate The Committee remained focused on the opportunities, travel, entertainment effectively, and also identified some impact of the Groups operations on the and conflicts of interest: process improvements.
We environment and reviewed the Groups Reviewing whistleblowing subsequently restructured our annual environmental performance and initiatives arrangements: and programme of items for review and on a regular basis.
Satisfying itself that the Group has instigated a revised approach to appropriate policies, systems and management presentations at Internal control controls in place in respect of the risks Committee meetings.
The Committee received regular reports falling within the Committees remit.
from management and the VP Group Audit William Camp and Assurance in respect of the policies, Chairman of the CR Committee systems and controls in place in respect Work undertaken during the year of the risks falling within the Committees During the year and up to the date of this The Committee comprises three nonremit.
The Committee reviewed the output Annual Report, in addition to the work executive directors and the Chairman of the from the annual review of the effectiveness outlined in the Committee Chairmans Company.
Its terms of reference, which are of controls falling within its terms of statement, the work undertaken by the reviewed annually, can be found on the reference and then reported to the Board CR Committee included the following: Companys website, www.
Safety Corporate responsibility: pg 29 The Committee reviewed the Groups initiatives to improve workplace safety performance in general and contractor performance in particular.
Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2013 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2013 49
