Chief Executives Review continued Corporate Responsibility We seek to be a responsible organisation and to manage our business to make positive social, environmental and economic contributions to the regions in which we operate.
Our approach to corporate responsibility In early 2014 we went one step further and Our sustainability recognition We want to create value and drive returns for introduced an intensity reduction target of 25% our stakeholders but how we deliver this is just of direct emissions by 2018, which equates to Occupational health and safety score in as important to us.
5% reduction in carbon intensity per year.
2013 Corporate Sustainability AssessmentS Sustainability I by RobecoSAM We do much more than build homes.
We are Human rights an important contributor to local communities We support the United Nations Universal and to the sustainability of those communities Declaration on Human Rights and have policies 97% and areas.
During 2013, we invested and processes in place to ensure that we act in 227.0 million in the local communities via accordance with our values in relation to areas Next Generation benchmarking against Section 106 and Section 75 planning such as equal opportunities, anti-corruption industry average of 39% obligations 2012: 180.8 million.
We do not consider this a 2010 we have invested over 630 million.
material issue in our business.
As a business dedicated to building homes and Greenhouse Gas emissions GHG 70% creating communities, we care deeply about We continue to take steps to improve our housing and homelessness issues.
We are approach to climate change mitigation, Named National Champion for proud to be working with our network of adaptation and transparency.
Data is provided Environmental and Corporate homelessness charities, led by our national as tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent CO e 2 Responsibility in the European charity Centrepoint and supported by smaller and covers 100% of our housing operations Business Awards regional charities across the UK.
We donated including our sites, offices, business travel, over 327k to charity in 2013 2012: 247k, as a result of waste disposal and throughout including 210k 2012: 149k to Centrepoint our supply chains.
Our 2013 data has been Award and our network of homelessness charities.
We externally verified by the Carbon Trust.
are also a patron of CRASH, the construction Outlook winning and property industrys homelessness charity.
Corporate responsibility and sustainability cover Sustainability each element of our business model and both Ultimate executive accountability for corporate are fundamental to our continued success.
responsibility, sustainability and climate issues We will continue to strive to improve and continues to rest with me as Chief Executive.
develop both of these elements in the future.
We launched our first Sustainability Strategy in 2013, which introduces six sustainability principles and sets out a range of strategic sustainability commitments that relate to key social, economic and environmental issues.
Pete Redfern The strategy works alongside the Energy and Chief Executive Carbon Strategy that we introduced in 2011.
Global GHG emissions for period 1 January to 31 December 2013 Total emissions The following sources of emissions were excluded or Methodology Category tonnes CO e 2 part-excluded from this report: We have used the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Emissions from combustion Reporting Standard, data gathered from our own operations, i Fugitive emissions refrigerant gases : excluded on the basis of fuel scope 1 16,177 and emissions factors from UK Governments Conversion of expected immateriality and difficulty in acquiring: Factors for Company Reporting 2013.
Emissions from electricity, heat, ii Gas and electricity of part-exchange properties: excluded steam and cooling purchased We have reported on the emissions sources required under on the basis of immateriality due to very few completions for own use scope 2 10,526 the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors of this type: Reports Regulations 2013 apart from the exclusions Total emissions 26,703 iii Certain joint venture properties: where Taylor Wimpey was noted.
The reported sources fall within our consolidated Emissions Intensity: not part of the handover process.
In these cases other financial statement and are for emissions over which we Emissions per 100 sqm 2.48 tCO e housebuilders have captured MCR-related data.
We do not have responsibility of completed homes 100 sqm iv Emissions from combined heat and power units which are for any emissions sources that are not included in our operated at sites prior to their transfer, excluded due to consolidated statement.
26 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Strategic Report p3-39 Directors Report: Governance p41-79 Financial Statements p81-131 Shareholder Information p132-141 Evaluating our progress Corporate responsibility is the way in which we are responding to the global challenges of sustainable development.
We continually evaluate our progress against our annual targets.
Priorities Progress Status Targets for 2014 Awarded Large Developer of the Year in the RESI Awards for Continue to focus on selecting the right land and developing Selecting land the residential property market.
Integrated our Site Sustainability Appraisal tool into new Develop other aspects of our Site Sustainability Appraisal Tool design and access statement internal guidance in the form in 2014. of a comprehensive checklist.
Provided map references and web pages for proposed Further develop the web pages for our proposed Managing the developments on our new website.
developments and promote our website as a community planning and engagement tool.
Revised and relaunched our approach to community community engagement.
Look at how social media can aid our community engagement engagement process.
Introduced toolkit to provide improved guidance and reflect process best practice across our business.
Continue to bring forward land for much needed development through planning and conversion of strategic pipeline.
Successful at 83% of appeals to bring forward development.
Published updated internal best practice guidance documents on preparing design and access statements for new developments.
Member of all four regions of Homes and Communities Agencys HCA Delivery Partner Panel DPP2 and on the Greater London Authority GLA panel.
Reduced our Annual Injury Incidence Rate by 33%.
Progress towards our carbon intensity reduction target for Getting the direct emissions of 25% by 2018.
Launched our first sustainability strategy.
homebuilding Maintain the same level of construction waste.
Improved our standard house type portfolio.
basics right Launch an Energy Guide for our employees, which will Developed new energy-efficient specifications for our building set out principles for energy-efficient behaviour.
sites, show homes and sales areas.
Require all of our national suppliers to sign up In 2013 we started work on a review of our UK Housing to Constructionline.
supply chain resource efficiency covering energy, carbon, water and waste.
Extend our site safety supervisory training to other trades and undertake further HSE consultation workshops.
Aim to maintain RIDDOR incident rate level.
Awarded the maximum five-star rating for customer Develop action plans to tackle issues raised by the customer Caring about our satisfaction by the HBF.
service review undertaken in 2013. customers Awarded Private Developer of the Year at the 2013 First Time Finalise our Sales Academy community engagement Buyer magazine Readers Awards.
and sustainability modules and update existing Sales Academy modules.
New website launched which includes customer service dedicated section.
Launch our sales development programme for sales managers.
Developed a new marketing brochure which includes details of Taylor Wimpeys approach to sustainability.
Strategy update to over 3,200 employees across Taylor Continue our trade apprenticeship scheme and strive to Our people Wimpey by senior management.
attract around 100 new apprentices on our new site management apprenticeship scheme by the end of 2015.
Continued with our broad trainee programmes including graduate and apprentice scheme and mentoring.
Recruit a greater number of graduates and management trainees.
Implemented new site management apprentice scheme and talent management programme.
Provide professionalism training on diversity to office and site employees across the UK.
68 of our site managers won NHBC Pride in the Job Awards with one of our site managers winning the Supreme title.
Start our Production Academy training and finalise our Technical Academy.
Undertake our two-yearly employee survey.
Invested 227.0 million in the communities we operate Continue to do much more than build homes, adding social, Optimising value via Section 106 and Section 75 planning obligations.
economic and environmental value to the wider communities in which we operate.
Maintain our support for charities in 2014.
Further information about our corporate responsibility Visit our website for more details about our approach to activities can be found within our dedicated Corporate land and planning, sustainability, design and developing Responsibility Report and on our website.
communities, as well as case studies of developments we have built in your area.
co. uk corporate  cr-reports www.
co. uk about-us Taylor Wimpey plc www.
co. uk 27 The Banks, Yorkshire Part of the new Waverley development, The Banks is a community focused scheme supported by local infrastructure like shops, schools, restaurants, leisure facilities, community centres and parks.
co. uk KPI for more information 28 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013
