26 At Ted Baker we believe in being open and honest in the way we involve working closely with these suppliers to improve their social and working practices.
do business and doing the right thing by all of our stakeholders: t We participate in the Metrics group, which is responsible for by operating in a responsible and sustainable manner.
We approach SUSTAINABILITY identifying the key hotspots within the industry to measure, as our social, environmental and ethical matters SEE with the well as working on a tool to measure our baseline carbon, water same focus and attention to detail that permeates the rest of the and waste footprints and what improvement actions are possible WE ARE COMMITTED AND THE business.
To ensure that we continue to meet our responsibilities to take in this area.
TO PROTECTING THE t We are also part of the Sustainable Clothing Action Plan, a in these important areas we formulated a three pronged plan, 3 Department for Environment, Food, and Rural Affairs sponsored ENVIRONMENT named Ted, in 2012. action plan, organised to improve the sustainability of clothing ENVIRONMENT AND across its lifecycle by bringing together industry, government and third parties to develop sector-wide targets, along with the tools PURCHASING THE BEST and guidance necessary to reach them.
t Animal welfare is an important issue to many consumers POSSIBLE PRODUCTS and we have always sourced from the highest quality suppliers.
Our How we work been reduced to net zero through purchasing carbon credits from Group Animal Welfare Policy was made public this year and can Voluntary Carbon Standard VCS validated projects.
FOR USE AND SALE Lindsay Page has been given specic responsibility for overseeing be found at www.
com about us our policies content.
t We are constantly reviewing the waste our business generates in the formulation of the Groups policies and procedures for managing aspx#ethical statement.
We have decided not to retail fragrance THROUGHOUT THE an effort to achieve our overall aim of sending no waste to landll.
risks arising from social, environmental and ethical matters.
In or skinwear in our Chinese stores to ensure we are able to hold addition, the Board has tasked four members of the Executive We participate in the Wastepack Compliance Scheme as part true to our principles of not testing on animals.
of the Producer Responsibility Obligations Packaging Waste Committee to oversee specic areas of our SEE agenda for the BUSINESS.
WE PLACE Regulations 1997 and continue to reduce unnecessary packaging.
These Executive Committee members participate because Community of the relevance of their departments to our ongoing commitment t We work with the National Industrial Symbiosis Programme GREAT IMPORTANCE In order to Practise our goals and achieve our targets we in these areas Brand Communication, Product Design, Production NISP to recycle as much waste as we can through their place great importance on the Teducation of our employees to and Special Projects Interior Design.
Our full time Green Guardian network of charities, such as Scrapstores.
ON THE TEDUCATION support the community in a number of ways.
Throughout the year manages these areas and the Groups cross-functional team which we have supported various charities and taken part in valuable and t Through relationships with charities Oxfam, Newlife and World is responsible for addressing SEE concerns of the Group the Teds Jewish Relief we have been able to ensure that our end of life exciting projects.
OF OUR EMPLOYEES Conscience Team.
garments are utilised in the best way, raising over 300,000 and t Our employees are our greatest asset and we have Teds diverting 18 tonnes of waste from landll.
Our Key Focus TO SUPPORT THE Conscience Team members in every department and store We believe in three very important strands of work: Ethical and Sustainable Sourcing worldwide encouraging colleagues to be more environmentally COMMUNITY AND aware.
During 2012 13 we trialled participation in Teds As part of our commitment to Product, we place great importance Protect: The Group is committed to protecting the Conscience with a number of our concessions and aim to roll this on ethical and sustainable sourcing within the Group.
We believe our environment within our properties and throughout our entire out during 2013 14.
products should be produced in factories that are committed to supply chain by reducing the use of resources and increasing providing a fair and safe environment for their workers.
Our trusted t Our Green Guardian gives twice yearly store team training efficiencies wherever possible.
partners within the supply chain are one of our most valuable assets.
sessions to ensure our sustainability issues are communicated Product: The Group is committed to purchasing the best across the business.
t All Ted Baker suppliers are governed by our Company Code possible products for use and sale within and throughout Ted t We released our first Teds Conscience Newsletter which has been of Conduct, which is based on the Social Accountability and associated businesses.
sent to all areas of the business to advise team members on our International Code, an internationally recognised benchmark for policies, plans, targets and partners.
Practise: This section of our strategy focuses on putting ethical excellence, and can be found at http: externalresources.
t Movember: We supported the Movember Initiative, asking in place a framework to achieve our goals and targets by tedbaker.
com legaldocs codes of conduct.
as many of our teams as possible to grow a moustache to raise educating and inspiring our teams.
t Through our partnership with MADE-BY, a non-profit multiawareness and funds for prostate and testicular cancer.
stakeholder initiative set up to improve sustainability within the Environmental Impacts t Oxfam: We continued to encourage our teams to use our inhouse fashion industry, we have been able to set long-term internal As part of our commitment to Protect, the Group has engaged in Oxfam Collects Collection Point.
This enables team members targets for the amount of sustainable bres we use in our a number of environmental projects during the course of the year: to donate any unwanted items to Oxfam during the course of collections.
Our Social Scorecard for 2011 was released during their usual working week.
the period and can be found at http: www.
org partnert We continue to participate in the Carbon Disclosure Project to brand 34 ted-baker scorecard.
This shows the improvement we t We also donated various garments to other charities and groups measure and disclose our greenhouse gas emissions and climate have made in sourcing from more sustainable factories and we during 2012 such as Dress for Success, an agency that assists change strategies.
We received a score of 66% and disclosed many worked to further improve this in our 2012 scorecard.
Our third women getting back into work, Centrepoint, which supports of our Scope 3 emissions for the first time.
Homeless young people, and Kids Co, a London based charity Scorecard will be released during the period.
t All of our business travel within Scopes 1 and 3 is CarbonNeutral.
that supports under privileged children.
t During the period we continued two long-term social This means that the unavoidable emissions generated by air, road improvement programmes with key suppliers as part of our t We keep two buckfast bee colonies on the roof of our London and rail journeys required to visit our stores and suppliers have partnership with MADE-BY and started a third.
These projects head office from which we had a hugely successful honey harvest during 2012.
DIRECTORS' REPORT: GOVERNANCE TED BAKER ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 13 27
