Overview Strategy Performance Governance review Financial statements Investor information Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 55 Report of the Corporate Social Responsibility Committee Membership of the CSR Committee The UK Code does not provide guidance for the membership of this Committee.
The Board believes that a diverse membership drawn from the Board and management is appropriate.
Executive Director Board Chairman Non-Board member of management Independent non-executive Director Michael Tobin with month of appointment to the Committee CSR Committee Chairman Michael Tobin Chairman Rob Coupland Managing Feb 2011 During 2013, we made good progress Director UK Feb 2011 Claudia Arney June 2013 against our established targets which James Tyler Chief Commercial officer measure the Groups ongoing alignment Maurizio Carli April 2012 April 2012 attendee since Feb 2011 to being a sustainable business.
Nancy Cruickshank June 2013 The in uence of the CSR Committee has continued to feed John Hughes Feb 2011 through into the way the business operates and reports on Sahar Elhabashi was also a member of the Committee until she corporate responsibility and sustainability.
As well as showing stepped down from the Board in March 2013. progress on commitments made last year, this report sets out clear performance measures for TelecityGroups most material Speci c objectives achieved in 2013 corporate responsibility issues.
These targets are linked to speci c achievement objectives for 2014 and five-year goals Continued to monitor existing CSR objectives and for 2016 set in 2011, offering a clear long-term vision of our performances against these: approach to corporate responsibility.
In addition, I will discuss Monitored newly identi ed CSR objectives in advance of in this report progress against new initiatives that the Group consideration for publication: inaugurated during 2012 and continued through 2013 and how Continued to identify additional areas for monitoring: we intend to report on their progress going forward.
Continued to review market and reporting: and Requirements as they pertain to the Groups CSR strategy and Sustainability Strategy future activities.
In 2011, we set targets that relate to the most material corporate Speci c objectives set for 2014 responsibility issues for the Group and the impacts and in uences our business has on stakeholders.
These were carbon ef ciency, Continue to monitor existing CSR objectives and performances customer satisfaction, employee engagement, certi cation of against these: robust management systems and business integrity.
For each of Continue to improve energy management best practices these areas a quanti able metric with a speci c performance across the Group to minimise carbon and GHG emissions: target was established for the near term, and a five-year goal was Continue to identify additional areas for monitoring: also set.
Maintain an ongoing review of market and reporting requirements as they pertain to the Groups CSR strategy and We have continued to monitor the performance of the business in future activities in order to inform the review of the five year each of these areas and I am pleased to report that in 2013 good CSR targets set in 2011: progress was made against all of these targets.
We will continue to Review Group Ethics and Conduct Policy and ensure this is report annually on progress against these longer-term targets.
adopted by all employees: and Through this process, stakeholders in the business will have a Maintain ongoing stakeholder engagement to ensure Group clear picture of what corporate responsibility means to us at CSR strategy and associated targets are aligned to long-term TelecityGroup and how it is an integral part of our sustainable market expectations and sustainable growth strategy.
Managing environmental impact The Group is ever vigilant of the need to take action when existing facilities, equipment or procedures require retro tting or upgrading to improve environmental ef ciency: just as in 2012 there has been signi cant continued investment in this respect over the past 12 months.
We have also initiated a comprehensive programme to ensure that our newly-acquired businesses are fully integrated and assimilated into the Groups The UK Code does not include provisions speci c to CSR Matters.
approach to energy management and ef ciency, sustainability, quality and ethics.
56 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Report of the Corporate Social Responsibility Committee continued CSR Committee calendar for 2013 January March May June July August September October November February April December Reviews of: Update on Ethics in the Group KPI Reporting, including reviews of: including: Committee report for inclusion in Performance against 2013 Targets Annual Report Anti bribery procedures for Greenhouse Gas emissions Committee objectives for 2013 employees reporting Discussion of Group Ethics Anti bribery protocol for suppliers Climate Change Agreements arrangements Ongoing ethics developments CCAs Progress on ISO standards Annual review of Committee Terms Targets proposed for 2014 of Reference Ethics Update Review and discussion of: Minutes of previous meetings Reports on implementation of actions agreed at previous meetings Progress against CSR objectives Managing and measuring energy use A Climate Change Agreement is a negotiated arrangement between government and energy intensive sectors that are TelecityGroups business growth has a direct impact on its energy subject to overseas competition.
The CCA provides a reduction in usage.
By virtue of the Groups scale and expertise, IT equipment some carbon taxes for participants in exchange for meeting tough housed in TelecityGroup data centres is more ef cient to run energy ef ciency targets.
These targets are sector-speci c so than if it were hosted in organisations smaller proprietary they can be focused exactly where they can deliver the most server rooms.
bene t. To date, CCAs have delivered greater energy savings The IT hardware that supports the digital economy typically among participating sectors than conventional policy measures resides in highly-connected data centres such as those operated would have achieved.
Data centres will now join over 50 other by TelecityGroup.
It is our view that the data centre industry has energy intensive sectors in the scheme, which has been running a vital role to play in creating a more environmentally-ef cient since around 2001. economy.
TelecityGroup is committed to minimising our The Climate Change Agreement recognises the data centre environmental impact, focusing on improving operational industry as a vital element in the UK digital economy.
and management processes developed through our Energy TelecityGroup, and our industry peers, welcomes the agreement Management Programme.
This is complemented by the ongoing and we thank techUK for three years of hard campaigning.
implementation and adherence to the best environmental The agreement will drive energy ef ciency through tough management practices contained in the EU Code of Conduct and measurable targets which are to be set speci cally for the for Data Centres.
data centre industry, unlike the existing Carbon tax.
The CCA encourages the right ef ciency behaviours and encourages the Energy ef ciency and emissions reporting adoption of technologies that increase energy ef ciency and TelecityGroup, along with most operators of data centres in reduces the environmental impact.
the UK, has sought to work with the UK Government to replace Once the Department of Energy and Climate Change DECC the Carbon Reduction Commitment CRC scheme with an nalises the criteria and targets of what they consider to be an alternative that encourages further energy ef ciency whilst not eligible data centre along with the carbon reduction targets to penalising companies that are helping to drive economic growth.
be achieved by 2020, we will review our position with a view to In the December 2013 Autumn Statement the Chancellor of entering in a CCA at the appropriate time.
the Exchequer con rmed that there will be a Climate Change Separately, we remain actively engaged in the Green Grid, Agreement CCA for data centres in the UK.
submitted data to the Carbon Disclosure Project in 2013 and participated in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index survey.
At each main meeting At speci c meetings Overview Strategy Performance Governance review Financial statements Investor information Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 57 Measuring and reporting energy ef ciency, carbon and It encourages individual data centres both to improve the greenhouse gases GHG ef ciency of systems and procedures and to seek out low carbon sources of energy.
Through 2013, we further improved our environmental management performance by introducing more energy Combined with internal reporting on PUE, monitoring CUE monitoring and targeting systems and installing more provides the Group with important information to compare sophisticated metering systems and energy analysis.
We continue the ef ciency of data centres and explore trade-offs in energy to monitor the Groups annualised power usage effectiveness ef ciency strategies under various use scenarios and different PUE which is also reported to the Board on a bi-monthly basis.
Due to the speci ed new GHG legislation While this important metric will remain an internal measure, we reporting requirements, from 2014 we will change the structure of are committed to reporting externally on the Groups carbon CUE from using the International Energy Agency IEA country usage effectiveness CUE measure which we introduced during kgCO kWh stats to the government approved country CO e 2 2 2011.
CUE captures a combined picture of the energy ef ciency numbers in the calculation of CUE.
of operations and the carbon intensity of the energy used.
CSR targets 2013 review 2011 2012 Target measure Why is it important actual actual Target for 2013 2013 result Target for 2014 Goal for 2016 1 Group CUE kg CO kWh Carbon 0.651 0.629 Improvement 0.641 Improvement Maintain 2 1 annualised for ef ciency is a of at least 3% 0.603 of at least 3% continuous TelecityGroup data key measure reduction reduction from improvement of 2 centre footprint of broader from 2011 2013 level at least 3% per 1 environmental level annum from 2011 performance level 0.651 Workforce engagement We want our 65% 76% Increase 81% Achieve and Achieve and measured as a % of people to feel participation maintain maintain employees participating a strong rate in participation participation in employee satisfaction commitment to employee rate of 80% rate of 80% survey the business survey by 5% or above or above from 2011 level Workforce satisfaction as Motivated 77% 79% Achieve 77% Achieve 80% Achieve a measured by proportion people perform improvement satisfaction satisfaction of employees agreeing better in satisfaction score or above score of 80% with the statement in the score by 5% or above annual employee survey I really enjoy working for TelecityGroup 3 4 5 Proportion of capital Business 62% 75% 70% of all new 84% Continue 90% of all new projects contractors integrity is key major capital trajectory major capital compliant with to successful projects towards 90% of projects anticorruption protocol and sustainable contractors all new major contractors by as measured by % of total growth by contracts capital projects contracts value capital spend covered by value to contractors by to have signed contractors working on have signed contracts value protocol 3 capital projects awarded protocol to sign protocol 6 during the year who have in each year signed the protocol Customer satisfaction Retained clients 96% 97% Maintain 95% Maintain Maintain measured as a % of are vital for the customer customer customer customers responding to continuing satisfaction satisfaction satisfaction customer surveys as either growth of the levels levels above levels above satis ed or very satis ed business above 90% 90% 90% 1 Since 2011 TelecityGroup has reported CUE performance in its CSR report.
Historically, CUE has been calculated using the International Energy Agencys most recently available CO conversion factors for grid electricity in each applicable country.
Under the 2013 Regulations, we are required to report on all greenhouse gas emissions 2 and not just CO. For this purpose we have used the Defra recommended conversion factors for each applicable country.
For comparison purposes and using the 2 previous methodology for calculating the CUE, based on CO emissions only, in 2013 we would have achieved a CUE of 0.603.
2 2 Future CUE results may be affected by: a acquisition of data centre assets which may operate at signi cantly lower ef ciency rates: or b changes in a national grid supplys carbon emission factor: or c acquisition of data centre assets in countries with poor grid emission factors.
3 Refers to value of new major capital projects awarded in the UK in 2011 major 200k value.
4 Refers to value of all new major capital projects awarded in 2012 across the Group.
5 Refers to value of all new major capital projects awarded in 2013 across the Group.
6 Excludes payment under a property lease, supply of electricity, payments for local and central government taxes, and employees remuneration.
58 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Report of the Corporate Social Responsibility Committee continued Implementing and maintaining Group-wide energy standards intensive industries or those facing GHG emissions regulation or legislation.
Our intention of rolling out the new ISO 50001 Through our Group-wide certi cation to ISO 14001, the standard across the Group is progressing well and we expect to international standard for environmental management systems, have the majority of the established estate certi ed by the end of we are able to effectively implement and manage best practice 2014.
The UK and France facilities together with Group head of ce energy management.
As we acquire businesses our Management have already been successful in achieving ISO 50001 certi cation.
team spend considerable time ensuring that these new facilities are put through the same rigorous standards and improvement Greenhouse gas emissions procedures.
This is to ensure a consistently high level of quality and systems management is available for our customers in every We have reported on all greenhouse gas emission sources for single one of our facilities.
which TelecityGroup is responsible and on which we are required to report under the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report A new energy management standard, ISO 50001 which was and Directors Reports Regulations 2013.
For this purpose we launched in 2011 and is a parallel standard complementing ISO have applied the financial control method.
The emissions have 14001 but with an increased focus on best practice in energy been reported with reference to ISO 14064-1 2006 Part 1 management is now being implemented across the Group.
Guidance and have been externally audited by independent Certi cation to ISO 50001 is particularly relevant for energy energy consultants.
CSR targets 2013 review continued Why is it Target measure important 2012 result Target for 2013 2013 result Target for 2014 Goal for 2016 Achievement Management Retained ISO Retain ISO 14001, Retained ISO 14001, Retain ISO 14001, Maintain and ongoing systems 14001, ISO ISO 27001, ISO 9001 ISO 27001, ISO 9001 ISO 27001, ISO 9001 integration of maintenance external 27001, ISO and OHSAS 18001 and OHSAS 18001 and OHSAS 18001 Group-wide of ISO certi cation 9001 and certi cation across all certi cation across certi cation across compliance OHSAS improves OHSAS 18001 existing sites.
and audit certi cation standards on certi cation same certi cations in Milan 3, Helsinki 2, 3, Achieve same systems all aspects of across all data centres acquired and 5 certi ed to certi cations in data to retain operational existing sites.
during 2012 where ISO 14001, ISO 27001, centres acquired ISO 14001, performance Achieved not certi ed.
Initiate ISO 9001 and during 2013 where ISO 27001, same certi cation process OHSAS 18001. not certi ed.
ISO 9001 certi cations of ISO 22301 formerly Certi cation process Continue and OHSAS in data centres BS 25999-2 across for ISO 22301 initiated certi cation process 18001 acquired Group to be in Group and France of ISO 22301 across certi cation during 2011 completed 2015. and audits planned in Group and achieve across all where not Initiate ISO 50001 2014.
UK successfully certi cation in sites.
certi cation across converted to ISO Group and France.
Achieve Achieved new entire estate to be 22301 from BS 25999.
Continue ISO 50001 ISO 22301 standard BS completed H1 2014 ISO 50001 certi cation across in all sites.
25999-2 in all certi cation in Group, Group and achieve Achieve UK facilities UK and France.
certi cation in ISO 50001 Ireland, Italy and Ireland, Italy and in all sites Netherlands audits Netherlands planned in 2014 Achievement Stakeholders Maintained Maintain listing in Maintained listing in Maintain listing in Maintain of external want to listing in FTSE4Good FTSE4Good FTSE4Good listing in CSR engage with FTSE4Good FTSE4Good issuecompanies Maintained Commence Initiated Continue Achieve and speci c that have Carbon Trust implementation implementation implementation of sustain certi cation credible Standard of Carbon Trust of Carbon Trust Carbon Trust Carbon Trust by external reporting reporting reporting Standard independent endorsement methodology for methodology for methodology for certi cation institutions as a TelecityGroup GHG TelecityGroup GHG TelecityGroup GHG across all and agencies responsible emissions across emissions across emissions across Group sites business entire estate entire estate entire estate Engaged with Continue to engage Continue to engage Continue to CDP with CDP with CDP engage with CDP Overview Strategy Performance Governance review Financial statements Investor information Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 59 TelecityGroups total greenhouse gas emissions and intensity Water and waste making progress ratio for the period 1 January 2013 31 December 2013 were Beyond these issues that are critical to the future success of the as follows: business, we recognise that there are other concerns that will Greenhouse gas emissions 212,618 tonnes C0 equivalent 2 be of importance in the near future.
For example, many new 1 2 Intensity Ratio CUE 0.641 kgCO e kWh technologies that drive energy ef ciency will also increase water 2 usage through evaporation associated with cooling.
1 Carbon Usage Effectiveness CUE, is a metric developed by The Green Grid and commonly used by data centres globally to assess carbon ef ciency.
Recognising the importance of water to the resilience of the 2 Since 2011 TelecityGroup has reported CUE performance in its CSR report.
Groups sites, an assessment of existing water measurement Historically, CUE has been calculated using the International Energy Agencys techniques and practices was undertaken, including a review most recently available CO conversion factors for grid electricity in each 2 applicable country.
Under the 2013 Regulations, we are required to report on of water metering capabilities.
For data centres where existing all greenhouse gas emissions and not just CO. For this purpose we have used 2 metering allows, through 2013 we initiated a programme to the Defra recommended conversion factors for each applicable country.
put in place consistent Group-wide measurement standards.
For comparison purposes and using the previous methodology for calculating the CUE, based on CO emissions only, in 2013 we would have achieved a CUE Group Metering Strategy now includes water metering for data 2 of 0.603. centres with signi cant water consumption through evaporative cooling.
For facilities where current metering is not suf cient, The intensity ratio, Carbon Usage Effectiveness CUE is we investigated the feasibility of bringing the metering up to calculated from TelecityGroups total reported greenhouse gas the required standard.
Internal reporting of Water Usage emissions divided by the total kWh of IT energy consumed by the Effectiveness WUE at data centres utilising evaporative Groups customers.
cooling will be implemented during 2014.
Scope 1 Although physical waste is a relatively small proportion of the TelecityGroups Scope 1 direct activity emissions are limited to Groups environmental impact, we are taking measures to ensure natural gas used by a few sites only, gas oil for emergency power we minimise waste and recycle as much unavoidable waste as back-up, and fugitive emissions from refrigerant.
The Groups certi cation to ISO 14001 sets stringent activities account for less than 1% of the Groups total greenhouse tracking measures for waste management.
Most of the gas emissions and as they are deemed non material they have jurisdictions in which TelecityGroup operates also impose legal not been included in our reported emissions as set out in the requirements in terms of dealing with industrial waste.
2013 we made good progress introducing formal internal Scope 2 measurement of waste into our internal KPIs to enable us to TelecityGroups UK carbon footprint has been independently monitor and ultimately reduce our overall wastage levels over audited and shows that electricity imported from the grid time.
All data centres now employ a standardised waste register accounts for approximately 99% of the Groups UK emissions.
to identify and manage the various waste streams.
In addition, Telecitys overseas operations have very similar emissions all operations employees have undertaken waste awareness pro les and these Scope 2 indirect activity emissions have training sessions.
been reported for all countries in which TelecityGroup operates.
The emissions have been calculated by applying the published Responsible procurement Defra conversion factors for the UK and other countries in which Procurement at TelecityGroup is made up largely of three TelecityGroup operates.
components: buildings, energy and equipment.
In all three Scope 3 areas we try to minimise the Groups environmental impact.
We do not report on Scope 3 other indirect activity emissions, For example, a number of data centres use energy from except for the greenhouse gas emissions associated with renewable sources.
This includes some of our data centres transmission and distribution of grid electricity used by the Group.
in Paris, Stockholm, Amsterdam, London and Helsinki.
Energy ef ciency is a key buying criterion for TelecityGroup as part of its overall assessment of the lifecycle running costs of equipment.
The Group is continually working with IT infrastructure manufacturers to help develop devices that consume less power Ongoing checks at our data centres without compromising operational ef ciency.
This process of engagement with suppliers is one important way in which we are trying to in uence industry-wide standards for environmental performance.
During 2013, the Group continued to engage with suppliers working on its capital projects with an anti-corruption initiative that was first introduced in 2011.
The anti-corruption protocol provides additional governance on the appointment of major contractors involved in new build projects.
The protocol is designed to apply to companies involved in signi cant contracts and also to signi cant equipment vendor relationships where major is fide ned as any contract value over 200,000.
We have also begun to apply the protocol to existing contractors and vendors.
Although the Group only engages with suppliers whom 60 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Report of the Corporate Social Responsibility Committee continued it believes conduct their business in a compliant and ethical Training is offered to employees at all levels of the business.
manner, it will continue to work to increase the number engaged In 2013, the Company continued to offer training across all in the Groups speci c anti-bribery protocol.
In 2012 focus was disciplines, from administration to technical staff, as we rmly extended to cover all geographies in which the Group is engaged believe that by investing in our employees and ensuring they have in major capital investment projects.
This is an ongoing process the necessary skill sets, we can motivate and retain the highest as suppliers are typically required to update their own internal standards and continue excellence across the business.
procedures and sometimes their existing contractual Within our Succession Planning Programme for the Executive relationships with the Group in order to accord with the new Team, we have tailored speci c training programmes around protocol.
There is also a certain degree of challenge engaging complementing individuals knowledge and experience by working non-UK domiciled businesses adapting standard procedures to with key institutions around the world.
However, despite these challenges, in 2011 the Group established stretching targets for the roll out of this protocol over By educating employees, and broadening their knowledge and several years.
Successful progress was made in 2013 against these skills, we will continue to have a dedicated and experienced staff targets, with 84% of all major capital projects contracted during base who all contribute to the success of the Group.
the year being covered by this protocol.
Staff commitment is an important element of achieving customer satisfaction four out of five staff are in roles that are dedicated Group-wide ISO compliance and audit to direct customer service and customer engineering roles.
During TelecityGroup has continued to develop and strengthen its the year, our annual employee engagement survey was completed integrated management systems, enabling ISO and related with over 81% of employees taking part.
Results showed that over certi cations across the Group for security, quality and three quarters of respondents 77% agreed with the statement environmental management, together with occupational health that they really enjoy working for TelecityGroup.
The delivery of these systems is coordinated by an slightly behind the 2012 result 79%, and we remain fully engaged Operational Standards Team comprising subject matter experts towards reaching our long-term goal of achieving agreement in each area.
This team provides support to country managers from 80% of our employees by 2016 and beyond.
Feedback from to ensure they are fully conversant in what needs to be done to the survey is analysed and programmes subsequently developed maintain performance improvements.
to respond to or improve on areas that employees have highlighted as requiring attention.
The process of integrating new businesses into these management systems has been maintained in 2013.
Tenue and Working days lost due to sickness and other absences are Academica, the two businesses acquired in Helsinki in 2012, uniformly low across the Group with an average of less than half a were successfully integrated into the system during the year.
day lost to absence per employee during 2013.
We do not intend Detailed roadmaps are in place and work is underway for the to set public reporting targets around this data as these levels integration of SadeceHosting, 3DC and PLIX, the three businesses have remained at such low levels for several years.
acquired in 2013, into the Group management system.
Board and employee diversity In 2012 certi cation to BS25999-2, a standard for business continuity management, was achieved across all UK facilities.
Diversity within our Board is essential in maximising its BS 25999-2 has subsequently been superseded by ISO 22301 to effectiveness and within our business is essential in maximising enable easier international adoption and recognition and the UK its success.
The different perspectives that this diversity brings facilities achieved successful conversion to this new standard enriches debates, business planning and problem solving.
The standard provides a best practice framework Taking, for example, two aspects of diversity, we have recognised to minimise disruption and maximise recovery time during the bene ts of having female and non-UK representation on our unexpected events that could bring business to a standstill.
A review of these two aspects of diversity We remain on track to successfully achieve certi cation to in TelecityGroup is shown in the diagrams on page 37.
ISO 22301 in the rest of our facilities by the end of 2015.
These aspects are measured rstly with reference to our Certi cation to ISO 50001, a parallel standard complementing non-executive Directors, and secondly with reference to our ISO 14001 but with an increased focus on best practice in energy senior management including the executive Directors.
We have management, was successfully achieved within Group HO adopted this split because all appointments and promotions operations, UK and France facilities in 2013. within the senior management team, as with Group employees generally, are made strictly in accordance with the Groups equal Employees opportunities employment policies.
We also show the split with We understand the importance of developing a highly skilled, regard to gender in the Group as a whole.
This indicates that committed and motivated workforce, and recognise that this is TelecityGroups overall gender breakdown is similar to the a vital factor in our continuing success.
national gender split in the IT sector in the UK according to published statistics.
Overview Strategy Performance Governance review Financial statements Investor information Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 61 In relation to the future appointment of non-executive Directors, Community investment we expect to make appointments of each gender in equal Community investment and charitable partnerships continue numbers subject to the merits and diversity in general of the to play an important role within our business and we strive to available candidates.
This aim will be taken account of in support the local communities in which the business operates.
succession planning for these roles.
On this basis, as We believe the Group can have most impact by focusing on appointments are made, we expect the proportion of female initiatives that promote education and opportunities for non-executive Directors on our Board to increase over time disadvantaged children and young people.
towards 40% based on the current Board size and structure.
We welcome the external guidance during the past year that During the year, the business engaged with to a range of charities echoes these aims.
including the Make-A-Wish Foundation, Great Ormond Street Hospital and Action for Children.
In addition, the Group Health and safety continued its role as a patron of the Princes Trust Technology Leadership Group.
We rmly believe in the importance of providing a safe and healthy environment, and adequate welfare facilities, for all our Several members of the Board hold senior advisory positions in staff, contractors, visitors and anyone affected by our operations.
John Hughes is Ambassador for the Alzheimers We also take very seriously our responsibility to establish and Society.
I am a Board member of Byte Night, which raises money maintain safe working practices.
To this end we have implemented for Action for Children, the Technology Leadership Group and the an occupational health and safety management system designed Internet & Media Leadership Group of the Princes Trust and I sit around the international standard BS OHSAS 18001:2007. on the fundraising committee of Make A Wish Foundation UK.
This validates companies that show excellence in health and Finally, I am also Chairman of the Friends of The Loomba Trust, safety performance, and demonstrates the leadership to reduce a charity providing education and aid for children of poor widows risk and create an injury-free workplace.
The Groups Health and in India.
Full details of our charitable work can be found on the Safety Policy incorporates a comprehensive reporting system Group website at www.
to ensure that the Board is aware of every incident.
A uniform On behalf of the Corporate Social Responsibility Committee accident and incident data collection procedure is also implemented so that we can benchmark our operations as well as monitor our performance.
TelecityGroup is committed to: The prevention of injury and ill health: Michael Tobin OBE Compliance with health and safety regulations, laws and codes Chairman of the Corporate Social Responsibility Committee of practice relevant to each country where we operate: Consulting with staff regarding health and safety policies 11 February 2014 and procedures: Ensuring that all staff and contractors have appropriate competencies to undertake their work safely and without risk to health: and Catering for people with disabilities and expectant and or nursing mothers.
Customer satisfaction The customer is at the heart of everything TelecityGroup does in designing, building and operating data centres across Europe.
Our success is predicated on providing capacity to support our customers long-term business growth.
We are committed to achieving the highest levels of customer satisfaction and we closely monitor the Groups performance in this area.
The 2013 survey indicated that 95% of customers are either satis ed or very satis ed with the level of service that TelecityGroup provides.
The Group seeks to maintain this very high level of customer satisfaction and is committed to continuing to report on this measure in the future.
FTSE4Good is an index designed to objectively measure the performance of companies that meet globally recognised corporate responsibility standards.
TelecityGroups continued membership in the FTSE4Good index acknowledges the Groups commitment to responsible business practice.
