36 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Corporate social responsibility review Delivering against our targets In our 2013 Annual Report we have reported on greenhouse gas At TelecityGroup we endeavour to drive emission sources for which Telecity Group was responsible sustainable shareholder value, taking a in 2013 both in the UK and abroad in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Reports proactive approach to our social, ethical Regulations 2013.
Our report con rms that the Groups total and corporate responsibilities, while emissions in 2013 as externally audited by a third-party emissions specialist were 212,618 tonnes CO equivalent with an intensity 2 making a positive impact on society.
For more information on how we 2 manage our energy consumption and ef ciency, please see our CSR Committee report on page 55.
Our commitment to CSR As an international and expanding business we recognise that Training and development we have a role to play in managing and meeting some of the We recognise that the skills, knowledge and commitment of our challenges that we face as a society.
We are committed to workforce are vital factors in our continuing success.
As a result, driving our business, and expanding our capacity pipeline, in a we invest signi cantly in developing the skills and expertise of way that is responsible, ensures our own business sustainability our people.
We seek to challenge and develop all employees and therefore meets the expectations of our stakeholders.
to perform at their optimum level.
We encourage and support Our business strategy is centred on delivering high quality data ongoing learning: we to provide opportunities for individuals to centres that drive value for our customers.
We fully appreciate enhance and develop their careers, for example by creating that the growth of our customers operations and online activity exposure to new experiences, internal transfers and promotions: drives our own expansion plans.
Making sure that we meet their and we create environments where people feel valued and and our own high standards is fundamental to the way that we rewarded for their contribution.
For more information on our operate.
For more information on our business model and training and development policies, please see our CSR Committee strategy, please see pages 12 and 20 to 21. report on page 55.
Summary of our approach Diversity and human rights Throughout the year we engage with employees, customers and As an equal opportunities employer, diversity in all areas is a shareholders to assess our progress against their expectations.
Relevant policies and processes are Through this stakeholder engagement process, the following regularly reviewed to ensure we are meeting the high standard topics have been deemed to be the most material CSR issues which we set for ourselves in promoting a diverse workforce.
facing the Group in 2013: We continually investigate ways in which to attract diversity into the organisation with a focus on merit-based selection and Energy and carbon ef ciency promotion.
Recruitment processes now include competency based interviewing and a focus on testing of potential employees TelecityGroup has expansion plans to meet growing customer for technical ability and or panel presentations.
demand for premium highly-connected data centre capacity across Europe.
In terms of environmental impacts, a key challenge We believe in and practise equal opportunities in relation to is to maintain improvements in the energy ef ciency of existing all employees and in recruiting the right person for the job.
facilities and to ensure facilities obtained through acquisition are As part of this, we will continue to aim to increase diversity brought up to standard as quickly as possible.
In the past, when over the coming years.
companies designed data centres, the key concern was ensuring Diversity is an important constituent of decision making within the the resilience of service provision.
Whilst this remains a critical business and is reported on more fully on pages 60 and 61 of our success factor, in todays marketplace managing energy use and CSR Committee Report.
Please see below our diversity board and the environmental impact of facilities is also of great importance.
With regard to human rights, commentary has not been included as it is not considered to have speci c relevance to the industry in which TelecityGroup operates.
Overview Strategy Performance Governance review Financial statements Investor information Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 37 Board and employee diversity Non-Executive Directors Group and country managers All employees gender by job level by gender including Chairman by gender including Chairman including Chairman Non-Executive Non-Executive Female Female Male Female Director, Director, manager manager manager nonfemale male 4% 10% 90% manager 33% 67% 17% Male Male nonmanager manager 16% 63% Non-Executive Directors by Group and country managers by All employees by citizenship citizenship including Chairman citizenship including Chairman including Chairman Non-UK UK Non-UK UK Non-UK UK 17% 83% 50% 50% 55% 45% 38 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Governance review 40 Introduction 42 Our Board 44 Report of the Board 50 Report of the Audit Committee 55 Report of the Corporate Social Responsibility Committee 62 Report of the Nominations Committee 67 Report of the Remuneration Committee Powergate, London Overview Strategy Performance Governance review Financial statements Investor information Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 39
