Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 25 Our people Building an 1 Effective Organisation Background The announcement of our new profitable Growth Strategy, at the Capital Markets Day in March 2013, was a critical part of the Transformation.
Central to this is Building an Effective Organisation.
The Thomas Cook Executive Committee are fully engaged in driving this work, recognising the significant role it has to play in delivering sustainable, longer-term business success.
From the very beginning it was recognised within, removing unnecessary management that Building an Effective Organisation was layers and attracting a third from outside.
2 a critical element of the key decisions to be In the last year we have made significant made and critical to the Transformation investment and attracted world-class key streams of activity and work identied talent to strengthen our leadership across by the top 100 leaders who gathered at the Group.
The recruitment of high-calibre the first Thomas Cook Leadership Council diverse talent into the organisation has TCLC in September 2012.
Recognising the signicantly contributed to the raising of signicance and extent of the cultural shift standards and disciplines required to deliver required, the CEO set the tone for the the Transformation and our Strategy.
leadership team, of rigour and pace to put the These changes sometimes require difficult foundational building blocks, in place in order decisions.
At Thomas Cook we live by our to deliver the structural and cultural change values, ensuring that anyone impacted is for the Transformation.
treated fairly, and supported to take the next steps.
We have moved at great pace to create one We have moved at unied culture across the Group, now sharing During the year, we have focused on the a common brand and symbol in the Sunny following aspects of Building an Effective great pace to create Heart.
Our high-performance culture will Organisation: one unied culture become one where diverse talent is attracted, 3 Values, Ways of Working and employees are developed to maximise across the Group, Code of Conduct their potential and performance and where In September 2012, Thomas Cook developed now sharing a employees are encouraged to collaborate, to the Groups new Values and Ways of share and embed best practice.
The Thomas common brand Working.
These fully support our new Code Cook Values and Leadership Behaviours are of Conduct, providing a solid and unied central to our People Agenda and successful andsymbol in the framework across the Group to guide our execution of our Strategy and Transformation.
behaviours and how we conduct our work Our Code of Conduct was rolled out effectively to the highest of standards.
To ensure that during the year, guides behaviour and along this important work is fully embedded, over with our new brand brings our values to life.
90% of our employees across the Group have received comprehensive face-to-face training Key to an effective organisation is having in interactive sessions led by line managers, the right people in the right roles focused with plans in place to ensure the remainder on the right priorities.
Therefore, this are trained in the near term.
All new year there has been much emphasis on employees also undergo the training as part strengthening our leadership capability.
In the past year we have The optimum balance has been achieved seen an improvement in the overall culture in the top 130 leaders through keeping a of the organisation with more openness, third in current roles, promoting a third from Financial statements Directors report Strategic report 26 Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Transformation the first 365 days Our people continued sharing of best practice and collaborative collaborate and work across the Group as one working across the Group.
These behaviours drive how managers improved culture remains embedded across performance is measured.
the organisation we regularly monitor and Development and succession measure how employees embrace our As part of the Transformation there is Code of Conduct.
This includes follow-up renewed focus on development and interviews conducted amongst sample succession.
Developing and maintaining groups of employees and relevant questions strong leadership and succession within the included in the Group-wide employee organisation will be signicantly enhanced engagement survey and in performance with the introduction of our Performance reviews.
The feedback received by employees and Talent System.
Succession planning on the introduction of the Code of Conduct principles will be designed and agreed as part has been extremely positive throughout of our talent strategy work and, along with the organisation.
segment and functional talent reviews, will be Establishing rigour and governance introduced next year following our first online Input was taken from TheTCLC, which comprises our top 130 performance review process.
leaders, meets every quarter to share the top 130 leaders to Executive development and Emerging progress and best practices, providing identify and develop Talent Programme a platform to engage and inspire in our During the year, we launched the executive Transformation.
In addition, the CEO holds our leadership development programme for 53 of our frequent meetings with the senior leadership leaders.
The purpose of the programme is to behaviours, which are team and the Executive Committee, formed provide key leaders with a personal prole of in November 2013, along with monthly onea critical component strengths, targeted improvement areas and to-ones to ensure all leaders are fully aligned development options that will enhance job in key decisions and have the support they of our new highperformance.
During 2014, we will continue need to deliver.
Monthly Strategy Steering performance culture.
with this programme to ensure that we are Group meetings chaired by the CEO are a identifying the correct individuals as we build forum for key leaders to share progress, our succession pipelines.
review and challenge on key Transformation initiatives.
These meetings also provide To further support our succession plans we the opportunity for visibility of our talent are currently designing our first Thomas across the Group bringing to life our new Cook Group Emerging Talent Programme.
culture of sharing best practice, openness The programme will launch later this year and transparency.
with 20 candidates from our Airline and will provide accelerated development and growth Communicating and engaging with ouremployees for participants into key leadership roles.
In addition to the regular forums for our Thomas Cook High Potential Model: leadership teams we also have a range of An integral part of our Talent Strategy is communication channels to engage and to help leaders identify and develop our inform our employees.
Some examples of pipeline of talent.
We have designed with these are: CEO blogs, Transformation eNews input from key business leaders and with and cascade briengs and videos.
In addition reference to external research a bespoke to our digital communications, we have a model to help identify and develop our high regular programme of face-to-face interactive potentials across the Group.
It will be used local events in each segment.
In order to by all managers to support the identication streamline our employee communication, of talent.
wewill be launching HeartBeat, a new Groupwide intranet, from December 2013.
Leadership behaviours Input was taken from the top 130 leaders to identify and develop our leadership behaviours, which are a critical component of our new high-performance culture.
These behaviours will be embedded across the Group as we build a world-class talent system in order to maximise our talent, performance and development.
A key competency for leaders will be the ability to Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 27 Engagement survey We do not tolerate any form of discrimination In September 2013, for the very first time, and aim to reect the diversity of the every employee in the Group, across 41 communities in which we operate.
We are countries and in 15 languages, was given committed to treating people fairly and the opportunity to participate in Every ensuring that our employment practices are Voice the same uniform employee survey.
free from any form of unlawful discrimination 1 There was a positive response rate of 73% against any employee on the grounds of sex, across the Group.
We are engaging with gender reassignment, sexual orientation, all of our employees to share the results pregnancy, race, colour, nationality, ethnic and these will be used to identify actions or national origin, religion or belief and age at a Group, segment and functional level and disability.
to drive engagement for our continued Transformation.
A further Group-wide survey The Group CEO has also been asked to be part will take place in 2014, enabling us to track of the Outstanding in Business Judging Panel.
our progress, compared to the baseline of the 2013 survey.
The table below shows the gender split at different levels within the organisation, as at Pay for performance 30 September 2013.
At Thomas Cook 70% of At our Capital Markets Day in March 2013, our workforce is female which is common in we announced our strategic targets and many service industries.
However, as can be KPIs for our Transformation.
Since this seen only 20% of our managers are female.
announcement, we have reviewed our We have much more to do in encouraging Reward Policy across our entire senior and supporting more gender diversity leadership team.
The aim was to ensure that throughout Thomas Cook.
Our focus next 2 our pay rewards the delivery of our strategy, year on identifying and developing talent at and enables our key leaders and talented all levels in the organisation will enable us to individuals to share in the success that they improve on the current situation.
Led by the are creating with our Transformation.
CEO, our leaders all have diversity as a focus and we will be supporting them to understand Details of our Remuneration Policy can be found the importance of this work and improve with in our Remuneration Report on pages 70 to 87. a new training programme to be launched next year on recruitment and selection.
Organisational effectiveness As part of the Transformation we are % % reviewing our organisational efficiency Male Female Total Male Female and effectiveness to identify relevant, clear PLC Board 538 62% 38% principles and metrics.
We will focus initially Executive on reviewing the structure in our organisation Committee and CEO reports 8 5 13 62% 38% and drive organisational change in line with best practice metrics.
This will ensure the Senior Management Thomas Cook organisation is t for purpose TCLC and and sustainable into the future, working subsidiaries 205 51 256 80% 20% more effectively as a team, driving out cost TCLC 99 28 127 78% 22% 3 and ensuring that our leaders are closer to Subsidiaries 106 23 129 82% 18% our customers.
Whole company 7,827 17,938 25,765 30% 70% Diversity and inclusion We believe that We believe that diversity is an essential diversity is an part of how we do business and meet the needs of our equally diverse customer base.
essential part of We operate in 41 countries, employing people and working with customers and how we do business suppliers from a broad range of backgrounds and meet the and cultures.
needs of our Recent senior appointments have equally diverse strengthened diversity across a range of measures including skills, experience, gender customer base.
We are already making progress and have had very positive feedback from employees.
Financial statements Directors report Strategic report 28 Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Transformation the first 365 days Our people continued Creating and sustaining our Conclusion culture looking ahead Over the last year, we have established and continue to secure the foundations With the appointment of Sandra of a culture and structure that will be able Campopiano as Chief People Officer in to execute and deliver the Transformation September 2013, we will further develop effectively.
This means having the right the People Agenda and Strategy necessary people in the right roles focused on the right to deliver our Transformation and profitable priorities.
Getting the best people, doing Growth Strategy.
their best work, with the best tools requires a disciplined and structured approach.
Recognition Over the last year, we The cultural change we are bringing about Academic research proves a clear and positive allows us to strengthen our succession plans correlation between recognition, engagement have established and for critical roles and pipelines as we accelerate and performance of employees.
Therefore, our succession and talent work into 2014. continue to secure in order to further embed our new values and culture, we have launched a Group-wide the foundations of a Creating and embedding our new online recognition scheme called From the culture is critical to the success of our Heart, which enables peer-to-peer instant culture and structure Transformation.
We have identied and recognition allowing people to recognise that will be able to communicated new Values, Ways of colleagues who are living the values.
There are Working, Code of Conduct and leadership different levels of awards which employees execute and deliver behaviours driving clear objectives and receive as points, redeemable against a wide rigorous performance measurement, the Transformation range of local merchandisers in each country whilst also taking steps to harmonise our and online.
The system is easy to access effectively.
performance and development approach through computers, mobiles and tablets across the Group.
We have begun the reinforcing our transition to high tech, high work to build succession pipelines, create touch.
Initial feedback shows that employees a pay for performance culture and identify feel empowered and appreciate being able Group engagement actions which will to recognise their colleagues in a simple and drive engagement across Thomas Cook.
This work will build a culture which will not only execute the Transformation but deliver Performance management asustainable organisation.
Alignment of objectives and goals to our Strategy and Transformation will be key to our successful execution.
To deliver this it is crucial that all employees are clear about what is expected of them and how success will be measured both in terms of what they need to deliver and the behaviours they need to demonstrate.
All employees have clear objectives, which are formally reviewed twice yearly.
They also need the opportunity to discuss and agree their development needs.
We have introduced new principles to align our approach to performance across the Group for 2013 14.
This will support our succession work as we identify and develop pipelines of talent, to continue to support the Transformation.
During 2014, we will be introducing an online Performance and Talent System to track the performance and potential of all our employees.
Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 29 Innovative Ask & Thomas Cook 1 willanswer Ask & Answer is an interactive online tool, offering potential and existing customers holiday tips and advice from the Companys top travel experts.
Representatives of Thomas Cooks Product, Overseas and Customer Services teams are sharing their accumulated knowledge with customers through the Ask & Answer service available exclusively on www.
Designed to complement the detailed information pages, comprehensive FAQs and direct links to the customer services team available on the website, Ask & Answer features on each individual package accommodation page.
Customers choosing to research their holiday online can now tap into the travel expertise of Thomas Cook employees as if they were in a store without the 2 need to venture away from their sofas.
Since launching in April 2013, we have received approximately 6,000 questions and posted in excess of 5,500 answers.
We have seen an improvement in conversion, average booking value and time on the site as a result of implementing Ask & Answer.
3 Financial statements Directors report Strategic report
