Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 47 Performance: Sustainability Our Code of Conduct The launch of the new Thomas Cook Code of Conduct in 2013, whichcovers a number of key areas such as operating sustainably, communityengagement and child protection issues, has meant that over Sustainability 90% of our employees across the Group have received training on these topics and plans are in place to ensure the remainder are trained in the near term.
A constant training programme is in place to capture all new staff and refresh existing staff, tokeep their focus on the importance of 1 good behaviours in delivering asustainable future for our business.
is at our heart We launched our Group vision for a sustainable future in 2010 to: Ensure Delivering our Group vision for a sustainable future the longevity of our business through sustainable Transformation and We work hard to identify the key areas of focus, which will contribute profitable growth and to integrate sustainability into everything that we to this vision, and have consulted a number of stakeholder groups to do and into every element of the customer journey every product we review these areas.
We are also in constant contact with millions of our sell, every customers holiday experience and every employees role.
customers, employees, suppliers and many other groups, and continue Sustainability is fundamental to the success of our business.
Not only is it to use their input to ensure that we are focusing on the sustainability at the heart of how we behave, it is a principle that is deeply embedded topics that matter most to them.
at each stage of our customers experience with us.
From planning their As part of our Transformation process, we reviewed all stages of the holiday through to booking, arriving home and sharing their experience customer journey in 2013, and have mapped our sustainable impacts with friends, sustainability plays a key role in how we operate on a against these.
Our approach, areas of focus, key gures and supporting daily basis.
case studies are given on pages 48 and 49.
Sustainability and business strategy Managing sustainable development Our Transformation is geared around sustainable value creation.
For us The Board is responsible for the long-term success and sustainability this means having the best people, best products and best processes 2 ofthe Group, with the responsibility for overseeing the development in place to create a thriving business.
Our approach to sustainability is bymanagement and approval of our sustainability strategy being intrinsically linked to this objective.
For instance: delegated to the Health, Safety and Environmental Committee.
By working with suppliers to build trust, we are strengthening our relationships and creating a more sustainable marketplace.
Climate change performance By increasing efficiencies and minimising wasteful practices, we are Global greenhouse gas emissions data Tonnes of generating significant savings while safeguarding the environment.
for period 1 October 2012 to 30 September 2013 CO2 equivalent By engaging and energising our employees through talent Total emissions 4,165,701 development, we are bringing out the best in our people.
Airline fuel 4,125,328 And by supporting global communities we are increasing our social Gas 6,450 licence to operate across the world.
Diesel 2,290 Our strategy for profitable Growth, which was presented to investors and Petrol 611 other stakeholders in March of this year, has created the framework for Other fuels 153 our future success.
Implementation of our strategy will continue todrive Electricity, heat and steam 30,869 significant change and improvement across our Group as ourpeople work together to champion our Transformation.
Methodology We have reported on all the emission sources required under the Driving a sustainable Transformation Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Reports Regulations 2013.
These sources fall within our consolidated financial As well as driving our performance in the areas listed above, the 3 statement.
We do not have responsibility for any emission sources that Transformation has helped us to improve our performance across a are not included in our consolidated statement.
Excludes energy use in shared offices where rates are included in the The recruitment of high calibre talent into the organisation at executive rent and data is therefore unavailable.
This data is not considered to and other levels of management has contributed signicantly to the bematerial.
raising of standards and disciplines required to deliver our corporate Excludes Thomas Cook Russia as data was unavailable.
This has been coupled with a significant cultural shift in our considered to be material.
We have implemented a new set of corporate Values in We have used the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting 2013, as well as embedding a Code of Conduct by way of a thorough standard revised edition, data from EU Emission Trading System and training programme.
emission factors from the UK Governments GHG Conversion Factors The new strategy has also helped us to minimise many elements of risk.
These include the potential impacts of instability, water and energy shortages and potential human rights issues in destinations, as well as the financial impacts of carbon legislation and consumer directives.
Financial statements Directors report Strategic report 48 Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Transformation the first 365 days Performance: Sustainability continued Embedding sustainability across Dream and Plan Book our customer journey Before our customers even leave for their When it is time to book their holidays, our customers Our approach destinations, they want to have peace of mind that want to choose the package that is right for them.
We can their holiday experience will meet their expectations, make our customers aware at the time of booking about and will be delivered by a company they trust.
That sustainable holiday experiences and we promote local is why we offer a diverse range of bespoke holiday cultures.
By adopting innovative approaches such as high options to cater for their needs: we provide financial tech, high touch, we are doing all we can to deliver this.
protection, to build trust and provide confidence, allowing early booking with the assurance that Engaging our employees on sustainability is a critical part customer money will be safe: and we focus on of our work people who are passionate about the work implementing high standards of safety to ensure being done will encourage and initiate cost savings, as well asecure journey.
as being the best advocates for the business.
Looking after the health, welfare and well-being of those employees is a key priority and we have forums in all our markets to monitor and implement any necessary actions.
Maintaining an effective supply chain is also critical to our business success our customers holiday experiences are made by our suppliers, so we must work with them to develop and deliver the services and standards our customers expect.
Financial protection Engaging employees on sustainability What do we focus on?
Customer experience High tech and innovation including brochure Customer safety paper reduction Community Engagement Sustainable supply chain High touch Promoting local cultures In the UK, our Thomas Cook Childrens Charity has In the UK, we produced over 2 million fewer brochures Key gures raised more than 4 million since 2009, and this to save 1,101 tonnes of paper between 2011 and 2013. money is spent on Making Dreams Come True As part of our high tech, high touch approach, we are for sick and disadvantaged children by improving encouraging our customers to use high tech alternatives.
education facilities, improving facilities that provide Not only does this help to enhance their experience well-being and health care, and working with various with us, it also improves the quality and amount of charity partners to improve the lives of children.
Making dreams come true Communicating sustainability Case study Each Christmas in the past six years, Thomas Cook UK It is important to engage with our customers on key has offered children in the communities surrounding sustainability issues as early in the customer journey their airport bases the chance to experience a real ight process as possible.
At Thomas Cook Germany, we have children who, due to their personal circumstances, been focusing on the use of technology to achieve this.
have not been able to experience a ight before.
Flights A newly designed sustainability section was launched operate from a variety of airports and the children are across all websites in 2013, and a sustainable travel taken up into the air, where Father Christmas joins them guide app has been developed for customers to nd out to hand out presents.
Thomas Cook employees join more about their destination, as well as how to immerse these ights as volunteers and help to make Christmas themselves more in the local culture, whilst preserving dreams come true for all involved.
The new blog area has also been well used, with information being included about Teacher Joe Mulhern said it was one of the highlights sustainability projects in the places they intend to visit.
ofhis career Belfast Telegraph Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 49 Return Home Dream and Plan and Share Arrive Book and Experience Depart 1 Return Home Depart Arrive and Experience and Share On departure, our customers want an easy and stressAs our customers arrive at their holiday destinations, We want all of our customers to enjoy their trip and free journey.
Through our focus on first class customer we continue to embed sustainability throughout experience with Thomas Cook.
That is why we closely service, we are making sure that we deliver this our offer.
monitor their satisfaction through frequent customer consistently.
But there is also a lot we are doing behind feedback surveys.
the scenes to reduce our environmental impact and We strive to create thriving communities where improve efficiencies.
From reducing carbon emissions our employees live and work, as well as where our For us to continually develop our business and to across our eet to minimising our operational waste, customers travel.
It is an integral part of creating a ensure we focus our efforts on the issues which are we are working to build a better business.
By supporting destinations, we most important, we place significant emphasis on are ensuring a high quality service and by investing wider stakeholder engagement and communication.
Climate change and greenhouse gas emissions in communities we are helping to grow our business We ensure regular interaction with our key remain a global challenge for all and we recognise the andattract a talented workforce.
stakeholder audiences through various means, part our business plays in addressing this challenge.
including face-to-face meetings, communications We also recognise the risk that our business faces Similarly, child safety and protection is central to our and questionnaires.
The majority of our business and Thomas Cook Group is fully committed emissions come from our airlines and increasing fuel to the UN Convention on the Rights of theChild.
In-ight waste is also one of our main waste streams efficiency therefore continues to be one of our key We believe it is our responsibility to promoteand and our airlines have been leaders in tackling priorities we are proud to operate one of the most safeguard childrens welfare and our focus on this this issue, despite the operational and legislative efficient airlines in the world.
work and commitment to The Code an industrychallenges it brings.
Improving efficiencies extends driven international code of conduct has this towaste management and can bring a cost benefit year led to us being nominated for a Responsible aswell as customer engagement.
Climate change GHG emissions Health and safety Resource efficiency Customer satisfaction Fuel efficiency Quality assurance Water management In ight waste Energy efficiency security Child protection Engaging customers Stakeholder engagement Waste including in-ight waste Local economic on sustainability Customer service development Sustainable supply Child protection Promoting local chain cultures GHG Emissions Data and 70.9g CO2 per RPK and 243 Travelife awards, 88% of these Gold.
Feedback from our customers: 94% of customers in 0.45kg CO2 per 1 turnover.
See page 47 for 40 Local Label events in over 20 destinations Northern Europe expressed overall satisfaction with greenhouse gas emissions data for period 1 October aroundthe world.
their holidays: 83% of our customers in Germany 2012 to 30September 2013. would recommend Thomas Cook to a friend.
3 Optimum Flight Local Label excursions In ight waste Through a partnership with Manchester airport and In the summer of 2013, we introduced Local Label A new recycling initiative introduced this year at collaborative working between global air navigation excursions, to focus on the promotion of local Oslo airport by Thomas Cook Airlines Scandinavia service providers, Thomas Cook UK Airlines operated products and culture to our customers, while boosting has demonstrated the ability to engage customers, a test ight programme to achieve the Optimum local economies and environments.
The excursions reduce environmental cost and raise funds for local Flight.
The aims of this were to investigate increased typically enable our customers to experience life and communities.
Several years ago, the airline was the efficiencies in all areas of ight operations using a the communities away from the beaches, bars and first to separate collection of plastic bottles and variety of techniques and results were measured other features they normally see during their holiday.
aluminium cans from ights for recycling and now to calculate reductions achieved.
Fuel efficiency Examples include the 100% Mayan excursion in these are being sold to recycling centres.
Money remains a key focus of all our airlines and we continue Mexico, where customers get the chance to spend raised from this is then distributed directly to local to operate one of the most fuel efficient airlines in time with a real Mayan community in a village near charity, Save the Children Norway Redd Barna.
the Sian Ka-an biosphere reserve.
The money raised from these experiences is being used to help villagers improve their cultivation techniques.
More information regarding the Thomas Cook Group approach to sustainability can be found in our sustainability report at www.
com sustainability Financial statements Directors report Strategic report
