CORPORaTE RESPONSiBiliTY 42 STaTEMENT FOR ThE yEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2013 Travis Perkins understands that as a major uK plc it its message, its systems and procedures so theyre has a responsibility to conduct its business in a way better understood and easier to act on.
And it seems that recognises its obligations to all its stakeholders to be working.
as well as to society as a whole.
As such it actively In 2014, the Group will continue to embed this seeks to embed the principles of good corporate approach to safety at branch and store level, moving responsibility in its day-to-day activities throughout from compliance to proactive discretionary effort, the Group.
Branch and store managers will be the local safety leaders, changing the culture by health anD SaFetY demonstrating visible leadership and inculcating the The continued health and safety of all people who habits of regular safety conversations, safety nudges come into contact with Travis Perkins is given the and praise within branches and stores.
The Group will highest priority throughout the Group and is kept continue to seek external perspectives from experts permanently at the forefront of its activities.
The in this field, as it continues to strive for safety for all.
Groups aim is to eliminate all health and safety A report outlining the Groups health and safety related incidents so that nobody is injured when activities is set out on pages 46 to 48. they are involved in any activity influenced by the Group whether it is in its branches, at its customers envirOnmental premises or in the factories of suppliers of the As the uKs largest supplier of building materials products it sells.
Not only is this the morally correct Travis Perkins has a significant environmental stance to take, but it also brings significant benefits footprint which it takes great care to try and to the business.
It is a business built on relationships, and The Group has an established health and by sharing ideas and inspiring positive change, it safety committee chaired by Andrew Simon, a will make the biggest difference.
The teamwork non-executive board director that sets standards across the organisation, the dialogue with customers for health and safety throughout the Group and and the collaboration with key partners is proof regularly monitors progress made towards achieving of this, and presents opportunities to adopt more them.
however, it is the Groups philosophy that sustainable behaviours every day.
whilst standards should be set at the highest level all Profitability is no longer divorced from colleagues have a responsibility for ensuring there responsibility, and its much easier to empower is a safe working environment: they are expected to people to demonstrate their commitment to a adhere to the Groups Stay Safe philosophy.
sustainable agenda if they are also successful Stay Safe continues to be the philosophy which business ambassadors.
This combination creates a guides the Groups approach to safety.
In 2013, it win-win situation for both the business and for the established a clear statistical link between aspects environment.
Travis Perkins is committed, long-term, of its organisational culture and injury rates.
This has to profitability and sustainability within a wellhelped it identify where the focus is needed, and governed framework.
which new ways of working need to be introduced As explained in the environmental report on to effectively and significantly improve safety the group website at www.
It has also discovered that sharing best citizenship environment, which is summarised on practice quickly and positively has greater leverage in pages 50 to 51 of this report, targets have been set its businesses, and helps it deliver more sustainable and many initiatives have been underway for some safety improvements.
time to further lower the Groups carbon footprint Safety, ultimately, is about making it easier to keep by reducing its direct and indirect consumption of everyone in the business safe, and this was part energy, water and fuel.
of the rationale for placing responsibility for safety Focus is also put on reducing the Groups impact on closer to businesses.
This divisional alignment has the local environments in which it operates.
Pollution resulted in more effective leadership, which owns and nuisance prevention is a key part of the Groups and drives the safety message into the businesses, environmental agenda with the aim of avoiding any along with a greater sense of personal responsibility.
reportable incidents or complaints from those people Its also given the Group the opportunity to simplify that are affected by the Groups activities.
TRAVIS PERKINS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 43 CCF Sektor product, launched in 2013 and installed at the Groups Northampton head office STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORaTE RESPONSiBiliTY STaTEMENT The last strand of the Groups environmental efforts improvement industry.
Its reputation for providing 44 concerns the products it sells.
Customers of the excellent customer service with the highest integrity Group are becoming increasingly environmentally is the direct result of the collective effort of its aware so together with suppliers considerable effort is employees, all of whom are caretakers of that expended trying to maximise the quantity of product reputation.
how the business conducts itself and how obtained from sustainable sources.
it treats others, will continue to determine how the world views Travis Perkins.
cOmmunitY engagement The Group has established clearly defined principles The Groups businesses and employees are aimed at helping all its employees to uphold the encouraged to support community activities in highest ethical, legal and business standards across all the areas where they live, work and operate.
They the business activities it is involved in.
are passionate about the charitable work they Group colleagues are made aware of the undertake: the enthusiasm and commitment shown standards expected of them through the Groups by the Groups employees as they fundraise is Doing the Right Thing initiative which draws something that inspires us all.
Each of the Groups together under a single umbrella three separate, 17 businesses, along with its central functions, has but closely related policies on business principles, a strong and extremely valuable partnership with a diversity and encouraging equal treatment.
number of British charities, each of which is selected The Group has clear policies that set out the by employees.
Their reach touches many, including expectations that colleagues will not have any Parkinsons uK, Alzheimers Society, Mind, AgeuK and involvement with acts of bribery, will avoid conflicts the RNlI, amongst others.
of interest, will ensure they comply with all aspects of all applicable laws when performing their duties cOlleague engagement and will not become involved with any aspect of For the Travis Perkins Group, engagement is about insider dealing.
attracting, recruiting, developing and inspiring great In summarising the Groups commitment to people, so they can make a difference, share in the integrity, to acting honestly and ethically and to success of its businesses, and have some fun along complying with the law the initiative has provided a the way.
As such, it has created an inclusive working one stop guide for colleagues when considering how environment where everyone can contribute because they interact with customers, suppliers, shareholders everyone is listened to, valued and respected.
and the communities in which they operate.
In The Groups people strategy is a fundamental essence it sets out the Groups commitment to part of what drives it forward.
Every one of its Doing the Right Thing.
23,000 people is a direct contributor to whichever of the 17 businesses they work in, and as such, eQual OppOrtunitieS anD DiverSitY they are key to the Groups success.
The Group is committed to promoting equality of The family feel of the business has created a opportunity for all employees and job applicants.
strong inclusive culture over many years, and thats Decisions relating to any aspect of employment are something the Group strives to maintain by making based upon ability and potential rather than age, sex, sure that people throughout the organisation feel race, religion or belief, disability or sexual orientation, able to voice opinions and concerns and that their gender reassignment, civil partnership status, views are respected.
It is recognised throughout the pregnancy or maternity.
Group that people make all the difference.
The Group complies with national legal The Groups business goals and cultural values are requirements in respect of wages and working hours.
clearly defined and regularly shared with employees: It supports the International labour Organisations their feedback is regularly sought.
The Groups culture IlO standards regarding child labour and is reinforced in all aspects of its recruitment, training minimum age.
It is also committed to working only and development programmes, where behaviours, with suppliers who embrace standards of ethical practices and ways of working are clearly articulated, behaviour that are consistent with its own.
brought to life and can be seen in practice.
A workforce with a difference allows the Group Further details of the work undertaken by the to maximise the unique and individual qualities of Group to recruit, retain and develop colleagues and its people.
A diverse workforce is at the heart of a of their efforts to help the community are set out on strong business performance: it delivers increased pages 52 to 54. engagement, improves output and generates better financial returns.
ethical pOlicieS The Group employs 23,000 people in 17 The Travis Perkins Group is a leading supplier different businesses across both the retail and to Britains building construction and home merchanting sectors.
TRAVIS PERKINS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 Around 40% of the work force in the Groups retail 45 sector businesses is female: across the Group as a whole it is 22% reflecting the fact that women find the merchanting workplace less attractive than retail or other areas of the Groups business: although it is worth noting that over half of these women are in management positions.
The following table sets out more details of the mix of men and women employed by the Group at the year-end.
Men Women Total Number % Number % Number % Colleagues 13,280 75.9 4,225 24.1 17,505 100 Managers 4,803 85.6 811 14.4 5,614 100 18,083 78.2 5,036 21.8 23,119 100 The Group is hearing through its research that more men than women like, and are interested in bricks, blocks and timber.
This has come from women who have worked for it, or have considered working for it and chosen not to.
The Group will however continue to work hard to create a working environment which equally supports, develops and recognises the contribution both men and women make to its business.
At a senior leadership level 18% 2 out of 11 of the operating Executive and 13% of the Board 1 out of 8 are female.
John Carter Chief Executive Officer 25 February 2014 luton trade park incorporating branches of Travis Perkins, Benchmarx, City Plumbing and BSS, which opened in 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT
