52 ENgagiNg PEOPlE FOR ThE yEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2013 The Groups unique approach to its people has year.
Following the invitation for the new Sharesave been a key factor in its successful record of plan, more than 8,500 employees are now active growth.
The Travis Perkins Group is committed to Sharesave participants 2012: 7,500. empowering those who work in its businesses and During the year, the implementation of pension central functions, providing a collaborative, learning auto-enrolment to bring all eligible employees into environment in which they can develop, rewarding a retirement benefit arrangement was completed, them fairly and creatively, and supporting charitable with the hugely encouraging outcome that 19,000 activity that links its businesses to their communities.
employees are now pension plan members.
Opportunities to bring engaging and innovative BecOming an even Better place benefits to colleagues are continually being sought.
In tO wOrK 2013, the PERKS brand for employee benefits was Engaged employees are a vital part of any successful launched and in 2014, it is planned to launch a new company, and the Group recognises that its people online benefit offering under the myPERKS banner, are central to the fundamental objective that drives which will provide everyone with an increasing range its business serving its customers as best they can.
of benefits and greater flexibility to select benefits Travis Perkins works hard to attract and retain the which best suit their requirements.
best people, creating opportunities so everyone can make a difference as they work to contribute to the b. individual awards and recognitions success of each of the businesses and the Group.
In addition to its extremely popular Sharesave and That focus helps drive employee engagement, which pension schemes, the Group has a reward system in turn helps to make the Group an even better which recognises hard work and commitment place to work.
as colleagues all strive to deliver business goals: The Group regularly undertakes surveys to everyone is able to qualify for the all colleague bonus.
measure how employee engagement is changing.
Recognising those who go that extra mile is Colleagues are regarded as engaged if they respond also important.
Simon Kemp, a yard supervisor in positively to each of four questions they are asked: the Keyline business, received a hero award in the would they recommend the Group as a good summer of 2013, thanks to his constant drive for place to work to people outside the business?
improvement and innovation at our Milton Keynes would they recommend the Groups products and branch.
Credit Control Manager, Ann Green, has services to people outside work?
been recognised for long service and loyalty to the Are they proud to work for the business?
Group having delivered outstanding support to the Are they motivated to perform well in their job?
businesses from her Group central function role.
Colleague engagement is one of the Groups key Travis Perkins businesses can probably claim performance indicators: the three year engagement the highest long service total of any group in the trend is shown on page 6. uK, and the Group is enormously proud that many people make working in the Group their lifes work.
Recognising and rewarding our people Their contribution is recognised in many ways, but People who are happy and engaged in their work one that really generates traction is the long service do a better job, which ultimately makes it easier award system, which recognises long service at for them to delight customers with better, faster, key milestones and rewards with badges as well more responsive service.
The Group is full of as financial incentives.
The badges are something those who go the extra mile with the range of their people are proud to wear and strive to achieve.
achievements and successes being recognised in a The wickes business encourages employees to number of ways: submit ideas and suggestions via a Bright Sparks initiative, a mechanism which certainly generates a. industry-leading compensation and benefits interest and engagement.
It can also generate The Groups Sharesave scheme continues to be a 500 for the employee if their idea is introduced great success.
In 2013 around 1,750 employees into the business.
shared close to 20m of gains from three and five Getting it Right awards are also a feature of year schemes which matured at the end of the the Groups business life, and the scheme allows TRAVIS PERKINS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 employees to be recognised at a local level for which has identified a number of significant 53 making a difference to customers, their colleagues or improvement opportunities.
This has led to new the performance of the business.
line managers are approaches being developed in the following areas: encouraged to present colleagues with a 50 high Product knowledge, sales and service skills, so Street voucher: examples range from exceptional colleagues can provide even better customer customer service to contributing to remerchandising service a branch after a refit.
Apprenticeships, group management trainee schemes and graduate programmes, so the early c. External recognition careers of the young entrants brought into the In 2013, the Group hR team, led by Group hR business can be accelerated Director, Carol Kavanagh, reached the final of the qualifications in leadership development, to help hR Team of the year award at the Personnel managers get the best from their people Today awards.
This leading industry award is Fast track development programmes to highly regarded, and the Group was delighted that strengthen the Groups talent pipeline as it grows.
judges recognised the Impressive, cost-effective People are able to move between brands sharing deployment of hR business partners and reduction best practice and great ideas in hR costs as a percentage of sales that the Tailored safety development to keep colleagues Groups sustainable hR model has delivered, a and customers safe model which has contributed to an improvement, A new in-house search company that helps line year-on-year, in the Groups employee engagement managers make excellent recruitment decisions score.
This hR business partner model also better supports the Groups divisions and its businesses, by identifying best practices, cost-efficiencies, and improvements in the areas of talent management, reward and communication.. the law OF attractiOn anD retentiOn The success of the Group and the shape of its businesses are shaped by the people who work in them.
Indeed, its driven by them, and its a privilege that the Group is able to attract the most talented, committed, hard-working people in the building materials sector.
The Groups diverse culture is something its enormously proud of, and its that diversity of backgrounds, of skills, of expertise and experience that can be drawn on, developed, moulded and encouraged at every level of the Group.
New ways of engaging people Management trainee course in progress The changing face of recruitment has probably been a surprise to some, but for Travis Perkins it has represented an opportunity and a challenge an incluSive culture it has been quick to embrace.
It has made a Internal communications activity regularly shares significant investment in linkedIn and is actively group-wide, divisional and business specific encouraging employees to develop their networks information with employees, using numerous print, through this platform which, in turn, gives the digital and face-to-face channels and mechanisms.
Groups resourcing function better access to key The Group has recently gone google and so now talent at no or low cost.
colleagues have a number of google plus social media channels to draw upon.
Developing people and careers is widely used and is currently being redesigned to The Group constantly checks and benchmarks make it even better.
itself to ensure it is better positioned to stay ahead of its competitors, as each tries to attract and retain charitieS anD cOmmunitieS the best people in the market.
During the year a a cOllective reSpOnSiBilitY review has been undertaken of the effectiveness During the year colleagues across the Group have of the structure of the resourcing and succession, engaged in a wide variety of community and leadership and training and development functions, charitable activities.
here are just a few examples: STRATEGIC REPORT ENgagiNg PEOPlE a.
Engaging with communities raised over 5,000, and is one of many across 54 Travis Perkins supported the next generation the Group who have either trekked across the of builders by donating materials to live Train, highlands, jumped out of planes, broken out of a london-based training scheme which equips jail, climbed mountains, tackled challenge events, unemployed people with the skills and experience entered our TPs Got Talent competition or simply to start a sustainable career in the construction baked cakes industry.
It has also donated part of its branch The Olympic legacy left by Great Britains cycling in vauxhall, london, to house a new live Train team has inspired many employees to fundraise training centre through pedal power this year.
In August, 14 wickes continued its support of the vIy volunteer Travis Perkins branch colleagues completed the It yourself project, which combines volunteering famous 300 mile london to Paris cycle ride, and DIy by challenging young people aged raising a staggering 22,000, while colleagues 14-17 to learn trade and building skills on the from Tile Giant conquered the 103 mile trek job by committing to repair local youth club and along hadrians wall to raise 8,300, and eight community centre buildings.
people from our Group Property & Environment In September, colleagues from wickes Tottenham team completed the 55 mile london to Brighton store joined 40 tradespeople and 270 young bike ride raising 4,500 people in a vIy Challenge weekend in September Internally, employees can support additional to renovate four community spaces across london.
charitable activity through payroll-giving and a The store contributed materials and store manager Colleague lottery, and the popularity of these Raj Patel supported the Selby Trust Community schemes remains undiminished.
Thanks to Centre in Tottenham with his leadership skills, wonderful activities like these, the Group is pleased helping to coordinate participating tradespeople in to have donated more than 1.9m 2012: 2.1m mentoring young people on the job through Group activities, including 142,212 2012: 165,716 directly from the Group, to b. Charity partnerships worthwhile causes in the fields of cancer research, Those who work for City Plumbing Supplies support for children and young people, and the have stepped up their fundraising activities in hospice movement, to name a few.
2013 in support of their new partner Teenage Cancer Trust.
Scott hurcombe, manager at City John Carter Plumbing Gloucester described running the Chief Executive Officer london Marathon this year as the greatest and 25 February 2014 most rewarding achievement of my life.
Scott TRAVIS PERKINS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 55 janie Bungey, sales assistant, Keyline, Northampton STRATEGIC REPORT
