Strategic Report People and culture UBM strives to attract, develop and retain the most talented people at all levels and to foster a learning culture.
We believe this gives us a competitive advantage and results in a more engaged and effective workforce.
UBMs unique culture therefore makes a key contribution to the creation of long-term shareholder value.
UBMs culture our Commitments At UBM we achieve sustainable commercial success through thoughtful Our Commitments underpin how we work, how we behave and market focus and superior results for customers.
Our continuing evolution is how we communicate externally.
The commitments are the key to fuelled by insight, innovation, collaboration and investment in people, and by establishing a singular cultural identity for all employees.
our commitment to having a positive environmental and socialimpact.
We put customers at We work collaboratively We serve our communities the heart of what we do We bring passion and We are bold We do the right thing expertise We are planning a programme to embed the Commitments into working life across the organisation in 2014.
Diversity In 2013 we also introduced a Diversity Learning programme on We are a global organisation with employees and stakeholders from Vectors.
While knowledge, skills, abilities, experiences, and hard work diverse backgrounds and cultures supporting our business interests are certainly some of the key factors for career success, within each worldwide.
Allowing diversity to flourish fosters innovation and helps workplace, there may be subtle forces or hidden biases Vectors that us meet our customers changing needs.
In 2013, we employed 5,012 have nothing to do with skill or ability, but which can help or hinder 2012: 6,666 people, in 22 2012: 32 countries.
Sometimes these subtle forces have to do with how different or similar the employee is to the people with influence and We have a number of initiatives to help our talented female employees power in the department or organisation.
In 2013, UBM trained and achieve their career aspirations and are consciously working to developed our leadership in this area through live training, to positive increase the number of women in senior leadership roles.
Subsequently, UBM delivered the training programme in an e-learning format made available to managers around the globe.
In this The table below provides a breakdown of the gender of the Directors course, employees learn about the impact that Vectors have on the and employees at 31 December 2013. engagement, productivity, and performance of individuals and teams in workplaces around the world.
The training also covered how UBM % % can manage Vectors positively and effectively, improving business Male Female Total Male Female results and enhancing diversity.
268 employees attended the live or UBM plc Board 7 2 9 78% 22% online course.
1 Senior management 71 47 118 60% 40% 2 Policies and practices All employees 2,162 2,752 4,915 44% 56% We have a range of practices to help our employees achieve their full potential.
They include equal opportunity policies and programmes that 1 We have defined senior management as divisional CEOs and their direct reports, ensure individuals are selected and promoted exclusively based on the to accurately reflect those individuals we believe have responsibility for planning, merit of their skills and abilities.
directing and controlling strategically significant parts of the Company.
2 Includes those employees listed above as Board members or senior management.
We have detailed employment policies across our business, covering recruitment, training, flexible working, paid leave including maternity, In 2013, the percentage of women in wider management roles paternity, adoption, career and sabbatical leave, diversity, data was47% 2012: 45%.
We are serious about taking care of our employees and offer benefits including: Through our Womens Forums, including the Ambassador Programme, gym health club membership fee reimbursement, Cycle2Work and female employees are able to share experiences, build networks, secure parking for bikes, wellness clinics, private medical cover, health and learn from external educators.
The Ambassador Programme is a checks, free eye tests and discounted prescriptions.
Womens Executive Development Programme created and delivered in 2013 by UBM in partnership with everywoman www.
We recognise the specific needs of individuals and, in particular, com.
The purpose of the programme was to create dynamic female ensure that appropriate adjustments are made to enable us to leaders and role models who are aware of, and responsible for, employ disabled people.
Should employees become disabled during their effectiveness both within UBM and in our wider communities.
employment we make every effort, through appropriate training or Designed specifically for women in leadership roles at UBM, this other adjustments, to accommodate their disability and enable them programme delivered tools and techniques focused on developing tocontinue their career with us.
charismatic and confident female Ambassadors at UBM.
In 2013 the multi-day programme was held in London, San Francisco and New York and attended by 120 2012: 75 female managers.
20 UBM plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Human rights Given the nature of our business and our global reach, we believe that the principal human rights issues affecting our business relate to non-discrimination, fair employment practices and the right to privacy.
6 Case Study We support the principles of the United Nations Declaration on Human Rights and the International Labour Organisations Declaration on Strategy in action: Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work and have adopted a formal Demonstrating the policy on Human Rights.
benefits of UBMs Talent management We have robust succession planning, talent review and talent Leadership development processes.
In 2013, we held a global Business Leaders Development Programme BLP Alumni event where 63 of our most senior leaders focused on the theme of Navigating our Future.
We also held the second Programme LDP annual American Leadership Development Programme A-LDP, the third annual Chinese Leadership Development Programme C-LDP, and the Sally Shankland eighth annual European Leadership Development Programme E-LDP.
Group Director of People and Culture and CEO of Looking at the programmes in more detail: UBM Connect E-LDP C-LDP As a central pillar of our employment proposition we conduct regular employee research Pulse.
Our 2013 survey focused 24 people attended in 2012, 26 22 people attended in 2012, on the impact of our development programmes, across the in2013, three promotions from 26 in 2013, 8 promotions since dimensions listed in the table below.
The table shows that 201213 class.
inaugural C-LDP the LDP participants scored higher in each of the dimensions measured.
A-LDP 25 people attended in 2012, and LDP Dimension Measured participants All UBM 25 in 2013.
Engagement comprising Many of our divisions participate in an International Exchange pride, satisfaction, advocacy and Programme where an employee can elect to spend several weeks living commitment 71% 65% and working in another business unit or culture to broaden their skills, share their knowledge with a local team and foster greater collaboration.
Culture & Organisation including trust in leadership, Communication recognition, organisational There are many internal communication initiatives throughout the alignment and improvement 71% 62% year where we listen and connect, including regular communications Career Development provision from Group and divisional CEOs via the Hub.
In 2013, Chairman Dame Helen Alexander visited many of our global offices and met of skills training, growth with employees, while divisional CEOs hosted 51 town hall meetings opportunities and investment in with employees across the globe.
The Hub, our social business development by management 76% 58% network, is widely used by approximately 70% of the business Sustainability organisational for regular communication and collaboration across business units commitment to corporate andgeographies.
responsibility, participation in community and volunteering activities, and environmental responsibility 84% 70% UBM plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 21
