40 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Developing Ultras people The success Ultra achieves in innovating to meet customer needs, is based on the broad range of skills and capabilities of the Groups employees.
Ultra recognises this and is committed to having an efficient organisation, with engaged and competent people.
Culture Ultra defines its culture as the values, role models, processes, procedures and behaviours of its employees which drive the Groups success.
Many individuals join the Ultra team each year, through organic growth, natural staff turnover and acquisitions.
Ultra is committed to ensuring that its culture is not diluted as the Group grows.
The Groups culture, values and behaviours are shaped by the strategic tenets, described on pages 12 and 13, with the fifth tenet calling for an efficient organisation with engaged and competent people.
To achieve this, Ultra has identied four cultural behaviours of its people which are highly valued and encouraged.
These are leadership, entrepreneurship, audacity and paranoia.
Together, they are known within the Group as LEAP.
Further information on LEAP can be found on page 10.
Continuing to ensure that Ultra has positively engaged people, is a key factor in driving forward the performance of the Group What people mean to Ultra Growth through engagement The success Ultra achieves in innovating to An additional complementary set of meet customer needs, is based on the behaviours, called LAUNCH, was broad range of skills and capabilities of its introduced.
These behaviours are designed employees.
All managers in Ultra work specically to support improved customer towards the aim of delivering an efficient relationship building.
organisation, with engaged and committed LAUNCH is a way for Ultras businesses to people to meet the Groups business generate more opportunities and commitments.
It is vital to the continuing ultimately, to deliver increased growth growth and success of Ultra that the quality through enhanced customer engagement.
of the leadership teams is constantly Further information on LAUNCH can be improved.
Many companies state that their found on page 7. people are the companys most important asset.
Ultra varies this slightly: the Groups Continuing to ensure that Ultra has positively Ultra is committed to right people are its most important asset.
engaged people, is a key factor in driving the ensuring that its culture performance of the Group forward and Ultra is not diluted as the businesses provide a diverse range of opportunities for their employees to become Group grows involved with the local community.
See page 39 in the community.
97% 71% 97% 75% 95% 80% 95% 81% 96% 86% Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 41 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Ultras strategic framework Retention of Succession planning and retention Businesses must also make sure that the high-performers To ensure that Ultra has the right people in talent pool is deep enough to cope with the right place in the organisation, each of these internal appointments.
Therefore, as 100 Ultras businesses prepares an annual well as the people listed as successors, each organisation, succession and development business also identies people with high 80 plan.
In this, individuals are assessed potential.
The combined list represents 60 against their performance in their current Ultras high-yer talent pool and is used role and their potential to perform a larger regularly to nd the right people to ll 40 role in the short or longer term.
This internal vacancies, via the Groups online 20 assessment is recorded in Ultras Talent & Talent & Succession system.
In a typical Succession system and gives a performance year, Ultra recruits over 600 new 0 versus potential rating for each employee.
Over and above this, Year 09 10 11 12 13 It recognises that any role within Ultra may acquisitions bring new people into the become more challenging as the business Ultra team.
Ultra businesses attend a large grows and so, the business needs to number of graduate and undergraduate Internal appointments at Executive Team, ensure a supply of suitable talent is fairs, utilising current graduates as the divisional and MD President level % available when required.
Equal attention is Groups ambassadors.
Attendance has 100 given to enhancing the performance and seen applications for graduate schemes retention of those individuals throughout increase and this in turn, helps to ensure 80 the organisation, who meet and exceed that there is a future supply of engineers standard performance levels and to for the Group.
60 addressing the challenges of the people 40 who fall into the partially meet or does not meet categories for performance.
This 20 does not always mean that those individuals must leave Ultra: it often means 0 that they need to be placed in a role, more Year 09 10 11 12 13 suited to their talents and in which they can start to perform to the expected standards of the business.
Ultra has achieved high retention rates of those individuals on the business senior management teams, who are continually meeting or exceeding expectations in Ultra has a number of terms of their performance, or who are programmes which help high-potential and still developing in their the Group to attract the new role.
By developing and retaining the identied high potential individuals, the best people, as well as Group is creating its next generation of encouraging students business leaders, who will be able to take to develop careers in up the challenge of continuing the growth engineering or business and expansion of Ultra.
The succession planning element of the process aims to ensure that there are suitable successors for all the management team roles across each business and for other senior level roles.
Ultra has, as a result, been able to appoint a high proportion of its leaders at Board, divisional and business levels, through internal promotion.
Introduction 42 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Developing Ultras people continued Training and development mental activities, critical to the development Ultra actively supports and invests of leadership and proved extremely valuable in training and development, linked to to both the employees and the business.
Each business is Ultras businesses have developed corporate responsible for identifying the training Schemes case study partnerships with engineering institutions, needs of its employees and managing its A four-strong student team, with the including the Institution of Engineering own training budget.
This typically takes and Technology, in order to support and support of Ultras staff, was set the task place through individual employee of making and testing a dynamic encourage employees to pursue professional performance and development reviews, recognition in the form of CEng, IEng, or pneumatic hinge.
The students were which are held at least annually.
Ultra has challenged to design a joint which EngTech status for both their current and its Learning Academy, an online portal, previous work and academic achievements.
could be dynamic at -40C and achieve available to all of the Groups businesses, 250,000 cycles, extending and Opportunity to participate in national which enables the scheduling of training, schemes, such as the Engineering contracting through an angular motion hosts online courses and retains the of 90 degrees, while containing dry air Education Scheme run by the Engineering training records of Ultras employees.
Development Trust and competitions at a pressure of 350bar.
Specic training programmes are provided promoting STEM careers, gives students The students completed a design for for individuals as necessary.
In 2013, over access to real-life current work challenges the joint, which included looking at 25 different in-house training courses were and enables Ultra employees to develop electrical and hydraulic connections run in the UK and in North America.
Many their management and leadership skills.
They then used of these are courses tailored to the specic Computer Aided Design tools to model Securing the talent pipeline requirements of Ultra and the trainers have its components and to create Ultra has been committed to developing an intimate knowledge of how the Group animation of the joint moving people ever since it was formed in 1993 operates across all its businesses.
The design was then and has a number of programmes which training events include programmes on partially prototyped, through use of 3D help the Group to attract the best people, leadership and management, along with printing.
With the support of Ultras as well as encouraging students to develop workshops on Ultras successful competitive recent graduate engineers, a bespoke careers in engineering or business.
Examples strategy, strategic selling, programme rig was developed and built, allowing of how Ultra businesses do this are: management and systems engineering.
The the students to complete the testing Ultra businesses have formed special Groups employees in Oman partnered with of the design ahead of issuing their relationships with schools in their Oman Sail, to take part in a three-day final report.
surrounding communities, hosting leadership and development course.
company visits, helping with school Although based around sailing, the course science fairs and providing work focused on the strategic, physical and experience opportunities.
Success stories have seen school work experience students return to Ultra for paid vacation work, be sponsored through their university degree, complete their undergraduate placement year and then begin work as a graduate for the Group Ultra has sponsored students through their last years at school.
This provides students with support and mentoring during their studies and has led to students electing to undertake STEM The Groups employees degree courses in Oman partnered with Many Ultra businesses have well Oman Sail, to take part in a established and successful three-day leadership and apprenticeship programmes, which have gone on to provide the Group development course with engineering leaders STEM Science, Technology, Engineering & Maths Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 43 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Ultras strategic framework Ultra businesses also provide opportunities for students to work on real projects through work placements, co-operative programmes and paid internship schemes Ultra has excellent links with universities around the world.
It allows the Group access to leading research and to develop relationships with students who may ultimately join Ultra.
The Group sees benefit in working with universities to collaborate on innovation and to recruit Ultra has worked with Ultra has worked with students who can make a difference SEPnet to provide summer local schools, helping to Ultra has worked with SEPnet to provide work placements to encourage and support summer work placements to students to students to help advance girls in pursuing careers help advance and sustain physics as a strategically important subject for the and sustain physics as a in engineering UK economy strategically important Ultra businesses worldwide have a variety subject for the UK economy of links with their local business forums and chamber of commerce members in their local areas, helping to encourage STEM activities.
In Indiana USA, this has included supporting the IPFW Society of Women Engineers and hosting local high school teachers to help inuence career choices and retain talent within the region Ultras businesses are members of Engineering UK, Cyber Challenge UK and other bodies which research and develop new ways to attract people into engineering careers, as well as helping to forecast future trends in the sector Many Ultra businesses have well-established, successful apprenticeship programmes, which have gone on to provide the Group with engineering leaders for its future STEM Science, Technology, Engineering & Maths 6.
