44 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Sustainability Ultra believes that a successful and sustainable business is built on more than just financial results.
Ultra has a long, consistent track record of development and growth and has built a reputation for meeting its commitments.
This reputation is based on Ultras businesses meeting their obligations and on the manner in which they do so.
Ultra is committed to maintaining high Ultra uses rigorous recruiting practices to standards of business ethics.
The Groups ensure the best candidate is selected, based corporate responsibility initiatives are on objective requirements and assessments.
focused in the following key areas: Ultra monitors gender and age diversity.
Human rights Ethical business conduct Ultra is committed to ethical business Diversity and inclusion conduct.
In this regard, the Group: Ethical business conduct complies with legal and ethical standards Health and safety in all countries in which it operates Environment provides guidance and training to Human rights employees Ultra acknowledges the UN Guiding has the benefit of an independent Ethics Principles on Business and Human Rights Overview Committee which offers advice and adheres to all relevant government and guidance guidelines, designed to ensure that its Meeting legal and ethical standards products are not incorporated into weapons Ultra requires all employees, businesses and or other equipment used for the purposes of third parties, who act on Ultras behalf, to terrorism, internal repression or the abuse of comply fully with the Groups standards of human rights.
Ultras Board requires that the business ethics and with the applicable laws Group should, at all times, be a responsible and regulations of the countries in which it corporate citizen and, as such, the Group does business.
complies with all applicable legislation in the countries in which it operates.
Ultra is committed to operating in accordance with all legislative requirements, Diversity and inclusion including those pertaining to anti-bribery and Ultra is committed to maintaining a work corruption practices, relevant national export environment which provides equal control regulations and competition and opportunities for all employees, regardless anti-trust laws.
of nationality, gender, ethnic background, sexual orientation, religious beliefs, marital Ultra has a corporate ethics policy, which status, disability or age.
The Group encompasses a gifts and hospitality policy.
complies with all applicable employment All the Ultras businesses are required to rights and legislation in the countries in report on compliance with the corporate which it operates.
Diversity Board of Directors Diversity Senior management Diversity All of Ultra Electronics Female 14% Female 13% Female 28% Male 86% Male 87% Male 72% 0.77% 0.45 1.06% 0.56 1.14% 0.34 1.30% 0.55 1.24% Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 45 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 In addition, the Board reviews compliance Health and safety Ultras continuous safety improvement with the corporate ethics policy twice a year.
Ultras commitment to the safety and activities are focused on ensuring that the well-being of the Groups employees and Groups facilities, infrastructure, processes, Providing guidance and training visitors is a key priority.
A healthy, products and services are as safe as to employees committed workforce, working in a safe reasonably practical for Ultras employees, The Group has continued to strengthen environment, is necessary to achieve visitors, customers and users.
its policies, processes and training to superior business results.
Across the ensure employees have the clear guidance Group, the businesses manage a wide they need in identifying and managing range of safety risks.
These range from ethical matters.
ofce employees, manufacturing A Group-wide independent, condential employees and employees providing weband telephone-based hotline services at customer sites, including anonymously enables all employees to military bases and platforms.
report concerns about possible The safety of the products and services improprieties and other compliance issues.
provided to users and customers is also of Reports made to the hotline are compiled key importance to Ultra.
The individual by the independent operator and operating businesses ensure that the forwarded to the Chairman of the Audit appropriate legal and ethical levels of safety Committee or for US businesses, are met across a products life cycle, with forwarded to the Directors of the Special particular emphasis on the manufacturing, Security Arrangement Board or Proxy in-service and disposal phases.
Board as appropriate for action.
Any The Chief Executive is the Board member employee found to be in breach of the with overall health and safety responsibility.
ethics policy is subject to appropriate All Ultra operating businesses are required Figure 1 Reportable recordable disciplinary action.
to have a written health and safety policy.
accidents per employee % Independent Ethics Overview Committee Each Managing Director or President is 1.5 An independent Ethics Overview responsible for the management of health Committee provides independent guidance, and safety within their business and for 1.2 advice to, and scrutiny of Ultras businesses.
providing adequate resource to meet the The Committee provides assurance that 0.9 requirements of the health and safety Ultras business is being conducted in line policy.
Compliance is assessed through 0.6 with the Groups policies, processes and in independent external audits which take accordance with relevant legislation.
0.3 this through discussions with senior Each operating business is required to 0.0 managers, receiving reports and visits to submit a separate annual report on health Ultra businesses.
Year 09 10 11 12 13 and safety performance which, along with The Committee comprises six permanent the result of the audits, is reviewed by the members, three of whom, including the Figure 2 Lost time accidents Board.
The reportable recordable accident Chairman, are independent.
To maintain per 200,000 hours rate has been maintained over recent years the highest degree of impartiality, the and is shown in gure 1.
Lost time 0.60 independent members of the Committee accident data per 200,000 hours has been are self-selecting.
The appointment of the 0.50 recorded for the whole Group since 2010 Chairman is also exclusively within the and is shown in gure 2.
0.40 remit of the independent members.
The reportable recordable accident rate per 0.30 employee for 2013, fell from 1.06% to 0.77%.
Introduction 0.155 0.192 0.160 0.165 0.200 46 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Sustainability continued Environment Compliance with environmental Ultra recognises that it is important, both requirements is planned and managed by for its employees and the communities, each site and the processes for the storage, in which it operates, that effective handling and disposal of hazardous or measures are in place to minimise the pollutant materials are reviewed on a environmental impact of its activities, continuous basis.
Ultra has caused no as this will help to secure the long-term contamination of land in 2013, continuing future of the Group.
These measures the excellent track record of the previous include both the operational business four years.
environment and the products and In the UK, Ultra measures and reports on services which the Group provides.
its packaging waste annually and this is Products shown in the chart below.
Businesses are The processes and practices in the encouraged and incentivised to reduce the individual operating businesses ensure net amount of waste they produce.
that environmental considerations are Energy consumption is measured annually taken into account throughout a products and the data compared with previous life cycle, from concept through to years.
The Group is increasing its efforts to disposal.
The individual operating address energy conservation and emissions.
businesses work with their suppliers to Ultra in the UK, is registered with the reduce the impact of their products and to Environment Agency as part of the Carbon maximise the use of  Commitment programme.
Ultra ensures the Groups compliance emissions grew from full co-operation of all employees to 6,511 tonnes 2011 12 to 8,912 tonnes minimise environmental impact and 2012 13 of CO, an increase of 37%.
maximise the conservation of materials.
2 Analysis shows that this rise is due to the Operational increased number of operating sites The Chief Executive is the main Board following several recent acquisitions and a member with overall environmental colder winter when compared to 2011 12. responsibility.
The Managing Directors and Ultras position in the 2012 13 CRC Presidents of the operating businesses are Performance League Table PLT is available responsible for the implementation of the on the Environment Agencys website.
Where appropriate, individual businesses have ISO14001 accreditation.
Packaging Waste Ultra has a formal environmental policy t m sales in UK businesses which addresses compliance with 0.250 environmental legislation, conformity with standards for air, waste disposal and noise, 0.200 the economical use of materials and the 0.150 establishment of appropriate environmental performance standards.
0.100 Progress is monitored through annual reporting and a bi-annual external audit 0.050 process, the most recent of which took 0.000 place in 2013.
Year 09 10 11 12 13 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 47 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Greenhouse gas emissions Additional environmental initiatives Ultra is committed to the systematic In 2013, in addition to tracking its carbon reduction of greenhouse gas emissions emissions, Ultra partnered with the Carbon and to becoming a good steward for the Trust to conduct a holistic Energy Review of environment.
In compliance with the 2013 Ultras Command & Control Systems CCS Greenhouse Gas Emissions Regulations, business, headquartered in Loudwater, UK.
Ultra has collected and consolidated The CCS survey captured the facilitys gridinformation on carbon dioxide CO imported electricity, natural gas and specic 2 emissions from across its portfolio of 28 annual energy performance.
The study businesses: 2013 will serve as a baseline identied savings opportunities of year, from which progress against approximately 50,000 per annum, which reduction targets will be tracked.
could be realised with 175,000 of upfront investment in energy-saving technologies.
Methodology In 2014, the Carbon Trust survey will be In 2013, each business reported on the conducted at several other Ultra businesses.
These metrics were aggregated to produce the gures reported below to which standard DEFRA conversion factors were applied.
Ultras Greenhouse gas emissions tonnes of CO tCO 2 2 Total tCO emitted by all Ultra businesses 19,097 2 Total tCO from Ultras business activities scope 1 6,285 2 Total tCO purchased by Ultra scope 2 12,812 2 Ultras annual emissions in relation to Ultras business activities shown as tCO per m of revenue 25.63 2 Total tonnes of CO emitted 2 by all Ultra businesses Ultra is committed to the systematic reduction of greenhouse gas emissions Total tCO scope 1 33% 2 Total tCO scope 2 67% 2 6.
