K S I R S S E L, E T S A W S S E L S U S T A I N A & B L C E O L I L N A N B O O V R A A T T I I O O The Unilever Sustainable Living Plan USLP is the plan that we are pursuing COST to achieve sustainable growth.
It provides LEVERAGE EFFICIENCY thedifferentiator in our business model, because sustainability is integral to how wedo business.
In anuncertain and volatile world, we cannot achieve our Compass Vision to double the size of the business PROFITABLE without also reducing our environmental VOLUME SUSTAINABLE GROWTH footprint and increasing our positive social LIVING impact.
We have incorporated reporting on the USLP here and aligned it with our virtuous circle of growth.
In place since 2010, the USLP is increasingly helping to drive profitable growth for our brands, INNOVATION to save costs and tofuel innovation.
MARKETING INVESTMENT PROGRESS TOWARDS TARGETS The USLP sets out three bold and ambitious goals by 2020 to: Help more than a billion people to improve their health and well-being.
Halve the environmental footprint UNILEVER of our products across the value chain.
Source 100% of our agricultural raw materials sustainably and enhance SUSTAINABLE the livelihoods of people across our value chain.
Underpinning these goals are seven LIVING PLAN commitments supported by targets spanning our social, environmental and economic performance across the value chain from the sourcing of raw materials all the way through to the use of our products in the home.
IMPROVING HEALTH AND WELL-BEING REDUCING ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT By 2020 we will help more than By 2020 our goal is to halve the environmental a billion people take action to footprint of the making and use of our improve their health and well-being.
products as we grow our business.
1 HEALTH AND 2 NUTRITION 3 GREENHOUSE 4 WATER HYGIENE GASES By 2020 we will help more We will continually work OUR MANUFACTURING OUR MANUFACTURING than a billion people to to improve the taste and By 2020 CO emissions from By 2020 water abstraction 2 improve their hygiene nutritional quality of all our energy from our factories by our global factory network habitsand we will bring products.
By 2020 we will will be at or below 2008 will be at or below 2008 safedrinking water to 500 double the proportion of levels despite significantly levels, despite significantly million people.
This will our portfolio that meets the higher volumes.
help reduce the incidence highest nutritional standards, oflife-threatening diseases based on globally recognised REDUCED BY 32% PER REDUCED BY 29% PER like diarrhoea.
This will TONNE OF PRODUCTION TONNE OF PRODUCTION help hundreds of millions SINCE 2008 SINCE 2008 ofpeople to achieve a AROUND 303 MILLION healthier diet.
PEOPLE REACHED BY OUR PRODUCTS LIFECYCLE OUR PRODUCTS IN USE END 2013 THROUGH Our commitment is to halve Our commitment is to halve OUR PROGRAMMES 31% OF OUR PORTFOLIO BY the greenhouse gas impact the water associated with ON HANDWASHING, VOLUME MET HIGHEST of our products across the the consumer use of our SAFE DRINKING WATER, NUTRITION STANDARDS lifecycle by 2020. products by 2020.
ORAL HEALTH AND IN 2013 SELF-ESTEEM OUR GREENHOUSE OUR WATER IMPACT HAS GAS IMPACT HAS INCREASED BY AROUND INCREASED BY AROUND 15% SINCE 2010 5% SINCE 2010 22 Strategic report Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2013 N N H T W O R G D E L Y T I L I B A N I A T S U S We are making good progress on the production.
Water abstraction is also down For more detail about the targets within our direct control.
Those 29% per tonne of production, despite the Unilever Sustainable Living Plan, outside our control are proving more growth in production.
Similarly, total waste individual targets and performance challenging, especially when it comes sent for disposal has reduced by 66% per in 2013, please go to: to helping consumers reduce energy tonne of production and we are on target for www.
com sustainable-living and water associated with washing and all our sites to achieve zero non-hazardous showering at home.
Just as important, waste to landfill by 2015. however, is the learning we have gained over three years of driving While we have made excellent progress the implementation of the USLP.
in our own manufacturing operations, the total environmental footprint of our IMPROVING HEALTH products including consumer use has AND WELL-BEING increased for greenhouse gas GHG By the end of 2013, we had helped emissions across the value chain 5% 303 million people improve their health since 2010 and domestic water 15%.
This is more than a While we are making improvements in our quarter of the way towards our ambitious underlying business, for example, laundry 2020 target.
Brands such as Lifebuoy and concentrates and compressed deodorants, Dove gained market share and along with other parts of our portfolio are evolving in Signal extended their reach and achieved ways which are increasing our footprint: our increases in sales.
Across Foods and Personal Care business has expanded in Refreshment, we assessed that 31% shower and hair products via the Alberto of the total portfolio met product-focused, Culver acquisition which accounts for three highest nutritional standards that are percentage points of the GHG increase and based on globally recognised dietary our laundry business has experienced high guidelines.
Our focus on improving levels of growth from bars in India which, products, coupled with partnerships and while very affordable for people on low branded campaigns, is contributing to incomes, are also associated with a more better diets for many millions of people.
We are continuing to look for ways to reduce the MANAGING ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT impact of these products.
The total footprint In 2013, big reductions in the energy used from packaging waste to landfill has for manufacturing mean that our own reduced -11% as a result of efficient pack CO emissions from energy are now 32% designs and the disposal of sauce brands 2 below 2008 levels measured per tonne of with large waste footprints.
For details and the basis of preparation see: ENHANCING LIVELIHOODS www.
By 2020 we will enhance the Measured 1 October 2012 to livelihoods of hundreds of thousands 30 September 2013.
The criteria underlying highest nutrition of people as we grow our business.
standards have been adapted in 2013 to be product-focused, rather than generic, and to align with our category-specific programmes: the criteria continue to be based on international dietary guidelines.
5 WASTE 6 SUSTAINABLE 7 BETTER The corresponding 2012 SOURCING LIVELIHOODS compliance to the revised approach was 31%.
The environmental results under OUR MANUFACTURING By 2020 we will source By 2020 we will engage with our Products are expressed on a per consumer use basis, using By 2020 total waste sent 100% of our agricultural at least 500,000 smallholder a lifecycle approach.
This means for disposal will be at or raw materials sustainably.
farmers and 75,000 smalla single use, portion or serving below 2008 levels despite scale distributors inour of a product.
Our Manufacturing progress is AROUND 48% measured per tonne of production.
SUSTAINABLY SOURCED In 2013 we adjusted our # REDUCED BY 66% PER BY END 2013 65,000 SHAKTI SMALLreportingperiod from 1 January 31December to 1 October TONNE OF PRODUCTION SCALE DISTRIBUTORS 30September.
The comparative SINCE 2008 BY END 2013 2008 period remains from 1January 31 December.
The current year reported figure OUR PRODUCTS has been measured from 1 July Our commitment is to halve 2012 30 June 2013 compared to the baseline of 1 January 2010 the waste associated with 31 December 2010. the disposal of our products # PwC assured: % palm oil and tea by 2020. sustainably sourced and % soy oil and soy beans covered by Round Table on Responsible Soy RTRS OUR WASTE IMPACT HAS certificates and direct sourcing from RTRS suppliers.
For details REDUCED BY AROUND and the basis of preparation see: 11% SINCE 2010 www.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic report 23 150 million.
Likewise our actions to reduce raw and packaging materials and disposed waste have avoided cumulative supply chain costs totalling 200 million since 2008.
The USLP is also helping to motivate employees to take action.
For example, our 15 million Small Actions Big Difference fund encourages staff to develop sustainable business ideas.
In 2013 we invested in 50 ofthe best projects suggested by them to reduce water abstraction by manufacturing sites around the world.
These yield an average payback time of less than two years and have helped us achieve our reductions By the end of 2013, 48% of our agricultural sustainably.
These efforts have led to in water abstracted.
raw materials were sourced sustainably.
substantial improvement in Knorrs This is helping to reduce risk in our supply brand equity in Germany, one of its key COLLABORATIVE PARTNERSHIPS chain and contributing to our goal of markets, compared to 2012.
During 2013 we developed a co-investment eliminating deforestation and associated partnership with the Childrens Investment GHG impacts that could result from the Our Home Care category in Latin America Fund Foundation CIFF to reduce the sourcing of our raw materials.
partnered with leading retailers such as mortality of children under five through Carrefour in a new initiative Sumate al implementing Lifebuoys handwashing ENHANCING LIVELIHOODS EcoLavado Join us at Ecowash to programme in Bihar, India.
The fiveWe are also improving the livelihoods of promote good laundry habits.
Brands year programme will reach 9 million hundreds of thousands of smallholder including Surf and Skip worked together in schoolchildren directly and have an impact farmers with whom we work and we Argentina, Uruguay and Chile to encourage on 50 million people through children have increased sales through our rural washing at lower temperatures, saving acting as change agents for their families.
distribution networks via our 65,000 Shakti energy through shorter wash cycles, and Lifebuoy provides co-investment, staff entrepreneurs in India.
During 2014 we will switching to concentrated detergents.
resource and expertise to run the direct broaden our commitments on Enhancing Carrefour stores that participated in contact programme, as well as investment Livelihoods to reflect the emphasis we Argentina have experienced sales growth in massmedia to raise awareness of the place on human rights in our own three times higher than others while importance of handwashing with soap.
operations and extended supply chain, consumers were encouraged to make CIFF is providing significant co-investment and to encompass more ambition lasting changes to their behaviour.
alongside staff resource and expertise to to build inclusive business models optimise programme effectiveness.
where a win-win approach can deliver SUSTAINABLE INNOVATION sustainable growth for all.
An example of how our commitments in the USLP help drive business growth was the FUTURE CHALLENGES introduction to more markets in Asia and Three years on from launching the USLP, DRIVING BUSINESS Africa of the new Lifebuoy Colour Changing we have more evidence that our ambition SUCCESS handwash.
This makes handwashing fun to make sustainable living commonplace Our focus on making sustainable for kids and reassures parents that their is helping to drive business growth.
living commonplace for our consumers children are protected from germs.
The We have also learnt a great deal from is helping to drive profitable growth.
colour of the foam changes from white to our progress and the challenges of In the three years since the USLP became green in ten seconds, the time it takes for implementing the USLP.
Looking forward, operational, we have found the benefits the Lifebuoy special formulation to deliver we are reviewing our strategy and areaccelerating.
By looking at product 99.9% germ protection.
The growth of this approach to focus even more attention development, sourcing and manufacturing premium offering has helped towards on those areas that matter most to the through a sustainability lens, opportunities Lifebuoys aim to change the handwashing business and where our contribution can for innovation open up.
By reducing waste behaviour of1billion people.
achieve the greatest transformational and material use, we create efficiencies impact on society.
andcut costs, which helps to improve our The launch in 2013 of compressed margins.
By collaborating with partners deodorant aerosol sprays by three brands One area is our work towards eliminating including not-for-profit organisations, we Sure, Dove and Vaseline in the UK was a deforestation with others in our industry gain valuable new market insights and further example of sustainable innovation.
through the Consumer Goods Forum.
extend channels to engage with consumers.
These new product sizes use half the Wehave led the process of building the propellant gas and an average of 25% Tropical Forest Alliance, a public-private SUSTAINABLE BRAND GROWTH less aluminium.
Supply and distribution partnership to combat deforestation Knorr, Unilevers largest brand, savings have led to 35% less road usage associated with sourcing commodities celebratedits 175th birthday in 2013 with too.
Consumers gain the convenience of such as palm oil.
Unilever is one of the the introduction of a Knorr Sustainability asmaller easy-to-carry pack size with largest buyers of palm oil in the world and Partnership on-pack logo to help theadded satisfaction of knowing the we have committed to securing 100% of consumers clearly identify products environmental impact is reduced.
As a our own supplies sustainably from featuring sustainably sourced ingredients.
result market share is up and conversion certified, traceable sources by 2020.
Our consumer research across 11 rates from conventional packs have countries found that three quarters exceeded our expectations.
We can also use our scale to make a of consumers would be more likely difference to basic hygiene.
In too many to purchase a product if they knew LESS WASTE countries around the world, billions of it was made from sustainably sourced Measures to promote efficiency in people still lack safe drinking water and ingredients.
Knorrhas made great manufacturing are achieving significant effective sanitation.
Thanks to our portfolio progress on its commitment to source cost benefits.
Between 2008 and 2013 we of brands such as Lifebuoy, Pureit and 100% of its agricultural ingredients avoided cumulative energy costs of over Domestos, Unilever is uniquely placed 24 Strategic report Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Unilever is an active founder member of Unilevers expertise and the on Sustainable Palm Oil in the Dutch Sustainable Growth Coalition strength of the Lifebuoy brand, 2004, in its development into DSGC.
This CEO-led partnership of eight coupled with our ambitions to a credible standard and multinational companies develops knowledge deliver health impact at scale, institution, and in driving the about the integration of sustainability within will help achieve three things: production and purchase of business.
Knowledge and insights are shared better policies around water, sustainable palm oil.
with the broader business and stakeholder sanitation and hygiene: a Richard Holland, Director, Market community, including policymakers.
stronger argument for their Transformation Initiative, WWF integration into the post-2015 Dutch Sustainable Growth Coalition development agenda: and ultimately an end to Unilevers willingness to open preventable deaths of children its supply chain to scrutiny by for the worst of all reasons Oxfam of its performance on ignorance.
PSI is proud to labour rights, and to allow partner with the Unilever Oxfam to publish our findings, Foundation and Lifebuoy to showed an unusual level of tohelp with solutions, working alongside help drive the Lifebuoy brands transparency.
It has made governments and NGOs.
For instance our social mission and Unilevers possible a constructive Domestos for UNICEF partnership has market growth.
dialogue on the necessary raised awareness of the global sanitation conditions for workers to crisis and the need for improved sanitation.
Karl Hofmann, President & CEO, PSI enjoy their rights which has encouraged Unilever and We are stepping up our own brand-led Unilevers commitment to wehope other companies to initiatives and will increasingly seek an traceable palm oil marks a integrate human and labour integrated approach to these needs.
very promising step on the rights more systematically in Lifebuoys target to help 1 billion people journey towards a mainstream their business and Unilever toimprove their hygiene behaviour by sustainable palm oil market.
handwashing with soap is very ambitious Unilevers role andactions so we are working with partners to find Mark Goldring, Chief Executive, have been instrumental so far: ways to drive down costs and scale up our Oxfam GB in establishing the Roundtable efforts.
We aim to achieve real improvements in the health and everyday lives of people who are our current and future consumers.
We will focus more specifically on the needs of women as they form the majority of our consumer base, are strongly represented in our agricultural supply chains and in some OVERVIEW OF RISKS countries in selling our brands in remote rural areas.
By working with NGO partners SUSTAINABILITY such as Oxfam, we have gained new The success of our business depends insights into the impacts that our extended on finding sustainable solutions to value chain can have onwomen who support long-term growth.
Increasingly we are looking for opportunities See Risks on page 34 where we can play a role in promoting the rights of women, building knowledge, enhancing their livelihoods and increasing economic inclusion.
In 2014 we will update the USLP to reflect our learning and new areas of focus.
LIFEBUOY THREE YEARS OF DOUBLE-DIGIT GROWTH Our health soap brand, Lifebuoy, has achieved three years of sequential double-digit growth to become the worlds number one anti-bacterial brand.
Expert studies have shown that washing hands at five critical moments during theday can dramatically cut the incidence of life-threatening diseases like diarrhoea.
Lifebuoy puts thissocial mission at the heart of its brand proposition.
In 2013, Lifebuoy ran hygiene behaviour change programmes in 14 countries.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic report 25
