r e d l r e o e d n l h v i o r h e o n e k m k e a a n t t t 28 AVEVA Group plc | annual report 2013 directors report Corporate responsibility As a global organisation, we strive to be socially responsible and to operate with the highest ethical standards.
We look to achieve these objectives through the cultivation of positive, longterm working relationships with our colleagues, partners and communities across all areas of our business.
our CSr FraMEWork For thE FuturE Last years annual report segmented our CSR activities into four distinct areas: External Stakeholders, Internal Stakeholders, the Environment and our Community.
Over the last year this format has provided a framework for how we have developed our corporate responsibility practices.
As we move into the next fiscal year it will CSR remain pivotal in how we engage with our colleagues and external stakeholders.
Reporting on each of the four areas, this section of the report emphasises our continued efforts to operate ethically and responsibly in all areas of the business and community.
ExtErnal StakEholdErS Following the csr review that took place over the last year, it was recommended that we increase the visibility of the maintaining our dedication to be honest and fair in our relationships practices supporting our activities in this field.
As a result, with our customers and suppliers is fundamental to how we build we have moved the csr web page on our external website trusted relationships and increase our reputation as an organisation and internal portal to a location of greater prominence and with high ethical practices.
updated our policies and procedures.
We have a clear corporate policy against accepting payment or bribes.
We are 100% committed to conducting our business IntErnal StakEholdErS with honesty and integrity.
We expect all staff, suppliers and We now have over 1,300 colleagues globally, an increase of nearly customers to share these high standards of ethical behaviour and foster a culture of openness and accountability.
300 people since last years reporting.
this number has increased through organic growth and by two corporate acquisitions.
despite our antipiracy and compliance team have made further steps to this significant growth, we continue to maintain our focus on our protect our software and our customers interest by continuing to internal stakeholders, our people.
seek out illegal use of aveva software, and enforcing compliance of our terms and conditions.
our processes to recruit, retain, educate and motivate staff are proving to be a continued success with high retention rates and dedicated to meeting our customers needs, we continue to development programme participation.
develop the skills within our training and Product support teams to provide a high level of customer service to our customers and in June 2012 aveva celebrated its 45th anniversary.
We attribute ensure they are using their AVEVA products to maximum benefit.
reaching this milestone to the talent and success of our people and celebrated this achievement with the entire aveva team throughout each of our 48 offices.
2013 14 CSr MISSIon StatEMEnt Communication the introduction of the aveva internal communications team Our mission for the coming financial year is to develop was announced in last years annual report and they have our CSR practices further by providing a global structure created a multiphase communication plan that has already to our activities.
This will include: delivered major improvements in the effectiveness of our communication programmes.
Engaging globally with colleagues on all z the biggest area for focus this year is the development of aspects of CSR our new intranet, named onespace.
the name was selected Introduce a global strategy and purpose through an internal competition inviting colleagues to submit their z proposals.
the onespace name represents all of our information to our CSR activity that colleagues will ever need in one place, in onespace.
Creating a central location for colleagues z onespace has allowed us to become much more interactive in to access information on CSR how we communicate with our colleagues, with capabilities that enable the communication team to share news items in a timelier Sharing local CSR practices globally z manner.
onespace has also provided an opportunity to become Continual Progression with our CSR practices much more social through functions such as an executive blog z and integration with our twitter and flickr accounts.
COM s l s c a o m n l r m a u e n t i n x t y e r e t n i directors report annual report 2013 | AVEVA Group plc 29 development CharItaBlE gIvIng at BytE nIght our four major development programmes continue to attract prospective and current employees: B the 2013 graduate recruitment campaign saw over 500 applicants apply.
B the Grads & stars development programme, which opened the graduate personal development scheme to existing colleagues had a record number of stars join this year.
B due to the success of avevas management development programme, some of the modules are now being offered as independent workshop development sessions.
B into its second year, the advanced leadership Programme is proving to be a success with the identification of future AVEVA leaders.
In October 2012, AVEVA entered into Byte Night, the Job level structure introduced in 2011 is now fully embedded an IT industry charity event raising money for Action into our internal processes and is enhancing our performance for Children.
management process by comparing individual and organisational training needs against career development opportunities.
With a target of 500 per person, the team of ten worked hard to raise money for this cause through activities such as a silent Benefits auction and a charity quiz.
aveva colleagues were highly supportive of this fundraising event, with people offering their We continue to be competitive with our benefits package and have time and skills for auction.
the team did fantastically a stringent process to review each individuals financial rewards and raised 7,107, 142% of the target.
in January 2013, we launched our global Recognition Programme, which supports our financial reward practices by encouraging a culture of both informal and formal recognition.
through this programme colleagues are encouraged the three key objectives for the aveva academic initiative are: to give feedback, thanks and congratulations on a job well done to anyone within that organisation that they choose.
B Work with universities to promote the use of aveva products during under and post graduate studies by providing both Wellness software and training support: our dedication to employee wellbeing was covered under the B Work with government agencies to reskill engineers for employment benefits section last year.
This year, however, we feel the steps in other disciplines by providing free training courses: and we have made in this field warrant a section to showcase our wellness B Work with engineering bodies to encourage graduates to pursue initiatives.
the introduction of wellness programmes has extended careers in engineering.
to more offices where we offer activities such as meditation, health checks and free fruit to all employees.
in may 2012 we invested this year we have also increased our involvement with young in the Global corporate challenge, a health and wellbeing initiative enterprise which is a business and enterprise educational charity.
which encourages colleagues to form teams and get active!
avevas involvement consists of colleagues volunteering to be AVEVA had 343 colleagues take part in the 16 week fitness challenge.
Business advisors or coaches to students studying for a range as an organisation we did fantastically well and were recognised of qualifications, providing insight into the commercial world as the top science and technology organisation across the globe, for these young people.
by collectively covering over 176,000 miles.
Charitable giving EnvIronMEnt We continue to sponsor a range of charities, with aveva donating over 50,000 in charitable contributions last year, including making With no manufacturing facilities, aveva is classed as a low impact considerable donations to the outward Bound trust and macmillan environmental organisation, with the majority of software cancer support.
delivered electronically to our customers.
our colleagues continue to inspire aveva with their individual As a global organisation operating in over 40 offices, we faced and team commitment to events such as the cambridge dragon the challenge of reducing our travel and impact on the environment.
Boat Festival and chariots of Fire supporting east anglia childrens We are tackling this by defining a travel target reduction goal each hospice as was as charitable activities around the world.
year and creating strategies to achieve this target.
our investment in video conferencing over the last year has also enabled us to make in october 2012, aveva entered into Byte night, an it industry a positive reduction in the amount of international and domestic charity event raising money for action for children.
For this event travel, and we intend to make further steps in this area by providing aveva had a team of 10 colleagues who slept out for the night, this technology to more of our offices.
and through an incredible range of fundraising activities raised over 7,000.
CoMMunIty this event, also encouraged the creation of our aveva Just Giving web page, and in 2013, we were recognised by justgiving.
com We are committed to the development of our global and local as one of the top midsized companies for fundraising.
communities, and continually extend our involvement in educational partnerships and charitable giving.
Education partnerships the aveva academic initiative is a strategic investment that provides benefits to AVEVA, Universities, and the broader engineering discipline.
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS
