CORPORATE STRATEGIC GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL REPORT REPORT STATEMENTS INFORMATION SUSTAINABILITY COMMITTEE Sustainability Committee Report This Report provides details of the role and responsibilities of the Sustainability Committee and the work it has undertaken during the year.
Vedantas business model is to maximise growth in a safe, sustainable and responsible way.
This is fundamental to our license to operate and is also an important source of competitive advantage.
The three pillars of Vedantas sustainability strategy are responsible stewardship, building strong relationships and adding and sharing value.
These core pillars are designed to support our long-term development as a world-class natural resources company and provide superior returns to our shareholders.
The sustainability strategy is supported by a strong sustainability framework which has been rolled out across our thrust and focus on sustainability strategy, we can advance both our business outcomes and those of the people, host communities and environments that surround us.
Membership and attendance The Sustainability Committee is comprised of the following members: Number of Naresh Chandra meetings Percentage attended attendance Chairman, Sustainability Committee Naresh Chandra, Chairman 4 4 100% M S Mehta 4 4 100% Jeyakumar Janakaraj 4 4 100% The Sustainability Committee met on four occasions during the year ended 31 March 2013.
The Chief Sustainability CEOs or their representatives attended the meetings.
Responsibilities of the Sustainability Committee The responsibilities of the Sustainability Committee are set out in its terms of reference, which are available on the Companys website at www.
com and from the Company Secretary.
The main responsibilities of the Sustainability Committee are: to recommend Group sustainability policies to the Board, clearly setting out the commitments of the Group to manage matters of Sustainable Development to advise the Board on sustainability issues to enable it to discharge its responsibilities, having regard to the law and the expected international standards of governance: to outline initiatives required to institutionalise a sustainability culture through the involvement of employees at all levels: and to review and report to the Board on the performance of the Group with respect to the implementation of 93 Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 vedantaresources.
com Sustainability Committee Report continued Sustainability Committee activities during the year The main areas of activity of the Sustainability Committee during the year are summarised below.
Area of responsibility Item Sustainability Framework Providing oversight of the progress made on the Health and Safety Reviewing Group programmes for accident reduction and the prevention of harm to employees and contractors.
Reviewing the Groups Clean Development Mechanism programmes.
Reviewing the Groups solid waste management programmes.
System development and performance reporting Reviewing the implementation of the Scott Wilson Report recommendations.
Reviewing and approving Vedantas Sustainable Development Report 201213.
Overseeing the Action Plan emerging from the Groups Sustainability Assurance Programme.
Community engagement Overseeing the Internal Risk Assessment on Child Labour and Human Rights.
Reviewing the Groups Community engagement programmes.
Details on each of the above initiatives can be found in the Companys Sustainability Report 2012-13 and on the Companys website at www.
Performance evaluation of the Sustainability Committee Annual performance evaluation is used to assess how the Sustainability Committee is performing and feedback any suggested improvements.
The performance of the Sustainability Committee was assessed during the year and Sustainability Committee Report This Sustainability Committee Report was reviewed and approved by the Board on 15 May 2013.
Naresh Chandra Chairman, Sustainability Committee 94 Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
