Vesuvius plc 44 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Sustainability We will operate all work and business activities in a manner which ensures appropriate care and protection of the environment Thermal optimisation, slag and reject reduction The Packaging Waste regulations require us Background are key factors in the processes for which to report the total volume of waste packaging Vesuvius remains committed to reducing its we supply solutions.
Vesuvius contributes to we handle each year and to pay a contribution environmental impact by reducing, reusing the reduction of its customers energy usage towards the collection and recycling costs of and recycling waste and improving energy and subsequent carbon dioxide CO this material by purchasing Packaging Waste efficiency wherever economically viable.
The 2 emissions through insulating materials, laminar Recovery Notes PRN.
Board recognises that good environmental flow management, facilitating extended management is aligned with the focus on cost Energy Conservation Plan manufacturing sequences and reduced optimisation and operational excellence.
The Vesuvius Energy Conservation Plan downtime.
A number of case studies, showing was launched in 2011 with the objective of The Group has 69 manufacturing sites, 18 the effect and importance of the Groups reducing our normalised energy consumption warehouses and 91 sales offices located in 34 products on customerss greenhouse gas by 10% over the following three years.
Whilst countries throughout the worlds major economic GHG and CO savings, are shown later in 2 we have made progress, we are still working regions.
As part of our business model we this section.
Managing our locate facilities close to our customers to allow Environmental Monitoring energy intensity is part of enhancing our cost us to operate in just-in-time supply chains.
This All our factory emissions are proactively competitiveness.
It also contributes to improving benefits the customer with short lead times from managed in accordance with local regulations.
the total environmental impact of our customers.
order to delivery and reduces the environmental Regular analysis of our operations enables us to It is part of our commitment to the communities impact of our logistics.
take appropriate actions to reduce our emissions in which we operate.
Vesuvius and its processes and operate more efficiently.
As you will see Greenhouse Gas Reporting Our manufacturing processes are not energy from its inclusion as a key performance indicator In reporting GHG emissions, we have used intensive total energy costs are less than 3% for the Group page 17, we consider our levels the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting of revenue, with only 1.9% of the total energy of energy use as a fundamental indicator in and Reporting Standard revised edition requirements across the Group consumed in the day-to-day performance of our business.
methodology to identify our greenhouse gas the UK and do not produce large quantities of Consequently, the Group monitors its energy inventory of Scope 1 direct and Scope 2 hazardous or other wastes and emissions.
consumption, worldwide CO emissions and 2 indirect CO. We report in CO equivalent 2 2 Our customers and their processes usage of water.
CO e. 2 As our products are used with molten metal at Regulatory Commitments extreme temperatures, our primary commitment The Group also meets all of its obligations in to our customers is the provision of reliable relation to the Carbon Reduction Commitment solutions to help protect their employees.
Energy Efficiency Scheme CRC and the However, under the Vesuvius and Foseco Producer Responsibility Packaging Waste brands, our business delivers a large range of regulations.
solutions that help our customers improve not The CRC is a mandatory scheme designed only the safety, but also the productivity of their to encourage large public and private sector operations, the quality of their products and the organisations to reduce their carbon dioxide environmental footprint of their processes.
The Group also has a Climate Change Agreement CCA in place through the British Ceramic Confederation.
This CCA commits us to achieving a specific level of energy consumption, which reduces the CCA levy payable if we are successful.
com 22904-04 26 March 2014 4:57 PM Proof 2 45 strategIc report Vesuvius products, which include refractories, A Responsible Purchaser global gHg emissions data for period 1 January 2013 to 31 december 2013 reduce the energy consumption of our customers Fuel selection is made carefully to account for kg of co e and, as their usage also increases the quality of current and future cost trends, availability and 2 current customers products and reduces waste, they are environmental impact.
reporting increasingly beneficial when energy costs rise.
Year Benefits are realised through: Vesuvius purchasing professionals work closely emissions from: 2013 with suppliers to ensure availability of raw Combustion of fuel Working closely with customers to materials and their sustainable supply.
& operation of facilities 398,250 improve processes through the supply of Electricity, heat, steam and technologically advanced consumables to Sourcing of new plant and equipment takes into cooling purchased reduce energy intensity and CO e Intensity account lifetime energy consumption in order 2 for own use 101,216 Ratio in our customers processes to deliver a lower energy intensity, lower CO e 2 Vesuvius chosen intensity intensity ratio and hence lower lifetime running Reductions in refractory usage per tonne of measurement: cost.
steel produced by customers, from higher Emissions reported above quality longer service life normalised to per tonne of product output 520 An increase in the level of good castings METHODOLOGY produced per tonne of metal melted through We have reported to the extent reasonably practicable on all improved mould design and the application the emission sources required under the Act which fall within of molten metal filtration and feeding our consolidated financial statements.
systems Scope 1 covers emissions from fuels used in Further downstream benefits of enabling our factories and offices.
Scope 2 relates to the lighter, thinner and stronger components indirect emissions resulting from the generation leading to lighter vehicles and less energy of electricity, heat, steam and hot water we consumption.
purchase to supply our offices and factories.
A Responsible Manufacturer We have used data gathered to fulfil our Vesuvius products are manufactured using requirements under the CRC Energy Efficiency energy intensive processes.
Energy management scheme and emission factors from UK and the CO e Intensity Ratioreduction are 2 Governments GHG Conversion Factors for actively recognised as an area of increasing Company Reporting 2014 in the calculation of importance.
Through our membership of the European a responsible Supplier Refractories Producers Federation, currently 1.8 tonnes of CO are emitted for every chaired by Franois Wanecq, Vesuvius 2 tonne of steel produced.
In 2010 the iron and Chief Executive, we work closely with other steel industry accounted for approximately manufacturers to reduce the industry carbon 6.7% of total world CO emissions.
Most recently, a European footprinting 2 approximately 10 kg of refractory material is exercise has been completed for refractories as required per tonne of steel produced.
part of the 2050 roadmap, with the ultimate ambition of an 80% reduction in the carbon footprint of the European ceramic industry.
Detailed analysis of energy usage and GHG emissions are undertaken to focus on significant processes, with a view to reducing the energy consumption and CO e Intensity Ratio.
com 22904-04 26 March 2014 4:57 PM Proof 2 Vesuvius plc 46 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Sustainability continued Energy Efficiency and our Customers Steel Flow Control Advanced Refractories Vesuvius specialised expertise in molten metal handling and casting provides assistance to customers both by reducing the energy To support a major Mexican customers In South Africa, Vesuvius is the leading intensity of their existing and new breakthrough need to reduce energy consumption supplier of calcined dolomite for use in processes, and through the manufacture of new and improve quality, Vesuvius designed, the local primary steel industry.
products that improve the energy efficiency of developed and implemented a The manufacturing process emits metal-using products in society.
This resulted significant quantities of CO and has 2 in not only all of the customers We launched our Energy Efficiency and CO been the focus of a detailed study 2 requirements being met but also the Impact project to foster the deployment of aimed at reducing the CO intensity 2 following additional benefits: energy efficiency and sustainable solutions ratio and the energy intensity.
engineered by our technology departments.
A || Reduced preheating and associated In 2014 the process will be upgraded CO Impact stamp, launched in 2011, highlights energy consumption 2 with an expected reduction in the the most energy efficient solutions in our || Reduced refractory consumption energy intensity of 5%, resulting in: portfolio of products and services.
|| An 8,173 tons per annum steel yield || A reduced combustion of coal of The following examples show a sample of the improvement 2,400 MT per annum.
significant potential reduction in CO : 2 || A reduction in annual CO emissions 2 || An equivalent reduction in of 15,500,000 kg emissions of 5,600,000 kg CO 2 per annum.
Vesuvius was able to apply its expertise in a European Steel customer to deliver improved mould flow, increased productivity and extended tundish lifetime, resulting in: || Reduced refractory consumption || Reduced preheat energy consumption || A 2,500 MT steel per annum yield improvement || This is equivalent to a reduction of 4,750,000 kg CO emissions 2 per annum.
com 22904-04 26 March 2014 4:57 PM Proof 2 47 Strategic report Foundry Foundry The Furnace Deck and Metal Foseco foundry ENERTEK crucibles are a Transfer area accounts for over half new family of energy efficient crucibles.
Specially designed to maximise Vesuvius Foundry division offers thermal conductivity, they typically solutions for these key areas that: offer foundries a 3%8% reduction in energy consumption with an equivalent || Improved yield through the use of reduction in CO emissions.
2 SEDEX STELEX and STELEX PrO molten metal filtration products In just one aluminium sand foundry, and KALMIN KALMINEX and this gave a reduction in CO emissions 2 KALPUR feeding systems.
An Italian ductile iron foundry achieved a reduction of 6,000,000 kg CO annually for 2 57,000 tons castings shipped There was an additional 180,000 saving in emission certificates || Reduced energy consumption, for example, through the use of KALTEK refractory insulating linings for ladles.
One Dallas foundry achieved savings in CO emissions of 2 almost 1,200,000 kg CO 2 || Resulted in right first time castings through computer simulation.
com 22904-04 26 March 2014 4:57 PM Proof 2 Vesuvius plc 48 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 www.
com 22904-04 10-02-2014 Proof 3 49 corporate governance CORPORATE gOvERnAnCE Board of Directors 50 Group Executive Committee 52 Chairmans Governance Letter 54 Governance Report 55 Audit Committee 61 Nomination Committee 65 Directors Remuneration Report 67 Directors Report 84 Statement of Directors Responsibilities 88 Independent Auditors Report 89 www.
