39 Strategic report corporate responsibility Meeting our responsibilities will enhance our performance We recognise that our operations impact a wide to Vesuvius.
The Code of Conduct recognises Vesuvius seeks to be a good corporate citizen community of stakeholders, including investors, that the pursuit of the highest possible ethical wherever it does business and respects local employees, customers, business associates standards must be as much part of our culture concerns, customs and traditions.
Embracing and local communities, and that appropriate as any other facet of our operations.
It sets Diversity is a cornerstone of Vesuvius values.
attention to the fulfilment of our corporate out our required standards of legal and ethical The Policy sets out the Groups commitment not responsibilities will enhance overall performance.
behaviour and emphasises our commitment to to discriminate in any of our employee practices the performance of our business in accordance and to offer equal opportunities to all.
The Information on our Code of Conduct, which with these standards.
Group respects the principles of freedom of requires the highest standards of legal and association and the effective recognition of the ethical behaviour, is set out below.
Health, Safety During the year we continued to expand our right to collective bargaining and opposes the and the Environment remain of paramount training programme on the Code of Conduct use of, and will not use, forced, compulsory or importance to the business.
A number of and associated anti-bribery and corruption child labour.
Vesuvius work activities are undertaken in policies.
This comprised face-to-face training higher-risk locations such as steel mills or and use of an e-learning module, together with Where the Policy commitments are more other customer-controlled facilities.
These the publication of an updated Code of Conduct stringent than local laws, we will adhere to environments can prove dangerous for all and related policies on the Groups intranet site.
the standards set out in the Policy.
If local personnel engaged in working there.
Information To date more than 2,000 employees have been law is more stringent than our principles, we on how we address safety is set out on pages trained on anti-bribery and corruption issues, will comply accordingly, using the Policy as a 32 to 33.
For information on sustainability see focusing particularly on those who work with guideline.
Our disclosures concerning customers, suppliers and public officials.
We Additional information online at Greenhouse Gas emissions are shown on continue to develop this process to help our staff www.
com page 45 and the new Human Rights policy is and counterparties to understand that bribery highlighted below.
and corruption will not be tolerated in the performance of our business.
Code of Conduct Vesuvius has a Code of Conduct, which has Human Rights Policy been distributed throughout the Group and by The Group has developed a new Human Rights which all our businesses are required to operate.
Policy, which supplements the Code of Conduct The Code of Conduct emphasises the Groups and has been approved by the Board.
It reflects commitment to compliance with the highest principles contained within the United Nations standards of legal and ethical behaviour.
The Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the Code of Conduct is reproduced in full on the International Labour Organisations Fundamental Companys website www.
Conventions on Labour Standards and the United Nations Global Compact.
The Code of Conduct sets out clear and simple principles covering: Customers, Products The Policy is applicable to all employees of and Services: Employees: Investors: Society Vesuvius plc and its subsidiaries.
It sets out and Local Communities: Health, Safety and the principles for our actions and behaviour in the Environment: Conflicts of Interest: and conducting our business affairs and provides Competitors.
Maintaining a reputation for guidance to those working for us on how we integrity in all business and other dealings both approach human rights issues.
with customers and suppliers remains critical www.
