Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Sustainability report Introduction from the Chief Executive Our reputation as an ethical and trustworthy business partner is one of our most valuable assets and is critical to our success.
It is important we uphold our good reputation and can be trusted by investors and also our employees, customers, suppliers and partners.
David Hummel Our sustainability policy Chief Executive Victrex is an innovative world leader in high performance polymers and sustainability is about doing business the right way, to enhance our already strong position in the market.
The Board remains committed to a very clear Sustainability Policy which will help us as we grow overthe years ahead: the Board values the sustainability benefits that Victrex products and services provide to our customers, for example, energy efficiency: the Board values Victrexs continuous improvement tobecome a more sustainable Company, by being more efficient with the resources we use and, indoing so, reducing our impact on the environment and reducing costs: the Board believes sustainability is key to growth and continuous improvement, that it delivers value for stakeholders and that it gives Victrex a competitive advantage: and the Board is committed to development and delivery of along-term sustainability strategy as a core part of the Victrex business strategy that is embedded in our culture.
Dear Shareholder, including engaging with numerous key Code of Conduct Code formalises the I am delighted to introduce our stakeholders, adopting new greenhouse gas ethics that are fundamental to the way we Sustainability Report for the year, emission reporting requirements, participating already do business and is supported with key which covers indetail how we are in the Carbon Disclosure Project for the first policies, including Anti-Bribery, Competition proactively embedding sustainability time and we formed a cross functional Anti-Trust and Data Protection.
Through right at the heart of our business and Sustainability Steering Group, chaired by a our Code of Conduct, which underpins our how we believe sustainability can help member of the Executive Management Team, whole business, we demonstrate that we Victrex succeed in the future.
and whose remit includes delivery of a range operate ethically, show integrity and act of sustainability programmes including, but responsibly simply the way we would expect Whilst financial results remain an important not limited to: others to work and to treat us.
By complying measure of success, to be a truly successful with applicable laws, Company policies and global business, we are working hard to Our Products and Services this Code, we ensure that we conduct continuously improve our positive impact on Our Environmental Impact ourselves consistent with the highest the environment and society, and progressively ethicalstandards.
embed sustainability within our business.
Our Employees This has been a year of progress on our In last years Annual Report, we covered Our Stakeholders sustainability journey.
Further detail can be how we were enhancing our corporate Our Communities found in the main body of the Sustainability responsibility and sustainability strategy, Report, which I hope you find useful, with a clear focus on our supply chain, our Acting ethically and responsibly is not only informative and a measure of our manufacturing operations, our impact in the right thing to do, but also the right thing performance so far.
existing markets, resourcing and social impact, to do for our business, helping us to maintain research and development and the development our competitive advantage.
Our reputation of new markets.
We have challenged and as an ethical and trustworthy business refreshed our key priorities and metrics, partner is one of our most valuable assets helping to promote new activities, as well as and is critical to our success.
It is important David Hummel bringing many existing programmes of work we uphold our good reputation and can be Chief Executive together and improving communications on trusted by all of our stakeholders, not just 9 December 2013 the successes we are delivering in this area.
investors, but our employees, customers, Over the year, we made considerable progress, suppliers and partners.
com Victrex plc Annual Report 2013 23 Sustainability report continued Global Code of Conduct: Learn about our Code ofConduct on page 25  Our Products and Services To provide products and services to our customers that enable themto be more sustainable and competitive page 26 Our Environmental Impact To reduce the environmental impact of our activities by achieving the most efficient use of energy and minimisation of waste pages 2729 Our Employees To attract, motivate and retain the best employees pages 2933 Our Stakeholders To assure our investors and stakeholders that we are committed tolong-term business sustainability page 33 Our Communities To positively contribute to the communities in which we operate, to foster good community relations and to promote science and engineering pages 3436 24 Victrex plc Annual Report 2013 www.
com Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Our success as a business rests on ensuring that the Company upholds the highest standards of integrity Victrex global Code of Conduct doing business the right way Underpinning each of our sustainability programmes and our whole business We have a zero tolerance to behaviour isourGlobal Code of Conduct.
that breaches our Code of Conduct.
Acting ethically and responsibly is not only the right thing to do, but also the right thing to do for our business, helping us to maintain Our three principles of ethical business our competitive advantage.
The Global conduct are: Code of Conduct, further details of which can be found in the Corporate Governance section starting on page 41, is a fundamental 1 We are honest, transparent and guide to upholding our good reputation as a business and one that can be trusted by our trustworthy in all our dealings both employees, customers, suppliers, partners, within Victrex and in all our external investors and all other stakeholder groups with whom we engage.
Our success as a business relationships.
business rests on maintaining this trust andensuring that we are a company that upholds the highest standards of integrity.
2 We respect the privacy of individuals and other organisations with whom we work.
3 We investigate reports of potential breaches of the Code of Conduct.
Acting ethically: Victrex is a signatoryof the Prompt Payment Code for suppliers www.
com Victrex plc Annual Report 2013 25 Sustainability report continued In Aerospace, VICtrEx PEEK has helped to deliver up to 70% weight reduction versus metal Our products and services At Victrex, we enable many industries our products and services will continue to most expensive component of the operating todeliver against their future challenges.
play an important role in delivering real and costs for airlines and has risen from around Indoing so, we are not only helping our sustainable solutions for our customers and 15% to over 40% of total costs.
This is individual customers solve problems, we markets.
New materials, new applications, where Victrex can help providing innovative areproviding innovative and sustainable new forms and new geographies will all play and sustainable solutions for our markets, solutions across our markets, proving our a part in Victrexs future.
As evidence of our with technological excellence in-built.
commitment in this area, our research and Aerospace engineers require lightweight, development spend once again increased Our industries continue to be challenged to durable materials that enable system weight this year, representing approximately 7% achieve higher performance with less: less reduction which leads directly to fuel ofGroup revenue.
material, less energy, less waste, less noise, consumption savings.
This drives the need for We also continue to focus on a sustainable In Aerospace, VICTREX PEEK has helped innovative designs using our materials and supply chain, including our own upstream todeliver up to 70% weight reduction expertise to bring them to market.
The production assets at Rotherham and Seal versus metal, whilst maintaining equivalent unique combination of properties and Sands in the UK, as well as how we can strength and stiffness.
As an example, by physical forms of Victrex materials help sustainably source our raw materials into removing 45kg 100lb from each aircraft customers deliver against these challenges.
across a fleet of 500 can result in up With proven expertise and over 30 years of to$5min annual fuel cost savings and experience, our customers choose to specify Lift off with Less 15,422tonnes of CO emission savings.
2 VICTREX PEEK in many of their applications, One of the principal challenges of today whether it be in aerospace to fly lighter, in isemissions reduction by the transport With proven expertise and real performance automotive to reduce wear and improve industry.
The transport industry alone benefits, Victrex continues to show itself as durability, in electronics to deliver thinner, accounts for around 27% of all CO the world leader in high performance 2 smaller and smarter devices, in energy to emissions globally.
All modes of transport polymer solutions, with over 30 years of improve durability and recover more, or are faced with the challenge of reducing experience in displacing metals, thermoset inmedical applications to help address their environmental impact and this is not composites and other plastics in a growing anageing global population.
just an individual market or individual number of industries, including the country issue.
We retain a strong and diverse development pipeline, with opportunities to target further In aerospace, this environmental impact market penetration or geographies through isfelt most keenly in the shape of fuel strategic marketing.
Fuel cost is now the single 26 Victrex plc Annual Report 2013 www.
com Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Our priorities are the  waste minimisation, and we are proactively delivering continuous improvement to address these areas Our environmental impact Victrex already delivers a positive benefit At the same time, whilst we have an impact Principal environmental impacts tothe environment.
Our products help our on the environment through the resources The principal environmental impacts of the customers to make a sustainable difference that we use to make our products and the Groups operations are set out in the charts by reducing their impact on the environment: processes that we operate, we actively control overleaf.
These show energy use, water use for example, Victrex polymers help our these impacts as we grow.
Our priorities and waste from our UK activities, which aerospace and automotive customers to arethe efficient use of energyand waste include all our manufacturing operations.
reduce the weight of their aircraft and vehicles minimisation, and weareproactively The impact from our overseas technical to improve fuel efficiency and reduce delivering continuous improvement andoffice facilities is not material and CO emissions.
2 Whilst our principal environmental impactshave not changed this year, we VICtrEx grEEnHOUSE gAS EMISSIOnS 2013 haveenhanced what and how we report.
We have reported data per unit of revenue requirements under Climate Change Greenhouse gas GHG emissions to better align ourindicators with our Agreements on two of our manufacturing Our emissions have been calculated business strategy.
Inaddition, to go beyond sites.
Emission factors are from UK based on the GHG Protocol Corporate standard reporting and to demonstrate our government conversion factor guidance Standard.
Emissions reported correspond progress in this area, we have reported current for the year reported.
We have included absolute data.
emissions from both our owned and leased Emissions are predominantly from gas This year CO emissions are reported as 2 assets for which we are responsible in and oil combustion and electricity use on separate indicators required as part of our theUK and overseas.
This includes our our manufacturing plant.
Emissions from greenhouse gas emissions report under manufacturing plant, technical centres our overseas technical facilities and offices theCompanies Act 2006 Strategic and and offices.
No material emissions are are low relative to those from our UK Directors Report Regulations 2013. omitted.
Emissions have been calculated activities, hence our focus on UK metrics, using data gathered to fulfil our reporting reflecting our UK manufacturing footprint.
Scope 1 Scope 2 Direct emissions resulting Indirect emissions Tonnes of CO 2 fromcombustion of fuel  equivalent inVictrexfacilities purchasedbyVictrex Tonnes CO e Tonnes CO e 2 2 Scope 2 11 12 13 11 12 13 Scope 1 Scope 3 Intensity measurement scope 1and2 Indirect emissions from  astransportofgoods andemployeetravel Scope 3 Tonnes CO e Tonnes CO e m revenue 2 2 11 12 13 11 12 13 www.
com Victrex plc Annual Report 2013 27 2,645 15,964 1,936 16,296 1,523 14,400 130 12,166 132 12,806 123 12,809 Sustainability report continued Our environmental impact continued Primary energy Primary energy unit revenue Energy use UK Operations In line with previous reporting, energy use isreported for our UK manufacturing sites.
The results this year are influenced by an Manufacturing improved method for calculating energy consumption at one of our manufacturing sites.
Without this effect energy usage would still have reduced.
Energy is apriority Thousands GJ Thousands GJ m sustainability target for us whilst polymer manufacture is an energy intensive industry 09 10 11 12 13 09 10 11 12 13 and we have an ongoing programme of work to identify how we can use energy more effectively.
Water UK Operations Water usage Water usage per unit of revenue Water use is reported for our UK operations.
Our overseas water usage isnotmaterial.
Our manufacturing operations are not in regions which experience water shortages.
3 3 Thousands m Thousands m m 09 10 11 12 13 09 10 11 12 13 Waste UK Operations Hazardous waste produced Hazardous waste produced Whilst our manufacturing process generates tonnes per unit revenue hazardous waste, we work closely with licensed waste service providers to ensure that it is recovered, recycled or disposed of with minimal environmental impact.
This is demonstrated by the metrics on disposal to landfill.
We have invested in improving and optimising Tonnes Tonnes m the production process to reduce waste, but we are already striving to reduce it further.
09 10 11 12 13 09 10 11 12 13 This is a priority sustainability objective and there is an ongoing programme of work Hazardous waste disposed tolandfill toexamine how we can further minimise generation of waste at source and how we can also recover value from waste generated an example of the innovative thinking we have across our sustainability agenda.
Tonnes 09 10 11 12 13 28 Victrex plc Annual Report 2013 www.
com 19,223 283 396 46,652 392 530 45,781 439 568 49,106 474 591 377 518 47,254 37 185 2.7 3.8 41 246 2.1 2.8 64 212 2.0 2.6 13 223 2.2 2.7 15 213 1.7 2.3 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Our environmental impact continued Our employees Our continued business success is a reflection As evidence of the diversity of our Compliance of the quality and skills in our talented and business beyond our Board and Victrex is proactively staying well ahead diverse global workforce.
In a competitive ExecutiveManagement Team which ofenvironmental standards.
global market, ensuring that we attract, hascontinued to strengthen and diversify, Our manufacturing plants, which are all in motivate andretain our people remains key for our gender breakdown continues to show the UK, are regulated under Environmental Victrex.
Our talent strategy isled by the Chief changes across the business.
Approximately Permitting Regulations and, as such, are subject Executive, supported by the Group Human 80% of our employees are male and 20% to close regulatory monitoring of environmental Resources Director and the Managing female.
On our Executive Management emissions.
In 2013 our routine monitoring Directors of eachbusiness unit.
Team, one quarter of the team is female.
confirmed that all our UK manufacturing plants were being operated within agreed Employee breakdown consent limits.
We work closely with the UK We continue to invest to support our Environment Agency on new projects to futuregrowth.
This year we recruited ensure that best available techniques BAT 93new employees to the Victrex team, are adopted during new plantdesign.
aswell as promoting internal talent within the business.
We also celebrated our We continuously monitor and report our 20thanniversary this year, with employee emissions performance and data.
During numbers increasing from around 60 in theyear there was one notifiable event.
1993to 670 now strong evidence of Atour Rotherham manufacturing site, during thegrowth our business has delivered plant commissioning, there was ashort andwithit, job creation.
duration release of NOx gas: noharm to the environment was caused.
There were no other notifiable events at anyof our other manufacturing sites.
Victrex creating jobs We are also pleased to have recorded Employees another year with no prosecutions, fines orenforcement action from environmental or health and safety legislation.
60 REACH 1993 We have well established arrangements inplace to manage compliance with REACH Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction ofChemicals Regulations.
We also have arrangements in place to ensure that the raw materials involved in our manufacturing process are compliant and that REACH will not adversely impact on security of supply, which is important both for Victrex and for our customers, who are focusing onlong-term demand.
There has not been, and we do not anticipate, any disruption tothe supply of products arising from theregulations.
com Victrex plc Annual Report 2013 29 Sustainability report continued Our employees continued Employee breakdown continued Regional breakdown UK Europe Americas 73.7% Asia-Pacific 6.3% 10.4% 9.6% Average number of people employed during the year including Directors, by category Following the development and 2013 2012 implementation of the Group-wide people Operations 324 304 strategy in 2012, 2013 has seen the roll out of Organisational Effectiveness programmes Technical 96 88 in each of our key functional areas.
This will Commercial 138 137 ensure that we have the right people in the Administration 86 78 right roles to meet the needs of the business today and as we grow.
These changes have Total 644 607 enabled us to standardise and streamline activities whilst creating specialisation where appropriate, enabling enhanced career progression and succession planning.
30 Victrex plc Annual Report 2013 www.
com Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information We are continuing to develop our performance review process to ensure wereflectourhigh performance culture Our employees continued We continue to invest in the training of all Diversity our employees, through both an informal In Victrex, diversity encompasses differences Despite being an asset-based business, Victrex and formal route.
Assessment of individual in ethnicity, gender, language, age, sexual is a solutions provider and our differentiator training needs comprises a key element orientation, religion, socio-economic status, beyond being a manufacturer is the strong ofthe annual appraisal process which is physical and mental ability, thinking style, research and development skills to ensure undertaken by all employees.
This year experience and education.
We believe that we continue to lead the way in product hasseen us roll out programmes globally the wide array of perspectives that result development.
Victrex relies heavily on the across different employee groups.
We are from such diversity promotes innovation and skills, experience and competence of our continuing to develop our performance business success.
We operate an equal employees to produce our products safely review process to ensure we reflect the opportunities policy and regard this as a and efficiently, develop innovative new highperformance culture within Victrex.
commitment to make full use of the talents products and support business development and resources of all our employees, and to in our existing and new markets.
provide a healthy environment which will encourage good and productive working relationships within the organisation.
We seek to: provide a clean, safe working environment which meets all legislative requirements and to provide all the necessary training support for employees to operate safely within it: provide appropriate remuneration for work carried out and equal opportunities fordevelopment and career advancement: be intolerant of any unacceptable working practices such as any form of discrimination, bullying or harassment: prohibit illegal activities on our sites: and promote fair, ethical and transparent business practices both within our business andin dealings with external stakeholders.
20 years and more to come: Victrex employees and guests celebrate our 20 year anniversary www.
com Victrex plc Annual Report 2013 31 Sustainability report continued Our employees continued Participation in employee share schemes Health and wellbeing Involvement Victrex places a high priority on the health The Group places considerable emphasis on and wellbeing of employees and promotes two-way communication and involving our this in a number of ways.
Occupational employees in the business.
We have a number health and private medical services are of channels to keep employees informed on available for all employees.
Inaddition to matters relating to the performance of the this, 2013 has seen the roll out of a number Group or relating directly tothem as employees, of other health and wellbeing services to formally through the Staff Committee, employees and their immediate family Union Partnership Meetings or via quarterly members.
These services include an advisory global staff presentations, email communication service and online interactive portal, access andtheGroup intranet to which all global to expert medical information, advice and employees have access.
recommendations, a bereavement and The Company supports employee share 86% counselling service, and a probate helpline.
ownership and, where practical, offers the These free, confidential, easy to access opportunity to participate in share schemes.
services are provided as an employee benefit Asat 30 September 2013, approximately and are designed to help employees lead 86% 2012: 93% of employees worldwide ahappy and fulfilling life.
were participants in employee share schemes, principally as option holders under the 2013 2012 2011 Companys employee share option schemes.
86% 93% 85% We also sponsor pension plans for employees throughout the world.
Details of the Groups Excludes recruitment during 2013 principal pension schemes are set out in note14 to the financial statements.
Alice Matthews We believe it is important to recognise and Victrex employee reward long serving employees loyalty and Its a great job seeing product commitment to the business.
During the year development from start to end the Long Service Policy was extended globally with 10, 20, 30 and40years being formally marked with apresentation and gift.
In 2013 Voluntary employee turnover 27 employeesreceived a long service award.
Largely as a result of the above approaches, Victrex has low voluntary employee turnover.
com Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information We have a strong risk management culture and believe that good health and safety management is just one part of it Our employees continued Our stakeholders Employee reportable injuries As an innovative world leader in high Occupational health and safety performance polymers, and as a successful Protecting the occupational safety and global business, we continuously work to meet health of all our employees along with the expectations of our key stakeholders contractors and visitors to our sites remains onsustainability issues including our the highest priority for Victrex and we have customers, end users and suppliers.
year, we haveengaged with customers, In 2013 the Group was again recognised employees, investors, community forits strong health and safety performance.
organisations, sustainability consultants, We received the Royal Society for the suppliers, regulatory bodies and rating Prevention of Accidents RoSPA Order 09 10 11 12 13 agencies, understanding what we do well ofDistinction award, in recognition of and what areas we can improve.
We remain sustained occupational health and safety committed to regular engagement with key achievement after winning 16 consecutive Employee reportable injury rate per stakeholders, so we can ensure our strategy Gold Awards.
100,000 hours worked aligns with their needs and expectations.
Despite our track record, we set targets We also engage in two-way dialogue, todrive continuous safety, health and forexample hosting meetings with ethical environment SHE performance improvement.
investors or working with trade associations During the year, there was only one employee and industry to understand how Victrex with an over-7-day reportable injury and the canbecome a better business.
At an frequency of injuries remains low.
There were individual level, our Directors are involved no cases of reportable ill health.
This has been ina variety of education and professional achieved by establishing and maintaining a bodies.
In March, we signed up to be part strong health and safety culture throughout 09 10 11 12 13 ofthe Cogent Science Industry partnership, the business, in particular regular safety audits which is setting apprenticeship standardsfor are completed by Directors and managers, technicians.
We also completed our first year annual workplace safety training has been as a member of Business in the Community Man-hours worked with no delivered to all operations teams, and health BITC, looking at how we can continue contractor reportable injuries and safety learning is shared across the playing an active role in the community.
We have a strong risk management culture and believe that good health and 170,000 safety management isjust one part of it.
The occupational health and safety of Cases of reportable ill health contractors working on our sites is of equal importance as that of our employees.
There has been significant contractor activity on 0 major projects during the year and over 170,000 man-hours have been worked with no contractor reportable injuries.
This has been achieved by working closely alongside project principal contractors to ensure that robust project health and safety procedures are in place and that they are actively monitored, audited and reviewed.
com Victrex plc Annual Report 2013 33 0.4 3 0.3 2 0.2 2 0.0 0 0.1 1 Sustainability report continued We continue to invest in recruiting and developing young people through our advanced apprenticeship programme Our communities Working with the local communities where process, mechanical or electrical Number of apprentices in our we operate is a key focus for us, helping to technicianskills.
Currently there are apprenticeship scheme ensure that the Victrex name is synonymous tenapprentices participating in the with good business, but also helps us to apprenticeship scheme.
Allof our recent establish our employer brand and reputation, apprentices joined theCompany as 10 in turn helping us to secure the right skills for employees on a permanentbasis.
Over the last year In the UK, a proportion of the charitable Victrex has participated in a range of activities Victrex was named in the top donations budget is distributed by the Staff within the local communities where we operate 20 Most Admired Companies Committee mainly to local charities chosen including charitable giving, offering in the UK by Management from nominations made by employees.
apprenticeships, awareness in schools, Today magazine National or overseas charities are supported advancement of research work at universities where there is strong employee involvement.
and offering work experience to students of all The Group made charitable donations of ages at varying stages of their academic careers.
No We continue to invest in recruiting political donations were made 2012: nil.
anddeveloping young people through ouradvanced apprenticeship programme.
Thisscheme is based on national standards, isfullymonitored and trains apprentices in a primary school inthe local community to Promoting safety awareness promote safety awareness.
A member of the The management team leading the Victrex Safety, Health andEnvironment SHE team Powder Plant 3 construction and their principal gave a presentation to year 6 pupils at the contractor have taken a proactive approach school.
Children were then invited to design tosafety and reporting.
The construction team safety posters to be displayed onsite.
Six is encouraged to report both hazards and winning entrants were invited to site to see good safety practices.
Dependent on the their posters in situ and tomeet the Victrex number of reports submitted, a sum is team.
All competition entrants were given Safety first: donated to employee nominated charities on a Pupils from Stanah Primary School small prizes and a cash donation was made quarterly basis.
This team also reached out to withtheir safety poster campaign totheschool.
34 Victrex plc Annual Report 2013 www.
com Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Our communities Skills development Employee fundraising Joshua Bucknall, our second year engineering Following the successful opening and launch apprentice based at Hillhouse, our UK HQ, of the newly built head office and technical was awarded the Student of the Year award centre in October 2012, quarterly employee at Blackpool and Fylde Technical College events to encourage employee networking Victrex hosts quarterly whilst studying for a BTEC National Diploma and to raise money for charity were in Engineering.
This prestigious award was introduced.
All employees based on the employee events to raise presented to Joshua by his course tutor Dave Hillhouse site were invited to attend informal money for charity Gilmartin and Damian Johnson, Victrex lunches provided by the company.
During Hillhouse Engineering Manager, during the the year a total of 1,128 was donated to annual awards presentation at the college.
Joshua had previously won Springfields Gareth Jobes Endeavour Award 2012 and this award is further recognition of Joshuas dedication, outstanding effort, commitment and quality of work.
Student of the Year: Employee fundraising: Joshua Bucknall Victrex employees at one  ofourfundraising lunches www.
com Victrex plc Annual Report 2013 35 Sustainability report continued Our communities continued Training Future initiatives As part of our focus on training and As we have developed our Sustainability apprenticeships, we make an award each Strategy, we have reviewed our approach year, the Shaun Thompson Young Person ofthe tohow we connect with our communities.
The award, which commemorates Our focus is getting young people interested Our focus is getting our first Victrex apprentice, isopen to young and excited about science, technology and people across the operations discipline.
To support this we have agreed young people interested Recipients are nominated by their peers a partnership with Catalyst Science Centre and excited about andthewinner is selected by a committee in Runcorn and are working with them made upof the senior Operations and tobuild an exciting, interactive exhibition, science, technology Technical team.
which we will then support local schools and engineering toattend.
The 2012 recipient was Instrument and Electrical Tradesperson, Matthew Kenny.
Matthew was chosen due to his professional behaviour, dedication and the outstanding quality of his work.
Pictured below is Matthew being presented with the trophy by Karl Thompson, Shauns father.
Training success: Matthew Kenny receiving the ShaunThompson Young Person oftheYear Award 36 Victrex plc Annual Report 2013 www.
com Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements S Sh ha ar re eho holld fide er r i in nf for orm ma at tiion on Building foundations for the l lo on ng g-tte er rm m s suc ucc ces ess s of the Governance Company.
38 Introduction from the Chairman 38 Board of Directors 40 Executive Management 41 Corporate governance 48 Directors remuneration report 62 Directors report 64 Directors responsibilities statement 65 Independent auditors report www.
com Victrex plc Annual Report 2013 37
