s e i t i n u Fundraising events Partnerships with educational institutes Trainee and mentorship programmes Volunteering m a m G n o o d v C r e e r g Consultation responses Face-to-face meetings Visits to sites Briefing papers Industry events n u l m a t e o n r s t r s o t s Overview Strategic Review Operational Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW A KEY PART OF OUR STRATEGY The Weir Group is aware that we have to balance our growing and energy intensive business with the potential impacts that we may have on the environment and the communities in which we work.
In order to deliver long term sustainable success, we aim to operate efficiently, minimise our environmental impact wherever possible, work in an ethically and socially considerate manner and build confidence and trust with our stakeholders.
Sustainability underpins the Groups strategic priorities outlined on pages 8 and 9 and is inherent in the Companys purpose and values.
The Sustainability Review reports on each of our six key sustainability priorities, outlining their importance to our business, our performance in these areas over the past year, and the policies and practices applied to help monitor and manage this performance.
The Weir Group is pleased to announce that it was admitted to the FTSE4Good index in September 2013.
The index provides an objective performance measure for companies that meet globally recognised corporate responsibility standards.
The Group has six Engagement with sustainability priorities: stakeholders during 2013 Environment Calls and face-to-face meetings AGM Reports and announcements Website Roadshows and Capital Markets Day Presentations at conferences Health and safety Products and technology Engaging with Employees stakeholders Communities Ethics The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 49 e v a n n I S d u c p u p s Face-to-face meetings Weir customer experience programme Global supplier scorecard for strategic suppliers Code of Conduct ISO 14001 certification Trade shows and industry events l t i o e r m s s e e r e s y o l Code of Conduct Intranet and internal communications Town Hall meetings Training courses and development plans Net Promoter score surveys p m E Strategic Report: Sustainability Review Environmental risk SUSTAINABILITY Managing environmental risks is key to Weir operations.
The Weir EHS Management System details the top REVIEW 11 priorities for assessing and measuring risk and environmental impacts.
These include the use of CONTINUED compliance registers to ensure permit and authorisation requirements are met, environmental risk to soil and groundwater is mitigated through a set of storage, containment and management criteria, and environmental noise is risk assessed for all operations.
The Weir Standards detail the minimum requirements for controlling these risks to air, land and water.
More details on the Weir EHS Management System and accompanying Standards are provided in the Health & Safety section below.
We operate under an awareness not just of the potential risks our business can have on the environment but equally the risk to our business from environmental or climatic events.
There have been three reported incidents of the environment impacting our businesses during 2013.
Two were incidences of flooding and the other was a tornado in El Reno, Oklahoma, which caused roof damage.
More details on risk can be found on pages 24 to 30.
ISO 14001 ISO 14001 is an internationally recognised specification which sets out a framework for an effective environmental management system.
Certification to ISO 14001 helps to demonstrate our ongoing environmental performance in terms of legal and environmental policy requirements.
Acquisitions, as part of the integration process, are expected to implement an ISO 14001 programme and achieve subsequent accreditation.
All our continuing operations are ISO 14001 accredited, or are planned to be by the end of 2014.
Environmental incidents Gavin Nicol No significant environmental incidents were reported Director of Operations at sites under the operational control of the Group during Support and Development the 53 weeks to 3 January 2014.
There was a minor incident at a third party site on 20 May 2013 where a blow-out occurred at Marathon Oils McCoy gas well in Environment Live Oak County, Texas, while Seaboard employees were operating Seaboard equipment on the site.
No injuries or physical damage to property or equipment was sustained.
The Weir Groups environmental However, a very limited amount of surface environmental strategy is to reduce potentially contamination occurred in the immediate area of the well adverse impacts of its operations due to a light spray of associated oil carried in the gas vapour.
This contamination was very quickly cleaned and to strive to innovate and up and there was only a short term interruption to the enhance the positive benefit of operation of the well.
Within the Oil & Gas division, all field services safety protocols were reviewed to consider our products and services.
whether they could be further improved.
In addition to the five already owned, the Weir Group acquired two further foundries during the year.
Due Greenhouse gas emissions to their innate energy-intensive nature, this will have A review of our approach and systems for measuring our a significant impact on our total carbon emissions.
global greenhouse gas GHG emissions was undertaken We are a growing business and the markets that we in 2013 to consider evolving best practice and to ensure work in mean the majority of our businesses are energy compliance with the new carbon reporting requirements intensive.
However, we also have operations in the hydro, under The Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and wind and nuclear energy industries which are contributing Directors Report Regulations 2013. to the production of clean, low carbon energy.
As a result we have procured a new software solution As our business expands we take sustainability into to enable more complete data collation and more account in our organisational decisions and work to accurate emissions calculation.
A revised GHG Inventory minimise potentially adverse impacts on the environment.
Management Plan and updated Standard Operating For instance, where we acquire or open new sites, Procedures have been developed and rolled-out to we assess the means by which potential environmental all relevant businesses.
Implementation of the system impacts can be minimised and look to adopt new including user training and data entry is ongoing and technologies to help achieve this where possible.
5 50 0 T Th he W e We eiir G r Gr ro ou up P p PL LC C A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd F d Fiin na an nc ciia al S l St ta at te em me en nt ts 2 s 20 01 13 3 Overview Strategic Review Operational Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Periodic review of our data management system, processes The Group now operates seven foundries, which are and procedures is planned in order to continue to maintain the most energy intensive areas of the business.
GHG and improve the relevance, accuracy and scope of our emissions data for the foundries acquired during 2013 reporting over time.
have been reported from their date of acquisition.
We have presented foundry GHG emissions separately Our calculation methodology is aligned with the principles to enable closer performance review.
of the Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A Corporate Accounting Total annual Foundry and Reporting Standard developed by the World Business GHG Proportion emissions Council for Sustainable Development and the World emissions: of 2013 total intensity foundries annual GHG tCO e per Resources Institute.
2 2013 emissions tonnage of tCO e % metal poured 2 The Group has chosen to follow the operational control Scope 1: On-site approach, whereby it will account for 100% of the carbon combustion of fuel 21,800 10% 0.6 emissions from operations over which it has control.
This is consistent with our approach to financial accounting Scope 2: Purchased and reporting.
On this basis, all subsidiary companies electricity, heat, are included in reported annual carbon emissions, whilst steam & cooling our joint ventures which are not under our operational for own use 68,300 32% 1.9 control are not.
However, in reviewing our reporting we Total 90,100 42% 2.5 have excluded some sites on the basis of materiality or because of the type of site.
As with total global GHG emissions, it is intended that The UK Government GHG Conversion Factors 2013 have 2013 emissions figures for the foundries will be provided been used to calculate UK emissions.
Factors from other in future years as a performance baseline.
credible sources have been used for overseas operations, specifically those published by the US Environmental Energy reduction measures and targets Protection Agency the International Energy Agency One of our sustainability improvement priorities is to and the International Panel on Climate Change.
reduce our energy use in relative terms and associated GHG emissions.
Historically targets have been set at As far as can be determined, all material Scope 1 and operating company level.
This is planned to be reviewed Scope 2 emissions sources have been included.
Scope 1 during 2014 to determine if this continues to be the most sources are those emissions for which the Group is directly appropriate approach for our business.
responsible, i. e. combustion of fuel for the operation of our facilities.
Scope 2 sources comprise those emissions for Details of some of the sustainability improvement which the Group is indirectly responsible, i. e. from the measures undertaken and targets set during 2013 are: electricity, heat, steam and cooling we purchase to use Weir Minerals Africa replaced geysers with heat in our operations or equipment.
pumps resulting in a 50% reduction in electricity consumption through these units.
We do not currently measure or report Scope 3 emissions, Weir Minerals Chile undertook five energy reduction which relate to sources that are not within our direct projects, including the replacement of lighting systems control, third party warehouses and transport in vehicles and engines and making part of the roof transparent not owned by the Group.
to allow natural light in, with an estimated annual reduction of almost one million kWh.
As this is the first reporting year for which the new data Weir Gabbioneta in Italy has implemented several management system and procedures have been used, projects to reduce energy use and GHG emissions, no prior year figures have been provided as direct including installing a new control panel in the test comparison may not be appropriate.
In future reporting room to switch off the transformer when not in use.
years, emissions figures for 2013 will be presented as the WESCO Abu Dhabi carried out an inspection baseline against which performance can be measured.
survey using infrared equipment to identify the The Groups total annual GHG emissions in tonnes of motors that consume the most power in order carbon dioxide equivalent tCO e for the 53 weeks to target future actions.
2 ended 3 January 2014 are as follows: Weir American Hydro installed new energy efficient weld machines, fitted energy efficient office lighting Total annual Emissions that consume approximately 40% less electricity, and GHG intensity emissions 2013 introduced a soft-start machine shutdown programme 2013 tCO e per m 2 which reduces peak time energy use.
Such projects tCO e revenue 2 helped them achieve a 9% reduction compared to Scope 1: On-site 2012 use, driven by their aim to reduce total energy combustion of fuel 82,100 33.8 consumption during 2013 by 10% compared to the previous year.
Scope 2: Purchased electricity, Weir BDK in India undertook an energy audit and heat, steam & cooling for own use 129,900 53.5 through subsequent interventions reduced their total Total 212,000 87.3 annual electricity consumption by 10.5% compared to 2012 usage.
They also further reduced their total GHG emissions by replacing their diesel boiler burner fuel with biodiesel.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 51 Strategic Report: Sustainability Review SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW CONTINUED The Group continues to install and make use of telepresence video-conferencing facilities at its major sites worldwide.
There are now 14 Weir sites in seven different countries ENVIRONMENTAL with dedicated telepresence conference rooms.
These allow meetings to be held throughout the Group as DESIGN though attendees were in the same location.
The facilities were used for both Board and Group Executive meetings as well as budget review meetings during the year and Weir prides itself on promoting the their use has resulted in a notable reduction in air travel highest standards of environmental and related GHG emissions.
care in each aspect of its operation.
Recycling In 2013, this pride was recognised As part of our sustainability strategy, our businesses also focus on improving resource efficiency: for instance, when Weir Oil & Gas won a highly increasing the proportion of waste materials that are sought-after environmental award recycled and reducing the total quantity of waste going to landfill.
for the design of its new divisional headquarters in Fort Worth, Texas.
Foundry recycling 000 tonnes 13.2 12.5 15 11.9 The LEED Gold Certification, issued and create an attractive, healthy and 10 by the US Green Building Council, collaborative working environment recognises the efforts made in the all while ensuring the building was 5 3.8 3.6 1.4 1.0 2.5 2.6 0.6 design, construction and operation affordable to build and operate.
2.4 1.7 Metal Scrap metal Metal Timber of the new headquarters to ensure reused purchased recycled recycled internally from customers to third party it is as environmentally friendly as The building, which was opened possible.
The building is the first in the in January 2013, uses low flow 2011 2012 2013 City of White Settlement, near Fort plumbing fixtures such as toilets and Worth, to achieve LEED certification.
showerheads to reduce indoor water Nearly 12,000 tonnes of metal was reused internally in usage by 37%.
Solar panels, which our foundry operations in 2013.
34% of all metal poured LEED Leadership in Energy and double up as car park shading in the in the foundries in 2013 was reused internally compared Environmental Design is a system hot Texas sun, also provide up to 5% to 42% in 2012.
The decrease in the amount of metal for certifying the greenest performing of the buildings power.
being reused compared to the prior year is a reflection buildings in the world.
It provides of the increased efficiency in our pouring and casting independent, third-party verification Along with these innovative solutions, processes, which resulted in less waste metal being that a building was designed and built the building was designed to make the produced.
Recycling data was not available for our new using strategies aimed at achieving most of natural resources.
The exterior foundry in Malaysia and is only reported from the date high performance in five key areas design and interior space planning of acquisition for our new foundry in South Africa.
of human and environmental health: were coordinated to maximise natural sustainable site development, daylight in the building and to provide Additional external reporting water efficiency: energy efficiency: views to the outdoors for 90% of the The Group continues to participate in Phase 1 of the material selection: and indoor occupants.
The facility has so far UKs Carbon Reduction Commitment Energy Efficiency environmental quality.
helped contribute to a reduction of Scheme the CRC Scheme.
The CRC Scheme aims to around 30% in energy usage thanks to encourage large public and private sector organisations When it came to planning the new its innovative design and continues to to reduce GHG emissions through energy efficiency headquarters, teams at Weir worked demonstrate Weirs goal of improving interventions.
Phase 1 participation is mandatory for with designers to incorporate new the environmental credentials of all organisations meeting specific legal and technical technology to reduce energy aspects of its operation.
Based on a qualification assessment indicating consumption, conserve water these criteria were met, the Group has been a scheme participant since Phase 1 started in 2010.
52 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Overview Strategic Review Operational Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements During specific scheme years, participants are required of the accident may never be known, it has prompted to purchase and surrender sufficient CRC allowances the Group nonetheless to conduct a thorough review for their relevant GHG emissions.
In 2013, the Company at Group Executive level of its existing driving safety purchased and surrendered 3,967 CRC allowances at procedures against potential contributory factors and a cost of 47,604.
Assuming the Company continues in particular to ensure that local policies fit within to meet the relevant participation criteria, the Company a consistent global framework.
will continue to participate in Phase 1 until it ends in March 2014, with one further round of allowance EHS Excellence Committee purchase and surrender.
The action towards a zero-accident workplace is led by the Environment, Health & Safety EHS Excellence A recent legal and technical assessment has confirmed Committee.
Its remit is to set and monitor rigorous that the Group does not qualify as a participant in standards to improve EHS performance across the Phase 2 of the scheme and, therefore, will no longer Group.
In 2013, the committee continued to implement be obligated to participate in the CRC Scheme after the Weir Group EHS Roadmap, which charts the path Phase 1 ends in March 2014.
This is due to a change to a safer workplace.
in the calculation of the qualification threshold whereby companies now exclude certain emissions covered Weir EHS Management System by an alternative reduction scheme.
The Weir EHS Management System establishes a common set of EHS standards and expectations for The CDP scheme formerly known as the Carbon addressing the risks that our operations face.
Its purpose Disclosure Project is a global, voluntary initiative is to embed health and safety within our culture, for major companies to measure, disclose and share behaviours and actions.
The Duty of Care System provides information about sustainability performance and an unbroken chain of accountability from the Chief associated risk management and performance with Executive to our newest apprentice and details individual transparency and accountability.
In 2013, we achieved responsibilities for managing EHS risks.
The EHS a disclosure score of 77 out of a possible 100 and standards cover nine primary areas of risk from supply a D rating for our sustainability performance relative chain to field operations and provide step-by-step to that of other participants.
This was a significant guidance on the minimum requirements expected at all improvement on the previous year disclosure score of Weirs operations anywhere in the world.
Weir has of 41, which was below the scheme threshold of 50 for appointed Divisional EHS Directors for each of the three receiving a performance rating.
These individuals jointly develop EHS strategy reflects our ongoing focus of continued improvement and are responsible for its execution across the Group.
for all aspects of corporate sustainability.
In addition, they lead the implementation of the Weir EHS Management System and delivery of our EHS objectives.
Health and safety Weir Zero Harm Behavioural Safety System In the course of the year, we piloted our Behavioural Safety System.
It assists in promoting a culture that The Weir Group is committed to values behaviours which continually improve our EHS preventing all accidents.
The system involves face-to-face training in identifying behavioural types and behavioural states, why everyone has the right to stop and the critical errors that these can cause.
The training an operation if they think it may is designed to increase awareness of how personal not be safe.
To help realise our behaviours and habits influence risks and promote safe behaviours.
It has been designed to address zero-accident ambition we have Weir-specific EHS practice and training in the system put in place a series of initiatives will be given to all employees.
to keep our people, customers, Measuring progress suppliers, sub-contractors and All these efforts and more have contributed to a reduction the environments in which they in our Total Incident Rate TIR.
TIR measures medical operate safe.
In addition, safety treatment of any kind required by employees divided by 200,000 hours worked.
The results for 2013 show that has become a standing agenda our incident rate has reduced by more than a third over item at every Board meeting of the course of the year.
TIR performance 4 In December 2013, an employee of Weir Mathena in Odessa, Texas, was killed in a road traffic accident close 3.4 3 to the Mathena depot in Odessa as he was returning from 2 a work site.
The vehicle that he was driving drifted across 1.6 the central reservation of the highway for an unknown 1 1.0 reason, colliding with an oncoming vehicle.
The employee was killed in the collision.
No other injuries were sustained 2011 2012 2013 to third parties involved in the accident.
This tragic Our EHS procedures are regularly assessed.
In 2013 we incident has been thoroughly investigated by the local commissioned a leading independent EHS consultancy police, Weirs insurance loss adjuster and internally within to evaluate our systems.
This assessment concluded Mathena, but the cause of the accident is still unknown.
Weir was among the best in class of those peers who Mathena has been providing support to his wife and publish similar EHS information.
young family and to his work colleagues.
While the cause The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 53 Strategic Report: Sustainability Review SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW CONTINUED Products and technology SAFETY IN ACTION As a key player in the energy and Weirs approach to health and safety natural resources businesses, we continues to be a primary focus across are acutely aware of the importance of having sustainable products and each of its divisions.
Last year, as a result technology.
We continue to drive of this commitment, the Power & Industrial for more efficient products which divisions UK valve facility in Elland was not only improve performance recognised in the Occupational Health and and durability but also reduce Safety Awards 2013 by the safety charity environmental impacts.
The Royal Society for the Prevention Using bespoke three-dimensional laser scanning of Accidents RoSPA, for its approach techniques alongside proprietary computation fluid dynamic models, Weir has been able to re-engineer to occupational health and safety.
products designed for use in power stations, refineries and process plants.
The resultant improvements in Dating back 57 years, the RoSPA awards manager, said: RoSPA operating efficiencies allow the products to perform the Awards scheme is the largest and firmly believes that organisations same function using less energy and therefore producing longest-running programme of that demonstrate commitment to less greenhouse gas emissions.
Through this initiative its kind in the UK.
It recognises continuous improvement in accident alone, we estimate the production of some 20,000 tonnes commitment to accident and ill health and ill health prevention deserve of carbon dioxide emissions was avoided in 2013. prevention and is open to businesses recognition.
Weir Valves & Controls and organisations of all types and UK Ltd has shown that it is committed Technological innovation throughout Weir also focusses sizes from across the UK and to striving for such continuous on lowering overall operating costs for customers and overseas.
The scheme not only improvement and we are delighted providing equipment and services that contribute to looks at accident records, but also to honour it through the presentation workplace safety.
An example of cost reduction is the overarching health and safety of this award.
introduction of patented Duralast technology in management systems, including hydraulic fracturing pumps in North America which practices such as leadership and Colin Somers, Environment, Health has increased product service life by a factor of two.
and Safety Manager at Weir Valves & Controls UK, said: We are delighted Engineering Excellence Committee The RoSPA awards mark to have been awarded the RoSPA Weirs Engineering Excellence Committee comprises achievements at merit, bronze, Gold Award, as it is full testament to senior engineering and technology leaders from across silver and gold levels.
Organisations the proactive approach that has been Weirs three divisions.
Its role is to ensure that through awarded Gold Awards demonstrate embraced by Weir, to continually collaboration and cooperation, we are sharing and a rigorous approach to occupational improve health and safety standards implementing best practice across all of our engineering health, high levels of compliance and for all staff and visitors who work for teams, and specifically, driving leading edge technology reducing rates of error, harm and loss.
or on the behalf of our Elland facility.
David Rawlins, RoSPAs The committee drives the innovation strategy across the Group and during 2013 facilitated over 20 innovation workshops to drive technology breakthroughs around the world.
The committee also rolled out an enhanced new product introduction process, providing cross functional teams with leading edge tools and techniques to ensure flawless launches of new products and services.
54 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Overview Strategic Review Operational Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Many of the Groups products and services are used in 2013 saw the appointment of a Group Head of Engineering low carbon applications such as nuclear and renewables and Technology Development, a new position highlighting power generation.
For example, Weir Minerals Lewis the enhanced emphasis that we are placing on engineering Pumps produce pump equipment used in solar power excellence.
This position will be responsible for deploying plants.
A portion of the heat produced is stored in molten the Group technology strategy, further enhancing Weirs salt during the day when the sun is shining and after the already well established relationships with a network of sun goes down, the pumps reverse the process to allow academic institutions, advancing our technical capability, the heat stored in the salt to be used to power the leading the Engineering Excellence Committee and further generators during the nighttime hours.
As this new embedding innovation into the Groups DNA.
technology enables power production from solar sources during the hours of darkness, and as solar power is a Design and innovation cleaner source of energy than fossil fuels, the process The Group spent 21.5m 2012: 23.5m on research produces proportionately less carbon per unit of energy.
and development during the financial year.
Weir has more than doubled its spend on research and development In the US, carbon emissions have fallen to their lowest level since 2009 and views meaningful investment in research since 1994, driven in part by a move from coal to natural gas and development as an essential element in supporting generated electricity sources.
In 2012, carbon emissions innovation, one of our four key pillars.
We expect this were reduced by 6.5% and, as one of the leading providers growth in investment to continue as we work towards of pumps and flow equipment to the production of natural fully meeting customer demands and developing shale gas, the Weir Group has contributed to this trend.
products and technologies with an increasingly lower Through technological innovation which has improved the environmental impact.
Weir is recognised as a world efficiency of the shale gas industry, Weir has assisted in leader in the development and application of wear making shale gas a more economical feedstock for power resistant materials technology.
generation than more carbon intense alternatives.
Weir also manufactures its shale products within North America The Weir Advanced Research Centre WARC, a reducing potential transportation emissions.
collaboration with the University of Strathclyde in Glasgow, Scotland, was created in 2011 as the platform for delivering Product stewardship world class fundamental and applied research.
Seven Weir has introduced formal product stewardship projects were started in 2013 in a number of engineering processes during the course of 2013.
A dedicated team disciplines with another ten planned for 2014.
WARC of engineers was assigned in the first quarter of 2013 to is now delivering innovative results across our entire develop policy and protocols for ensuring that adequate technology portfolio as well as helping us push the safeguards will be put in place to mitigate the risk boundaries on new technologies.
inherent in the installation, utilisation and disposal of highly technical and sophisticated equipment.
Effective One example of the outputs from this collaboration product stewardship ensures that every aspect of our with academia is that the research centre has used the products and services is incorporated in the design skills of world-renowned scientists and engineers with process.
This includes environmental, health and safety access to leading edge finite element analysis techniques and social considerations, from the drawing board to to develop an innovative valve design, which has the decommissioning.
Design processes are subjected to potential to double the product service life.
rigorous quality assurance methods and procedures are in place to ensure that the risk information associated Another notable success was the development of an with a product is passed on to the relevant parties.
advanced computational fluid dynamics CFD model for predicting erosive wear caused by dense slurry flows.
Taking the current CFD capability to the next level has empowered our designers, allowing them to reduce wear even further through improved designs.
Innovation in material technology has also been undertaken to address the more hazardous environments that equipment is required to operate in.
For example, in Alaska pumping equipment working on produced water injection applications only lasted three months before having to be taken out of service for overhaul.
Weir Oil & Gas Aberdeen, in collaboration with Conoco Phillips Alaska, has now developed equipment designs which incorporate more exotic materials.
The average time between overhauls has been significantly extended and now exceeds two years.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 55 Strategic Report: Sustainability Review Our values SUSTAINABILITY The Weir Way is the phrase we use to describe how we operate.
It can be summarised by saying we conduct REVIEW our business ethically, safely and responsibly or not at all.
The Weir Way is guided by our seven core values, CONTINUED currently expressed as: customer focus, engineering excellence, integrity, self-determination, valuing people, working together and leadership.
Our values were established over 12 years ago when Weir was a much smaller organisation.
With a larger geographical footprint and a much broader and more diverse workforce, we believe now is the time to consider our values and ensure they remain the guiding principles that our employees live by.
In 2013, we undertook an exercise to redefine our values in consultation with our employees across the Group.
We have mirrored our geographical and cultural diversity and conducted workshops across five geographical territories.
These workshops featured a mix of employees participating in the Weir Leadership Programme, our Graduate Development Programme and our Business Management Programme, as well as a cross section of all other employees.
The results of this consultation indicate that our core values remain the same, but that it is appropriate now to re-express these values in language more fitting with our business today.
The launch of our re-expressed values will take place across our global organisation in 2014.
Weir Leadership Programme The Weir Leadership Programme develops high performing leaders within our business, equipping them with the skills necessary to lead Weir into the future.
The programme is specifically designed to prepare Pauline Lafferty and develop people to think and act strategically and Director of Human Resources enable them to deliver a sustainable step change in our leadership capability.
Participants are drawn mainly from the Senior Management Group, a group of around Employees 300 senior employees with frontline responsibility for the development and delivery of the Groups strategy.
In 2013, around 50 senior managers took part in the Motivated, skilled and effective programme, with a total of around 200 managers taking people are imperative to our part since the programme was launched in 2011. business.
We are committed to Weir Business Management Programme attracting and retaining the best In conjunction with the University of Strathclyde, we people, and developing them to have facilitated a bespoke business management programme for our leaders of the future.
The programme ensure they achieve their full puts in place a contextualised education programme potential.
In doing so, we seek to: that provides our leaders with the required management ensure no form of prejudice stands in the way of skills and knowledge to succeed within the Group.
In recruitment, development or promotion opportunities: 2013, around 40 managers took part in the programme, encourage, invest in and support our employees to with a total of around 60 managers taking part since achieve their full potential: the programme was launched in 2012.
Completion identify the training and development needs of of the programme leads to a post-graduate Certificate employees and find ways to fulfil those requirements: in Management.
Beyond this, participants could have use the Weir Group Personal Development Plan PDP the opportunity to obtain a Diploma in Management to address how we can support the development of qualification and then onto a full Masters in Business our employees: Administration MBA.
One group will start working employ and retain people who share our values and towards the diploma qualification in 2014.
As well as the behaviours and actively discourage those who do not: academic benefits, the programme promotes greater work to maintain a business environment where networking and collaboration by bringing together a team individuals feel valued and respected: and of people from a mix of divisions, regions and functional provide development opportunities to internationally backgrounds who complete the programme together.
mobile employees by encouraging overseas appointments.
56 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Overview Strategic Review Operational Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Weir University A joint business and HR working group is in place to drive The Weir University is an online learning resource best practice in embracing diversity and inclusion across which provides all employees with access to continuous the organisation and our Finance Director, Jon Stanton, is professional development materials such as e-learning the Executive sponsor for diversity and inclusion initiatives.
courses, presentations and reading material.
This online resource continues to evolve, providing more modules Succession planning on topics such as health and safety, procurement, Over 140 years of knowledge and expertise has built Weir marketing, lean production practices and vibration into the global engineering solutions provider that it is analysis.
Access to the Weir University is available today.
We recognise the absolute importance of strong to employees across the Group and user numbers succession planning to identify our engineers and leaders continue to increase.
Since its launch in 2011, over of the future.
As such, we have developed a robust 5,000 hours of training have been delivered.
management and leadership development framework which supports the succession planning process across As we look to further enhance our engineering expertise each of our businesses.
across the Group, we plan to develop and launch a bespoke Weir MSc programme in 2014 and, following We recognise the importance of developing talent from a successful pilot in 2013, roll out a dual career ladder within the Group as well as bringing in external expertise for engineers.
in order to successfully compete in the competitive markets of the future.
In 2013, 65% of new or replacement Developing our graduates Senior Management Group positions were internal Our graduate development programme was established appointments, recognising the increasing success in 2011 and is designed to provide people joining Weir of our internal personal development programmes.
as a graduate with greater leadership understanding and experience.
It prepares our graduates to take on Initiatives at a local level seek to ensure knowledge more demanding roles as their career within the Group is retained within the business.
In France, for example, develops.
In 2013, we recruited a total of around 50 Weirs Power & Industrial team recruit people new to graduates from a variety of professional disciplines and the world of work and pair them with mentors who are a further 40 graduates from across the world attended nearing retirement.
This programme actively supports the well established induction course in Scotland.
Taking succession planning and knowledge transition from this to the next stage, we will run an alumni event in 2014, our highly skilled workforce.
for graduates who were recruited in 2011 and 2012.
In recognition of the increasing development of existing Supporting society and developing our people employees, in 2014 we will seek to further develop our We undertake various initiatives across the organisation first line managers to equip them with and enhance in support of the needs of local people within the regions their people management and leadership skills.
One example can be found in Sweden where we recruit people from community Employee engagement programmes who are without any training or education.
We engage employees across our business through our This programme helps them adapt to society, lifting key communication channels: the Weir Bulletin, our online their confidence, competency and capability through magazine which provides employees with news features a combination of academic learning and working with and information from across the Group every two months: experienced Weir professionals who mentor them in and the Weir Global Intranet, which provides news, their new roles.
The programme helps reduce local blogs, videos and a forum for employees to interact with unemployment while providing a solid grounding for each other on business-related matters on a regular basis, people who would otherwise find it difficult to enter as well as policies, procedures and documentation.
In 2014, we will investigate ways to develop innovative Diversity and inclusion communication channels to reach employees around We seek to recruit and develop people regardless the world who do not typically have regular access to of background or personal circumstance.
All of our Weir computer systems.
businesses operate in compliance with the inclusion and diversity laws and regulations in their respective countries.
The majority of our operating companies also have an active diversity and inclusion policy in place.
On 3 January 2014, we employed 15,220 people across the Group, an increase of 869 since last year.
Of our 15,220 employees, approximately 13,350 are male and 1,870 are female.
There are nine Directors of The Weir Group PLC, consisting of seven males and two females.
The Senior Management Group is made up of 306 people, 273 of which are male and 33 are female.
In addition, there are 89 individuals who are Directors of subsidiary companies of The Weir Group PLC, who are not part of our Senior Management Group.
Of these, 84 are male and five are female.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 57 Strategic Report: Sustainability Review SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW CONTINUED At a number of our offices, factories, workshops and service centres our employees take part in regular Town Hall meetings.
These sessions are designed to educate, ADVANCED NUCLEAR inform and share knowledge and understanding of best practices.
Topics regularly featured include safety, APPRENTICESHIP conduct and operational performance.
During 2013, the Group held three regional conferences for PROGRAMME members of the Senior Management Group in Fort Worth, Glasgow and Sydney.
These events are opportunities for To complement Weirs ongoing senior managers to discuss the strategic direction of the Group with members of the Group Executive, sharing best commitment to developing apprentices practice and aiding our commitment to collaboration.
The and working in collaboration with our meetings focussed on Group-wide strategy, our ongoing commitment to safety culture, and value chain excellence.
customers, Weir Power & Industrials A non-executive member of the Board of Directors gave service business teamed up with EDF a presentation at each meeting.
Energy to participate in their Advanced We began undertaking employee engagement surveys Nuclear Apprenticeship Programme last across most companies in the Group in 2013 using an employee Net Promoter scoring NPS system.
The year, as one of the collaborative partners.
system assesses and evaluates employee satisfaction and was used where other engagement survey tools Two apprentices were nominated HMS Sultan is the home of the are not already in place.
A similar NPS system is used by Weir to be trained through the UKs Royal Naval School of Marine by Weir externally to help us understand customer EDF Advanced Nuclear Apprentice Engineering and the Royal Naval satisfaction and the use of the same system internally Programme which began in Air Engineering and Survival School allows us to build a consistent picture of a companys September and, on completion, will whose primary function is to supply customer service and employee engagement performance.
work as Weir employees supporting the fleet with high quality engineers.
our ongoing business with EDF.
It is also the largest dedicated In 2013, a number of our leaders undertook specialist engineering training facility in Europe leadership development programmes.
One such The programme is a bespoke blend with 2,500 Royal Navy trainees and programme was run by CSCLeaders, a global leadership of academic and vocational training up to 400 commercial apprentices.
conference run by Common Purpose which assembles coupled with the development of exceptional senior people from across the Commonwealth personal and social skills for future The programme represents a further to tackle challenges that businesses, governments business needs.
The first two years strengthening of the excellent and society face today with the aim of building global are residential: academic and relationship between Weir and EDF, relationships for them to use in the future.
technical training takes place at allowing both companies to work HMS Sultan in Gosport in the UK, collaboratively to continue developing Other initiatives undertaken during the year included while residence, recreation and engineering talent for the future.
the CBI Leadership Programme, an intensive course life skills are provided at HMS designed to assist with the Groups succession planning Collingwood in Fareham.
in preparing very senior leaders who do not hold board positions at company level within the Group for the next step in their careers.
58 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Overview Strategic Review Operational Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Charitable giving Communities In 2013, the total amount of charitable donations made by Weir Group companies was 457,000 2012: 503,000.
The Weir Group is fortunate to Charitable donations be a part of many communities around the world.
We value the Community 70% Education 16% contributions these communities Health 14% make to our businesses and strive to make a positive impact in return.
Wherever we operate we aim to: be responsible employers and neighbours: We do not make any political donations.
This includes respect the communities we operate in: cash and non-cash items such as services, materials, strive to make a positive impact through the employee time and use of corporate facilities.
responsible running of our operations: and invest in the communities for the long term Education mutual benefit of the community and Weir.
Our businesses provide experience and training to develop the next generation of engineers.
Whilst our We believe the best people to look after the interests of focus may be on engineering, we also provide work communities are those who live and work there.
That is placements and internships across all sectors.
Our why we devolve responsibility for community relations to placement projects allow school children and young the people who know them best our local businesses.
people from around the world to see the opportunities Like any good neighbour, we build close relationships by available to them by working for a global business.
regularly having open conversations so that local people are well informed about any of our projects that might With the aim of promoting opportunities for education affect them.
Where issues do arise we listen carefully and careers in engineering, the Weir Group holds an and do our best to help find a solution.
For the second consecutive year, secondary school pupils across We support our local communities through charitable Scotland were asked to produce a report and present contributions and by being a source of employment, on the topic The importance of engineering in Scotland.
In addition, we support our This years winner came from Wick Academy, competing employees in their community initiatives and against 16 others to impress the panel with insights into fundraising activities.
renewable energy and winning 4,000 for the school.
The interaction of our businesses is far reaching but 2013 also saw the pilot of the Primary Engineer initiative is governed by our desire to support and improve which the Weir Group supports as part of the Institution the communities in which we work.
Key priorities are of Mechanical Engineers community.
Primary Engineer is the improvement of health and education of both our a not-for-profit organisation established in 2005 with the employees and the local community.
It is our view that aim of encouraging girls and boys from a very early age contributing to these two areas can have an enduring to become the engineers of the future.
This year, a effect on the well-being of the individuals and the volunteer engineer from Weir Services Europe supported community as a whole.
As a 143 year old engineering Murray Primary School in East Kilbride, Scotland by company we are particularly keen to develop engineering sharing his knowledge, skills and experience towards excellence.
Weir was the first company in Scotland to set delivering engineering focussed lessons.
This is up an apprentice school and our commitment to training a long term relationship between our engineer and the is as strong in the 21st century as it was in the 19th.
school and Weir aims to facilitate more of these in the coming year.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 59 Strategic Report: Sustainability Review SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW CONTINUED Before After At Weir Minerals Lewis Pumps in St Louis, Missouri, the business works in partnership with Granite City High School offering opportunities for students interested in CHARITABLE entering vocational training.
Mentoring is provided and several students have graduated from high school into ALLIANCE the new CNC Machinist Apprenticeship Program.
Weir Minerals Floway in Fresno, California, encourages The Weir Group has formed an alliance schools and engineering students from the local university to tour the factory.
The operations team also routinely with AMAR International Charitable participates in community outreach programmes to Foundation AMAR.
AMAR is a British highlight the importance of manufacturing skills such as welding and machining.
not-for-profit organisation which has been working since 1991 to create and At Weir American Hydro in York, Pennsylvania, the business works with York County School of Technology sustain professional services in medicine, to provide local individuals with practical, hands-on work public health, education and basic experience and education to develop the next generation of machinist and welders.
It also runs an Engineering need provision within refugee and other Department Co-op Program with York College, to provide communities living under stress in war work experience and education for young people.
This has resulted in permanent engineering positions zones or in areas of civil disorder and being offered to several participants.
Particular communities of Weir China is engaged in social practice sessions with focus are in Iraq, Lebanon and other key senior student classes at Cheng Jia Special Education areas of the Middle East and South Asia.
School in Shanghai and in 2013 received the award of Golden Heart Organisation.
Once a month, Weir employees from different parts of the business participate With the partnership agreement With the majority of school facilities in the programme.
The school is an art and mental health entered into in August 2013, the Weir lacking access to running water education model school.
The aim is to develop pupils Group has committed to supporting or a waste water disposal system, skills to make them more independent in the future.
It is AMAR financially over the next three not only are the current conditions estimated that almost 100 employee hours have been years to improve health, education inadequate, they are such that female spent volunteering on this project in 2013. and training in Basra, Iraq.
Basra is pupils often feel prevented from the base for Weirs operations in Iraq.
attending school as they reach Weir Mathena in El Reno, Oklahoma, works in partnership The current project will refurbish adolescence, which acts as a barrier to with the University of Oklahoma to enhance the the female sanitation facilities at social mobility and future employment undergraduate learning experience through mentoring, seven schools in Iraq which were opportunities.
The proposed work will experiential learning, research and technological officially confirmed as high priority directly benefit approximately 6,250 innovations.
A design programme with Mechanical establishments by the Basra pupils and dozens of teachers every Engineering students is undertaken each year.
In addition, Directorate of Education.
Substantial work on four of the the company is also a member of the University of schools has already begun.
Oklahoma School of Aerospace and Mechanical Engineering Advisory Board.
Members of staff attend meetings each semester to advise and collaborate on strategic initiatives related to the school and its graduates.
60 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Overview Strategic Review Operational Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Environmental awareness As outlined in the environment section of this report, we are conscious of the potential impacts our businesses can have on the environment and that the environment can have on our operations.
Our community relations often reflect this and aim to increase awareness about issues that are core to how we operate.
In 2013, Weir Minerals Brasil ran an environmental awareness programme educating local students to understand and preserve the environment in which they live.
The programme was developed in partnership with the local environmental institute.
Weir Minerals France took part in the Industry Cup in 2013.
The aim of the programme is to enable young people at middle school, aged approximately 15 years old, to gain an understanding of industrial businesses and related jobs and products.
Pupils focussed on how our products integrate on the sites of our customers and the environmental impact they might have.
The Keith Ruddock programme involved a site visit and a visit to a granite General Counsel and quarry to see Weir pumps in operation.
The pupils then presented their findings and were awarded the Industrial Company Secretary Environment Trophy.
Ethics Weir Oil & Gas Aberdeen worked in partnership with students from Robert Gordons College who were taking part in an Engineering Education Scheme.
The students The Code of Conduct provides undertook a review of the business current facilities a clear framework for decisionand its electricity and water usage in order to provide recommendations on how wastage of electrical energy making, highlighting the values and water could be reduced.
and behaviours we expect our people to demonstrate whilst Employee activities The Weir Group is very proud of the charitable work that making those decisions.
Our businesses operate their It provides details of how we own policies for supporting these, whether by matching expect our people to conduct donations, providing support or equipment or by allowing employees to participate in charitable activities during themselves on a day-to-day working hours.
basis and guidance on where to go for help.
A small selection of the numerous projects undertaken by our employees in 2013 is highlighted below: The Code of Conduct the Code covers a wide range of Twice a year all employees and their families at topics including anti-bribery and corruption, competition Weir Minerals Mexico give up a Saturday to help antitrust law, developing our people, health and safety, paint local schools.
use of company property and resources, and conflicts Weir SPM employees in Texas, USA, remodelled of interest.
It is available in a wide range of languages a bathroom at a local nursing home and have and has practical examples to assist interpretation.
started an Adopt a Grandparent monthly event.
At Weir Minerals Australia, employees can take up A major review of the Code was undertaken during 2013 to five days paid leave if they are undertaking with input from various sectors of the Company.
The emergency or disaster relief work in the community.
revised Code received Board approval in January 2014 At Weir Marine Engineering NETE in Montreal, and is due to be rolled out during 2014.
This reflects Canada, employees raised C$115,000 for Makedevelopments in a number of areas, both externally and a-Wish Foundation and C$400,000 for Peddle within the Group, since it was first introduced in January for Kids at the Montreal Childrens Hospital.
In particular these changes address developments Employees at Weir Services Europe in Alloa, Scotland, in the areas of anti-bribery and corruption and in relation carried out maintenance tasks at a hospice for to competition antitrust law.
A hard copy of the updated Code will be provided individually to all employees and can also be accessed by our employees on our intranet, as well as being available to download from our website.
Regular training is provided on the Code to all our employees.
A mandatory e-learning programme is aimed at those employees who are deemed to have a higher risk of exposure to bribery and corruption as a consequence The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 61 Strategic Report: Sustainability Review SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW CONTINUED Business Integrity Forum Member of their decision-making responsibilities in regard to third parties including customers, suppliers, and sales agents.
The Weir Group has been a member of Employees receiving this training include: the FTSE4Good Index since September The Senior Management Group: Sales and Marketing employees: 2013.
The Company is also a member Purchasing employees: and of Transparency International UKs Finance employees.
Business Integrity Forum, having The same group of employees are also required to complete joined in September 2011. a regular online certification process to confirm that they are in compliance with the Code of Conduct.
In 2013, over 2,500 employees completed the e-learning programme.
To be included in the FTSE4Good movement.
With colleagues working The completion of the e-learning programme and online Index, a companys risk and in more than 100 countries, TI has certification is monitored by the Company Secretary.
performance for material environmental, unparalleled global understanding social, and governance ESG issues are and expertise in this area.
The Code of Conduct is also reinforced through various examined.
The six ESG criteria themes means of communications with our employees, such cover: environmental management, The Business Integrity Forum BIF as induction training, Town Hall meetings, conferences, climate change, human and labour is the UKs leading anti-corruption training courses and our 100 day integration plan for rights, supply chain labour standards, forum for businesses in all sectors, new acquisitions.
countering bribery, and corporate comprising companies and governance.
Companies with higher professional firms of all sizes.
Through The Code applies to everyone who is employed by the ESG risks must achieve more to obtain their membership, companies are Weir Group and compliance is of the utmost importance.
The ratings indicate a demonstrating their support for Anyone found in breach of the Code may be liable to companys success at managing its Transparency Internationals work, disciplinary action up to and including termination of company specific ESG risks.
helping TI in its mission to reduce employment or cancellation of contract.
corruption in both the public and the FTSE Group confirms that The Weir private sector throughout the world.
Human rights Group PLC has been independently All members sign up to a set of As part of its human rights policy, the Group has adopted assessed according to the principles and are dedicated to a series of human rights principles across all of its FTSE4Good criteria, and has satisfied ensuring their operations and business businesses.
The principles relate to: anti-discriminatory the requirements to become a dealings are corruption free.
Through attitudes and respect for ethical values: employee rights, constituent of the FTSE4Good Index the Forum, companies have the which include health and safety, living wages, working Series.
Created by the global index opportunity to have well informed hours, and freedom of association and the right to company FTSE Group, FTSE4Good is discussions with peers and experts, collective bargaining: and prohibition of child labour.
an equity index series that is designed increasing their knowledge in relation to facilitate investment in companies to risks, mitigations and emerging By promoting sound ethical values and human rights that meet globally recognised trends, as well as making a positive principles, Weir aims to be an aspiring business with which corporate responsibility standards.
contribution to TI-UKs thought people are proud to be involved.
The Weir Group Human leadership and to the wider Rights Policy expresses the organisations commitment Companies in the FTSE4Good international debate on corruption.
to promoting and upholding the common standard of Index Series have met stringent achievement for all people and all nations as endorsed environmental, social and governance Peter van Veen, Director of the by the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.
Other criteria, and are positioned to capitalise Business Integrity Programme said: guiding principles include those of the Conventions of the on the benefits of responsible business We value The Weir Group PLC as International Labour Organisation and the United Nations practice.
The Weir Group PLC is a member of the Business Integrity Convention on the Rights of the Child.
These manifest very proud to be included in the Forum.
By their continuing membership themselves in Weirs anti-discriminatory attitudes and FTSE4Good Index.
they have made clear their commitment respect for ethical values, providing our people with to ensure their operations and business a safe and healthy working environment and fairness in Transparency International UK TI-UK dealings are free of corruption in the UK employment terms.
For example, national living wage is the countrys leading anti-corruption and abroad.
is applied and working hours determined in accordance organisation and part of the global with applicable laws as well as the recognition and Transparency International TI non-discrimination of rights of association in collective bargaining.
In addition, Weir has a zero tolerance of the employment of children in any of its businesses.
62 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Overview Strategic Review Operational Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements We will not exploit anyone, wherever in the world we are Gifts and hospitality working.
We will respect the human rights of all those We recognise that gifts and hospitality have the potential working for or with us, and of the people in the communities to create a conflict of interest, or the perception of a where we operate.
We will not do business with companies, conflict of interest.
As a result, there are Group policies organisations or individuals that we believe are not working with regard to receiving and giving gifts and hospitality to acceptable human rights standards.
from, and to, third parties.
In no circumstances should gifts or hospitality be solicited, and they should not We expect employees to maintain the highest standards place the recipient under any obligation.
of conformity with these principles and their adoption and adherence is contained within Weirs Code of Conduct.
All gifts and hospitality above the minimum threshold To ensure this policy is upheld in practice, in addition to must be pre-approved using an online gifts and Group-wide assurance activity, all operating companies hospitality register.
Our Internal Audit team assess complete a compliance scorecard self-assessment twice compliance with the Groups gifts and hospitality policies per annum which assesses compliance with Group during audit visits and undertake monthly reviews of the policies and procedures.
register, which are shared with senior management.
Suppliers and third parties Reporting issues We source raw materials, components and services The Group encourages our people to discuss any ethical across the globe.
Our suppliers play a critical role in our concerns they may have with local management or the business and our relationships with them are based on legal department.
In addition, the Weir Ethics Hotline, achieving best performance, product, delivery, service an independent and confidential telephone helpline and and total cost in an ethical and sustainable manner.
an online reporting system is available for our employees, Embracing a closer relationship with our key suppliers partners and third parties to call or email with any is fundamental to our Value Chain Excellence initiative, concerns that they have concerning unethical behaviour.
launched in 2013 as Weirs fourth strategic pillar.
Calls to the helpline are free and lines are open 24 hours a day, seven days a week.
Reports can be made in a wide The Group recognises that its responsibilities extend to range of languages reflecting our global footprint.
We have a Supply Chain Policy which sets out the minimum standards we expect our suppliers All reports are investigated.
During 2013, 21 reports were to abide by in connection with: submitted via the Weir Ethics Hotline and each report was how they treat their workforce: fully investigated.
No action was required in seven cases, legal and regulatory compliance: and the remaining cases were appropriately addressed health and safety: through further training, policy review and communication business ethics: and improvements.
Confidentiality is maintained wherever environmental standards.
Complainants can receive updates and the details of the outcome of the investigation via the Ethics During 2013, the Group has been working on increasing helpline when it is possible to provide this in adherence the level of contractual agreements in place with our with privacy or local legal restrictions.
These now equate to almost 50% of our total spend.
The Strategic Report, covering pages 1 to 63 of the Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013, has been In addition, the Code of Conduct is issued to our key approved by the Board of Directors in accordance with suppliers.
Assessments are undertaken with regard the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors to compliance with Group standards as part of the Report Regulations 2013. vetting process for new suppliers.
We also audit our key suppliers annually to assess ongoing compliance On behalf of the Board of Directors with the Supply Chain Policy and other relevant Group standards.
Wherever possible, we work with our suppliers to support them to address weaknesses identified.
The Weir Group is committed to working only with third parties, including customers, sub-contractors, suppliers and joint venture and strategic alliance partners, whose Keith Ruddock business ethics and behaviours are consistent with our Company Secretary own Code of Conduct.
26 February 2014 External sales agents The Group engages a number of external sales agents across the globe to act on its behalf in locations where it does not have a permanent sales presence, or in regard to specific projects.
The Group has a sales agents manual which sets out the Group requirements with regard to appointing and reappointing agents, as well as the ongoing monitoring requirements.
Due diligence is performed prior to all appointments and reappointments and overseen by the legal department.
The standard Weir contract must be used unless the legal department have agreed modifications, but the terms of the agreements always include stipulation that agents must comply with the Code of Conduct.
The agents are required to confirm in writing their compliance with the Code of Conduct.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 63
