1 1 O Ov ver erv vi ie ew w 2 2 D Dir ire ec ct to or rs s r re ep po or rt a t an nd b d bu us sin ine es ss r s re ev vi ie ew w 3 Governance 4 Financial statements Directors report and business review Employees Social and environmental matters Employees Social and environmental matters The Group employs approximately 15,000 people, primarily in the We continue to operate a robust corporate responsibility CR UK, and is proud of its long history of being regarded as a programme that is closely aligned to the Groups strategy.
The responsible and respected employer.
management of social and environmental matters is embedded into day-to-day operations across the business.
This year we Equal opportunities were delighted to retain a Platinum ranking in the annual Business in the Community CR Index.
The Board believes in creating throughout the Company a culture that is free from discrimination and harassment and will not We operate our CR programme through four key areas: permit or tolerate discrimination in any form.
The Company gives Marketplace, Environment, Workplace and Community.
Our CR full and fair consideration to applications for employment when strategy is based on ensuring that we effectively manage the these are received from disabled people and employs disabled environmental and social issues which are material to the Group people whenever suitable vacancies arise.
Should an employee and to each business unit.
The Board carry out annual reviews to become disabled when working for the Company, efforts are ensure the successful implementation of the CR strategy and to made to continue their employment and retraining is provided, approve our targets for the years ahead.
provides an introduction to our CR work during the year.
More detailed information, notably key performance data and future Training and development targets, is available in our full CR report, available at www.
We recognise the importance of training and development to support employee satisfaction and promote a knowledgeable Marketplace workforce.
Our programmes enable our staff to grow with the Company and develop their careers.
Succession planning is Customers emphasised across the Group and we continue to achieve high Customer service standards remain a key focus for our business.
Our Retail Academy supports store We review our performance through an independently conducted staff in developing their skills and moving on to new roles, and Customer Satisfaction Monitor which assesses performance in targeted development programmes in head office helped to areas such as friendliness and helpfulness of staff, time spent create a pipeline of talent to fill future vacancies.
These queuing and store cleanliness and tidiness.
In the latest survey, programmes support internal succession and enable us to our High Street stores achieved an overall customer satisfaction continue to meet the objective that over 90 per cent of store score of 8.3 out of 10.
We use the findings of these surveys to manager appointments should be sourced from internal ensure that we continue to focus on the key elements of service candidates.
that are most important to our customers.
Employee engagement We take seriously the responsibility for the products we sell, and we are committed to listening to our customers feedback.
Our Employee engagement is supported through clear Marketing Code of Practice sets out the standards we follow in communication of the Groups performance and objectives.
our promotional activity, marketing and advertising.
In practice Thisinformation is cascaded through team briefings, large this ensures we sell products that are safe, fit for purpose, meet employee events, intranet sites and regular e-newsletters.
legal standards and are not described in a misleading manner, Thisapproach and the Groups open management style particularly when marketing to children.
encourages employees to contribute to business development.
Suppliers Employee share ownership The Company operates a HM Revenue & Customs Approved Ethical trading Save-As-You-Earn share option scheme 'Sharesave Scheme' We are committed to good labour standards and respecting the which provides employees with the opportunity to acquire shares environment in our supply chain.
Our Supplier Code of Conduct in the Company.
Approximately 830 employees participate in and Human Rights policy states our expectations of our suppliers.
The in-house supplier audit team based in our Far East sourcing office carries out a regular programme of supplier audits to monitor labour standards.
They visit each new factory to assess its performance and, where necessary, agree an action plan for improvement with the factory.
We provide support as suppliers make these improvements, and ensure that all direct source suppliers and Asia-based suppliers of UK agents are audited at least every two years.
Against the background of our audit programme, we continue to focus on engagement with key suppliers to support them as they seek to improve their performance.
This engagement continues to focus on improving worker representation in factories.
Although the project seeks to address a challenging issue the lack of formal worker representation in China many factory managers are keen to get involved in the project, seeing it as an WH Smith PLC Annual report and accounts 201317 Directors report and business review Social and environmental matters Social and environmental matters continued opportunity to improve staff morale and consequently improve The energy used to light and heat our stores, distribution centres staff retention rates in a competitive labour market.
Fifteen and offices is the greatest contributor to our carbon footprint and ofourkey suppliers are currently using the project toolkit to also represents a significant cost to the business.
As a result, we improve worker representation in their own factories.
We will continually look for ways to reduce the amount of energy we use.
beconducting a factory survey to assess the impact this work Over the last few years, we have rolled-out new LED lighting to all ishaving on the conditions for the workers in the factories.
of our High Street store estate, our distribution centres and some of our Travel stores.
The LED lighting is more efficient than our WHSmith is a member of the Ethical Trading Initiative.
previous lighting system, but still provides the appropriate level of illumination for the stores to remain bright and appealing to our Forest sourcing customers.
This has contributed to a 16 per cent reduction in It is our continuing objective that all virgin i. e. non-recycled Group energy consumption per square foot compared to 2010 material used in our own-brand products is from known, legal, levels.
well-managed and credibly certified forests.
This year, in order to In terms of our carbon footprint, the second greatest contributor ensure compliance with the March 2013 EU Timber Regulations, to our overall emissions is the CO generated by the fleet of we have implemented a strengthened due diligence system and 2 lorries which deliver products to over a thousand WHSmith now require that suppliers provide a far greater level of stores around the UK.
We continue to review our delivery routes documentary evidence to prove the forest source for timber used and frequency to ensure that stores get product when they need in own-brand products.
This year we have made good progress it, whilst keeping carbon emissions to a minimum.
We have also towards our objective to increase the value of recycled and been able to achieve further transport efficiencies through new certified material in our own brand products, up nine per cent agreements with third parties which will see us sharing vehicles year on year to 68.5 per cent.
for deliveries to remote areas, such as the Scottish highlands for We have carried out extensive supplier engagement and training example.
These developments have contributed to a further to ensure that suppliers have a full understanding of the new EU reduction in the CO e emissions per pallet moved, down two per 2 Timber Regulations and WHSmiths specific requirements.
year ahead, we are focussed on working with our suppliers to deliver material improvements in performance and ensure that Global GhG emissions data for period 1 September 2012 we continue to drive improvement in this key area.
to 31 August 2013 in tonnes of CO e 2 Percentage We continue to focus on making our forest sourcing work visible of carbon to customers by labelling own-brand products with the Forest 2012 3 footprint Stewardship Council logo.
We have made further strong progress this year, with over 900,000 FSC-marked units sold.
FSC-labelling Scope 1 emissions will remain a key area for improvement in the year ahead and we Combustion of fuel for the transport of expect to make further progress, with a number of high volume WHSmith products from distribution core stationery lines ready to be marked, including A4 refill pads.
centre to store using vehicles owned by We will also extend our reporting to non-WHSmith-branded third parties.
Also combustion of gas to products, notably books.
heat WHSmith stores, offices and distribution centres 9,243 22% Payment policy for suppliers Scope 2 emissions The Companys policy for the payment of suppliers, which complies with the CBI Code of Practice for Buyers, is to agree the Electricity purchased for WHSmiths terms of payment in advance in line with normal trade practice own use used to power, light and heat stores, offices or distribution centres 32,616 76% and, provided a supplier performs in accordance with the agreement, to abide by such terms.
Copies of the CBI code may Scope 3 emissions be obtained from the CBI, Centre Point, 103 New Oxford Street, WHSmith employee business travel by London WC1A 1DU.
The Companys trade creditors figure as at air, rail and owned and non-owned the balance sheet date was equivalent to 59 days 2012: 60 days motor vehicle 1,011 2% based on the ratio of average trade creditors to the amounts paid Total 42,870 100% during the year to trade suppliers.
Environment Intensity measurement Total emissions reported above We recognise that good environmental management also makes normalised per 1,000 square feet 7.89 good business sense.
We are committed to reducing the environmental impact of our business, and measure our Scope and methodology performance each year.
We have reported on all of the emission sources required under the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Report Reducing carbon emissions Regulations 2013.
These sources fall within our consolidated This year, we were delighted to receive recognition for the financial statements.
This data covers the continuing activities progress we have made in terms of carbon management with the undertaken by our retailing operation in the UK and Ireland.
The award of the Carbon Trust Standard to WHSmith High Street.
impacts resulting from franchise operations and international stores are excluded from this report.
WH Smith PLC 18 Annual report and accounts 2013 1 1 O Ov ver erv vi ie ew w 2 2 D Dir ire ec ct to or rs s r re ep po or rt a t an nd b d bu us sin ine es ss r s re ev vi ie ew w 3 Governance 4 Financial statements We have used data gathered to fulfil our requirements under the London Benchmarking Group model, is outlined in the Groups GHG Protocol, and recommended DEFRA conversion factors.
The WHSmith Group Charitable Trust, an independent registered waste management charity, actively supports employees that are involved with Waste created by inefficient use of resources and rising landfill charitable organisations in their local communities, as well as tax represents a significant cost to the business.
In 2012, we working in partnership with the Company to support literacy made significant changes to our store recycling system with the projects.
introduction of a dry mix recycling system which enables our High Street stores to recycle most forms of waste, including Our store teams are active members in their communities, with plastics and metals.
Regular communication to stores and the many store managers and staff giving their time to support local engagement of trading teams in clear product markdown and exit councils, town centre management and high street security processes have helped us to use the dry mix system to deliver groups to promote a positive business environment on their high further improvements to recycling levels.
87 per cent of all waste streets.
In the year ahead, we will be launching store community is now being recycled, up 69 per cent from last year.
awards to encourage and reward those stores taking an active role in their local communities.
Reducing carrier bags Promoting literacy and a love of reading is a natural fit for Compulsory carrier bag levies are now in place in Wales and WHSmiths business and also helping to tackle a key social issue.
Northern Ireland and due to be introduced in Scotland in 2014 and We completed a three-year project with the National Literacy England in 2015.
We continue to work hard to reduce the number Trust funding workshops which give parents practical tools to of single-use plastic carrier bags we hand out.
Across the whole support their childrens literacy development.
We were delighted of our business our staff habitually ask customers whether they to see material improvements in the amount of time parents need a bag.
The result of both the new compulsory levies and the spend reading with their children.
Our Schools Giveaway project awareness-raising efforts of WHSmith store staff has been a continued again this year, with WHSmith vouchers given away to 24per cent year on year reduction in the number of single-use around 150 store-nominated schools all over the country to help bags we have distributed.
We continue to use a proportion of the build school library resources.
We also continued with our profits from our reusable bag charges to fund the Woodland hospitals giveaway programme.
This year, following feedback Trusts school tree-planting programmes.
Since 2007, WHSmiths from doctors, we donated arts and crafts materials to childrens partnership with the Woodland Trust has seen over 100,000 trees wards and these have been very well received.
Many of our products continue to raise funds for charity partners.
health and safety This year, we sold Christmas cards and calendars for Children in Need as we have done in the past, as well as a new books We are committed to maintaining high standards of health and promotion supporting Breakthrough Breast Cancer.
The management team, supported by professional safety advisers, monitors key safety performance indicators and an Political donations annual report detailing trends, performance and recommendations is presented to the Board.
The business also It is the Companys policy not to make political donations and no has a Health and Safety Committee that is comprised of political donations or EU political expenditure were made in the representatives and professional health and safety advisers.
Group Safety team continue to provide an ongoing training programme for staff in stores, consisting of modular courses focusing on key issues such as fire safety, manual handling and slips, trips and falls.
Community As a leading bookseller and stationer we focus our community investment on supporting education and life-long learning.
Overthe year we invested a total of 967,886 into local communities 2012: 1,009,634.
Included in this figure are cash donations and gifts in kind.
These donations totalled 205,096 2012: 134,638, and were made to local schools and registered charities including the Woodland Trust and the National Literacy Trust.
Over the year, donations made to charities through the sale of products totalled 148,804 2012: 151,318, including Children in Need, Cancer Research UK, Mind and Make a Wish Foundation.
Lastly, we donated significant commercial support to our biggest charity partners, for example, World Book Day: these donations totalled 381,340 2012: 417,090.
The full extent of our community investment activity, measured according to the WH Smith PLC Annual report and accounts 201319
