William Hill PLC 59 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 RepORT Of THe CORpORATe ReSpONSIbIlITy COMMITTee ensure the business operates in a Year of Director appointment sustainable way: Ashley Highfield, Chairman 2008 advise the Board on environmental, David Edmonds 2005 social and ethical matters: David Lowden 2011 monitor CR risks as part of the Groups Gareth Davis 2010 overall risk management framework: Georgina Harvey 2011 and William hill operates in hiGhly Imelda Walsh 2011 reGulated environments WhiCh review and approve the annual Ralph Topping 2007 shape muCh of our Corporate CR report.
Thomas Murphy 2007 responsibility approaCh The Chairman of the CR Committee toWards our ColleaGues The Company Secretary acts as secretary reports to the Board on the outcome and Customers.
our home to the Committee.
The CR Committee of meetings.
prinCiples, hoWever, lead meetings are regularly attended by relevant us to a unique and tailored members of the executive committee Main activities during 2013 approaCh on hoW We interaCt and management team, so that informed With our key stakeholders.
presentations are made by individuals CR continues to be an important matter for William Hill and during 2013 the responsible for key areas such as human resources, health & safety, security and Company published its first separate The Corporate Responsibility CR CR Annual Report, which is available at regulation.
The Committee met on five Committee sets the Groups CR policies, occasions during the year and details of www.
During the year ensures the business operates in a the CR Committee reviewed a number of attendance at Committee meetings is set sustainable way and advises the Board on out on page 54. reports on CR related matters, in particular environmental, social and ethical matters.
on health and safety, interactions with regulatory authorities and on the latest Role of the CR Committee Membership and meetings developments and the next steps in A full copy of the terms of reference for respect of Project Africa.
CR performance The following is the membership of the CR the Committee can be obtained via the and issues in relation to employees, Committee together with the year in which website at www.
com or community involvement and customers membership commenced.
Ralph Topping by request to the Company Secretary.
The Committee is the executive director responsible The Committees principal responsibilities also discussed and agreed a way for CR.
are to: forward on ongoing changes in environmental reporting.
review CR policies and practices for the Group and set new CR policies Ashley Highfield Chairman, Corporate Responsibility Committee as appropriate: review CR performance across a range of performance metrics: vIew OUR CR RepORT See more on pages 40-47 regarding our CR approach and activities.
You can download a separate and more detailed CRannual report from www.
com or request a copy by sending your name and address to ir@williamhill.
Alternatively, please call the Investor Relations team on 44 0 2089183600.
You can download our CR report from www.
com Financial statements Governance Strategic Report
