Performance and strategy review Governance Financial statements Corporate responsibility Our commitment At Morrisons, we dont just sell products.
We think about the life cycle of our products, from the suppliers that make them to the customers that buy them.
Our vertical integration model allows us to carefully and efficiently manage our supply chain, giving customers quality products at affordable prices.
We are committed to operating our business responsibly, protecting valuable resources whilst making a positive contribution to the communities in which we operate.
Management and responsibility for delivery of our core published commitments is led by our Management Board.
Formal reports on innovation, progress, integration and challenges are made to both our Management Board and Corporate Compliance and Responsibility Committee.
Engaging with key stakeholder groups is essential to delivering an effective and impactful CR programme.
We regularly communicate with a variety of stakeholders including investors, customers, government, non-governmental organisations, colleagues, communities and suppliers.
Responsibility for overall stakeholder engagement falls within the Corporate Services function of the business.
It enables Morrisons Corporate responsibility highlights to identify the issues that matter most and ensure continuous improvement of strategy.
In turn, this helps us to make informed and responsible decisions, respond to changing needs and adhere Big Tick for our Lets Grow programme at Business to regulatory and best practice.
in the Communitys annual Awards of Excellence Last year we were the first of the top four supermarket retailers to have our corporate responsibility review independently assured Reduction in carbon % to AA1000AS 2008 standard.
We were recognised in Carbon emissions 2005 baseline 19.3 Smarts sustainability assurance report, On the right track?, as out in front of our competition for assurance reporting.
achieved to date This section highlights just a few of our achievements in corporate responsibility in the year.
Raised for our charity partner m Save the Children 4.5 Details of our full programme can be found in our corporate responsibility review 2012 13 at www.
co. uk cr raised to date 33 Performance and strategy review Annual report and financial statements 2012 13 Corporate responsibility continued Were passionate about doing more of what matters...... for customers The past year has seen a number of developments in our work to provide customers with the information and products they need to make healthier choices.
In May, we launched our new healthier eating brand, NuMe, replacing our previous Eat Smart offering.
NuMe offers a wide range of healthier products across all meal and snacking occasions.
The range was developed by our in-house professional chefs, nutritional experts and product development team.
Innovative labelling systems using clear labelling helps customers to easily identify healthier options.
Morrisons continues to support the Governments Public Health Responsibility Deal which includes commitments such as working towards 2012 salt reduction targets and putting calorie information on our out of home eating options.
Our in-store caf menus and counter items provide calorie information at point of choice, so that our customers can make informed decisions about the food they enjoy.
This has been At Morrisons we take the welfare of livestock in our food chain very seriously.
Its an important issue to our farmers and our customers.
extended so that calorie information is also displayed in our We continue to invest in research that helps raise the bar for animal colleague canteens and further nutritional information about our wellbeing.
One example is our work with University of Bristol, dishes are available on request.
investigating the benefits of raising broiler chickens in sheds which have windows offering natural daylight, easy access to perches and Customers who shop in Market Street can find nutrition pecking objects.
information for those products on our website.
We continue to work with our farmers to help them with current... for farmers farming challenges, including cutting costs and improving efficiency.
Now in its fourth year of operation, Morrisons farming programme Were proud to be British and are committed to supporting whole has completed a number of industry led projects over the last year.
This means our farmers know exactly what we will buy, reducing their wastage.
Ideas for projects come from farmers themselves with Morrisons providing funding and expertise to help improve their profitability.
The Morrisons farm at Dumfries House hosted Scotsheep, a key A number of the projects have been trialled at our own farm, event in the British sheep farming calendar.
For Morrisons, it was a Dumfries House, in Ayrshire, Scotland.
chance to welcome our fellow farmers to the House and show them the progress weve made in transforming derelict farm buildings The programmes core aim is to provide producers with new and barren land into a thriving beef and sheep enterprise.
Nearly information that can help them build sustainable farm businesses 8,000 farmers joined our guest of honour HRH The Prince of Wales and enable Morrisons to secure a supplier base ready to meet our for an action packed day which included farm tours, insights customers need for transparency, quality and affordable food.
into new technologies and debates on the future of the British sheep industry.
The programme spans the UK and covers all areas, from red meat to poultry to dairy.
Over 350 farmer suppliers converged at the Great Yorkshire Show ground for Keep Britain Farming, our second farming conference.
We engaged with producers drawn from across the farming spectrum on how we can work together to build industry sustainability and produce British food that is both attractive and affordable for our customers.
34 Performance and strategy review Governance Financial statements In 2012, we engaged communities across the UK by opening up... for communities the programme to Incredible Edible sites.
These community growing groups take over unused flower beds and planting areas, Since 2008, through our Lets Grow allowing local people to grow and harvest their own crops.
Thanks scheme, we have given away: to Lets Grow they can now collect vouchers in-store and receive 11,000 wellies free equipment.
In 2013, we are continuing to work with over 28,000 schools taking the field to fork story even further by expanding our focus into cooking and preparing fresh food.
Morrisons actively supports Save the Childrens Families and Schools Together FAST programme: working with families, schools and communities to support children across the UK.
34,000 watering cans The FAST programme has a huge impact on the lives of families and children in the UK by helping them to improve learning, develop confidence and become more actively involved in their community.
Lets Grow is our award winning community investment programme that teaches schoolchildren about the story of fresh At the launch of the partnership in April 2011, we set an ambitious food and the practical experience of growing their own fruit target to raise 1m in our first year: thanks to the outstanding and vegetables.
support and dedication of our colleagues and customers, an incredible 2m was raised within the first ten months.
Since our programme began in 2008, weve given away 18m worth of gardening equipment to schools all over the UK.
To date our partnership has raised over 4.5m.
This means weve supported over 2,200 children, and their families, funding 49 Working closely with DEFRA to implement the recommendations FAST programmes.
of the Growing Schools taskforce, we ensure teachers have valuable online teaching resources to support childrens learning, In 2013, we are continuing to work with Save the Children and aim including tutorial videos, activity sheets and assembly guides.
to fund another 48 programmes, making a difference to thousands of childrens lives.
Stores are also an integral part of the Lets Grow story.
Hundreds of schools have taken part in educational store visits, bringing the food story to life and showing how their produce, meat and bread goes from field to fork.
Schemes like Lets Grow keep Morrisons at the heart of the community.
