Performance and strategy review Annual report and financial statements 2012 13 More of what matters for our people Our people are at the forefront of Developing talent everything we do.
Having the right Talented people are our greatest asset and the way we engage and train our colleagues helps us deliver more of what matters people is a key differentiator, allowing to our customers.
us to deliver excellent customer service We believe in bringing the best out of people by offering and meet our strategic objectives.
A career at Morrisons starts with the Best First Day: a comprehensive induction to the Morrisons vision, At Morrisons, we create long term culture and values.
partnerships with our people by giving Each colleagues development includes regular feedback, them the time, qualifications and support supplemented by more formal performance reviews.
Our colleagues also take part in the Morrisons Academy, our training needed to grow and develop their skills.
function focusing on skills and qualifications development, leadership, and coaching and talent.
This year, we have provided over 750,000 training days to our colleagues, seen over 14,000 colleagues trained in retail skills Highlights and promoted over 2,100 people following successful job skills qualification.
1 Colleagues at our new Fresh Format stores have received specific Labour turnover % training focusing on excellence in preparation and customer 15.0 service.
In our Manufacturing team, weve helped 5,500 colleagues get closer to understanding what great food looks like through our Pinnacle Food Quality Standard.
2 Colleague engagement % We have maintained our position as the largest apprenticeship increased by 6.2 provider in the country with 11,000 colleagues graduating this year.
We pride ourselves on our colleagues craft skills.
Our measured through our colleague apprenticeships and training programmes are vital in transforming engagement survey our people into skilled and knowledgeable butchers, bakers and fishmongers.
3 Employee stability % Alongside the apprenticeship programme, this year we have 86.2 inducted our largest ever cohort of graduates.
We have also measured as colleagues with launched a number of other development courses such as level more than one year service 3 apprenticeships, which 6,000 colleagues are in the process of completing.
4 Female managers % We pride ourselves on our craft skills and in September we increased by 2.0 held Morrisons second Mastercraft competition.
This year, the competition was expanded and as well as butchers, bakers, fishmongers and cheesemongers our wine experts, produce 4 People progressing from specialists, cake shop and florists were invited to compete.
shop floor to management 1,205 The competition saw a number of challenges including live product knowledge tests, demonstration of craft skills, and for our wine experts blind taste tests.
5 Participants in annual colleague opinion survey 121,000 source: 1 12 months to 31 January 2013 2 Latest Pulse survey Pulse 6, compared with Climate survey 2012 Awards won in 2012 13 3 12 months to 31 December 2012 4 3 February 2013, compared with 31 January 2012 5 Climate survey 2012 30 Performance and strategy review Governance Financial statements Our Mastercraft competition saw colleagues from all over the UK showcasing their craft skills.
Employer of choice Following a number of qualifying rounds, 48 finalists were invited At Morrisons, we are passionate about providing a great place to a live final where they demonstrated their skills in front of 2,500 to work for our colleagues, which in turn provides a better colleagues in our busy head office.
The winners of each category experience for our customers.
We are proud to have won the were invited to take part in specially arranged European industry Grocer Gold Employer of Year Award for the third time in a row visits to learn more about their crafts so that they could bring what and the Retail Week Employer of the Year for the second year.
they had learnt back to their local stores.
We know that the current economic conditions are challenging We continue to support the progression of women in our business for our colleagues and this year we launched the Save your Dough and 25% of our Main Board is female.
This year we have increased education programme, featuring finance expert Alvin Hall.
The the number of females in senior roles to 22%, an increase of 2% scheme has been received positively with over 45,000 colleagues on last year.
We expect to meet our 2013 14 target of 30%.
saying it has helped them manage and improve their finances.
At the end of their careers, our colleagues celebrate their Best Last We listen to what our people tell us and colleague suggestions Day.
We then continue to support and keep in touch with them have been a key part of our strategic objective of improving through the M Plus scheme.
We also know the importance of communicating with our colleagues so that they know whats going on at Morrisons.
Our teams receive regular updates through our Fresh news magazine and colleague communication boards.
This year marked the launch of our Retirement Saver scheme.
This year, against a backdrop of significant pension changes, we introduced our ground breaking Retirement Saver colleague pension scheme, which offers colleagues a guaranteed pension pot when they choose to retire.
The scheme received positive feedback and pension participation trebled within one month of its launch.
The health and wellbeing of our colleagues is key to a happy workforce.
As well as offering healthy food options for our colleagues we also have free of charge health check machines available for colleagues.
Absence and sickness are important metrics which are closely monitored.
Our current absence rate is 3.7% and our sickness rate is 3.5%.
Formal feedback from colleagues is important and our annual Climate survey, supported by bi-monthly Pulse surveys are a key part of monitoring engagement.
This year, our response rate is over 90% and our year-on-year engagement has increased by 6.2%.
31 Performance and strategy review Annual report and financial statements 2012 13 More of what matters for our people continued This year we launched the Feeding Britains Future scheme to help young people 16 to 24 get first hand experience of working in retail.
The participants spent three days in-store, visiting a number of different departments.
We also provided skills training, including CV writing, interviewing skills and marketing experience.
The scheme received excellent feedback and we are pleased to have had more than 100 placement candidates join us as permanent colleagues.
Heart of the community At Morrisons, we want our stores to be truly part of the communities they serve.
We are committed to growing our people to build a loyal and committed workforce, which provides the basis of a strong Morrisons culture and increased social mobility.
We also want our communities to benefit from our growth plans by creating opportunities.
We continue to open new stores and, on average, 75% of colleagues in our new stores are recruited from the local area.
We are committed to paying our colleagues fairly and all our apprentices earn at least twice the apprentice minimum wage.
Each of our stores has a community champion interacting with and benefiting our local communities.
In particular, through our Raise a Smile scheme, we have worked with Save the Children and since April 2011 raised 4.5m.
We have a Market Street in all our stores.
The Morrisons Academy has increased my confidence, allowing me to develop my skills in a supportive learning environment.
Stacey Holmes, Morrisons Finance Graduate 32
