Listening to our customers At Wolseley we continue to focus on improving customer service.
We passionately believe that excellent customer service is at theheart of our business and we can always ndways to improve.
The pace of change of todays world is creating tremendous challenges and opportunities forour customers businesses.
New technology and innovation are redrawing traditional ways of doing business.
This is creating new and emerging opportunities for Wolseley andwe are continuing to nd ways to help our customers do business more efficiently.
Fromnew channels which enable customers to trade with us 24 7, to more exible ways ofdoing business, to better trained, more knowledgeable staff.
While youll see in this years annual report and accounts that weve come a long way, wewillkeep listening to our customers: which gives us confidence we can keep improving our business.
I want a broad range I want to do business with I dont have time I want great service of expertise that is you on the move to be kept on hold!
every time I deal with you alwaysavailable See page 2 See page 3 See page 10 See page 11 I want to spend more time I dont have time I need an expert who I need to know the stock is helping my customers to chase paper understands my needs there when I need it See page 16 See page 17 See page 20 See page 21 Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 1 Listening to our customers I want to do business with you on the move The demands on our customers before 6pm are delivered the next day time are ever increasing which anywhere in Switzerland.
With the means that contractors arent use of mobile devices increasing, always able to contact a branch.
customers can now also order on the Our Swiss plumbing and heating move, or from the jobsite.
They can business has operated an E-Shop for see up-to-date product availability and over 10 years and it now represents trade prices and can also access their 25 per cent of its revenue.
The E-Shop current and historic orders, delivery and other electronic order channels notes and invoices allon the device allow customers to order 24 7 from a of their choice, be it PC, laptop, phone range of over 20,000 stock-keeping or tablet.
units SKUs, and orders taken Wolseley plc 2 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Overview I dont have time to be kept on hold!
This year in the USA we the calls on behalf of the branches have piloted a new business and directs the requests to the right approach in Fort Myers, Florida.
In the first three months We centralised the inside sales team Fort Myers signicantly increased its which looks after larger account revenue and gained new customers customers, from four branches in and is now providing a faster, more the region to a single integrated efficient service to existing customers.
All inside sales associates Most importantly, we now never miss are now located together.
telephony system, a receptionist takes Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 3
