Corporate responsibility CR programme component Sustaining Wolseleys People development profitable, long-term Further information growth See page 52 The Groups Corporate Responsibility CR Health and safety activity is not a separate programme of work, but a reection of the way we want to do Further information business.
The year under review has focused See page 53 on putting in place the most important aspects of the CR strategy that were dened Ethics and compliance in2012.
programme Good progress has been made during the year.
Further information See page 55 Employee engagement scores increased and remain high compared to industry averages.
Processes and controls for the management of health and safety and product integrity Environmental performance and the prevention of fraud, bribery and corruption have been strengthened, supported by new Group minimum standards.
Further information The Group has further reduced its carbon and waste impact and See page 56 significant progress has been made towards the Groups two-year reduction targets.
Product integrity More remains to be done.
The Groups injury and lost workday rates increased by 2 per cent, which was disappointing.
Clear standards, plans and targets have been set in this Further information See page 60 andotherareas and performance will be closely monitored bytheBoard in 2013 14.
Sustainable construction Further information See page 61 Community engagement Further information See page 63 Gain market share Expand profitable Improve gross growth pr p oductivity margins Improve returns and cash Wolseley plc 48 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Performance Overview Governance of Corporate Responsibility Each aspect of the programme exists because Who has overall accountability and sets direction?
it supports the profitable growth of the Group The overall programme is agreed by the Board and reviewed whether through expanded gross margins, annually to ensure its ongoing relevance to business strategy, increased market share or improved stakeholder expectations and broader national and international productivity.
A well-trained and motivated sustainability agendas.
The Groups Company Secretary and General Counsel is responsible to the Board for the overall workforce delivers exceptional customer corporate responsibility programme and for maintaining service and strengthens the Groups market regular dialogue with business units to drive performance.
Reducing the number of days lost Individual programme components receive more frequent through injury improves productivity.
reviewand input by the Board and the Executive Committee.
Reducedfuel and energy consumption lowers Who implements the strategy set by the Board?
the Groups cost base and expands margins.
More rigorous screening of suppliers and With direction from the Board, business units define and execute local action plans.
Business unit plans differ according to their own products leads to fewer defects with products particular level of development and the greatest opportunities for and more reliable customer service.
progress in line with strategy.
The Group Risk, Compliance and Further detail on progress in 2012 13 and objectives Sustainability team oversees implementation.
This team includes for the year 2013 14 is provided in the following pages.
adedicated Risk and Sustainability Manager.
Additional information, including more case studies, is available on the Wolseley plc website www.
Are targets and objectives set?
Objectives and, where appropriate, quantied targets are set for all Key developments in the year CR programme components.
For some focus areas, Group-wide The Group emitted 6.1 per cent less carbon and sent 19per KPIs have been dened.
KPIs have not been set for all elements cent less waste to landll relative to turnover.
of the programme as it is not always practical to bring distinct local practices and reporting methods under one unied metric.
Employee engagement survey scores improved again and Improved performance is the primary goal.
Unied processes continue to outperform industry averages.
and measures are implemented where there is benefit in doing so.
The potential for further Group-wide performance metrics We assessed the skills and experience needed to develop forfuture reporting will continue to be reviewed.
our business and updated our recruitment, development andsuccession plans accordingly.
New Group minimum standards were developed for health and Specialist teams in each business unit monitor performance for safety, anti-fraud, bribery and corruption and product integrity their specic area of responsibility.
The Group Risk Compliance and were approved by the Board.
and Sustainability team monitor performance across all areas of All business units now have targets against the three Group the CR programme, with the exception of People Development health and safety metrics: injury rate, lost workday rate and which is overseen by the Group HR function.
During the year collision rate.
Wolseleys Internal Audit teams tested compliance with policy andadherence to procedures for a number of programmes, All business units achieved greater consistency in the including the product integrity and ethics programmes.
implementation of the Groups standards for anti-fraud, bribery and corruption.
How are risks assessed and mitigated?
The accuracy of the Groups environmental data has improved.
Non-financial as well as financial risks are assessed as part of the Groups comprehensive risk management process.
These include fraud, corruption, product quality, employee, health and safety andenvironmental risks.
For further information on the Groups risk management programme, see pages 42 to 47.
Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 49 Corporate responsibility continued Focus area Principle Supporting profitable growth We value our people and are committed to train and Developing and retaining our people will lead to better People develop all of our employees.
We understand, respect customer service, increased productivity and motivation, development and value personal and cultural differences and improved quality of operations, and greater market promote diversity.
Equipping our employees with the skills they need for the future will fast-track the development of new business models.
We will provide a safe and healthy working environment Protecting the health and safety of our people minimises Health and safety and we will not compromise the health or safety of interruptions to business operations and helps us to gain any individual.
and maintain their trust and loyalty.
It protects the skills and experience that are used to serve our customers.
Maintaining our physical assets minimises the risk of injury, helps us to preserve the integrity of our operations, improves efficiency, lowers our costs and improves the quality of our customer service.
We are committed to observing both the spirit and the Conducting business responsibly and with integrity Ethics and letter of the laws of all jurisdictions in which we operate, minimises risks related to fraud and corruption and compliance and to complying with our Code of Conduct.
It also makes our business programme more efficient because we avoid costly disruptions.
Compliance programmes strengthen ourinternal controls.
We will run efficient operations that consume less energy Improving our environmental performance increases Environmental and fuel, produce less waste and reduce any negative efficiency and productivity and reduces operational costs.
performance effect of our business activities on the environment.
We will explore opportunities to reduce the environmental impacts of our suppliers and customers.
We will work with our suppliers to maintain excellent Complying with our product integrity policy reduces risks Product standards of product quality and safety.
of litigation, claims and business disruption, improving integrity productivity and customer service and reducing We expect our vendors, contractors and agents to adhere our costs.
to our Code of Conduct and to adopt similar standards.
We will be a positive link in the sustainable construction Entering new markets and attracting and maintaining Sustainable supply chain.
customers through new customer services will increase construction our market share.
Working with suppliers to rationalise product packaging reduces operating costs related to distribution and waste management.
We will be a responsible member of the communities Building closer relationships with the communities Community inwhich we work.
in which we operate helps us to promote our engagement business, attract high quality recruits and gain a greater understanding of our customers, vendors and employees.
Wolseley plc 50 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Performance What did we achieve this year?
What are our objectives for next year?
Further information t We ensured that diversity and inclusion is t To measure diversity and inclusion across the Group.
See page 52 discussed and progressed regularly at Executive t To increase the movement of high-potential Committee meetings.
employeesaround our business, specically through t We conducted in-depth studies on workforce short-term assignments.
productivity and developed action plans for t To redesign the Executive leadership programme forour each business.
t We assessed our senior leadership development programmes and redesigned them to align them withour strategy.
Further information t We developed a new Group minimum standard t To achieve full compliance with the Group minimum See page 53 forhealth and safety.
standard for health and safety by 31 July 2014. t We set business unit and Group targets based on the t To reduce injuries per 100,000 hours worked by 2%.
three Group metrics for the coming year.
t To reduce workdays lost to injury per 100 employees t The Board reviewed health and safety performance by 2%.
t To reduce collisions per 100 vehicles by 2% Further information t We reviewed the strength of our anti-fraud, bribery t To further embed compliance programmes in relation See page 55 and corruption programme and implemented the to fraud, bribery and corruption and antitrust into necessary changes.
t We completed a programme of anti-bribery and corruption training.
t We ran advanced level, face-to-face competition law training for relevant employees.
Further information t We reduced our carbon emissions tCO2e by 6%.
t To reduce tCO e carbon emissions and achieve our 2 See page 56 two-year target of 7.5%.
t We reduced waste to landll by 19%.
t To reduce waste to landll and achieve our two year t We improved our data accuracy and engaged PwC to redened target of 23%.
prepare us for assurance next year.
t To improve data accuracy by reducing reliance both relative to million revenue, measurable against on estimates.
a 2011 12 baseline to be achieved by 31 July 2014 Further information t We launched a new, comprehensive system of checks t To ensure that all businesses have met their targets See page 60 and controls to ensure the integrity of our products.
under the product integrity programme.
t To share best practice around the Group.
t Our businesses continue to offer sustainable products t To continue to monitor the market opportunities and Further information See page 61 and provided training to customers in their use, in line share best practice around the Group.
Further information t We continued our support of the Impetus Trust and t To maintain and strengthen our businesses links with See page 63 the Princes Foundation for Building Community, their communities.
and supported a great number of charity and community events.
t In the USA, a major campaign was run in celebration ofFergusons 60th anniversary.
Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 51 Corporate responsibility continued that we continue to provide our sales teams with the right tools People development toprovide our customers with excellent service.
In our UK business, we introduced a new induction programme for branch employees.
This ensures that employees receive How does people development underpin a consistent, high quality induction regardless of location.
New employees also have an assigned buddy to take them Skilled and engaged employees deliver excellent customer service, through their induction and act as a mentor.
develop strong vendor relationships, and maximise operational efficiencies.
We believe that ensuring a motivated and engaged We re-assessed our future people needs and workforce results in more productive ways of working and fastdevelopedour succession and recruitment plans tracks the development of new business models.
Over the past year, we looked at the people resource and skill sets What are the risks and how are we that will be needed to support future business models and aligned managing them?
our recruitment and succession plans accordingly.
The resulting talent pipeline strategy was presented to and approved by the Employee retention and motivation is recognised as one of our Board.
We are now working on implementing action plans in all of significant risks.
For more detail on how we are managing the risk, our businesses to ensure that we continue to attract and develop please see page 46. the best talent at all levels, and we will measure progress against agreed objectives.
In support of this programme, we relaunched What does people development entail?
our graduate programme in the UK, to provide future talent for our We develop our people through structured performance operations as well as our support functions.
management, training, leadership development programmes, Succession planning is a key part of ensuring that our business and succession planning talent management : together these is t for the future.
We continue to conduct talent reviews which represent four of the sixcomponents of our People Strategy provide valuable data to our talent management process.
We continuously measure our progress through engagement We focused our businesses on improved diversity surveys in all businesses.
We are proud that our results improved andinclusion.
against the previous year in almost all our markets and are higher In addition to our drive for promotion from within, we increased than the industry averages.
our talent pool with key external recruitments to supplement the diversity of knowledge, backgrounds, skills and experience.
People Strategy components We believe in the strength of an inclusive culture and this is embedded in our values.
We will maintain our focus on providing a work environment where all employees can deliver to their full potential.
This supports improved diversity and ultimately delivers Leadership better business results.
Performance Training and We assessed our development programmes for Management Development mid-level high potential managers and for our seniorleaders.
We redesigned the leadership programme for senior and mid-level Engagement managers.
Learning and development requires a blended learning approach and therefore the mid-level high potential leadership Talent programme comprises classroom training, individual feedback Management Reward and coaching as well as participation in live business projects where participants work in cross-functional groups.
This enables participants to grow and develop individually as leaders, while also Organisation adding value and providing innovative solutions to the business.
We conducted in-depth studies on workforce productivity.
This has provided valuable insight and enabled us to focus on processes that add value to our customers.
Specic action plans We improved the induction process and training have been developed and are being implemented to improve forfront-line employees.
We place great importance on induction and training of our front-line staff those who face our customers.
In the USA, we launched a new Sales Manager Training Programme to ensure Wolseley plc 52 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Performance What are our objectives, how did we perform in 2012 13 Health and safety and what are our targets for 2013 14?
2012 13 objectives Performance 2013 14 objectives How does health and safety underpin Diversity Ongoing Diversity and To prioritise workforce inclusion ourstrategy?
diversity at all levels of To measure diversity A robust health and safety programme and a positive health and the organisation.
and inclusion across safety culture improve productivity by reducing the number of the Group.
It helps to protect profitability by reducing our liabilities and helps the Group to win business where contracts Workforce Complete Talent mobility require strong health and safety credentials.
productivity To increase the To conduct in-depth movement of highWhat are the risks and how are we managing them?
studies on workforce potential employees The principal health and safety risks relate to workplace productivity and across our business, injuries such as slips, trips and falls, manual handling incidents, develop action plans specically working at height and the use of motorised equipment such foreach business.
through shortas fork lift trucks.
Outside of the workplace, the greatest risk is term assignments.
posed by vehicle collisions while driving on company business.
The Group has introduced improved standards across all Senior leadership Complete Executive leadership its businesses and performance is monitored quarterly by development programme the Board.
Some businesses are certied to OHSAS18001, To assess our senior To relaunch the the  standard for health and leadership development leadership programme safety management.
programmes and for our most redesign as appropriate senior leaders.
What does health and safety entail?
to ensure that they align with our strategy.
Our businesses are continuously improving the systems in place to manage the health and safety of our employees, customers and others with whom we come into contact.
These systems include policies stating our approach and intent, and tools such as risk assessments, documented safe working practices and UK business awarded self-assessments.
At a Group level we measure and report injury rates, lost workday rates and collision rates.
For many of our NewEmployer of the Year business units, additional business or country specic measures The UK business has been presented with the New are in place.
Employer of the Year award by the National Mentoring Consortium NMC, following its involvement in their How did we perform in 2012 13?
The NMC works with over 300 employers and 15 universities Performance against our three health and safety to promote equality and diversity in graduate recruitment metrics was mixed.
and to enhance the employability of black, Asian and ethnic Our performance metrics are injury rate, lost workday rate and minority students, particularly those with a disability or dyslexia.
Group performance against these measures The programme provides support and experience to students is shown below.
seeking managerial and professional careers.
The UK business placed four managers into one-to-one mentoring partnerships 2012 13 metrics Performance 2013 14 targets which helps prepare the students for working in a professional Fleet collision rate 1.0% To reduce the eet environment.
Lost workday rate 2.0% To reduce the lost deterioration workday rate by 2%.
Injury rate 2.3% To reduce the injury deterioration rate by 2%.
Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 53 Corporate responsibility continued We are disappointed to report an increase in the injury and lost A new Group-wide minimum standard for health and workday rate.
The underlying causes of some of these trends are safety has been developed.
understood and are being addressed.
We are targeting a reduction A new Group minimum standard was developed during 2012 13 in injury and lost workday rates next year.
in line with our commitment to continually improve practices In spite of our improved collision rate, we regret to report a across the Group.
The standard expects compliance with 43 fatal collision that involved a Wolseley delivery driver in wintry specic requirements.
All business units scored themselves conditions in the USA in January 2013.
We continue to provide a against these requirements during August this year.
This has rigorous training programme for all drivers, which includes specic allowed us to identify areas for improvement during 2013 14. guidance for driving in cold weather.
All business units will be compliant with the new Group minimum standard by 31 July 2014.
Please note that the injury and lost workday rates are now calculated using Full-Time Equivalent FTE employee numbers Some business units are already compliant with OHSAS 18001, instead of total headcount.
The reported rates for 2009 10, the internationally recognised Occupational Health and Safety 2010 11 and 2011 12 have been restated also using FTE numbers.
This ensures that injury and lost workday rates are not understated as part-time hours are taken into consideration.
We strengthened corporate oversight of branch selfassessments.
The charts that follow show our performance over the past four years.
In many of our businesses, branches complete self-assessments of compliance with health and safety standards.
Fleet collision rate It is important that these self-assessments are accurate so that 1.0% improvement Third-party vehicle collisions per 100 vehicles weaknesses are correctly identied and addressed.
We increased 17.3 20.1 16.6 16.5 corporate oversight of branch self-assessments by strengthening the health and safety function in the Nordic region and by developing an operational audit team in the USA.
Similar teams already exist in the UK, France and Canada.
Central European businesses have engaged with third party health and safety specialists to assess their health and safety performance.
2009 10 2010 11 2011 12 2012 13 Targets have been set for all businesses against Lost workday rate thethree Group health and safety KPIs.
2.0% deterioration Workdays lost per 100 employees Business unit targets, which have been amalgamated into the 64.0 63.9 62.2 63.5 Group level targets presented on page 53, are achievable by 31 July 2014.
Data accuracy and completeness has improved.
The Internal Audit team assessed all business units for compliance 2009 10 2010 11 2011 12 2012 13 with the reporting guidelines and all audit recommendations have been actioned.
Additionally, a more detailed set of reporting guidelines has been documented to ensure the consistency and Injury rate comparability of performance data.
2.3% deterioration Injuries per 100,000 hours worked 1.72 1.47 1.56 1.59 Internal audits have been conducted in a number of our businesses to assess health and safety compliance.
Internal audits of health and safety compliance have been completed in the USA and Canada.
2009 10 2010 11 2011 12 2012 13 Health and safety specialists across the Group continue to share best practice.
Due to rounding of the gures in the bar charts, there is not a Health and safety specialists from each region participate in a precise correlation with the accurate percentage performance quarterly best practice call.
The health and safety team also meet gure shown in the title bar.
face-to-face once a year to review current practices and discuss priorities for the coming months.
Wolseley plc 54 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Performance Ethics and compliance Strengthened central programme supportfor health and safety Nordicregion How does the ethics and compliance The Nordic region has enhanced its central health and programme underpin our strategy?
safety team, which now consists of seven business Compliance with the letter and the spirit of the law and a partners working throughout Denmark, Sweden, Norway commitment to high ethical standards protects our business and Finland.
from unforeseen liabilities and strengthens our reputation with Their job is to support local health and safety initiatives and stakeholders: it nurtures trust across our customer and supplier to perform audits to test branch compliance with national base: it gives reassurance to our shareholders: and it instils legislation and Group minimum requirements.
To support confidence in our workforce.
this initiative the business has implemented a new IT system.
Each business partner uses a mobile tablet to complete What are the risks and how are we checklists on-site.
The result of each audit is automatically managingthem?
sent to the relevant Branch Manager as an action plan, with relevant photo documentation attached.
The Branch Manager Compliance with governmental regulations is recognised as one of our is required to complete all recommended actions before the most significant risks.
For more detail on how we are managing the risk, agreed deadline.
A copy of the report is sent to the local health please see page 47. and safety employee representative and the regional manager.
The system provides management with useful real-time What does the ethics and compliance information on health and safety for each site.
Our ethics programme and Code of Conduct aim to strengthen our core values see page 14 by setting out in clear terms the standards and behaviour expected of our employees and, in some cases, our business partners.
It sets out standards in areas such as bribery, corruption and fraud, preservation of condential information, managing conicts of interest, treating customers and vendors fairly, engaging in fair competition, maintaining high standards of corporate governance, providing a safe and healthy working environment, running efficient operations, minimising waste, limiting our environmental impact, developing our employees and valuing diversity.
We extended our training programmes.
We ensured that employees received the appropriate level of training relevant to their roles.
All new joiners are required to complete training on the Group Code of Conduct, competition law and anti-bribery and corruption, tailored to their role and seniority, as a standard part of their induction.
Health and safety business partners conduct branch audits to test Our controls for the prevention of fraud, bribery compliance with national legislation and Group minimum requirements.
As part of the anti-corruption programme, internal audits were carried out in the UK in 2012 and in the USA and Canada in 2013.
Areas for improvement were identied and action plans developed.
Our businesses have carried out anti-fraud, theft and bribery and corruption risk assessments and actions to mitigate the identied risks are being taken as part of a continuing programme.
For the coming year, further work will be conducted with major suppliers in order to maintain compliance with the Groups bribery and corruption policies.
Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 55 Corporate responsibility continued Enhanced competition law training has been Environmental conducted throughout our businesses.
performance An online competition law refresher course to supplement the full online training course was developed and used in all our businesses.
Employees who previously completed the full course were required to complete the refresher course.
In addition How does environmental performance advanced, detailed training materials were developed and delivered underpin our strategy?
face-to-face across our businesses to employees identied as The reduced consumption of energy, fuel and water and being most at risk.
Competition law specialists along with internal production of less waste lowers our environmental impact counsel delivered thetraining to ensure that it was tailored for whilst reducing cost, improving our operational efficiencies our employees.
Responsible environmental management helps to protect our reputation, as increasingly We continue to encourage our employees to report any customers assess our environmental credentials through incidents of non-compliance through our Group-wide pre-qualication questionnaires.
condential reporting system, Speak Up!.
Employees can disclose information in any language, condentially What are the risks and how are we and anonymously via an international hotline, voicemail or web managingthem?
The condential reports are investigated and, where necessary, actions are taken to rectify any weakness in our There is a risk of increased operational cost due to rising energy systems that may have been identied.
These actions, and the and fuel prices, increasing carbon and waste taxes and more overall integrity of the reporting system, are subject to regular burdensome reporting requirements.
To address the risk, all scrutiny by the Audit Committee.
business units have targets in place to improve energy, fuel and waste efficiency and the Group is reviewing processes to ease What are our objectives, how did we perform in 2012 13 theadministrative burden of reporting.
and what are our objectives for 2013 14?
What does environmental 2012 13 objectives Performance 2013 14 objectives performanceentail?
To complete Complete To continue toensure anti-bribery and that our compliance Environmental performance concerns the management and corruption training.
programmes in reduction of our greenhouse gas emissions, our waste and our relation to fraud, water consumption.
Where possible, we work with our suppliers bribery and corruption to reduce their environmental impacts.
For example, we reduce To assess major In progress and anti-trust are supplier transport emissions by backhauling products from their suppliers and fully embedded in factories when our trucks would otherwise return empty to our business partners.
This reduces the mileage and related CO2 emissions of our suppliers whilst also reducing Wolseleys costs To deliver advanced Complete and number of empty miles on the road.
Wolseley plc 56 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Performance All businesses implemented initiatives to work towards What did we achieve in 2012 13?
We reduced greenhouse gas emissions 6 per cent Each business unit has targets against its two biggest carbon improvement, waste sent to landll 19 per cent contributors typically vehicle fuel and energy and waste to improvement both per million ofrevenue, and water landll.
These performance targets are owned by and remain consumption 3 per cent improvement per employee.
The Group-level targets are an aggregation of the targets set by each business.
The 2012 13 Emissions per m of revenue performance statistics and examples of how the businesses tCO e 6.1% improvement have improved their environmental performance are detailed 61.7 54.2 38.1 35.8 inthe greenhouse gas emissions, waste and water sections thatfollow, with further examples available on the Wolseley plc website www.
We have improved the reliability of our environmental data and have restated our 2011 12 numbers.
2009 10 2010 11 2011 12 2012 13 We have collected and analysed data at a Group level at year end for a number of years.
This year, for the first time, we also Waste sent to landll per m of revenue collated data at the half year in order to assess progress towards 19.3% improvement Tonnes targets.
Through greater scrutiny of the data we identied some 6.0 5.5 3.8 3.1 inaccuracies in the 2011 12 numbers.
These inaccuracies related primarily to miscalculation of Wolseleys Scope 3 indirect emissions related to outsourced transportation.
Our 2011 12 numbers have therefore been restated to ensure that we report anaccurate assessment of performance against targets.
2009 10 2010 11 2011 12 2012 13 13 per cent of the data that makes up our carbon totals were based on estimates, compared to 47 per cent in 2011 12.
48 per cent of the data that makes up our waste totals were based on Average water consumption per employee estimates, compared to 27 per cent in 2011 12.
27 per cent of the 3.5% improvement Cubic metres data that makes up our water totals were based on estimates, 21.2 18.5 25.0 24.2 compared to 77 per cent in 2011 12.
Further attention will be given to waste data accuracy during 2013 14.
To provide further confidence in our data,  PwC have been engaged to test the Group environmental data.
An initial review known as a readiness for assurance test was 2009 10 2010 11 2011 12 2012 13 completed during the final quarter of 2012 13.
We will work to achieve full assurance of our carbon and waste data in 2013 14.
See the right hand column for further details.
The knowledge of our environmental experts continues Due to rounding of the gures in the bar charts, there is not a to be shared across the Group.
precise correlation with the accurate percentage performance Knowledge-sharing sessions have been run to develop best gures.
Where environmental data has not been included due to practices and facilitate achievement of targets.
These have business disposals, the relative measures revenue and employees included webinars on energy efficiency, company car fuel have been recalculated to ensure a like-for-like comparison.
efficiency, commercial eet fuel efficiency and waste management.
Where possible we invite leading third-party speakers to join the meetings to provide further inspiration and suggestions.
An environmental business partner was recruited in the Nordic region, adding tothe expertise within the Group.
Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 57 Corporate responsibility continued What are our targets for 2013 14?
Total Greenhouse Gas Emissions tCO e Tonnes of CO equivalent 000s Metrics 2013 14 targets 3 1.
Greenhouse gas emissions To continue to reducetCO2e 5 tCO2e perm revenue carbonemissions and achieve 97 3 the two-year target of 7.5%.
Waste sent to landll To continue to reduce waste to 245 tonnesper m revenue landll and achieve a redened 198 2 two-year target of 23%.
Data accuracy To continue to improve data 105 21 101 59 58 estimation levels accuracy by reducing reliance on estimates.
127 123 360 74 74 The Group-level targets are set against a2011 12 baseline, with a target date of 346 31July 2014.
Greenhouse gas emissions tCO2e As in previous years, and in line with future UK carbon 2009 10 2010 11 2011 12 2012 13 reporting regulations, total emissions are presented opposite.
Performance relative to revenue is presented on page 57. p Refrigerant leakage p Business travel air and rail Absolute carbon emissions reduced by 4.5 per cent during p Vehicle fuel use: business travel employee cars 2012 13. }
In 2009 10 and 2010 11 p Vehicle fuel use: business travel company cars these numbers were p Vehicle fuel use: goods transport outsourced Emissions have been reported in accordance with the Greenhouse } added together p Vehicle fuel use: goods transport own eet Gas Protocol GHG Protocol.
Wolseley reports on its Scope p Fuel use: operations 1, Scope 2 and selected Scope 3 emissions.
Reported Scope 1 p Electricity use emissions include vehicle fuel emissions from owned or leased 2011 12 numbers have been restated.
See page 57 for further detail.
vehicles and fuels used for operation including natural gas, LPG, diesel, petrol and oil.
Scope 2 emissions include purchased The Groups emissions data has been presented differently electricity and heat i. e. district heating.
Scope 3 emissions include in the chart above this year and retrospectively for 2011 12. the road-based transportation of goods by outsourced transport Further information on this is available on the Wolseley plc providers, road-based business travel in private vehicles and air websitewww.
As a Group, the biggest contributors to carbon emissions are vehicle fuel 51 per cent of total tCO2e, including both commercial vehicle and company cars, owned and outsourced eets, and electricity 31 per cent.
Fuel consumption for operations i. e. gas, oil and district heating consumption represents 16 per cent of the carbon footprint.
Refrigerant leakage and rail and air-based business travel account for 1 per cent and 2 per cent respectively.
The improved emissions performance for the Groups commercial eet 2.5 per cent improvement was driven by a number of initiatives including the implementation of route optimisation programmes, the tting of tracking devices to trucks and running eco-driver training.
Company car eets continue to be upgraded with more fuel-efficient vehicles.
The USA has expanded its successful energy-efficient lighting programme into more new locations.
The Canadian business unit has begun a programme to switch the entire estate to low-energy lighting.
Other initiatives include heating system upgrades and fuel-switching i. e. oil to electric heating.
Wolseley plc 58 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Performance 2.
Waste management Hydrogen powered forklifts Wolseley moves large volumes of product through its supply chain, generating non-hazardous packaging waste and some damaged Nordic region or obsolete stock.
The Groups businesses also create smaller Stark, a business unit in the Nordic region, isacting quantities of hazardous waste.
Denitions vary from country to as a sustainable leader, being the first construction country: hazardous waste may include items such as batteries, distribution business in the country to invest in forklifts paint and electronic equipment: non-hazardous waste typically with fuel cells that run exclusively on hydrogen.
includes materials such as paper, plastic and metal.
Since November, trucks in operation at the Stark City store in Total waste volumes reduced by 11 per cent during 2012 13, the Copenhagen area all use fuel cell technology.
Per million of revenue, waste volumes create zero pollution, the only waste being completely pure improved by 12 per cent.
The mix of waste types by final water which is discharged by the heating fuel cells as steam.
destination landlled, incinerated or recycled also improved, with 21 per cent more waste being recycled and 18 per cent less Additionally, the trucks only consume hydrogen when they waste being sent to landll.
As our two-year target of a 15 per are being driven or are lifting.
When the truck is stationary, for cent reduction in waste sent to landll per million of revenue has example when handling items, no energy is consumed unlike been surpassed during the first year of the target period, thetarget diesel forklifts that consume fuel even when idle.
In addition has been adjusted upwards for the second year see page 58. to the trucks, the site also has its own hydrogen station which Our business units will continue to increase the proportion of makes refuelling quick and easy it takes only three to four totalwaste that is recycled, and reduction targets for waste to minutes to refuel a tank.
landll will help in achieving this.
Non-hazardous waste 99% of total waste 11% improvement Tonnes of waste 000s 50 46 41 40 23 20 15 14 12 10 9 8 2009 10 2010 11 2011 12 2012 13 p Incinerated p Land-lled p Recycled Stark in the Nordic region has invested in hydrogen fuel-cell forklift trucks, reducing carbon emissions and saving time with faster refuelling.
Hazardous waste 1% of total waste 34% deterioration Tonnes of waste 000s 1.10 Additionally, we continue to reduce our suppliers 0.79 emissions through backhauling.
0.68 0.49 0.19 0.02 0.17 In the USA and UK business units, drivers collect products from 0.04 0.10 0.09 0.07 0.06 supplier factories when driving back to their distribution centres DCs, following branch deliveries.
In 2012 13 the US business, 2009 10 2010 11 2011 12 2012 13 through its carrier UPS, lled 41 per cent of its DC backhaul p Incinerated p Land-lled p Recycled empty miles, compared to 39 per cent in 2011 12.
See page 57 for further details.
Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 59 Corporate responsibility continued Product integrity Lean and green USA The US business recognises that moving towards more environmentally sustainable business practices makes How does product integrity underpin good sense.
significant efforts have been made to ourstrategy?
reduce the volume of waste sent to landll, byimproving At Wolseley, product integrity means ensuring that we source and the collection of recyclable waste, and byusing plastic supply safe products that are of suitable quality as efficiently as containers and pallets.
In doing so we aim to improve our margins, avoid liability Every distribution centre DC in the US business has its own arising from defective products and maintain or grow market share baler, making it possible to compact its own cardboard and through enhanced customer satisfaction and confidence.
The DCs also backhaul cardboard and plastic from the branch network.
This recyclable waste is then sold for the What are the risks and how are we manufacture of items such as paper, new boxes and packing managingthem?
As well as meeting its environmental objectives, the business also saves money, especially on waste disposal Product-related litigation is recognised as one of our significant fees.
The DCs have almost eliminated the need for cardboard risks.
For more detail on how we are managing the risk, please see pallet-sized boxes to ship smaller materials to the branches by page 45. investing in re-usable plastic shipping totes and plastic pallets.
What does product integrity entail?
Product integrity includes: t ensuring that our products are reliable, robust and safe whenused for their intended purpose: t understanding our business partners, the quality of their systemsand how they conduct their business and provide theirservices: and t ensuring compliance with legal standards.
Business units continued to implement more structured procedures for the evaluation of suppliers and products.
The US backhaul recyclable waste from branches to the distribution centres, Our businesses have reviewed the level of risk associated with reducing the volume of waste sent to landll.
Further risk assessments will be completed during the first quarter of 2013 14, after which we will engage with all suppliers linked to high-risk products to ensure that our required controls are in place.
Water use We have evaluated our procedures with suppliers to understand where we need greater clarity in our contracts or assurance The majority of the Groups water consumption is related to regarding ethical practices or financial health.
We have continued normal operational and sanitary use.
Although water consumption to promote systems through which suppliers can provide us with is not as material a factor in our operations as it would be for a this type of information quickly and consistently, and these have manufacturer, we have continued to measure water consumption been introduced in some businesses.
This activity will continue throughout the Group in an effort to identify opportunities to through the next financial year.
Some of our local businesses have targets in place forreduced water consumption but targets are not required forallbusinesses and a Group-level target has not been set.
This year our absolute water use decreased by 6.5 per cent andthe average water consumption per employee improved by3percent.
Wolseley plc 60 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Performance We continued to strengthen our timber sourcing Sustainable construction policies and procedures.
In March 2013, the EU Timber Regulation came into effect.
The regulation introduces obligations for conrming the integrity How does engagement in the sustainable and source of products on the operator and or importer of the construction supply chain underpin timber products.
Operators must implement a due diligence ourstrategy?
process which enables them to trace timber products and to confirm their legality at the place of harvest.
Wolseley has The requirement for sustainable construction is growing at differing assessed its timber products for a number of years and, where rates in our markets and, where the market opportunity exists, appropriate, works with specialist business partners to ensure we can gain market share by stocking sustainable construction thesystems we have in place meet the requirements of the products and by offering training and advice to our traditional regulations and our sourcing policies.
What are our objectives, how did we perform in 2012 13 What are the risks and how are we and what are our objectives for 2013 14?
2012 13 objectives Performance 2013 14 objectives Suppressed market conditions and pressure on margins are two To conduct risk In progress.
To ensure that all of the Groups most significant risks.
Sustainable construction assessments businesses have products open up new market opportunities to mitigate Completion due against all of met their targets these risks.
October 2013. our major under the product product integrity programme What does engagement in the sustainable categories.
so that the risks construction supply chain entail?
associated with product defects Wolseley supports the distribution and promotion of sustainable and supplier default construction products in line with the local market opportunity.
Each market is at a different level of maturity and therefore the level of engagement with this new market opportunity also differs by market.
To measure our Complete for all To share best Product Integrity businesses with practice around Sustainable construction products can include products that: performance the exception of the Group.
t improve the thermal efficiency of a building i. e. insulation products, againstagreed business units in draught-proong : or metrics.
France which, due to restructuring, are t increase the efficiency of a buildings systems i. e. heating controls, participating in this energy-efficient lighting, water-efficient showers : or programme from t generate clean energy i. e. solar thermal or ground-source 2013 14. heat pumps.
The sustainability of a product also refers to its impact over its life cycle and takes into account the scarcity of the materials that go into its fabrication.
We worked to engage our customers in .
We recognise the need for traditional plumbing and heating engineers to be familiar with new renewable products and solutions, and have developed facilities that allow customers to experience the products first hand.
Training is a key element of the customer proposition in this sector, with some Wolseley businesses developing comprehensive training courses and opening training centres to encourage the industry to adopt sustainable products.
We publish tailored sustainable-product guides in a number of markets to assist customers in identifying better products.
For example, Beijer, in Sweden, has developed a product label called Green Choice which helps its customers to select products that enable improved energy-efficiency and reduced carbon emissions.
Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 61 Corporate responsibility continued We became a Green Deal Provider in the UK.
Delivering affordable warmth Plumb Center in the UK has received authorisation from the Green Deal Oversight and Registration Body to act as a Green inthe UK Deal Provider.
Green Deal Provider status provides Plumb Center customers the opportunity to access Green Deal funding on behalf The UK business is helping to deliver the Energy of the end consumer.
Company Obligation ECO, a government scheme which requires energy companies to fund the installation Under the Green Deal households are able to benefit from energy ofenergy efficiency measures in homes throughout efficiency improvements, such as heating controls, condensing theUK.
boilers and various types of insulation, with little or no up-front cost.
Instead, the Green Deal provides a pay as you save The ECO gives vulnerable people and those on lower incomes nancing mechanism, enabling consumers to take out a loan for access to free energy-efficient products and systems for their the improvements and pay the cost back in instalments through homes.
This reduces energy loss from buildings supporting future electricity bills.
The repayments are calculated to be, on government carbon reduction targets and lowers the home average, no more than the corresponding savings made on owners energy bills a win-win situation.
Designed to work alongside the Green Deal, the Department Plumb Center believes that a heating installer is ideally placed to of Energy and Climate Change estimates that the ECO will see become both a Green Deal Installer and a Green Deal Adviser.
280,000 additional heating systems installed across the UK by Plumb Centers dedicated Green Deal website, www.
the end of March 2015. co. uk, provides information for anyone wishing to become The UK business is helping heating engineers to benefit from accredited for either, or both, roles under Green Deal.
the new business opportunities generated by the ECO scheme by giving them the training and tools required to carry out Green We signed up to a charter to support future sustainable Deal assessments, supplying the comprehensive package development Nordic region.
ofproducts required and facilitating access to ECO finance.
Stark in Denmark joined with a number of Nordic companies in signing the Nordic Built Charter.
Nordic Built is an initiative to accelerate the development of sustainable building concepts, initiated by the Nordic ministers for trade and industry.
The Charter is a public declaration of the values, intentions and ambitions of a united Nordic building sector.
It describes a holistic approach to the built environment taking energy, climate, economy and people into account and all businesses that sign up to it commit to ten principles.
Essentially, the Nordic Built Charter gives a fragmented sector a platform for cooperation and provides a common set of fundamentally sustainable values.
What are our objectives, how did we perform in 2012 13 and what are our targets for 2013 14?
The objective remains for our businesses to continue to provide access to sustainable products and training, in line with local market opportunity.
No prescriptive actions or targets have been set in this area at a Group level due to varying levels of market development and differing business strategies.
Business units will continue to share expertise and best practice across the Group to facilitate market entry or increased market share.
The UK business provides training and tools to customers, equipping the customers to bid for new business through government-led energy-efficiency schemes.
Wolseley plc 62 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Performance Community engagement 60 Days of Caring USA In honour of the US business 60 year anniversary, employees How does community engagement underpin in more than 225 Ferguson locations, including the companys headquarters in Newport News, Virginia, participated in a our strategy?
nationwide 60 Days of Caring campaign to give back to and By engaging with the communities in which we operate we strengthen the communities where they live and do business.
promote our business, attract high quality recruits and gain a Employees and partners donated approximately 20,000 lbs greater understanding of our customers, vendors and employees.
of food to 101 charitable organisations throughout the United Community or charitable events serve to enhance employee skills States, including animal shelters, food banks and youth and increase employee engagement.
What does community engagement entail?
Our businesses seek to be contributing members to the communities in which they operate.
The Group also supports a number of charitable organisations both at a Group and a business unit level.
Our principal areas for charitable support continue to be the alleviation of homelessness, the provision of training for the homeless or marginalised in order to allow them to return to work, and the improvement of the quality of the built environment.
Our businesses have also supported numerous other charitable causes, including support for neglected and vulnerable children and provision of care for sufferers of cancer or other illnesses.
Community engagement is, by its very nature, a local activity and our corporate head ofces and individual businesses manage their own activities in this area to suit their own preferences and locations.
We encourage all of our employees to engage in charitable or community activities outside the workplace and we recognise the value that this brings to communities and the personal reward and new skills it can bring to our employees.
Employees donate food to 101 charitable organisations as part of a nationwide 60 Days of Caring campaign in honour of Fergusons 60th anniversary.
Our employees engaged in a great number of community and charity events.
More information on our CR programme, including further casestudies, For examples of the events and schemes our employees and statistics and examples of our practices, our employee training programmes, businesses have supported over the last year visit the Wolseley awards and community engagement can be found on the Wolseley plc website at www.
Further business plc website www.
Through the Companys unit information is also available on the websitesof our subsidiary companies.
charitable trust, we continued to support a number of organisations, in particular the Princes Foundation for Building Community.
The Company is a member of its Corporate Partnerships Programme.
Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 63
