50 Reviews Corporate Responsibility Review Sustainability is at the heart of our business practices.
This report outlines our achievements.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2013 Reviews 51 Dont hesitate for a second to tell a manager, or act yourself, if you think a situation is unsafe.
Always ensure the safety of yourself, your colleagues and of the people whose lives and environments we touch.
Prof Dr Uwe Krueger Chief Executive Officer Our commitment Figure 1: Accident incident rate AIR Staff We are establishing more sustainable and 2,500 responsible business practices across our worldwide operations and using our 2,000 leadership position in our sector to raise industry safety standards and accelerate 1,500 the move towards a low carbon society.
Our achievements are summarised in this 1,000 report.
500 Leadership We believe we have a responsibility to our 0 people and to the communities in which 04-05 05-06 06-07 07-08 08-09 09-10 10-11 11-12 12-13 we operate and the last year has been a Office Actual Engineering Actual Construction Actual critical period in the development of the Office Benchmark Engineering Benchmark Construction Benchmark policies and processes that underpin this.
We sought an independent evaluation of Figure 2: Accident incident rate AIR Contractors our Groupwide approach to corporate 2,500 responsibility and sustainability, working closely with a member of the UKs 2,000 Department for Business, Innovation & Skills to complete a review of our existing 1,500 measures.
Following this work and an additional programme of stakeholder 1,000 engagement within the Group, we have developed a draft set of guiding principles 500 for sustainability.
Our intention, in the current year, is to share the principles with the Atkins community and stakeholders.
0 04-05 05-06 06-07 07-08 08-09 09-10 10-11 11-12 12-13 Following engagement, long term sustainability goals will be captured in Office Actual Engineering Actual Construction Actual a pathway model.
Office Benchmark Engineering Benchmark Construction Benchmark Throughout the year we have used our Improving safety standards through 50 million man hours of work in two years behavioural change has also been a focus with no lost time injuries.
Elsewhere we leadership position in our sector and our membership of industry safety and for the Group in the past year.
We are have been instrumental in establishing driving progress in the Middle East a Consultants Health and Safety Forum sustainability forums to influence international institutions and clients and through our work with the Middle East in the Asia Pacific region.
Construction Safety Executives and to drive positive change.
By working in partnership with the UK Governments Consultants and Major Programme Health In the UK, as members of the Rail and Safety Forum in Qatar.
In Abu Dhabi, Infrastructure Safety Liaison Group and International Development Department and University College London, we our site supervision team working on the Sustainable Development Working Group, Al Falah development was recognised, we are leading sustainability change in the produced a report examining the social, environmental and economic risks alongside contractors, for achieving rail industry.
posed to a number of cities in light of accelerated urbanisation and climate change http: www.
The report identifies practical policy options to help people living in these cities and urges residents, authorities and investors to take action now to future proof against the risks identified.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2013 Reviews 52 Reviews Corporate Responsibility Review continued Safety performance to make safety a natural part of our Safety awards and recognition Encouraging widespread identification organisational culture.
We are Atkins commitment to sustainable and and reporting of accidents and near empowering our people to put safety responsible business practices is evidenced misses is fundamental to the cultivation at the heart of everything we do and by the range of awards we won during of a strong safety culture at Atkins.
to create widespread awareness of the the year.
Our accident incident rate AIR measures concept of natural safety through their our peoples and contractors accident effective leadership and behaviour.
This In the UK, we were awarded a Royal performance.
Our peoples AIR includes the development of a red, amber, Society for the Prevention of Accidents performance remains broadly in line with green RAG list to help designers working RoSPA Gold Award for Occupational industry norms, as compiled by the UKs across the Group identify, prioritise and Health and Safety.
Health and Safety Executive Labour Force mitigate risk.
Senior leadership teams in Survey.
There has been a decrease in all regions have received behavioural Additionally, the UKs Olympic Delivery major accidents and minor injuries in the safety coaching over the last year.
The Authority supply chain, including Atkins, UK.
We continue to see an increase in emphasis on behavioural safety will received the RoSPA Diamond Jubilee near miss reporting and can attribute continue in the current year, with site Award for outstanding health and a 17% rise to our awareness programme.
visits and an expansion of the leadership safety performance during preparations Next year we will broaden the scope of programme to target middle managers for the London 2012 Olympic and our safety performance statistics reporting who are in positions of influence.
Our safety, health and environment A full list of awards can be found on Behavioural safety culture survey reinforced the value of the our website at www.
com Each element of our behavioural safety SBC programme, with results showing about-us awards.
model Safe by Leadership, Safe by an improvement in the understanding Design and Safe by Choice addresses and application of health and safety a different business risk.
The survey also supported the operational activities, design work and need to carry out more leadership training decision-making.
We continue to build for middle managers.
on the strength of our worldwide Safe by Choice SBC programme that aims Our safety priorities Objective Actions Success measures Evaluate progress towards Use a tracker to monitor Group wide advancement the natural safety progress across the Group.
Promote a vibrant Strengthen the role of key Our people feel behavioural safety culture.
influencers and safety empowered to promote champions in the business safety.
to help tackle unsafe behaviour and create further progress towards natural safety.
Our progress Atkins has introduced Safe by Design and Safe by Leadership programmes aimed at equipping key influencers to change the safety culture.
A UK driver safety working group has been established to improve the management of driving related risks.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2013 Reviews 53 Our industry leading stance on reducing carbon emissions drives our commitment to developing carbon efficient solutions www.
com investor-relations Carbon emission reduction Carbon Disclosure Project Reporting greenhouse gas emissions Our industry leading stance on reducing The Carbon Disclosure Project CDP is an For the third year in a row the Group carbon emissions drives our commitment international, not-for-profit organisation excluding North America has achieved to design and develop carbon efficient providing the only global system for certification to the ISO 14064 solutions that will help in the transition companies to measure, disclose, manage international standard for the to a low carbon economy.
and share vital carbon related information.
quantification and reporting of The CDP showcases FTSE 350 companies greenhouse gas emissions.
with the most professional approach to Verification of greenhouse corporate governance and information We continue to report on gas, electricity gas emissions disclosure on climate change.
Atkins and liquid fuel consumption for our Lloyds Register Quality Assurance has provided data to the CDP for the businesses in Asia Pacific and Europe, LRQA Limited has provided limited last four years and we have featured in the Middle East, the UK and North assurance of our direct and indirect performance and leadership indices during America.
We also report on business greenhouse gas GHG emissions data that time.
Our latest score placed us in travel emissions for all of our worldwide for the financial year ended 31 March the top quartile of the CDP FTSE 350 operations.
Figure 3 shows the total 2013 in line with ISO 14064-1.
Our objective is to continue to emissions for each region and the split process covers our scope 1, 2 and 3 improve our score by further developing of emissions between scope 1, 2 and 3 as business travel emissions in Asia Pacific good practice in relation to supply chain defined by the Greenhouse Gas Protocol.
and Europe, the Middle East and the issues and our North America operations.
Limited assurance means nothing has come to the auditors attention UK Carbon Trust Standard and the that would indicate that the data is Carbon Reduction Commitment not correct.
CRC Energy Efficiency Scheme Atkins has maintained certification to the UKs Carbon Trust Standard for more than four years.
During this time, the UK Governments Department of Energy and Climate Change commenced its energy efficiency scheme CRC.
In a CRC league table released in January 2013 Atkins was the highest placed engineering consultancy.
Air conditioning equipment due to lease arrangements we only have operational responsibility for air conditioning equipment in a small number of UK properties.
We class all road travel as scope 1 emissions.
North America figures are not verified in line with ISO 14064.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2013 Reviews 54 Reviews Corporate Responsibility Review continued UK energy governance team Carbon Critical Design achievements A governance team has been established Our commitment to Carbon Critical to develop an energy carbon Design helps us identify and analyse the management strategy for UK properties.
sources of CO emissions in our projects 2 The team has concentrated its initial and provide our clients with cost effective resources on energy efficiency ways of reducing CO. For example, the 2 benchmarking.
Hong Kong Construction Associations Environmental Committee commissioned Raising Awareness Cutting Energy Atkins to produce a practical guide for campaign carbon reduction at construction sites.
The three year, Olympic themed Raising Awareness, Cutting Energy RACE We also seek to lead the carbon critical programme came to an end in the year agenda by shaping policies and just ended.
205 Atkins offices regulations and establishing innovative participated, resulting in a 12% reduction practices in design.
This approach has in worldwide electricity use and a 3% been recognised by the British High reduction in UK and European gas Commission in India, part of the Foreign consumption.
7,500 employees were & Commonwealth Office, which has trained in energy saving practices.
Our employed Atkins to develop low carbon new sustainability programme, to be masterplanning approaches to the cities launched in 2013, will have broader aims, of Mysore and Madurai.
encompassing waste, resource management and social investment initiatives as well as energy reduction.
Our carbon priorities Objective Actions Success measures Improve the monitoring of Develop a carbon Improved clarity on carbon carbon emissions in North management plan for risks and opportunities.
Evaluate carbon in the Work with the supply Increased information on supply chain.
chain to understand supply chain carbon carbon issues.
Our progress We maintained high levels of performance in the international Carbon Disclosure Project and the UKs Carbon Reduction Commitment.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2013 Reviews 55 Our commitment to the environment is reflected in our management of environmental impacts www.
com investor-relations Respect for the environment We have drawn on environmental As a pilot project, the conventional urinals Our commitment to environmental expertise within our business to develop at a UK office have been replaced with stewardship is reflected in our a good practice site booklet on waste waterless technology, saving 500,000 management of environmental impacts management for worldwide use by litres of water per year.
We will evaluate and in our approach to enhancing the Atkins employees.
the success of this pilot project with a environment through our ecological and view to expanding the use of waterless biodiversity services.
Our Asia Pacific business obtained urinals across our UK offices.
Wastewi$e Label recognition for good Systems waste related performance from the Ecology and biodiversity Atkins safety, health and environmental Hong Kong Awards for Environmental We consider ecological impacts as an culture survey indicated a rise in Excellence.
integral part of our design process.
In the worldwide environmental interest, a trend UK, we have developed a GrowBox that supported by an increase in internal Water gives community groups in urban areas environmental minor incident reports.
Our North American business has the products and advice they need to participated in the Everglades Restoration create or improve green spaces such as Waste Program.
This is the worlds largest parks and allotments.
This concept was Over the last three years we have environmental ecosystem restoration shortlisted for the London Green expanded our recycling schemes.
project, encompassing ecological Infrastructure competition, run by the An indication of what has been learned rejuvenation, water storage and Landscape Institute, the Mayor of London during our participation in the Waste wastewater reuse, flood control and and the Garden Design Museum.
and Resources Action Programme, Halving recreation.
Waste to Landfill initiative in the UK is Our work on Farringdon train station in demonstrated by one of our key projects, As part of a drive to reduce our water London won an ecology and biodiversity the London 2012 Olympic and Paralympic consumption, a series of site water audits CEEQUAL award, the UKs sustainability Games Park, where we were able to were carried out in Australia and lessons assessment, rating and awards scheme for recycle 95% of the materials.
learned will be shared across the Group.
civil engineering, thanks to an integrated A good practice site booklet has been living roof design that was a first for UK Our UK offices have reduced their paper, developed for worldwide use and a review rail operator Thameslink.
toner and energy use through the of water use in offices will be undertaken introduction of more efficient printing next year.
The Group also developed a framework processes and technology.
for Korup National Park in Cameroon that is aimed at conserving the biodiversity of lowland tropical forests while promoting social and economic development and sustainable use of natural resources.
Our environmental priorities The provision of social and physical Objective Actions Success measures infrastructure was a central element of the project to allow the resettlement Play our part in enabling Communicate guiding Increased understanding of six villages within the park that were a more sustainable future.
principles to Atkins people and implementation of having a major impact on wildlife.
to improve understanding sustainability working and implementation of practices across Atkins.
Regulatory activity sustainability working Following extraordinary weather practices.
conditions, there was a minor discharge More sustainable office Implement the next Increased understanding of silt into a brook at the site of one of our practices.
across the Group of ways projects.
We self reported this issue and in which sustainability associated corrective actions to the UKs practices can be Environment Agency which was happy embedded in day-to-day with our response and issued us with its operations.
Our progress The good practice on site booklet, which includes management of waste and water, was developed for worldwide use.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2013 Reviews 56 Reviews Corporate Responsibility Review continued Environmental awards and Excellence in delivery Technical excellence recognition Our commitment to technical excellence We continue on our journey towards The Asian Development Bank, dedicated has made us one of the worlds leading technical excellence.
Design principles to reducing poverty in the Asia Pacific design, engineering and project have been embedded across the Group region, recognised Atkins contribution management consultancies.
Throughout through a worldwide programme of to an Urban Green Initiative programme the year we have focused on putting webinars delivered to all designers.
promoting waste, water, energy and internal policies and processes in place The principles have strengthened our transport related sustainable that will help us strengthen this position.
processes, controls and design development.
Assurance Atkins enjoyed outstanding success Lloyds Register Quality Audit has certified Our Ecology Technical Excellence Group at the UKs 2013 CEEQUAL awards event.
the Group to ISO 9001, ISO 14001 has developed targets for benchmarking The projects recognised included the and OHSAS 18001 excluding North ecological practices, ensuring involvement London 2012 Olympic and Paralympic America.
The UKs rail business has in major cities infrastructure projects Games Park and public realm, the M74 gained BS11000, a management standard and lending expertise to companies completion project, the M25 widening which certifies competence in building constructing green bridges, green roofs J16-23 and J27-30 and the Hatfield a mutually advantageous approach from and carrying out green walls projects.
We continue to deliver award winning At the American Public Works Association The Group is streamlining its governance projects, details of which can be viewed APWA Awards 2013, Atkins Timber Lake policies and controls to improve on our website: www.
com stormwater system in Tallahassee won employees understanding of Atkins projects.
the Environmental Project of the Year vision, governance, commitment and from the APWA Florida Chapter.
Supply chain A new policy statement sets out our A full list of awards can be found on our Raising the profile of security has led to commitment to collaborate with supply website: www.
com aboutan increase in the reporting of incidents, chain partners to ensure that goods and us awards.
resulting in improvements to personal, services are provided in a spirit of respect premises and information security.
and fairness, in alignment with our values on quality, safety and sustainability.
Our excellence in delivery priorities Objective Actions Success measures Project delivery excellence.
Evaluate the understanding The principles are applied and application of design throughout the design principles.
Our progress The development of common processes and methods of working continued throughout the year.
An example of this is the global design principles framework, which systemises the design journey and processes.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2013 Reviews 57 We recognise the importance of social and community investment to our overall business performance www.
com investor-relations Working with our community we helped seven to 19 year olds in Atkins graduates in the Middle East have Atkins recognises the value of social and the UK explore the career possibilities engaged in fundraising for Children on community investment to our employees that exist for people with science, the Edge, which promotes humanitarian morale and development and to our technology, engineering and maths efforts to operate education centres for overall business performance.
Some of STEM backgrounds during the Big children in Burma, as well as supporting this years projects include: Bang Fair in London.
Around 50,000 children in refugee camps in Bangladesh young people attended and Uganda Atkins has been awarded the Caring Company logo from the Hong Kong as part of the London 2012 Games an Atkins nuclear engineer has worked Council of Social Service for the fifth legacy programme, Atkins provided on a voluntary basis to install a solar year running, in recognition of our high internships to seven people, each of electrical system for a hospital in South standards of corporate responsibility in whom had recently studied STEM Sudan.
He used renewable energy caring for employees, local communities subjects.
In the UK we have launched sources to create a reliable power supply and the environment the Budding Brunels scheme to to a hospital servicing 45,000 newly introduce young people, particularly arrived refugees.
we are encouraging more young people those from areas with high levels to consider a career in engineering of poverty, to engineering and design through our support for government strategies that promote we have a number of active corporate the work of scientists, technologists, responsibility groups around the world.
For example, the UK business has We are also supporting people who supported and raised funds for several are acquiring skills in these subject areas local charities and key international later in life organisations such as RedR, the international disaster relief charity, and the Bangalore office has supported a variety of Trees for Life initiatives that help people become leaders in their communities Our community priorities Objective Actions Success measures Improve our approach Develop a more strategic Attract more young people to the promotion of approach to STEM.
to pursue STEM related STEM subjects.
Agree a volunteering Greater visibility of framework across the UK.
volunteering and recognition of volunteers work across the Group.
Our progress Group wide sustainability principles have been developed which incorporate community investment and education.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2013 Reviews
