Corporate social responsibility Developing a sustainable business The Group strongly believes that corporate A new charitable giving programme Xaar continues to sponsor PrintIT!.
responsibility is integral to business success.
was launched by Xaar in 2012, whereby is a major initiative to encourage young The Group is compliant with all relevant employees could nominate and vote for people to embark on careers in the UK regulation and legislation whilst enhancing six charities to each receive a 2,000 printing industry.
the working environment for our employees donation.
The chosen charities for 2013 In 2013, Xaar invested 1 million in and minimising the environmental impact of were Hinchingbrooke Hospital, ABF The bonds to support the Future Business our manufacturing processes.
There is Soldiers Charity, The Rosie Hospital Centre in Cambridge.
The centre internal reporting of key metrics throughout Campaign, the British Heart Foundation, provides affordable workspace with the business, and each member of staff is the Swedish Childhood Cancer Foundation support and shared services to new expected to take individual responsibility for Barncancerfonden, and the Swedish social and environmental enterprises.
their performance and to work together to Cancer Society Cancerfonden.
In addition Health and safety achieve shared goals.
to the chosen charity donations, Xaar It is Xaars intention to conduct business has sponsored a number of staff and Formal directives and certification in a manner that protects the public, their families engaging in charity events The Group manufactures products in the environment, and employee safety.
or team activities throughout the year.
both Sweden and the UK and undertakes Xaars Health & Safety policy provides a Xaar also made donations to the Oxfam R&D in the UK.
The Group complies with framework for setting and reviewing of Philippines Typhoon Appeal, Young all local and European legislation relevant Occupational Health & Safety Objectives.
People of the Year, Comic Relief, Children to the respective territories.
The Groups This demonstrates Xaars commitment in Need and the East Anglian Childrens manufacturing facilities in Jrflla and to the prevention of injury and ill health Hospice.
In total, the Group made Huntingdon are both ISO 9001 and ISO and also the continual improvement in charitable contributions to childrens, 14001 certified.
It is the Groups policy to Occupational Health & Safety Performance.
local and national charities during the maintain this level of certification for its Xaar recognises that the combination year totalling 20,204 2012: 16,806. manufacturing facilities and to comply at of a safe place of work and safe working No political donations were made in all times with all relevant environmental practices, together with a productive and the year 2012: nil.
and other legislation in the territories in innovative environment, are critical to the The social club, which is aimed at which the Group operates.
The Group continued success of the Company.
encouraging staff to have fun and get is compliant with REACH Registration, to know each other socially, held several The management of Xaar is committed to Evaluation, Authorisation and restriction events throughout the year including achieving and maintaining full compliance of Chemicals, WEEE Waste Electrical theatre trips, comedy nights, a punting with health and safety legislation.
Although and Electronic Equipment and RoHS excursion, sporting events, gliding certain responsibilities under this policy Restriction of the Use of Certain evenings, Duxford Air Show, ice skating, can be attributed to specific roles within the Hazardous Substances directives, as Cirque du Soleil and nights at the races.
organisation, and in particular with different required under European legislation.
During 2013 Xaar began sponsorship levels of management, each and every of an Imagineering Foundation club at The Group has a proactive Health and Xaar employee shares the core basic a Huntingdon primary school.
The Safety System modelled on OHSAS 18001 duty to understand their responsibilities Foundation introduces 8-16 year olds in Cambridge, Huntingdon and Sweden.
to observe instructions put in place and, to the fascinating world of engineering where necessary, to draw these to the and technology through fun, hands-on Social responsibility attention of others.
A visit to the Huntingdon Xaar employees took part in a range of To achieve its Health & Safety policy, the factory introduced the pupils to Xaars events to raise money for Comic Relief on Company will ensure that the organisation manufacturing processes and several Red Nose Day in March 2013, and Xaar is led by example: systems are in place engineering staff members explained entered two teams into the BBC Children to engage, train, develop and maintain how different education streams can in Need fun run around the Cambridge competent and informed personnel: lead to exciting careers in technology.
26 Xaar plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic report Governance Financial statements resources are allocated to enable safety standards to be maintained: employee involvement and open communication are encouraged: plant, equipment and facilities are safe and without risk to the health and welfare of all persons who could be affected by their use or maintenance: substances required and used in the workplace are handled safely: a comprehensive risk assessment programme is maintained covering all activities and processes, with control measures implemented to minimise risk where applicable: adequate welfare facilities are provided: where accidents or near misses occur, they are reported, investigated and treated as the source of Based on the closing headcount at 31 December the split of staff by gender was as follows: learning for ongoing working practices: and best practice is shared across the Group.
31 December 2013 31 December 2012 male female male female Human rights The Group respects all human rights All employees 625 170 445 111 and in conducting its business the Group Directors 8 0 8 0 regards those rights relating to nonSenior Managers 59 14 53 11 discrimination, fair treatment and respect Employees excluding Directors and Senior Managers 558 156 384 100 for privacy to be the most relevant and to have the greatest potential impact on its key stakeholder groups of customers, The Groups aim is that its employees discriminatory and promote equality of employees and suppliers.
should be able to work in an environment opportunity.
In particular, recruitment, free from discrimination, harassment and selection, promotion, training and The Board has overall responsibility for bullying, and that employees, job applicants, development policies and practices are ensuring that the Group upholds and customers, retailers, business introducers monitored to ensure that all employees promotes respect for human rights.
The and suppliers should be treated fairly have the opportunity to train and develop Group seeks to anticipate, prevent and regardless of: according to their abilities.
mitigate any potential negative human rights impacts as well as enhance positive impacts race, colour, nationality including The Group places considerable value on through its policies and procedures and, in citizenship, ethnic or national origins the involvement of its employees and has particular, through its policies regarding gender, sexual orientation, marital or continued to keep them informed of the employment, equality and diversity, treating family status various factors affecting the performance customers fairly and information security.
religious or political beliefs or affiliations of the Group.
This is achieved through Group policies seek both to ensure that disability, impairment or age formal and informal meetings.
All employees employees comply with the relevant real or suspected infection with HIV AIDS participate in a bonus scheme based on legislation and regulations in place in the membership of a trade union individual performance and Group business UK and other operating locations and to targets and, in the UK, have the opportunity promote good practice.
The Groups and that they should not be disadvantaged to participate in an HMRC approved Share policies are formulated and kept up to date by unjust or unfair conditions or Save Scheme and Share Incentive Plan.
by the relevant business area, authorised requirements.
by the Board and communicated to Environmental The Group aims to ensure that applications all employees.
The Group has manufacturing sites in for employment from people with Huntingdon, UK and Jrflla, Sweden, R&D The Group undertakes extensive monitoring disabilities, and other under-represented and head office functions in Cambridge, of the implementation of all of its policies groups, are given full and fair consideration UK, and sales offices worldwide.
The Group and has not been made aware of any and that such people are given the same is committed to minimising its impact on the incident in which the organisations activities training, development and job opportunities environment through the reduction of waste have resulted in an abuse of human rights.
Every effort is also and by operating its facilities as efficiently as made to retrain and support employees possible.
Production material scrap, waste Equality and diversity who suffer from disabilities during their levels and energy usage are all monitored The Group is committed to providing a employment, including the provision of regularly.
Our printhead technology working environment in which employees flexible working to assist their re-entry improves process efficiency and reduces feel valued and respected and are able to into the workplace.
wastage in our end markets.
contribute to the success of the business.
Human Resources policies are reviewed Employees are requested to co-operate regularly to ensure that they are nonwith the Groups efforts to ensure that the policy is fully implemented.
com 27 Corporate social responsibility Greenhouse gas emissions statement Xaar plc calculated its global greenhouse Assessment parameters gas GHG emissions statement using an Baseline year 1 January 2013 to 31 December 2013 operational control consolidation approach Consolidation approach Operational control as described in the Greenhouse Gas: Protocol: A Corporate Accounting and Boundary summary All entities and all facilities under operational Reporting Standard Revised Edition, 2004, control included subject to the materiality which reflects the Defra Environmental threshold applied Reporting Guidelines Revised October 2013.
Consistency with the financial statements The only variation is that leased properties deemed to be under operational control have Scope 1 emissions occur from sources been included in scope 1 and 2 emissions that are owned or where Xaar plc has operational control.
This includes direct Materiality threshold Materiality has been set at Group level at 5% emissions from gas combustion in our Assessment methodology Greenhouse Gas Protocol and ISO 14064-1 buildings and fuel used in leased company 2006 vehicles.
Actual and estimated gas Intensity ratio Emissions per m turnover excluding royalties consumption data has been collected from each of the leased properties under The total of any excluded emission sources are estimated to be less than 5% of Xaar plcs total the control of the Xaar Group, from data reported emissions.
sources including direct meter readings, meter readings from suppliers included 2013 on invoices and estimations where required GHG emission source tCO e tCO e m 2 2 based on available information from Scope 1 97 1 property management suppliers and other sources.
Actual and estimated Scope 2 5,882 46 mileage data has been collected from Statutory total scope 1 and 2 5,979 47 the leased company vehicle fleet.
Scope 2 refers to indirect emissions from The GHG emissions statement includes the consumption of purchased electricity emissions data from leased assets that are also including any purchased heat, steam not included in the rest of the consolidated or cooling from facilities owned or under financial statements, other than in note 31 the operational control of Xaar plc.
and estimated data has been collected from each of the leased properties under the control of the Xaar Group, from data sources including direct meter readings, meter readings from suppliers included on invoices and estimations where required based on available information from property management suppliers and other sources.
28 Xaar plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Board approval of the strategic and annual reports The strategic report, annual report and financial statements, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable and provide the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
Phil Lawler Ian Dinwoodie Alex Bevis Chairman Chief Executive Finance Director and Company Secretary Ramon Borrell Ted Wiggans Richard Barham Research and Development Director Operations and Quality Director Sales and Marketing Director David Cheesman Robin Williams Non-Executive Director Senior Independent Director www.
