STRATEGIC REPORT Business model page 9 SuStainability Summary BAE Systems manages the current impacts of its operations and products, andanticipates the future global business environment to ensure that it has processes in place to support the long-term sustainability of the Group.
Sustainability of our reputation and our andproducts by using energy, water and An inspired workforce licence to operate is an integral part of the waste more efficiently.
BAE Systems recognises that its employees Groups business model.
It is focused on are key to delivering the Groups strategy Businesses across the Group have embedding responsible business behaviours successfully and sustaining future business.
environmental management systems in place and placing emphasis not just on what the that monitor and manage impacts from People development Group does, but how it is done.
greenhouse gas emissions, material and The Groups people strategy of through-career solvent use, waste products, and emissions The Group focuses on the areas identified by capability development and emphasis on high to the atmosphere.
internal and external stakeholders as having levels of employee engagement seeks to the greatest potential to affect the long-term Product maximise the contribution that its workforce sustainability of the business, by directly Environmental considerations are taken into makes to the performance of the business.
impacting the Groups reputation or ability account throughout a products lifecycle from The success of this strategy is measured tooperate.
The areas identified that shape concept, design and manufacture through to ultimately in the success of the business the Groups sustainability objectives and use and disposal via the Groups Lifecycle asawhole.
programmes are high priorities for the Group.
Management LCM process see page 69.
Diversity and inclusion This includes reducing the environmental A culture of integrity BAE Systems is committed to creating an impacts of the Groups products during BAE Systems continues to embed its ethics inclusive work environment where a diverse research and development, minimising waste programme globally, driving the right behaviours range of talented people can work together to materials during manufacturing, and helping by supporting employees in making ethical ensure business delivery.
Diversity amongst to reduce the impact of our products when decisions and embedding responsible the Groups workforce is a significant force for they are used, upgraded or disposed of.
innovation and assists the Group in responding Product stewardship The Groups Code of Conduct sets out the to customer requirements.
The Groups Research & Development R&D principles and standards of business conduct At the end of 2013, three 27% and two activities cover a wide range of programmes, expected of all employees.
It provides them 17% of the Board and Executive Committee and include technological innovations and with practical guidance on how to deal with members, respectively, were women.
Globally, techniques to improve the manufacturing and situations that may arise in their day-to-day 1 59 15% and 15,000 20% of the Groups service of products.
2 senior managers and total workforce are was 1,051m 2012 1,138m of which 171m Clear governance structures and visible women, respectively.
leadership play a vital role in embedding Employee safety It is critical that the Groups products perform corporate responsibility.
Safety of the Groups employees, and anybody as designed without harm to the people using The Groups governance framework, as who works on its sites, is a key priority.
Nocomplex and innovative product, described in the Operational Framework, Group continues to embed a safety first whether used in defence or civilian markets approach byproviding training and tools that covers the products we make and export.
It is essential that help employees understand the importance of TheGroups Responsible Trading Principles, theGroup achieves an appropriate balance a safe workplace, and encouraging employees Product Trading Policy and Pursuit of Export between the benefits they provide to customers to take responsibility for their own safety and Opportunities Policy help employees make and the risks associated with their use.
the safety of those around them.
The senior informed decisions about the business opportunities the Group pursues and to leadership of the Group plays a key role in Community investment address any responsible trading risks, maintaining the focus on safety and leading BAE Systems Global Community Investment including risks associated with the product through example.
Strategy is defined through the support it and its intended end use, the country of provides both financial and through Responsible environmental originand delivery, and the customer.
BAE Systems aims to align its management resources in support of primary areas of The Group is committed to respecting Operational focus the needs of the Groups customers, humanrights in its operations, within its The Groups goal is to reduce the education and skills, heritage and the sphere of influence.
environmental impact of its operations communities in which the Group operates.
1 Excluding equity accounted investments and rounded to the nearest thousand employees.
2 Senior managers are defined as employees who have responsibility for planning, directing or controlling the activities of the Group or a strategically significant part of the Group and or who are directors of subsidiary undertakings.
62 BAE SyStEmS ANNuAL REPORT 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT Safety Unconscious bias training SHEZINE is a tool that has been launched on the unconscious bias training was rolled out during uKintranet site in order that employees across 2013.
The concept of unconscious bias is an theuK can share best practice in safety, health important component of an inclusive culture because andenvironment, and highlight areas of concern it alters the way people think, both positively and inthe workplace.
negatively, and how they view and evaluate others.
Employees participated in discussions on video workplace scenarios.
2013 priorities 2013 progress 2014 priorities Ethics and governance n Continue to improve and evolve the n Network of Ethics Officers established n Continue to improve and evolve the Groups business conduct programme.
n Training provided for all senior employees n undertake external assessment of on export control procedures, and ethical culture and environment.
n Employee survey confirmed that the senior leadership of the Group is committed to ethical business practices and conduct.
Employee safety and wellbeing n Demonstrate improvements against key n The Group achieved a 17% reduction in n Continue the drive towards a world-class safety indicators, including a 10% the Recordable Accident Rate in 2013. level of safety.
improvement in the Recordable Accident n The number of major accidents n use benchmarking against leading Rate.
increased compared with 2012, companies to identify key areas for prompting detailed reviews and improvement and focus.
n Health and wellbeing initiatives were rolled out across the uS, uK and Australian businesses focusing on bothphysical and mental issues.
Diversity and inclusion n Increase diversity and inclusion within n unconscious bias training rolled out for n Increase diversity and inclusion within the organisation in accordance with all employees through online training the organisation in accordance with business goals.
and management-led engagement business goals.
n Diversity and inclusion plans to be n BAE Systems progress in increasing aligned with business plans and Key female representation has been Performance Indicators identified for recognised by external organisations.
monitoring and tracking against plans.
Operational environmental impacts n Set environmental improvement targets n All businesses set, and the majority n Set environmental improvement targets to include energy, water and waste.
met, improvement targets for energy, to include energy, water and waste.
n The Group developed a more mature approach to capturing carbon emissions data across the business.
FOr a mOrE DEtailED rEViEW OF SuStainability, GO tO PaGES 112 tO 119 OF tHE DirECtOrS rEPOrt BAE SyStEmS ANNuAL REPORT 2013 63
