DIRECTORS REPORT Business model page 9 SuStainability BAE Systems manages the current impacts of its operations and products, andanticipates the future global business environment to ensure that it has processes in place to support the long-term sustainability of the Group.
During 2013, the Group focused on four Recognising the increasing use and importance A culture of integrity priorities: of IT and social media, all employees using Responsible business conduct the Groups IT system completed a number of Ethics and governance continue to BAE Systems continues to embed its ethics training modules on IT security.
BAE Systems improve and evolve the Groups business programme globally, driving the right behaviours operates in a heavily regulated and secure conduct programme.
by supporting employees in making ethical sector, and it must ensure that employees are decisions and embedding responsible mindful of the risks that are faced both by the Employee safety and wellbeing continue business practices.
organisation and as individuals with access to to improve safety standards across all our highly confidential and sensitive material.
The operations and demonstrate improvements In 2013, Lord Gold, the monitor appointed by Groups social media guidelines have been against key safety indicators, including a the US Department of Justice, concluded his developed to help employees and contractors 10% improvement in the Recordable three-year term.
His final report confirmed the understand how to minimise those risks and Accident Rate.
progress made and the robustness of the use digital and social media responsibly.
processes in place to ensure high standards Diversity and inclusion increase diversity of ethical business conduct are maintained.
All employees will participate in Code of and inclusion within the organisation in Conduct refresher training in 2014.
This will The Groups Code of Conduct sets out the accordance with business goals.
be developed to address current key issues, principles and standards of business conduct Operational environmental impacts set such as the use of social media and security expected of all employees.
It provides them environmental improvement targets to of information.
with practical guidance on how to deal with include energy, water and waste.
situations that may arise in their day-to-day During 2013, 1,043 enquiries were reported activities.
Guidance is also included on where Objectives for safety and environment were to Ethics Officers and through the Ethics employees can seek further advice.
annual incentive-related for senior executives, Helpline.
The Group has seen a steady with 5% of total remuneration linked to increase in reports and requests for guidance If employees or third parties need help or employee safety and 2.5% to progress against to Ethics Officers as they become more guidance in addition to that provided by the environmental targets see page 94 of the established within their businesses.
Code of Conduct, or want to report a concern, Annual remuneration report.
they can call the Ethics Helpline, which is If employees are found to be in breach of the managed by a third party and is available Objectives for diversity and inclusion were set Groups Code of Conduct or related policies, 24hours of every day using a freephone within each executives personal development they will potentially be subject to disciplinary number from most countries.
The caller has plan to drive alignment of activity with functional action.
In 2013, 265 employees were the option to speak to someone in their own and business issues.
An assessment of dismissed for reasons relating to breaches of language.
Employees can also get progress against these objectives is the Groups standards and policies, primarily independent advice and support, or report determined by the Chief Executive as part for personnel and workplace issues.
concerns via Ethics Officers, now in place ofthe overall performance review.
across the businesses, or via the Ethics Governance An overview of progress against 2013 Helpline e-mail address, which is also made Clear governance structures and visible priorities is discussed on the following pages available to third parties via the Groups leadership play a vital role in embedding and within the reporting segment reviews website.
The Code of Conduct and related policies are The Chief Executive has overall responsibility supported by regular mandatory training for all for the Groups ongoing commitment to employees.
During 2013, the Group provided corporate responsibility.
He is supported export control training for all senior bythe Board and Corporate Responsibility employees, which explained the standards Committee in ensuring that appropriate required on export control and International policies, systems, reporting structures Traffic in Arms Regulations.
Senior executives andmetrics are in place to achieve the In September 2013, BAE Systems was confirmed and business leaders completed further Groups ethical, social and environmental asamember of the Dow Jones Sustainability World training on the Advisers, Gifts and Hospitality, .
This reflected improvements Facilitation Payments, Community Investment inexternal reporting and engagement on and Conflicts of Interest mandated policies in sustainabilityissues.
112 BAE SyStEmS AnnUAL REPORT 2013 Directors rePort DIRECTORS REPORT Dismissals for reasons relating to unethical behaviour Enquiries to Ethics Helpline 2013 enquiries to Ethics Helpline 2013 1,043 1 383 2013 265 2012 1,024 2 194 2012 292 2011 1,011 3 189 2011 298 2010 734 4 89 2010 355 2009 870 5 59 2009 485 6 129 All enquiries reported to Ethics Of cers and via If an employee is found to be in breach of the the Ethics Helpline were reviewed and reported Groups Code of Conduct or any other relevant either to the Ethics Review Committee or, in policies, appropriate disciplinary action, which 1 Guidance and advice BAE Systems, Inc. to the Ethics Review may include dismissal, is taken.
2 Employee relations and conduct Oversight Committee.
3 Management practices 4 Accounting charges practices 5 Open enquiries 6 Other US category only Customers may use offset as a discriminator The Groups Corporate Responsibility team BAE Systems regularly engages with other as part of their procurement process and a reports directly to the Chief Executive, and companies to understand progress and the request for offset may impact on the Groups supports the Executive Committee in latest status of thinking on ethical standards.
ability to access international markets.
The embedding and driving processes and The Group is a corporate member of the UK underlying principles applicable to all of the performance.
Performance is measured and Institute of Business Ethics and the US Groups offset activities are that: risk monitored throughout the year via the Defense Industry Initiative.
Groups six-monthly Operational Assurance Stakeholder engagement they are undertaken in accordance with the Statement see page 69 and Quarterly The Groups principal stakeholders include Code of Conduct: Business Review see page 69 processes.
investors, customers, employees, business they have clear line management ownership The Groups Internal Audit team also partners, suppliers, civil society organisations and executive oversight: assesses the effectiveness of policies and and the communities in which it operates.
processes relating to key areas of ethical they are consistent with the customers BAE Systems aims to communicate openly andreputational risk.
offset policies and proportionate to the with stakeholders about its business.
value of related contracts: and The Managing Director, Corporate Two-way dialogue helps the Group to Responsibility is a direct report to the Chief understand others views and concerns, financial and non-financial risks are clearly Executive and supports the Groups Corporate andprovides an opportunity to explain the assessed and mitigated.
Advisers The Groups governance framework, as Public policy and lobbying BAE Systems has rigorous standards described in the Operational Framework, The Lobbying and Political Support Policy concerning the appointment of advisers.
covers the products we make and export.
setsout the standards to be followed by Allappointments must be proposed and TheGroups Responsible Trading Principles, anyone engaged in lobbying or other political approved in accordance with the Groups Product Trading Policy and Pursuit of Export engagement on behalf of BAE Systems, processes and require final authorisation including those from outside the business.
Opportunities Policy help employees make through an external panel.
The principles underpinning this policy are: informed decisions about the business Human rights opportunities the Group pursues and to BAE Systems engages in lobbying The Group is committed to respecting address any responsible trading risks, activitiesin the countries in which it humanrights in its operations, within its including risks associated with the product operates in order to communicate with, sphere of influence.
and its intended end use, the country of andinform, legislators and government originand delivery, and the customer.
taxation decision-makers on matters relating to The Group seeks to build constructive working Improving industry standards theCompanys business: relationships with tax authorities while The Group continues to support the anyone engaged in lobbying activities following a policy of open disclosure in order improvement of ethical standards across onbehalf of BAE Systems conducts to achieve early agreement and certainty in thedefence industry.
themselves in a way that conforms with relation to its tax affairs.
Whilst the Group During 2013, the Group participated in the theCompanys standards of responsible aims to maximise the tax efficiency of its International Forum on Business Ethical business conduct: and business transactions, it does not use Conduct IFBEC for the Aerospace and structures in its tax planning that are against BAE Systems does not make corporate Defence Industry, both as Chair and as Task the spirit of the law and actively considers the contributions or donations to political Force members.
IFBEC is committed to implications of any planning for the Groups parties.
promoting high ethical standards through the wider corporate reputation.
Further information adoption of Global Principles of Business Industrial participation on the Groups tax policies is set out on Ethics for the Aerospace and Defence Industry Industrial participation or offset is governed by page120.
the Groups Offset Policy which sets out the standards to be followed by anyone engaged in offset activity on behalf of BAE Systems.
See Deloitte LLP assurance statement on page 119.
BAE SyStEmS AnnUAL REPORT 2013 113 DIRECtORS REPORt SUStAINABILIty 2013 gender diversity % 2013 age diversity % 1 1 70 30 5 2 2 74 26 3 78 22 4 84 16 3 91 9 5 6 80 20 4 Male Female 1 Electronic Systems 1 25 years and younger 7 2 Cyber & Intelligence 2 26 35 years 19 3 Platforms & Services US 3 36 49 years 33 4 Platforms & Services UK 4 50 59 years 32 5 Platforms & Services International 5 60 years and older 9 6 Total The Group welcomes employees becoming encourage a culture of lifelong learning and An inspired workforce shareholders in BAE Systems and offers help employees to develop their skills to BAE Systems recognises that its employees anumber of employee share plans to maximise their potential.
are key to delivering the Groups strategy supportthis.
successfully and sustaining future business.
In 2013, the Group continued to invest in When redundancies have been necessary to learning programmes for all employees that The Group serves the needs of its customers align with customer requirements for products support its culture of responsible business by delivering a wide range of advanced and services, management works with conduct.
Extensive use is made of e-learning defence, aerospace and security solutions employees, trade unions, and local and media, classroom training and partnerships that provide a performance edge.
With some national bodies to mitigate the impact on the with academic institutions to provide 1 84,600 employees, BAESystems relies on people and communities affected.
Over 200 talented people who are committed to courses are made available to employees and The Group has constructive relationships with delivering these solutions.
trade unions, and regularly communicates and People development Sustaining and developing capability relies on discusses business developments which The Groups people strategy of through-career developing the existing workforce and hiring impact the Group and its employees.
capability development and emphasis on high talented people to meet current and future Diversity and inclusion levels of employee engagement seeks to skills requirements.
BAE Systems is committed to creating an maximise the contribution that its workforce Employee engagement inclusive work environment where a diverse makes to the performance of the business.
The Group recognises the importance of range of talented people can work together to The people strategy assists every member engaging its employees to help them make ensure business delivery.
Diversity amongst ofthe team to fulfil their personal potential.
their fullest contribution to the business.
the Groups workforce is a significant force for The success of this strategy is measured Through a variety of media, the Groups innovation and assists the Group in responding ultimately in the success of the business leadership seeks to listen to employees to customer requirements.
views and opinions, and keep them informed The Group focuses on its goal of building a about developments and prospects for the The Group continues to focus on the diverse workforce which reflects that of the business.
In 2013, there continued to be development of its current and future populations it recruits from.
A particular current more frequent use of leadership blogs and employees with structured global programmes focus is increasing female representation in the other e-enabled communication channels.
linked to Total Performance Leadership, an pipeline for senior roles where this is possible.
integrated performance management and In the fourth quarter of 2013, employees A standard Management Resource Review, leadership development framework.
In 2013, wereinvited to take part in an engagement which includes succession and development more than 360 leaders in the UK took part survey.
The overall participation rate planning, is conducted annually at Group and inthe Leading for Total Performance compared with the previous engagement business level.
The 2013 review showed that development programme, which has been survey increased by 11percentage points 20% of the high-potential population are female.
designed to be the catalyst for a mind-set to58%.
Across BAE Systems, there were shift in the Groups leadership population, increases reported in the survey questions Across the Group, businesses have put in supporting leaders to face the challenging onengagement, creating an environment place plans to 2015 to support and progress andchanging business climate with ofopenness and trust, and pride in working this aim.
Activities include a focus on confidence and with the right skills to flourish.
This reflects the Groups succession planning, development and More than 720 leaders have participated ongoing commitment to creating an leadership programmes and mentoring inthe programme since it started at the environment in which employees can initiatives.
endof 2011. contribute to the success of the Group.
In 2013, the Executive Committee progressed The Group has continued to demonstrate its Regular internal communication, including actions to grow the female talent pipeline at commitment to the continuous professional e-Cards, newsletters, management and team senior executive levels: and personal development of its workforce.
meetings, monthly team briefs and the Fostering a culture of inclusion unconscious Development planning is supported by flexible intranet, keeps employees informed, involved bias training for all employees was rolled out training and education programmes that and inspired.
1 Including share of equity accounted investments.
114 BAE SyStEmS AnnUAL REPORT 2013 Directors rePort DIRECTORS REPORT Diversity and inclusion In August, a group of employees in the UK became the first from a major engineering business to take part in the Manchester Pride parade.
The Pride festival is an annual ten-day event for the lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender community.
The objective of the training is to Achievements during 2013 included: In the US, BAE Systems is partnering with enhance talent management by raising several organisations, such as the National BAE Systems Indias programme to support awareness of unconscious and conscious Math and Science Initiative and the women employees to develop their careers bias that can influence decisions.
Aerospace Industries Association, to support was recognised as best practice by the the development of science, technology, Accelerating the development of high-potential National Human Resource Development engineering and mathematics curricula women an Executive Committee mentoring Network, a national level association of andengage young students, with the goal programme, launched during 2012 to leverage human resources professionals.
ofinspiring them to become future the readiness of high-potential women across engineers.
For example, the business In the UK, BAE Systems was awarded the organisation, continued during 2013.
Of supports organisations such as Team theLarge Companies award at the Mail the first cohort of 24 women, over 70% were America RocketryChallenge.
onSundays Breaking the Mould awards promoted or moved roles.
A second cohort for its work in providing opportunities for was launched in November 2013.
In the UK, the Group has again teamed with women at all levels of the UK business the Royal Air Force in staging a Schools Road Increasing leadership diversity to ensure andattracting and retaining women to Show, taking a theatre-based class to over diverse candidate lists for leadership roles, anengineering company.
250 schools, engaging 25,000 pupils in where possible, executive search firms were 2013about careers in engineering.
For the seventh consecutive year, employed with a track record of open and BAESystems was listed in the top 50 UK inclusive recruitment processes, and drawing In 2013, BAE Systems Saudi Arabia graduated companies in which women want to work from an appropriately diverse pool of 30 students from its annual Summer Training byThe Times newspaper.
candidates, with the overall aim of appointing Programme which provides key training in the best person for the role.
During 2013, the business, computer and interpersonal BAE Systems won an Opportunity Now percentage of external female candidates communication skills.
More than 500 Excellence In Practice Award.
students from various universities, colleges the Workforce of the Future award was and schools join the programme annually.
presented for the innovative work Measuring performance on a national basis, BAESystems does in providing In Australia, the business sponsors school defined aspirational objectives and actions opportunities for female apprentices.
pupils to participate in the FIRST Foundation have been put in place to increase gender for Inspiration and Recognition of Science and diversity.
Gender diversity in leadership The Group is committed to giving full and fair Technology LEGO League and FIRST Robotics positions and succession plans is monitored.
consideration to applications for employment Competition, both aimed at encouraging from disabled people who meet the At the end of 2013, three 27% and two moreyoung people to engage in science, requirements for roles, and making available 17% of the Board and Executive Committee technology, engineering and mathematics.
training opportunities and appropriate members, respectively, were women.
Globally, accommodation to disabled people employed In India, BAE Systems has a long-term 1 59 15% and 15,000 20% of the Groups by the Group.
partnership agreement with Smile Foundation, 2 senior managers and total workforce are a national level development organisation with women, respectively.
Education and early careers an outreach of over 200,000 underprivileged The Group works with the education sectors BAE Systems is proud to have received children, women and youth across 25 states.
in each of its home markets to help shape recognition for the progress it is making on In 2013, BAE Systems launched a mobile theworkforce of the future with a particular diversity.
The Group regularly benchmarks hospital called Smile on Wheels that provides emphasis on encouraging young people to itself against external organisations and primary healthcare services to underserved pursue careers in science, technology, usesexpert groups to provide inputs to communities in the city of Bengaluru in India.
1 Excluding equity accounted investments and rounded to the nearest thousand employees.
2 Senior managers are defined as employees who have responsibility for planning, directing or controlling the activities of the Group or a strategically significant part of the Group and or who are directors of subsidiary undertakings.
BAE SyStEMS ANNUAL REPORT 2013 115 DIRECtORS REPORt SUStAINABILIty Major injuries recorded 2013 causes of major injuries recorded % 1 Slips, trips or falls on same level 34 8 9 7 2013 65 2 Struck by moving falling object 10 1 6 2012 44 3 Injured while handling, lifting or carrying 7 5 2011 59 4 Fall from height 5 4 2010 53 5 Strike against something xed stationary 3 2009 77 6 Contact with moving machinery 3 3 7 Trapped by something collapsing overturning 1 Major injuries recorded increased during 2013 prompting detailed reviews and investigation by 8 Contact with re 1 2 senior management.
9 Struck by moving vehicle 1 minimum wage Regrettably, there were two work-related Responsible environmental BAESystems complies fully with its obligations employee fatalities in 2013.
Each accident management under minimum wage regulations.
isthoroughly investigated and lessons learnt Operational are applied across the Group.
Employee safety The Groups primary operational impacts Safety of the Groups employees, and anybody Employee health and wellbeing onthe environment are through the use who works on its sites, is a key priority.
The The Group recognises that a healthy ofenergy used for heating and lighting Group continues to embed a safety first workforce is a more engaged and productive workspaces.
The Group has relatively few approach byproviding training and tools that one and, during 2013, promoted an energy-intensive processes.
Water use is help employees understand the importance of enterprise-wide campaign to make employee alsolinked to employee numbers apart from a safe workplace, and encouraging employees wellbeing a top priority.
in the Munitions business steam and cooling to take responsibility for their own safety and and shipyards where water use fluctuates In the US, thousands of employees embraced the safety of those around them.
The senior significantly if a dry dock is used.
In the a new wellness challenge through the leadership of the Group plays a key role in majority of businesses, waste is of high value BAESystems, Inc. Health Councils Be maintaining the focus on safety and leading and they seek to recycle wherever possible.
ProActive initiative, which gives access to through example.
programmes, tools and resources to help The Groups goal is to reduce the them take charge of their health.
During 2013, the Groups global Safety, environmental impact of its operations Health and Environment SHE Steering Group andproducts by using energy, water and A UK-wide working group has introduced a focused on reviewing high-risk manufacturing waste more efficiently.
new Employee Assistance Programme EAP, activities which could lead to major accidents.
produced a common suite of occupational Businesses across the Group have The SHE Steering Group also monitored health standards and processes, co-ordinated environmental management systems in place safety performance, including progress UK-wide health and lifestyle promotions and that monitor and manage impacts from against the Safety Maturity Matrix SMM, awareness campaigns, and re-tendered and greenhouse gas emissions, material and which was introduced in 2008.
The SMM has consolidated all third-party occupational solvent use, waste products and emissions helped drive consistent standards of safety health service provision across the Groups tothe atmosphere.
During 2013, businesses set targets to The metric used by the Group to measure The EAP, launched in 2012, is a confidential reduce the amount of energy and water used, workplace injuries is the Recordable Accident service available 24 hours a day, 365 days and the amount of waste generated.
In total Rate which, along with the number of major ayear.
It provides counsellors and legal and 1 during the year, energy use reduced by 7%, accidents, is used to determine an element medical advisers who offer confidential advice 2 water consumption reduced by 16% and ofexecutive bonus.
During 2013, the on topics such as personal finances, 2 waste generated reduced by 17%.
Recordable Accident Rate decreased by 17%, relationships, bereavement, stress and ahead of improvement targets set.
The EAP service had over 11,000 The majority of the Groups greenhouse gas progress represents a sixth consecutive year interactions with employees in 2013, including emissions come from energy use and of improvement.
The number of major injuries telephone and face-to-face counselling, business travel.
increased compared with 2012 prompting callsto the telephone advice helpline and Whilst the business has achieved a reduction detailed reviews and investigation by senior useof the online health portal.
in energy use on a like-for-like basis, the management.
The chart above shows that 3 Groups reported carbon footprint for 2013 In Australia, BAE Systems offers health over half of the major injuries in 2013 were has increased by 31%.
This is the result of an awareness programmes, including the due to slips, trips or falls.
increasingly mature approach to capturing Weightwatchers @ Work programme, emissions data across the global business.
whichencourages healthy eating and 3 The carbon footprint now includes some lifestylechoices.
1 Data is derived from internal recording systems on a like-for-like basis with 2012 and is not subject to external verification or audit.
2 Data is derived from internal recording systems and is not subject to external verification or audit.
3 The footprint was externally compiled by the Coefficient Company.
4 Excluding share of joint ventures.
116 BAE SyStEmS AnnUAL REPORT 2013 Directors rePort DIRECTORS REPORT 1 2 2 Energy usage Water consumption Waste generated 7% 16% 17% significant additional sites and fuel sources Reduction Commitment and the Australian Global greenhouse gas emissions data for the not present in the 2012 calculation.
The 2013 National Greenhouse and Energy Reporting period 1 November 2012 to 31 October 2013 3 footprint also incorporates changes to CO e Act.
tonnes of CO e 2 2 conversion factors that increase reported Product stewardship 1 535,370 emissions from certain business activities.
Innovation 2 679,750 Product Innovation is both BAE Systems heritage 3 243,710 Environmental considerations are taken into andkey to the sustainability of the Group in account throughout a products lifecycle from 4 Emissions per employee 19 meeting the rapidly changing and diverse concept, design and manufacture through to military and civil requirements of customers.
use and disposal via the Groups Lifecycle 1 Combustion of fuel and operation of facilities Management LCM process see page 69.
The Groups Research & Development R&D Scope 1 This includes reducing the environmental activities cover a wide range of programmes, 2 Electricity, heat, steam and cooling purchased impacts of the Groups products during and include technological innovations and for own use Scope 2 research and development, minimising waste techniques to improve the manufacturing and 3 Business travel Scope 3 materials during manufacturing, and helping service of products.
In 2013, R&D expenditure to reduce the impact of our products when was 1,051m 2012 1,138m of which 171m T he sources of greenhouse gas emissions fall within they are used, upgraded or disposed of.
the Groups consolidated financial statements.
Emissions from joint ventures and pension scheme Intellectual property is important to the Engineers are given training and guidance properties not occupied by the Group are not included.
Groups success in obtaining and maintaining viathe Group-wide Environmental Policy The greenhouse gas emissions data is in line with a competitive advantage.
andProduct Environmental Management the Greenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate Accounting handbook to promote understanding of and Reporting Standard revised version and Like any industrial concern, BAE Systems, in environmental product design.
emission factors for fuels and electricity from the producing products and providing services, 2013 Government GHG Conversion Factors for creates intellectual property which often has a The Group works with suppliers to reduce the Company Reporting.
value to the Group far greater than is reflected environmental impact of the products and The CO e associated withcarbon dioxide, methane 2 in the value of the particular contract or services they supply, reducing costs and the and nitrous oxide is reported.
Greenhouse gas programme of work.
It takes many forms, Groups environmental footprint.
To support emissions associated with hydrofluorocarbons, including products, processes and know-how.
perfluorocarbons and sulphur hexafluoride are this, the Group has a Sustainable Procurement estimated to be immaterial to total emissions.
handbook to help purchasing teams understand The Groups Operational Framework mandates The reporting year for greenhouse gas emissions and embed environmental standards into the a policy to protect the Groups intellectual isoffset from the financial reporting year.
property including patents, registered Australian carbon data included relates to the most recent reporting year forthe National Greenhouse Working in partnership with a variety of designs, and registered trade and service and Energy Reporting Scheme regulations ended organisations, the Group helps improve the marks through appropriate use and June2013.
environmental impacts of its business and observance ofintellectual property law, so The principal record of the Groups worldwide facilities the wider defence industry.
BAE Systems is that returns madefrom the investment in is its legal departments Global Property Database.
acorporate member of the Institute of research and development and technological Greenhouse gas emissions are primarily calculated Environmental Management and Assessment innovation areprotected, and commercial from energy consumption records reported via the IEMA.
In the UK, this is used to develop the andbusiness innovations are adequately Groups global environmental database.
Where competencies of both environmental and safeguarded.
actual usage data is not available for facilities and non-environmental specialists.
Elsewhere, residences within the Global Property Database, an In 2013, the Group filed patent applications estimated consumption is used based on floor areas BAE Systems is working with IEMA on the covering approximately 250 new inventions.
up-skilling and professional development of At31 December 2013, BAE Systems had Greenhouse gas emissions related to business individuals across the environmental arena.
atotal portfolio of patents and patent travelinclude airtravel data for the majority of the applications covering more than 2,000 global business, hire car and rail data for business The Group monitors and reports greenhouse units operating in the UK and US, and executive car inventions internationally.
gas emissions, primarily from energy use, on data and hotel bookings for businesses in the UK a Group-wide basis.
This supports the Group only.
These data are taken from suppliers in meeting the requirements of legislation, procurement records.
such as the UK governments Carbon BAE SyStEMS ANNUAL REPORT 2013 117 DIRECtORS REPORt SUStAINABILIty Innovation information at your fingertips Pilots of the Hawk Advanced Jet Trainer aircraft will have vital information at their fingertips thanks to new tablet computers fitted by BAE Systems.
The computers allow training pilots to view everything from technical publications, landing trajectories, conversion applications and weather forecasts at the tap of a touch-screen.
Innovation ultra low noise CmOS imaging The Complementary Metal Oxide Semiconductor CMOS image sensor has brought the world of shadows into sharp focus and is a solution that brings together wide dynamic range, high speed, low noise, wide field of view and increased sensitivity in a single innovation.
Product integrity Adherence to international conventions managing the supply chain It is critical that the Groups products perform BAE Systems plc and its subsidiaries are Robust and effective supplier management as designed without harm to the people using compliant with the global conventions, iscritical to the Group to help to deliver the them.
nocomplex and innovative product, Osloand Ottawa, on cluster munitions and products and systems its customers need, whether used in defence or civilian markets anti-personnel devices, respectively.
The ontime and to the quality they expect.
Poor orboth, is without risk.
It is essential that Group does not manufacture biological or performance or unethical conduct by a theGroup achieves an appropriate balance chemical weapons, or those containing white supplier could affect the Groups reputation between the benefits they provide to customers phosphorous or depleted uranium.
orits ability to operate effectively.
and the risks associated with their use.
Unmanned Autonomous Systems The Group requires its suppliers to comply The Groups Product Safety Policy is BAE Systems has developed and continues with local legislation and to apply standards principles-based Accountability: Level of todevelop a number of autonomous systems on issues such as ethical conduct, health and Safety: Conforming Products: and Learning which are under the control of highly-trained safety, environment, civil liberties and human and Sharing Information and these principles human operators at all times.
rights that are equivalent to those mandated apply throughout a products life from design Autonomous systems can access terrain across BAE Systems.
The Group also requires and manufacture through use to disposal.
It is andatmospheric situations inaccessible them to have an ethical Code of Conduct for recognised that some product responsibilities tohumans.
Responsible Trading of similar standard to its may extend beyond the contractual life of own, and to apply these standards in their customer contracts.
Autonomous surveillance systems are own supply chains.
Compliance to required designed to flag abnormal or criminal patterns The safety of the Groups products relies on standards is evaluated during the supplier of behaviour highly important in identifying the considered application of its Product selection process, and for existing suppliers threats from terrorists or suicide bombers.
Safety Policy, adherence to the Product Safety as part of ongoing quality and approvals Management Systems, and the responsible assurance.
BAE Systems Taranis unmanned aircraft has attitudes and behaviours of the many integrated stealth technologies, propulsion Supplier payment policy individuals who are alert to the safety systems and advanced mission systems, all It is Group policy that suppliers should be paid implications of their own actions and those of which are relevant tothe next generation of in accordance with the payment terms and ofothers.
Taranis was conditions stated in the applicable purchase designed to demonstrate the Groups ability Across the Groups businesses, there are a order.
In the UK, the Group is a signatory to tocreate asystem capable of undertaking number of working groups that consider the governments Prompt Payment Code see sustained surveillance, marking targets, product safety issues, different approaches www.
uk, under which gathering intelligence and carrying out which reflect the different legal and regulatory it has undertaken to pay suppliers on time, strikesin hostileterritory.
environments in which the Group operates, give clear guidance on payment procedures research, best practice and knowledge sharing.
and encourage the adoption of the code These working groups continue to inform the throughout its supply chain.
The average Groups approach to product safety.
number of days credit provided in 2013 by suppliers was 27 days 2012 30 days.
Management of product safety risks remained a focus during 2013.
The Group continues to Responsible trading characteristics for work with its customers to agree the level of procurement safety required that is both ethical and lawful.
Assessing major suppliers for their potential The Group aims to ensure that accountabilities responsible trading risk is a key part of the are clearly defined and that it delivers Groups procurement processes and this conforming products.
The businesses extends from initial market analysis and continued to learn and share information on sourcing, through to tendering, supplier product safety-related matters, both internally selection and contract award.
This becomes and externally to the Group.
particularly important for suppliers of products to projects of significant value and or those suppliers which are critical to the delivery of aprogramme.
118 BAE SyStEmS AnnUAL REPORT 2013 Directors rePort DIRECTORS REPORT Environment saving water Severe drought and a 68% empty water reservoir in central Texas, US, prompted the facilities team in Austin to seek innovative ways to conserve potable water.
Working with the City of Austin, BAESystems piped reclaimed sewage water to its chiller plants for use in the plants cooling towers, which is expected to cut the business annual utility expenses by $65,000 by saving an estimated ten million gallons of potable water a year.
Environment fuel efficiency The BAE Systems Ship Energy Assessment System SEAS enablesship operators to save fuelby dynamically tracking the fuelperformance profile of a ship.
SEAS builds and maintains performance trends, allowing the crew to predict and manage fuelconsumption, optimise efficiency and reduce operating cost.
The product has been successfully trialled at sea by the Royal navy, demonstrating up to a 28% fuel saving, where it continues tosupport current operations.
To facilitate such an assessment, Community investment Deloitte LLP assurance statement BAESystems has created a set of BAE Systems is committed to effecting This year, Deloitte LLP assured the following Responsible Trading Characteristics for change.
This commitment is demonstrated performance indicators at Group level: Procurement.
These characteristics are through work with local and national captured in six questions which should be Ethics and governance employee and organisations with an objective to make a asked throughout the procurement lifecycle.
third-party enquiries to Ethics Helpline difference in the communities in which the totalnumber and number by category 1.
Do the major suppliers have a code of Group operates.
BAE Systems Global anddismissals for reasons relating to conduct or responsible trading policy of Community Investment Strategy is defined unethical behaviour : acomparable standard to BAE Systems?
through the support it provides both financial and through volunteering.
BAE Systems aims Safety Recordable Accident Rate, the 2.
Does the product or service being procured to align its resources in support of primary number of major injuries recorded and create a significant lasting adverse areas of focus the needs of the Groups causes of major injuries recorded : environmental or health impact over and customers, education and skills, heritage and above that reasonably necessary in its Diversity and inclusion employees split the communities in which the Group operates.
manufacture, storage, deployment, use bygender and age : and As BAE Systems is a global company, each ordisposal?
ofits key markets has also created its own Community total Community Investment 3.
Does the product or service being procured strategy in support of the Global Community programme donations.
conform to BAE Systems Product Safety Investment Strategy which is relevant to Deloitte LLP has provided limited assurance Policy?
specific local issues, charitable needs on performance indicators marked with a andculture.
Is the product or service being procured and reasonable assurance on performance Charitable contributions subject to export control, and if so, are the indicators marked with a. Globally, the Group and its employees through appropriate clearances or licences in place To see Deloitte LLPs unqualified assurance the Community Investment programme or planned?
com contributed over 10m during 2013 to local, 5.
Is it likely that the production of this  national and international charities and product or service will violate civil liberties not-for-profit organisations, including: To see the Groups basis of reporting 2013 or human rights?
com 2013crdata 1.0m given to the UK Defence and 6.
I s the product being procured likely to be national Rehabilitation Centre: controlled or prohibited by legislation in the 4.5m given to armed forces charities, foreseeable future?
including Soldiers, Sailors, Airmen and Families Association SSAFA, the Royal navy and Royal Marines Charity and the United Service Organizations USO : and 2.5m donated to education charities andprogrammes, including: the Queen Elizabeth Prize for Engineering and The Princes Trust in the UK: the national Math and Science Initiative in the US: and FIRST Foundation for Inspiration and Recognition of Science and Technology in Australia.
