Governance GOVERNANCE Corporate responsibility Committee report Dear Shareholders, It is now over five years since the publication Paul Anderson of the Woolf Committee Report.
This Chairman of the Corporate independent report on ethical business  conduct in BAE Systems provided very clear guidance on what was required.
Subsequently, the rigour and whole-hearted nature in which the recommendations have been implemented by senior management has provided the Company with robust controls and a culture that leaves no doubt as to what Members is expected of all employees in terms of their Paul Anderson Chairman conduct.
In 2013, as Lord Gold, the Corporate Harriet Green Monitor appointed by the US Department of IanTyler Justice, ended his three-year appointment, Ian Tyler replaced Sir Peter Mason as a member on 8 May 2013. the Committee spent time with him reflecting on how the Committee can best assure that Governance progress in the area of ethical business The Corporate Responsibility Committee was inplace throughout 2013, and held five conduct will continue into the future.
All its members are independent in accordance with the provisions of the Code.
taken time to reflect on this, as well as the Summary of responsibilities other responsibilities of the Committee, we Assisting the Board in overseeing the development of strategy, and policy on social, agreed the following: environmental and ethical matters A rolling three-year programme of activity Keeping under review the effectiveness of the Companys internal control policies and has been developed for the Committee procedures for the identification, assessment, management and reporting of reputational thatensures that it is able to fulfil all of and other non-financial risks itsresponsibilities, including the provision of comprehensive oversight of ethical Monitoring and reviewing the role and effectiveness of the Companys Internal Audit business conduct based on the priorities function in relation to corporate responsibility and structures identified by Lord Woolf back Providing oversight of the Companys compliance with corporate  in 2008, and re-emphasised more recently policies and procedures by Lord Gold.
Reviewing audit and assurance reports produced by the corporate responsibility assurer As conduct is often driven by organisational culture, this year we will engage an Overseeing and supporting key stakeholder engagement on social, environmental and independent third party to undertake a ethical issues survey of employee opinions across the Group, similar to that undertaken by the Making proposals to the Remuneration Committee regarding appropriate corporate Ethical Leadership Group in 2011.  performance objectives for executive directors Training and employee engagement is an Reviewing the Companys arrangements for employees to obtain further advice on ethical important facilitator of the right employee issues in confidence behaviours and we will be meeting with the Ensuring that the Code of Conduct is regularly reviewed and reflects best practice for Group HR Director on a regular basis to suchcodes develop our understanding of how such activity is being managed across the Group.
Ensuring the Companys Annual Report and Accounts includes an examination of ethical business conduct within the Company To assist in discharging its responsibilities, the Corporate Responsibility Committee will meet five times a year and one of these meetings will be for a full day and held at one of the Companys sites providing an opportunity for directors to gain first-hand experience of the application of corporate  matters.
We will benchmark our Code of Conduct and policies and processes regularly to ensure that we remain at the leading edge of managing business conduct.
BAE SyStEMS AnnUAL REPORT 2013 77 GOVERNANCE CORPORAtE RESPONSIBILIty COMMIttEE REPORt We also agreed that we will review the Progress is being made in diversity and Other key areas of work undertaken by the reporting of corporate responsibility matters inclusion with senior management paying a Committee in 2013 inour Annual Report to ensure that it good level of attention to the diversification accurately reflects the importance placed ofour leadership and talent pipelines.
We During the year, the Committee has: onsuch matters, not only by the members recognise that culture change takes time reviewed the Companys performance ofthe Committee, but the Board as a whole.
butto make a difference we need to continue against the corporate responsibility to see the right leadership behaviours and In addition to ethical business conduct, the objectives set for 2012 and made programmes of activities that will drive Corporate Responsibility Committee also recommendations to the Remuneration change, both in absolute numbers and also focuses on safety, diversity and inclusion, Committee to assist it in agreeing the inemployee perceptions of how inclusive a andenvironment.
Reporting on these can level of award to be made under the annual Company we are.
The all-employee training befound on pages 62 and 63 and also incentive plan.
Made recommendations onunconscious bias undertaken across the pages112to 119. on corporate  metrics Group in 2013, and aimed at developing an for the 2013 annual incentive plan: inclusive working environment, is a good In respect of safety, as also reported by the example of such an activity.
One of the areas Chief Executive, there were two work-related received reports and presentations that the Committee is focusing on is our fatalities in 2013.
The details of these fromthe head of Internal Audit on audit human resource programmes and their fatalities and the Companys responses to work undertaken during the year, performance in ensuring that diversity and them were reviewed in detail by the Committee particularly with regards to corporate inclusion goals are progressed.
The Group to ensure that lessons were learnt and, where  matters: HRDirector is asked to attend Committee necessary, action was taken.
meetings regularly to report on this matter.
reviewed the Companys offset The Committee uses Recordable Accident commitments and the controls in place Our approach to environmental matters is to Rate and major injuries as its basic measures regarding the approval and acceptance require each of the Companys businesses of performance.
In 2013, whilst there was an ofsuch commitments and their ongoing totarget efficiencies for energy, water and improvement in the Recordable Accident Rate management: waste.
Overall, our processes for setting across the Group, there was an increase in targets and reporting on environmental considered the outputs from the major injuries as defined by the UK Health matters are not as mature as those we non-financial risk reviews undertaken by and Safety Executive, and includes fractures, seefor the other areas that the Committee the Executive Committee and the status injuries to eyes and loss of consciousness.
However, we are seeing a good of associated mitigation activity: Management is addressing the issues that level of engagement from businesses in should drive improvements in safety reviewed the operation and effectiveness achieving targets that promote a more performance, and will be focused on this of the Companys Ethics Helpline and the environmentally sustainable approach to during 2014.
The targets set by the Committee nature of matters reported: business and one where cost savings from are designed to be stretching and encourage efficiencies enhance the performance of an approach to safety management that will, agreed the scope of the work to be ourbusinesses.
over time, deliver performance for the undertaken by Deloitte LLP pursuant to Company that is in line with the best.
Parts of their assurance statement included in Finally, one of the most useful and informative the Group are already performing at this level thisAnnual Report: activities that the Committee undertakes is and we see good examples of businesses tovisit different sites across the Company reviewed the Companys anti-bribery working together to share learning and and use these visits to dig a bit deeper into compliance processes, including those adoption of a more integrated approach to corporate responsibility matters.
One such forthe appointment of advisers: developing safety management.
However, our visit in 2013 was to the Submarines business approach to safety is more than just targets: met with the Group HR Director, and in Barrow-in-Furness where we spent time the Committee also monitors how safety is discussed and reviewed the Companys looking at the management of product safety, managed, looking at how we can embed safer programme aimed at developing a more nuclear regulation, and health and safety ways of working regarding personal, process diverse and inclusive workforce: and management in a complex industrial and product safety.
reviewed the Companys Product Trading Policy, dealing with the products and Paul Anderson services developed and sold by the Chairman Corporate Responsibility Company, and ensuring that they reflect Committee the Companys standards of integrity.
