Strategic report Governance Financial statements Corporate responsibility committee report Diversity Board composition and succession Diversity is important to Capco across the During the year the Nomination Matters considered by the Group and we recognise the business Committee has reviewed the skills, Committee during the year bene ts of employing people with varied experience, independence and knowledge include: outlooks.
We are keen to develop female of Board members in the context of the talent and the ratio of women to men changing nature of Capcos business.
Board and Committee within our senior management team is 3:2.
This will be re ected in the Committees composition Further information on our people recommendations to the Board on Non-executive Director time practices, including our learning and future appointments.
commitments development strategies, is contained in Board diversity the Corporate Responsibility Report on Chairman and Chief Executive pages 48 and 49. performance reviews At present Capco has one female Director.
Board evaluation described on The Board does not feel that it is page 55 appropriate to set targets on gender diversity as all appointments must be made on merit: however, gender and wider diversity will continue to be taken into consideration when evaluating the skills, knowledge and experience desirable to ll each Board vacancy.
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY COMMITTEE REPORT The Corporate Responsibility Committee oversees the Groups CR initiatives and ensures that they are appropriately aligned with corporate strategy.
Our Corporate Responsibility Report which explains the progress we made against our CR targets in 2013 can be found on pages 42 to 49 and a summary of the matters that the Committee considered during the year is set out below.
Ian Henderson Chairman of the Corporate Responsibility Committee, 25 February 2014 Members: Ian Henderson Chairman Ian Hawksworth Ian Henderson, Chairman of the Corporate Ian Durant Demetra Pinsent Responsibility Committee The Corporate Responsibility Committee is chaired by Ian Henderson and its members Matters considered by the are listed above.
The Committee met four Committee during the year times during 2013.
Attendance at these include: meetings is shown in the table on page 56.
CR reporting The Companys CR strategy Updates on Group CR activity Charitable donations and spend against budget Brie ng on energy performance certi cates at Covent Garden www.
