Corporate responsibility COMMUNITY, ENVIRONMENT AND PEOPLE Our approach to corporate responsibility supports the delivery of the Companys strategy From the Chairman of the Corporate Responsibility Committee Corporate responsibility CR is the way in which Our 2013 CR report outlines the progress made Capco manages its environmental impacts and against the 2012 targets, and sets out new targets for engages with the communities where our assets are 2014.
This year we have also reported our Greenhouse based.
Our established corporate responsibility Gas emissions to comply with new environmental programme supports the delivery of the Companys reporting requirements.
strategy and the creation of value for shareholders.
Our approach to CR continues to evolve, and will The Board believes that being a responsible neighbour be kept under review by the Committee as the is of bene t to both the community and the Company, Company continues to implement its strategy.
and accordingly we encourage our staff to participate We welcome feedback from our stakeholders on fully in our corporate responsibility initiatives.
In environmental and community issues.
2013 each head offi ce employee was given a corporate responsibility objective during the annual review process and Capco staff spent 515 hours on CR related activities, a marked increase on the previous year.
In 2013 the Committee was particularly pleased with the success of the Leadership Development Programme which aimed to develop the leadership Ian Henderson capability of participants.
Chairman of the Corporate Responsibility Committee 25 February 2013 42 Capco Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Key Some progress Satisfactory progress Good progress Corporate Responsibility Strategy embedded into the fabric of our day-to-day work Commitment made last year Progress What we achieved in 2013 2014 objective Continue to build The CR Committee ensures that CR initiatives are Continue to build engagement engagement with the CR aligned to corporate strategy.
with the CR agenda across agenda across the Group.
The Company intranet is used to increase engagement with the Groups CR agenda.
Manage potential risks on CR related risks are included in the Capco risk register Manage potential risks on an an ongoing basis, escalating and as well as being reviewed bi-annually, they are ongoing basis, escalating concerns concerns promptly reviewed externally by Environ on an annual basis.
Participate in the Carbon Capco participated in the Carbon Disclosure Project Participate in the 2014 Carbon Disclosure Project again and achieved an improved position overall, moving Disclosure Project and aim to and aim to improve from band D to band C. improve our score.
Measure performance using Speci c environmental and social GRI indicators have Continue to measure performance the Global Reporting been used to measure our performance.
using the Global Reporting Initiative GRI.
Maintain FTSE4Good Capcos accreditation in the FTSE4Good index was Maintain FTSE4Good accreditation.
A highlight of our 2013 community strategy was the Take worked with the pupils to teach them more about lmmaking Three project which used digital media to engage children in and to help them create their digital book or lm.
70 pupils from local schools in Covent The work culminated in a showcase event where the 13 groups Garden and Fulham took part.
The pupils worked in groups of presented their digital books or lms to a panel of judges and five or six, with the support of adult mentors from Capco, to an audience of 250 people.
There was live judging of each create a digital book or lm on a personal safety, anti-social project and all the children who took part received a medal for behaviour or crime issue important to them.
com 43 Corporate responsibility continued Corporate Responsibility Strategy embedded into the fabric of our day-to-day work Commitment made last year Progress What we achieved in 2013 2014 objective Further support charitable This year the Group donated 112,000 to various Continue to support charitable initiatives in communities in charities particularly those bene ting young people.
initiatives in communities in which we invest.
We will This included a company donation of 500 on behalf which we invest, including continue to help organisations of every employee to selected charities at Christmas organisations that support the that support the well-being which totalled 43,000. well-being and development of and development of young young people in London with an Capco teamed up with the charity Working for Youth people in London with an emphasis on homelessness, which off ers a network that provides advice to over emphasis on homelessness, education, health and sport, and 2,000 young people, mentoring and job opportunities.
education, health and sport, appropriate charities linked to the and appropriate charities Young people aged 16-24 were invited to spend time property industry, and continue linked to the property with Capco staff to obtain career advice.
The young our long-standing involvement industry, and continue our people selected had won a competition in which they with associations that help long-standing involvement submitted ideas on how tenants in central London injured service personnel.
with associations that help could be encouraged to recycle.
Encourage shareholder Our Executive Directors, Chairman and Deputy Continue an active programme involvement in business Chairman engage regularly with shareholders and of dialogue and meetings with strategy and dialogue invite dialogue.
the Companys current and between shareholders and prospective shareholders.
The Executive Directors undertook over 180 1:1 the Executive Directors meetings with investors during 2013 and undertook and Chairman.
road shows in South Africa, the United States and Canada.
The Chairman and Company Secretary also met with a number of shareholders in South Africa.
Environment our creative and holistic approach to place-making protects the environment where our estates are based Continue to monitor our Capcos carbon footprint for 2012 was measured Continue to monitor our carbon carbon footprint.
by Environ to be approximately 14,000 tonnes footprint, broken down into the carbon dioxide equivalent CO e compared with components of the business.
The largest 2 element of this came from Earls Court, which made up 57 per cent of the total footprint: Olympia London contributed 32 per cent, Covent Garden 9 per cent and Head Offi ce 1.5 per cent.
Develop the Venues Carbon The user response to our consolidated transport Monitor the impact of the online Voyage scheme in conjunction scheme has been positive, and we have introduced an traffi c marshalling booking with other stakeholders.
This enables us to system at Olympia London.
advise users on how much they are spending on fuel and also match them with users who are making the same journey.
This has potential to reduce both traffi c ow and fuel cost.
Participate in the CRC Energy Capco is compliant with the Scheme, purchasing Participate in the CRC Energy Effi ciency Scheme.
162,300 of allowances during 2013 and is working Effi ciency Scheme.
with our external advisers to ensure continuing compliance.
Achieve a 3 per cent reduction Capco exceeded its target, achieving an 11 per cent Aim to maintain a 3 per cent in utilities consumption on reduction in utilities consumption during 2013: this reduction in utilities consumption a like-for-like basis against was equivalent to approximately 1.4 million CO kg on a like-for-like basis against 2 2012 gures.
This was in part due to seasonal variation 2013 gures.
consequent to a mild fourth quarter in 2013.
We intend to continue our In 2013 we completed a review of EPCs for our We intend to continue our work on Energy Performance properties in Covent Garden.
We have agreed a strategy work on Energy Performance Certi cates EPCs particularly to raise the energy performance of any units with an F Certi cates EPCs, particularly those properties within the and G rating through redevelopment or refurbishment.
those properties within the F G F G bands and improve bands and improve their ratings their ratings where where opportunities arise.
44 Capco Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Environment our creative and holistic approach to place-making protects the environment where our estates are based Commitment made last year Progress What we achieved in 2013 2014 objective In respect of Lillie Square, Target met: 98 per cent of Roxby Place demolition In respect of Lillie Square, work work with contractors to waste was recycled and Site Waste Management Plan with contractors to ensure waste ensure waste to land ll is implemented for demolition.
to land ll is minimised, targeting minimised, targeting 50 per 50 per cent plus being recycled cent plus being recycled or or re-used and implement a re-used and implement a Construction Environmental Construction Environmental Management Plan.
In design phase of Lillie Level 4 Code for Sustainable Homes still on target to be Level 4 Code compliance and Square, embed sustainability achieved at Lillie Square.
Lifetime Homes compliance to through initiatives such as be con rmed through detailed photovoltaic panels, meeting design of Lillie Square, evidenced Level 4 requirements of the through our speci cation.
All future major Major projects progressed through design phase in In respect of Covent Garden, all developments in Covent order to comply with BREEAM Very Good standard.
future major developments are to Garden are to meet BREEAM meet BREEAM for Refurbishment for Refurbishment Very Very Good standard where Good standard where constraints permit within a constraints permit within a Conservation Area and when Conservation Area and when refurbishing listed buildings.
During 2013, it is our aim During 2013 we expanded our tenant engagement Continue to expand our tenant to expand our tenant programme to include all of the Food & Beverage engagement programme on engagement programme on occupiers at Covent Garden.
This took the form of environmental issues such as environmental issues such as advice and assistance on food waste, glass, paper card waste reduction, recycling and waste reduction, recycling & general mixed recycling.
Aim to and energy management.
increase waste segregation to Our waste contractors spent an average of one day a 55 per cent.
month with tenants off ering practical advice on how to increase their recycling rates.
We have monitored the Market Building units in order to advise occupiers about possible energy saving.
In executing our major We exceeded targets on 2 major projects: The Beecham In executing our major development projects at with 96 per cent of waste produced from works being development projects at Covent Covent Garden, we will aim recycled and 4 per cent being sent to land ll and Garden, we will aim to achieve a to achieve a target of less The Southampton with 99 per cent of waste being target of less than 15 per cent of than 15 per cent of waste recycled and only 1 per cent being sent to land ll.
Monitor metered water usage Procedures have been put into place to monitor and Monitor metered water usage across our portfolio.
record metered water usage, with data included in across our portfolio.
com 45 Corporate responsibility continued Local Communities we make a positive impact on the local communities where our assets are located Commitment made last year Progress What we achieved in 2013 2014 objective Support community projects Earls Court Properties Continue to support Community which speci cally bene t As part of the 2013 Earls Court Education Programme, Projects which speci cally bene t young people in London and at Fulham Primary School children from Year 4 created young people in London and in the areas where our assets a booklet showcasing their ideal high street in the areas where our assets are located.
of the future and children from Year 6 gave a are located.
presentation at Hammersmith & Fulhams Childrens Parliament entitled Lending the High Street a Helping Hand.
In addition, 60 pupils from Bous eld Primary School visited Earls Court as part of their geography and community project.
We continue to support local homeless charity West London Churches Homeless Concern, which was elected to receive part of Capcos 2013 Christmas donations.
Capco staff have also served lunch in the day centre, donated unwanted clothes and completed a half marathon, which raised over 4,500 for the charity.
The Finance Team spent a morning assisting the Intermission Youth Theatre.
The work of the theatre focuses on bringing Shakespeare to underprivileged young people from Londons inner city who lack opportunity or who are at risk of off ending.
Covent Garden The Covent Garden team continue to build on the strong relationships formed with local stakeholders, such as the Covent Garden Area Trust, local residents, tenants and community groups.
As well as the Take Three project featured on page 43, we hosted the Apple Market Challenge again in 2013.
This year the 9 and 10 year old participants from nine schools were mentored by sixth formers and the task involved designing and marketing a product to be sold on the market.
The winning team designed a highly innovative skateboard which could turn into a scooter.
This year we ran an orienteering challenge event around the estate which raised money for the local charity Mousetrap Theatre Projects.
The Covent Garden team collaborated with Westminster Councils Workplace Co-ordinator Scheme which helps unemployed people in the Borough return to work.
Between July and December 35 people were off ered full-time jobs across the estate, exceeding the schemes targets for 2013.
The Covent Garden estate has become the focal point of London Poppy Day and this year we hosted an event which included military bands, a Spit re and a ight simulator.
40,000 was collected for The Royal British Legion.
46 Capco Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Local Communities we make a positive impact on the local communities where our assets are located Commitment made last year Progress What we achieved in 2013 2014 objective Further develop our property The extensive 10 million refurbishment of Olympia Further develop our property management strategy for the Central formerly Olympia Two was awarded the management strategy for the bene t of all stakeholders.
Conservation Award for Best Refurbishment by bene t of all stakeholders.
the Hammersmith Society in June 2013.
Olympia London was also shortlisted for Venue of the Year at the 2013 Exhibition News and AEO Awards as well as for Exhibition Venue of the Year at Octobers Event Awards.
The Covent Garden property management team The Customer Forum meetings completed a number of initiatives for the bene t of will be continued this year with stakeholders, including quarterly Customer Forum more emphasis on providing Meetings and sparkle weeks where an enhanced customer research information cleaning regime was followed in partnership to stakeholders.
In conjunction with Westminster Council, we have Continue to develop the Covent begun to develop a Covent Garden Management Plan Garden Management Plan.
with a focus on supplemental cleaning of the streets around the estate to raise standards of cleanliness and proactively manage waste to enhance the area.
Health & Safety H&S regular reporting and monitoring Further improve our H&S The Group H&S Committee, which is chaired by the Further improve our H&S reporting across the Group.
Investment Director and includes representatives reporting across the Group.
from all parts of the business, meets twice a year and has implemented the H&S Management Plan across the Group.
The Capco Board and subsidiary Boards receive regular H&S reports.
With estimated combined visitor numbers of more than 46 million to Earls Court, Olympia London and Covent Garden, there were 29 RIDDOR accidents reported for the year and no prohibition notices served.
In respect of the 300 employees there were 3 reportable incidents.
In addition, each business holds its own H&S meetings and promotes H&S with suppliers and contractors.
com 47 Corporate responsibility continued Capco people we employ people with a diverse range of experience and expertise Commitment made last year Progress What we achieved in 2013 2014 objective Launch the next level of our The Leadership Development Programme ran To further develop learning Leadership Development throughout the year.
It included a Chief Executive programmes that will enhance Programme and further challenge assignment and each delegate received 1:1 the capability and performance develop learning programmes mentoring and 360 degree feedback.
that will enhance the 70 per cent of total employees attended training capability and performance during 2013 equating to over 550 hours.
Encourage employees to Capco staff completed 515 hours of CR related activities Encourage employees to engage engage in CR initiatives during 2013, an increase of 240 hours on 2012. in CR initiatives and contribute and contribute 300 Group Opportunities for employees to participate in 350 Group employee hours to employee hours to supporting company-wide CR projects are communicated via supporting these projects.
The Wire, the company intranet.
Agree a CR related personal Each employee had a CR related personal objective Continue to include a CR related objective for each employee.
for 2013. personal objective for each employee.
Increase the limit set for The individual limit set for matched funding of staff Continue to promote the Company matched funding fundraising was doubled in 2013.
This year 10,000 Company matched funding and encourage individual was matched funded.
scheme and raise awareness fundraising.
of individuals eff orts on our intranet.
We have an induction programme which enables people to People integrate quickly and clear performance objectives are fide ned The number of people employed across the Group at the year end at the outset for every employee.
totalled 300 of which 214 were based in the Venues business.
An internal Leadership Development Programme for our senior We continue to attract talented individuals to the Company and management team ran throughout the year and concluded in have made signi cant hires at all levels.
The aim of the programme was to develop the career development for individuals by giving them signi cant leadership capability of the participants through a combination responsibility early in their careers.
Our fast-moving business of interactive simulation sessions and practical skills workshops.
requires high performance at all levels and we set clear objectives Each delegate received mentoring from a Board member and during a review process which measures performance in key developed a personal development plan following participation skills and ensures that individual goals are clearly linked to in a 360 feedback process.
The Royal Parks half-marathon raised 4,500 for West London Churches Homeless Concern 48 Capco Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Strategic report Governance Financial statements We further support our people in their This report does not contain speci c Methodology professional development through information on human rights issues as The data reported is in accordance with all academic study and currently have six this is not considered necessary for an of the emissions sources required under employees working towards professional understanding of the development, the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report quali cations.
performance or position of the Companys and Directors Reports Regulations 2013. business.
However, Capco has adopted Capco does not have responsibility for any We believe that high performance should a CR policy and a supply chain policy emission sources that are not included in be recognised and therefore bonus awards which re ect a responsible approach to the consolidated statement below.
are linked to ratings received during the human rights.
Furthermore, Capco adopts the GHG Protocol Corporate as part of our remuneration strategy Accounting and Reporting Standard Gender diversity % employees participate in our share schemes revised editions, collates data gathered and this ensures that individual reward is to ful l the requirements under the CRC 100 1 6 112 aligned to business strategy.
We value the Energy Effi ciency Scheme, and uses 9 well-being of our workforce and aim to emission factors from DEFRAs 2013 80 encourage healthy and balanced lifestyles.
Government Greenhouse Gas GHG Diversity is important to us and we Conversion Factors for Company Reporting.
recognise the bene ts of employing 188 60 The reported emissions data is provided in people with varied perspectives.
The ratio tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent tCO e. 2 of women to men within our senior 40 4 This accounts for the GHG emissions management team is 3:2.
Information on applicable for Capcos operations including our approach to Board diversity can be carbon dioxide CO, methane CH and 20 2 4 found in the Nomination Committee report hydro uorocarbons HFCs emissions.
The emissions can be split into scope 1 and 0 Board Senior All Aware of the challenges that young people scope 2 emissions as detailed below.
management employees are facing entering the job market, we aim Scope 1 direct emissions includes gas to provide work experience placements Male Female consumption within properties where across the business.
Capco is liable for fuel usage and for We recognise the importance of developing fugitive emissions resulting from air Corporate Greenhouse Gas Emissions our talent pool at graduate level and in 2013 conditioning units.
Capco does not have Environ UK Limited Environ has been we ran a summer intern programme for any company vehicles to report on.
commissioned to provide the required undergraduates and attended a number of information to support compliance with Scope 2 indirect emissions include recruitment fairs to launch our graduate The Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report purchased electricity consumption within programme.
As a consequence, we hired and Directors Reports Regulations 2013. properties where Capco are liable for usage.
two graduates in 2013 and a further three This is in accordance with the regulations will join in 2014.
Environ has provided assurance on the and guidance provided by the Department accuracy, completeness and consistency of Environment, Food & Rural Aff airs of the GHG emission data.
GHG emissions data for period from 1 January to 31 December 2013 Tonnes of Carbon Dioxide Equivalent tCO e 2 Scope 1 emissions: Direct emissions including fuel combustion in owned or controlled boilers and vehicles.
2,907 Scope 2 emissions: Indirect emissions released into atmosphere including purchased electricity and cooling.
8,241 Total Annual GHG emissions: 11,148 Intensity ratio: Capco Tonnes of CO e per m of Net Assets 6.15 2 www.
