32 STRATEGIC REPORT COUNTRYWIDE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 We recognise the Corporate responsibility importance of good communication with our employees Striving to be a good corporate citizen A full corporate social responsibility policy statement is included on our website, but key areas are summarisedbelow: The Group strives to be a good corporate citizen.
Through its Employees managers and its people, We recognise that our employees Employees can access our intranet to obtain Countrywide is committed to other general information on the Group.
are our greatest asset and key to promoting protection of the Our first Group-wide employee engagement continued growth and success environment: supporting charities survey was conducted in September 2013 and, assuch, we are committed and local communities: promoting and feedback will be rolled into a continuous to providing careers and working equal opportunities: ensuring safe improvement programme.
Employees are also environments in which our people and efficient working practices: encouraged to discuss operational issues canachieve to their fullestpotential.
andworking with suppliers who with their line management and to suggest uphold similar values.
ways to improve performance and efficiency.
Development and training Our employees are also encouraged Developing future talent is fundamental to become shareholders in the Company.
Talent management and We introduced a Share Incentive Plan SIP leadership development programmes are in October 2013 for all employees with operating for promising senior management Gender diversity more than 18 months continuous service.
within the business, whilst we continue to The Company gives one matching share for recruit and invest in trainee and graduate every two shares purchased by the employee talent to help meet our future management within the maximum investment terms requirements.
New apprenticeship and established by HMRC.
The scheme was graduate recruitment schemes have been adopted by 1,785 employees 27% of eligible implemented in several divisions of the Group, employees and will result in over 1.8 million alongside City & Guilds accredited training of additional investment in the first year.
for employees within our retail operations, including the opportunity of sponsorship to Equal opportunities achieve recognised professional qualifications Directors We are committed to a policy of equal that are relevant to our sector.
We provide full opportunity and diversity in employment visibility of our customer facing employees, 2 and recognise that this is essential to ensuring including their levels of training and experience the success and growth of the organisation.
to our customers and prospective customers To this end, we make every effort to select, through our online Register of Property 4 recruit, train and promote the best candidates Agents www.
The Register based on suitability for the job: to treat all provides assurance that our estate agency employees and applicants fairly, regardless Senior management employees all meet the requisite standards of of race, gender, marital status, age, nationality, professionalism that our customers will expect ethnic origin, religious belief, sexual orientation when we advise them and represent their 12 or disability: and to ensure that no employee interests during one of the most significant suffers harassment or intimidation.
transactions that they are likely to undertake 53 in their lifetime.
Employment opportunities are available to disabled persons in accordance with their Communication abilities and aptitudes on equal terms with Employees We recognise the importance of regular other employees.
If an employee becomes communication with our employees.
disabled during employment, we make every To support this we have a Group-wide 6,035 effort to enable them to continue employment newsletter, Inside Countrywide, as well by making reasonable adjustments in the as specific publications to keep our workplace and retraining for alternative 5,096 employees up-to-date and informed.
The newsletter focuses on communicating operational changes, examples of best practice and highlights specific sales Female Male activities, success stories and teamwork around the business.
33 STRATEGIC REPORT COUNTRYWIDE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 We recruit and invest in trainee and graduate talent tohelp meet our future management requirements In total the Countrywide Group raised 145,000 for charitable causes during2013 Information security Charitable giving Health and safety The health and safety, welfare We are committed to ensuring the Countrywide supports a Workplace andwellbeing of employees is of integrity and security of business Charitable Giving scheme, so that paramount importance to us.
Itis information with particular attention employees can donate to their our policy to create and improve given to personal and sensitive favourite charities tax efficiently standards of Health and Safety, data where inappropriate use through payroll deduction, donating which will lead to the avoidance and or inadequate maintenance and over 19,700 during 2013.
Countrywide reduction of risks and to ensure that safeguarding could have serious also supports two national charities: the Company complies with all Health repercussions.
Shelter helping the homeless and and Safety legislation.
Our policies and procedures are based Health and Safety Policy Statement on requirements for a secure operating The subsidiary businesses are also isheld at all branch premises and environment, an assessment of the risks encouraged to support causes within displayed on thenotice boards.
that the Group faces and relevant legal their local communities and employees and best practice requirements.
We have from across the country participated in Health and Safety and fire officers implement achieved, and maintain, the ISO 27001 a number of local initiatives.
our policies, standards and procedures in accreditation in our major business to all branches in which we operate.
They are During 2013, some of our more significant business operating divisions and aspire supported by dedicated, professionally achievements, amongst the wide variety to operate in line with the International qualified Health and Safety managers.
A Group of initiatives across the operating divisions, Standard for Information Security Management, Health and Safety steering committee meets have been: ISO 27001, in all of our major retail operations.
on a six-monthly basis to review activity and Responsibility for information security sits policy in this area.
The Health and Safety with the local management teams with Within our London & Premier division, Y officers report annually to their local operating appropriate training and support provided.
Hamptons raised 80,000 for Cancer Boards and to the Group Health and Safety A dedicated Group information security Research: John D Wood raised over Officer on issues relating to the health, safety manager is responsible for the strategic 13,000 for Cancer Research, The Royal and welfare of the employees.
These reports management of information security, British Legion, Parkhaven Hospice and are reviewed by the Group Board and suitable including risk management, together Oakhaven Hospice: and Faron Sutaria enhancements or improvements are made.
with implementation and enforcement raised over 3,600 for Cancer Research We make every reasonable and practicable of the Information Security Policy.
and St Christophers Hospice effort to provide safe and healthy working conditions in all our offices.
It is the duty of Countrywides IT department raised Y all employees to exercise responsibility and 5,000 which was split between to do everything they can to prevent injury National Autism and Friends of Sick to themselves and others.
The policy standards Children, and also raised 750 for and procedures are communicated to the Alzheimers Society employees through contracts of employment, Our team in Land & New Homes employee hand books, operating manuals, Y raised over 2,000 for CLIC Sargent bulletins and notice boards and employee and 150 for Wolves Community Trust training as appropriate.
Countrywide Conveyancing Services Y raised over 5,200 which was split between Make a Wish Foundation, Christies, Cancer Research, St Andrews Hospice, Cystic Fibrosis Trust, The Gaddam Centre and Shelter 34 STRATEGIC REPORT COUNTRYWIDE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 Corporate responsibility continued Our objective is to minimise our carbon footprint and any negative impact we may have on the environment Stakeholders Environmental matters While the Group is accountable Encourages suppliers and Environmental savings make good Y subcontractors to abide by the to investors, we take into account business sense.
Our primary objective same standards and principles the interest of all our stakeholders is to minimise our carbon footprint and including our employees, our any negative impact we may have on Investors customers and our suppliers, as the environment.
well as the local community and the Is financially accountable to its investors Y We are committed to the following: environment in which we operate.
Communicates to investors all matters Countrywides reputation is one of its Y To meet or exceed the requirements Y that are material to an understanding of key assets and, as a major player in the of relevant legislative, regulatory and the future prospects of the organisation UK property services sector, adhering to environmental codes of practice the highest standards of integrity, personal Aims to protect investors funds, Y conduct, ethics and fairness is deemed To identify, reduce and dispose of waste Y manage risks and ensure funds are to be of vital importance.
arising from our operations in a manner used as agreed that minimises harm to the environment We have judged that human rights are not a and prevents pollution of land, air material risk for the business due to existing Local communities and water regulatory requirements in the UK and the nature of our supply chain.
However, we will Aims to make the communities Y To reduce the consumption of energy and Y consider how Countrywide can contribute in which we work, better places water and use renewable and or recyclable to the advancement of human rights in 2014. to live and do business resources wherever practicable In our interactions, the Group: Aims to be sensitive to the local Y To encourage our suppliers and Y communitys cultural, social and Customers subcontractors to implement good economic needs environmental practices and procedures Seeks to be honest and fair in our Y which support our own objectives Endeavours to protect and relationships with its customers Y and targets preserve the environment Provides the standards of product wherever Countrywide operates Y To take responsibility for the maintenance Y and service that have been agreed and revision of our environmental policy, Encourages its subsidiary Y which is reviewed on a regular basis, Takes all reasonable steps to ensure businesses to support causes Y in order to set environmental objectives the safety and quality of products or within their local communities and targets for continuous improvement, services that it produces as we recognise the need for Industry participation sustainable development Promotes relevant Ombudsman redress Y schemes and subscribes to industry Engages in consultation with Y Codes of Best Practice Government regulators and relevant The following initiatives are in place: trade bodies on issues affecting the Suppliers We use printing paper which is chlorine housing sector, related industry Y free and carries the FSC kitemark and services and consumer protection Seeks to be honest and fair in our which is compliant with ISO 9001:2008, Y relationships with suppliers and Engages with journalists and reputable ISO 14001:2004 and OHSAS 80001:2007 Y subcontractors research bodies on topical themes certified.
We aim to achieve an 85% rate of paper recycling across the Group Pays suppliers and subcontractors Y Provides support to public bodies, by 2015 Y in accordance with agreed terms including The Property Ombudsman Scheme, Royal Institute of Chartered Has a policy not to offer, pay or Y Surveyors, Association of Mortgage accept bribes or substantial favours Intermediaries and Council of Mortgage Lenders 35 STRATEGIC REPORT COUNTRYWIDE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 We aim to reduce the consumption of energy and use renewable and or recyclable resources wherever practicable Greenhouse gas emissions In accordance with DEFRA regulations We have used the operational control We launched local initiatives to ensure Y consolidation method.
These sources fall on the reporting of GHG emissions, branches recycle office waste and our within our consolidated financial statements, weset out below our total tonnes Head Office recycles all waste and uses but exclude non-wholly owned subsidiaries fair trade produce.
We are working in ofCO e produced in the year.
We have not reported partnership with a waste management We have used the main requirements of the emissions arising from the acquisitions provider with the aim to increase our GHG Protocol and ISO 14064-1 2006, energy undertaken during the year for our period recycling volumes to zero waste to consumption data and emission factors from of ownership, but will be working to ensure landfill by the end of 2014 the UK Governments Conversion Factors that there will be processes in place for data for UK reporting.
We have reported on all collection in respect of those activities for Employees are encouraged to dispose Y of the emission sources required under the the forthcoming year.
of all paper waste in secure bins, 100% Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and of which is recycled Directors Reports Regulations 2013.
Recycling of used printer cartridges Y and mobile phones.
80% of our toner cartridges are recycled, in partnership GHG emissions with our printer suppliers For the year ended 31 December 2013 Tonnes of Epayslips were introduced for all Y Tonnes of CO e m 2 CO e revenue Group employees in 2010, which 2 reduced our carbon footprint and Scope 1 print and postal costs Controlled vehicle fleet 7,918 13.5 With effect from July 2011, we opted to Y Scope 2 ensure that all newly ordered company vehicles had a CO emission of no 2 Purchased electricity 12,380 21.2 greater than 160gsm.
This was further Purchased heat 1,667 2.8 reduced to a cap of 130gsm on the introduction of a new fleet policy in Total gross emissions 21,965 37.5 January 2013 CO e is a universal unit of measurement used to indicate the global warming of greenhouse gas expressed 2 in terms of global warming potential of one unit of carbon dioxide.
In 2011, we launched a Cycle to Work Y scheme, in order that employees can tax efficiently purchase bicycles for cycling to work This strategic report was approved by the Board of directors on 27 February 2014 and signed on its behalf by: During 2013 we introduced a half-hourly Y meter pilot to monitor and reduce electricity usage and also commenced a voltage optimisation pilot to reduce energy consumption Grenville Turner Chief executive officer 36 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE COUNTRYWIDE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 Read more about our governance online at www.
co. uk Best practice in corporate governance is an integral part of the way Countrywide aims to operate Contents Letter from the Chairman 37 Board of directors 38 Corporate governance statement 40 Directors remuneration report 44 Directors report 57 Directors responsibilities statement 58
