161320 Daejan Holdings Plc R&A 2013 Pt1 161320 Daejan Holdings Plc R&A 2013 Pt1.
qxp 18 07 2013 10:22 Page 8 Daejan Holdings PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Chairmans Statement continued Following changes in accounting standards it has been necessary to restate the balance sheets for 1 April 2011 and 31 March 2012.
The impact on the prior year opening balance sheet has been to increase retained earnings by 44.9 million.
The detail of this restatement together with its impact on current and prior year financial statements is set out in note 1 b on page 29 of the Report and Accounts.
Environment Where we undertake new developments and major schemes of refurbishment we strive to achieve the highest environmental standards consistent with the nature of the building and the scheme being undertaken.
This can be clearly seen with the Africa House scheme which has achieved a BREEAM excellent rating BREEAM is a widely used environmental assessment method for buildings.
It also includes other environmental features such as a bio-mass boiler, rainwater harvesting and bio-diverse planting together with facilities to enable and encourage cycling to work.
So far as concerns the majority of our portfolio, which consists of properties constructed before the advent of modern environmental standards, it would be neither practically nor economically feasible to embark on a complete upgrade to meet modern requirements.
However, we do take the opportunities which arise each year when undertaking programmes of repair and refurbishment to improve the energy efficiency of our buildings and the plant therein.
Employees Every organisation ultimately depends for its success upon the dedication and professionalism of its staff.
We are fortunate that our policy of sustaining a stable workforce who stay with us for the long term ensures that experience gained over the years is retained and applied for the benefit of the Group.
Staff are encouraged to pursue appropriate programmes of training and development.
Above & below: Health and safety Cadogan Square, We recognise the importance of ensuring that our properties provide a safe and healthy environment Glasgow for our tenants, staff and all other users.
We approach this issue in two ways: Page 8
