CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Commitment to integrity and development We recognise our duty to stakeholders to operate the business in an ethical and responsible manner.
We are committed to developing our Corporate Social Responsibility agenda, recognising that it can play a major part in leading and influencing our people and operations.
Integrity The Groups key strategy is to provide a superior quality of service and consequently integrity is core to the Groups values.
Integrity is actively promoted in dealings with employees, Shareholders, customers and suppliers.
The Group recognises that reputation is a valuable and fragile asset gained over a substantial period of time.
The Group promotes high ethical standards in carrying out its business activities and has clear guidelines for dealing with gifts, hospitality, corruption, fraud and the use of inside information.
Diversity As a service business we have a particular focus on our people and we are proud of our diversity throughout the Company and our working practices.
We recognise that our people are key to the success of the business.
Our basic principle is one of meritocracy.
We are committed to equal opportunities and the creation of an entirely non-discriminatory working environment.
The aim of our diversity policy is to ensure that no job applicant or employee receives less favourable treatment because of gender, marital status, race, age, sexual preference, religion, belief or disability.
All decisions are based on the merits of the individual concerned.
The Group is dedicated to undertaking its business operations in a way which respects individual human rights, treats individuals with dignity and allows freedom of association.
We value the contribution of each and every one of our colleagues and we have created an inspiring working environment where everyone is engaged and motivated.
Our diversity is shown clearly throughout the organisation where 48% of our total staff are female and 25% of our senior staff are female.
See table below for full analysis of diversity.
Appointments to the Board are made on merit, against objective criteria and with due regard for the benefits of diversity on the Board.
The table below reveals that 14% of the Board were female at year end.
Training We are committed to training and developing all of our people to enhance their skills and potential in order to drive the business forward.
Our policy is to promote from within.
Ongoing training is provided throughout an employees career in a number of ways, through on-the-job coaching, formal training courses and mentoring.
We also sponsor a number of our people in studying for appropriate professional qualifications.
Communication Emphasis is placed on effective communication regarding matters that may affect employees and the overall performance of the Group.
Employee engagement is achieved through a variety of means, including regular briefings and team meetings.
Health and safety Foxtons takes the health and safety of its employees very seriously with regular meetings chaired by the COO Nic Budden and reports back to the Board.
Human rights This Report does not contain information about any policies of the Company in relation to human rights issues since it is not considered necessary for an understanding of the development, performance or position of the Groups business activities.
End of year figures Male Female Male % Female % Directors of parent company 6 1 86% 14% Senior Managers note 1 88 29 75% 25% All other 501 518 49% 51% Total 595 548 52% 48% Note 1: Senior managers are defined as direct reports of the CEO and COO plus sales managers and lettings managers.
18 Foxtons Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Greenhouse gas emissions reporting Being a service company our greenhouse gas emissions are minimal.
Full disclosure is given below.
We have targeted to reduce our emissions per employee by focusing on efficiencies in the Company.
In particular, we aim to increase the efficiency of our car fleet which is a major element of our CO emissions.
2 1 Foxtons Group plc emission data for period 1 January 2013 to 31 December 2013 Tonnes of Emissions from CO e 2 Combustion of fuel 2,564 Electricity, heat, steam and cooling purchased for own use 2,569 Other gas, diesel & LPG 37 Total footprint 5,170 Companys chosen intensity measurement: 2 Emissions reported above per employee 4.52 1 As this is the first year of Foxtons Group plc reporting on mandatory greenhouse gas emissions there is no year-on-year comparison.
2 This is based on the average number of employees at Foxtons Group plc for the year.
Total CO by emission type 2 1% Electricity, heat & cooling Combustion of fuel Other gas, diesel & LPG 50% 49% This is our first greenhouse gas GHG emissions report in line with UK mandatory reporting requirements, set out by the Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs DEFRA.
The mandatory requirement is for the disclosure of scope 1 and 2 emissions only.
These are direct emissions such as heating, vehicle fuel and indirect emissions, for example purchased electricity.
Our total GHG footprint in line with DEFRAs mandatory reporting requirement is 5,170 tonnes CO e. 2 Working within our local communities Foxtons reputation and role within the local communities we operate in is very important to us.
Whether at Company or individual office level, we are actively involved in supporting local communities, schools and charities, as well as larger-scale projects such as sponsoring the annual Hounslow Borough Volunteering Awards, recognising the incredible work of volunteers in the area.
We believe this type of engagement offers not only social benefits, but benefits to our people too within the areas they live and work.
The Strategic Report, from pages 1 to 19, has been reviewed and approved by the Board of Directors on 10 March 2014.
Michael Brown Chief Executive Officer 10 March 2014 Foxtons Annual Report and Accounts 2013 19 Governance Board of Directors 22 Chairmans introduction 24 Corporate governance statement 25 Nominations Committee report 28 Audit Committee report 29 Directors Remuneration report 31 Directors report 43 Directors responsibilities 47 20 Foxtons Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Foxtons Annual Report and Accounts 2013 21
