42 Grainger plc Strategic report Our people, tenants and partners Introduction Talent development The successful delivery Grainger does not operate in isolation.
Our continued success depends on As abusiness we depend upon the of our business model effective leadership and the expertise of our providers of our income: purchasers staff.
Our skill requirements are constantly depends on strong who buy our properties, tenants who evolving to enable us to take advantage rent our properties and co-investors and of the opportunities for growth and relationships with a partners who provide the opportunities diversification within our business.
Our success comes from We are proud of our record in understanding their needs and objectives developing our staff by providing firstOur employees play and using our expertise to create products class learning and career opportunities, and services that meet these needs atthe for those starting their career through akeyrole in building right quality and price or deliver attractive toappointment at senior manager level.
returns at appropriate levels of risk.
Our Graduate Programme is in its A continuing emphasis is on engaging second year with our trainee graduate more closely with our tenants, increasing surveyors having completed their firstour focus on their needs and in particular year placements and making a valuable increasing our understanding of the contribution to the business.
Two graduates requirements of our PRS tenants and joined us inSeptember 2013. what they value, both in the property As a leader in the residential sector we they wish to rent and the services they are believe we have a responsibility to engage seeking.
Research into our existing tenants with young people and encourage them perceptions is allied to work to design the toconsider a career in residential property.
future in our first PRS developments.
We have provided 36 weeks work To support our income-generating experience for 20 students, focusing on activities, we need effective long-term those from under-represented groups.
relationships with suppliers and advisers.
We are working in partnership with the This year we have made strong progress Royal Borough of Kensington and Chelsea in many areas, the most significant and Reading University in giving students being the 10-year agreement with Kier an insight into working in the sector.
Services for the provision of repairs and Our first apprentice has joined us, based maintenance services to our UK properties.
In Germany we have recently entered into We constantly look for opportunities an agreement with Treureal to provide for staff to broaden their skills and property management services to our experience through internal job moves owned and managed portfolios.
This year A key part of the Business we have made internal appointments Improvement Programme in 2013 has at senior manager and manager levels been to focus the expertise of our staff and supported the Governments PRS on areas where we can add most value.
initiative through a secondment to the Underpinning this is a commitment to PRSTask Force.
developing the skills of our staff to keep pace with the changing requirements of the market and the organisation.
