Strategic Report Corporate Social Responsibility Corporate Social Responsibility Corporate Social Responsibility 50 Approach to CSR 52 External reporting, recognition and rewards 52 Health and Safety 53 Community 53 Environment 54 Employees 55 50 BBA complete.
indb 50 12 03 2014 12:11 Strategic Report Corporate Social Responsibility Corporate Social Responsibility Every day our people put our values into action with pride, performing services for customers safely, responsibly and with integrity.
Corporate Social Responsibility CSR is embedded in our vision, mission and values and is fundamental to our objective of creating sustainable long-term value for all our stakeholders.
Our CSR goals are actively promoted and supported by management systems at all levels.
Through this we are able to make a bigger difference in the areas we choose to focus on.
Stretching health and safety and environmental targets are applied at each of our businesses down to site level and we have formal frameworks and policies in place that guide behaviour and assist us in areas such as Business Ethics, Community Involvement and Charitable Giving.
CSR is important to our stakeholders and our aim is to achieve continuous improvement in all aspects of CSR every year.
We involve our employees personally in these efforts and invest in Go online at new technologies, equipment and training and development programmes where we believe www.
Our businesses have much in common and plenty to learn from com about-us corporate-socialeach other and we encourage working together, sharing ideas and good practices.
com For further information BBA Aviation does not have a specific human rights policy.
The requirement for a specific about our approach to CSR and our CSR Report policy will continue to be monitored.
Our vision, mission and values govern the way we do business and are consistent with our human rights obligations.
A number of our policies including the Disclosure of Unethical Conduct Policy, Bribery and Corruption Policy and the Ethics Implementation Policy, whilst not specifically mentioning human rights, recognise the importance of how we conduct our business and the impact on a wide range of stakeholders.
On the BBA Aviation website you can read more about BBA Aviations approach to CSR including downloadable copies of our current and past years CSR Reports together with copies of our relevant policies and case studies showing some of the varied projects that BBA Aviations businesses have been undertaking.
indb 51 12 03 2014 12:11 Strategic Report Corporate Social Responsibility Corporate Social Responsibility BBA Aviations Approach to CSR External reporting, recognition and rewards The following is an extract from BBA Aviations Approach BBA Aviations commitment to the environment and to CSR policy document which is reviewed each year to health and safety continues to be recognised by our by the Board.
The full document, which deals with customers, our business partners and by accreditation additional areas such as Business Ethics, Transparency organisations.
and Human Rights can be found in the CSR section Awards of the BBA Aviation website.
Shell Goal Zero Award Scheme, Shell Goal Zero Award Scheme, Health and Safety Health, Safety, Security and Health, Safety, Security and We are committed to achieving a working Environmental Diamond Environmental Gold: Award: ASIG GASHCo, Birmingham environment which is safe, secure and which London Gatwick supports healthy lifestyles We will aim to pursue, achieve and promote Shell Goal Zero Award Scheme, Shell Goal Zero Award Scheme, Health, Safety, Security and Health, Safety, Security and best practices on Health and Safety specific to Environmental Double Environmental Gold: Klagenfurt the aviation industry Platinum: ASIG London Luton Employees Shell Goal Zero Award Scheme, Shell Goal Zero Award Scheme, Health, Safety, Security and Health, Safety, Security and We value the diversity of our employees and Environmental Double Environmental Gold: promote an inclusive environment recognising Platinum: ASIG London Gatwick London City the importance of equality of opportunity Shell Goal Zero Award Scheme, Shell Goal Zero Award Scheme, We support employees through training and Health, Safety, Security and Health, Safety, Security and development, encouraging them to expand Environmental Platinum: Linz Environmental Gold: their capabilities and realise their potential London Stansted Environment Shell Goal Zero Award Scheme, British Safety Council Health, Safety, Security and International Safety Award We will manage, and strive to reduce, our Environmental Gold: APPH Nottingham environmental impact through the more efficient Bournemouth use of the resources our businesses consume Dallas Water Utilities, Blue We will support innovative developments in Thumb Award Wastewater technologies that support our business objectives discharge 2013 from the and can offer environmental, community and City of Dallas: Dallas Airmotives Forest Park facility social benefits Community We will identify opportunities to benefit local communities where we operate through community involvement and charitable giving CSR KPIs Details on BBA Aviations CSR KPIs can be found on the next page of this report for both health and safety and environmental measures.
Since 2006, as BBA Aviation plc, we have been a member of the FTSE4Good index and participated in the Carbon Disclosure Project.
indb 52 12 03 2014 12:11 Strategic Report Corporate Social Responsibility Health and Safety BBA Aviations health and safety strategy seeks to deliver a zero incident environment in which all employees take responsibility for their own and others safety.
The Group-wide Recordable Incident Rate RIR has fallen over a six year period but plateaued in 2013 and was 3.11.
To address this, the Group has established a cross functional Safety Steering Committee to provide a coordinated leadership for health and safety matters across BBA Aviation and drive towards our goal of zero incidents with particular focus on Tow it like you own it In 2012 Signature Flight Support behavioural safety.
introduced a new employee recognition programme to 144 out of 244 BBA Aviation reporting locations achieved a RIR of zero during the year.
enhance its already successful Go to page 19 56 sites have achieved over five years since their last recordable incident.
Key Performance The programme gives formal Indicators recognition to those who carry Signature Flight Support 67 sites have had no recordable incidents and 20 sites have achieved For further information about out safe tows of aircraft using over five years since their last recordable incident or have not had one our non-financial KPIs coloured aircraft shaped pins: in the past five years.
silver for 100 safe tows, gold ASIG 55 sites have had no recordable incidents and 28 sites have achieved for 500 and platinum for 1,000. over five years since their last recordable incident or have not had one In 2013, Signature awarded in the past five years.
279 silver, 172 gold and 82 platinum pins.
DAI 14 sites have had no recordable incidents and 8 sites have achieved over five years since their last recordable incident or have not had one in the past five years.
Ontic 1 site has achieved over a year with no recordable incidents.
since start of 2007 or since opening where later.
Community BBA Aviations Group-wide Community Involvement and Charitable Giving Framework sets out the approach our sites should take to projects, volunteering and fundraising in their local communities.
Each of our sites and businesses recognises the importance of being a good neighbour and contributing to the community in which it operates.
Having this framework has led Making a bigger difference Seventy-four employees from to a more structured way of working and has encouraged our businesses and employees Dallas Airmotives Heritage Park to focus on fewer, more ambitious activities, enabling our teams to make a bigger facility volunteered for the contribution to the causes that they care about and fostering longer-term relationships GRACE Grapevine Relief and Community Exchange Feed with those organisations.
Our Kids programme at which 1,515 lunches were served to Charitable giving programme local children over the course of a week.
Volunteers cooked BBA Aviations parent company charitable giving programme is designed to complement and served meals every day and and enhance the many fundraising and community activities undertaken by BBA Aviation coordinated travel to and from employees around the world.
Since 2010, the programme has donated more than $750,000 the venue.
Members of the team also used the event to organisations with strong local connections to BBA Aviation sites and a connection as an opportunity to talk to the to aviation, engineering or education.
children about safety using materials and prizes from the TM SafeStart programme.
indb 53 12 03 2014 12:11 Strategic Report Corporate Social Responsibility Corporate Social Responsibility Environment BBAs environmental reporting system requires each site to record its use of resources, enabling each to track progress and to focus on measures that will drive continuous improvement in performance.
The table below shows the trends over the past five years in the Groups environmental KPIs which are normalised for comparison purposes to dollars of revenue.
We use the Reducing emissions from ground service equipment services of an external consultant to review BBA Aviations process for collecting and GSE consolidating this data.
In late 2012, BBA Aviation began a programme of GSE vehicle The requirements of the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Report renewal across its ASIC and Signature bases in California Regulations 2013 require quoted companies to report globally on greenhouse gas emissions to comply with new State GHG reporting.
standards on vehicle greenhouse gas emissions.
Lower emission and more Greenhouse Gas Emissions Environmental Reporting Data efficient models were identified Combustion of fuel and operation of facilities 55,658 tCO e 2 as replacements.
The first phase Electricity, heat, steam and cooling purchased for own use 54,257 tCO e of replacements was completed 2 by the end of H1 2013 and Total 109,915 tCO e 2 an ongoing retirement and replacement plan has been GHG Intensity Measurement formulated to meet Californias Emissions reported per $m of revenue 2013 49.543 tCO e 2 compliance requirements over the next ten years.
Learnings from the programme are Methodology informing new GSE equipment We have reported on all of the emission sources required under the Companies Act 2006 purchases across the US and will Strategic Report and Directors Report Regulations 2013 with the exception of fugitive be rolled out worldwide in the emissions, which are not thought to be material.
All of these sources fall within our next two to three years.
We have used the World Business Council for Sustainable Development World Resources Institute Greenhouse Gas Reporting Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard revised edition, and emission factors from UK Governments GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting 2013.
BBA Aviation has voluntarily reported environmental metrics for a number of years.
The table below shows the disclosures, in a format that is consistent with previous disclosures, all of which show improvement.
indb 54 12 03 2014 12:11 Strategic Report Corporate Social Responsibility Employees Our businesses provide each of our employees with specific and relevant job-related training and personal support while, at Group level, we develop programmes for example leadership and general skills training that can be implemented across all sites.
Diversity information At BBA Aviation we believe diversity enhances the performance and culture of our Developing our talented employees is important for business and we apply this philosophy when seeking to find the best people to fill roles thefuture leadership of BBA in our organisation.
BBA Aviation has made significant investment in this Recognising that gender is only one particular form of diversity to which we are committed, area in 2013 and has launched a suite ofleadership we are pleased that across BBA Aviations various executive management teams women development initiatives.
make up between 15% and almost 30% of the population and we look forward to seeing The leadership development this continue.
initiatives include a bespoke leadership programme, developed in conjunction The table below shows the percentage of women employed in senior roles as at with Duke Corporate Education, 31 December 2013: for approximately 100 senior Population Population size % age of women leaders.
Additionally, Flight Board 8 12.5% Support andAftermarket Services have rolled out Executive Management Committee 7 28.6% specific supervisor management Senior Management Group 117 15.4% training tailored for the needs of Directors of subsidiaries included in consolidation note 1 70 15.7% their respective organisations.
Note 1 This disclosure includes dormant companies and multiple directorships.
