Overview Performance Governance Accounts Other Information 21 Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2013 P erformance E NVIRONMENTAL POLICY Bellway is one of the largest housebuilding groups recognise and respond to the challenges and in the UK.
The housebuilding process affects the opportunities that are presented by climate change.
environment by the use of land and consumption In addition to our key objectives, the Group has of resources throughout the development process.
identied a number of specic priority areas upon It is our objective to ensure that, at the conclusion which we particularly focus: of a development, an attractive and desirable new consideration of environmental aspects in the environment has been created that will be sustainable selection and procurement of land for development, over time.
including implications for biodiversity and Recognising that we have responsibilities, not only sustainable development.
to limit the negative effects of our operations on the environment, but also to enhance it, this statement meeting and where possible, exceeding sets out our policies for managing the environmental government targets for the redevelopment of aspects across our business.
Key objectives are to: influencing the design of sites, housing, and fittings minimise any deleterious effects on the environment to minimise the effects on both the natural and and where possible, seek environmental builtenvironment.
enhancements, concentrating on areas where providing environmental benefits and minimising thereis most room for improvement.
nuisance arising from construction activities and aim to meet and, where practicable, exceed all preventing pollution on development sites and relevant environmental legislation and regulations.
consideration of environmental issues within ourcorporate functions and everyday business set specific environmental objectives and decision-making processes.
periodically review progress against these objectives to ensure that Bellways environmental aims and The above statement will be balanced against their importance are communicated throughout economic considerations.
theGroup, including to appropriate sub-contractors, suppliers and other parties, and that a copy of this policy statement is displayed in all Bellway sites andoffices.
consider the role that Bellway can play in helping tocontribute to the principles of sustainable development within the UK.
Right So Stepney, London Borough ofStepney Below Links View, Ainsdale, Merseyside
