Directors Remuneration report continued Purpose and link to strategy Operation Potential Performance measures Tax advantaged all-employee share plans complying with HMRC regulations Share plans available to all UK Executive Directors are eligible to Maximum in accordance n a employees in the Group who participate in any of the Groups with HMRC defined limits.
all-employee share plans on the same terms as other UK employees.
Legacy plans The Executive Share Option Scheme ESOS expired in 2011.
Options granted under this plan were subject to performance criteria.
Outstanding options granted up to and including May 2011 continue to be exercisable in the normal fashion, having satisfied the performance criteria attaching to them.
The Group also operates a shareholding policy for Executive Directors details of this can be found on page 51 of this Report.
The Committee may make minor amendments to the Policy for example for regulatory, exchange control, tax or administrative purposes or to take account of a change in legislation without obtaining shareholder approval for that amendment.
The Committee reserves the right to make any remuneration payments and payments for loss of office including exercising any discretions available to it in connection with such payments notwithstanding that they are not in line with the Policy set out above where the terms of the payment were agreed before the Policy came into effect or at a time when the relevant individual was not a Director of the Company and, in the opinion of the Committee, the payment was not in consideration for the individual becoming a Director of the Company.
For these purposes payments includes pension payments under legacy defined benefit pension plans and the satisfaction of awards of variable remuneration and, in relation to an award over shares, the terms of the payment were agreed at the time the award was granted.
Clawback or malus may apply where stated in the above table.
Other elements of remuneration are not subject to clawback or malus.
The Committee may increase the proportion of annual performance related profit share deferred into shares.
The PSP will be operated in accordance with the rules of the plan as approved by shareholders.
In accordance with those rules the Committee has discretion in the following areas as well as general administrative discretion : the Committee may adjust the number of shares under award if there is a capitalisation, rights issue, subdivision, reduction or any other variation in the share capital, a demerger or special dividend: a performance condition for an existing award may be amended if an event occurs which causes the Committee to consider that an amended performance condition would be a fairer measure of performance and would be no less difficult to satisfy: on a change of control or winding up the number of shares will be subject to any relevant performance conditions and time pro-rated.
The Committee has discretion not to apply this reduction or to apply an alternative or no performance condition.
Additionally, participants may have the opportunity to exchange their awards for equivalent awards in the new holding Company: and the Committee has the discretion to treat a demerger as an early vesting event on the same basis as a change of control.
Performance measures and target setting Performance Share Plan Annual Performance Related Profit Share For the PSP, the use of a mix of relative shareholder return and Performance measures for the Annual Performance Related earnings measures ensures that the Groups Executive Directors Profit Share are intended to provide a balance between are focused on delivering both absolute bottom line growth incentivising executives to meet near term profit objectives and strong returns to shareholders relative to an appropriate and the creation of longer term shareholder value through comparator group.
an appropriate mix of strategic, operational and personal performance goals.
In the event the Committee considered it appropriate to change the performance measures for the PSP, any new measure Consistent with the Groups partnership style culture, annual would be selected to be in line with the Groups long term profit performance is the primary performance measure.
business strategy and to support long term shareholder value Targets are set to be appropriately stretching, by reference creation.
The Committee would consult with major shareholders to the Groups internal business plans and to align with in advance of a change in a performance measure used for returns to shareholders over the cycle.
A portion of the award relates to strategic, operational and The performance targets for the PSP are reviewed periodically personal objectives.
These objectives are determined annually and set taking into account market conditions, external market by the Committee and incentivise sustainable improvements forecasts, internal business forecasts and market practice.
in the underlying drivers of performance and the continued The Committee may also adjust the targets in the light of development and further growth of the Group.
corporate activity eg merger and acquisition activity, capital events or changes to accounting rules to ensure that targets remain appropriate.
60 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2013
