Strategic Report Corporate Social R esponsibility Acquiring brownfield sites and breathing newlife into areas that need it the most is attheheart of who we are and what we do.
Pictured: the trentham Estate celebrates 10years of being open to the public in 2014.
90% of our developable portfolio with specified use is brownfield 50 St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 51 Strategic Report Corporate social responsibility We are committed to improving the built As part of this commitment, we seek environment through our regeneration to ensure the following principles are projects, all of which seek to transform adhered to across the Company: run-down areas and disused sites ensure all buildings occupied by into inspirational and thriving business the Group are managed efficiently and residential communities.
indoing by its facilities team and the so, we aim to ensure that community, building surveyor: environmental and social considerations areintegrated within our day-to-day encourage all employees to workingpractices and at all stages conserve energy oftheproject lifecycle.
promote recycling by negotiating contracts and providing facilities to SuStAiNAbility enable employees to recycle office the principles of sustainable waste and other used products: development are integral to our control business travel and provide business and they form the basis opportunities for employees to travel of our environmental policy which to work in various ways, such as demonstrates our commitment to providing cycle racks and showers: improving the environment.
to this aim we seek to: consult with the local community onour proposed schemes: be continually mindful of the impact of our developments on the local and ensure that all fluorescent light wider environments: tubes are disposed of in a safe manner, compliant with appropriate protect and enhance the environment, regulations:and transforming run-down areas and disused sites by developing them to ensure that we employ the highest possible standards: considerate constructors.
continue to engage regularly with We also pay particular attention to statutory and non-statutory bodies, recycling materials on site, using with the local community and through sustainable materials, conserving the planning and environmental energy, reducing our consumption regulatory framework: of raw materials and minimising waste production.
conserve energy, reduce consumption of raw materials and minimise waste the results below demonstrate our production: and commitment to reusing and recycling materials on site and in all instances we adopt practices which lead to have met or over-achieved our targets improvements in environmental for the year.
the slight decline in the performance, for example percentage of remediated materials sustainable design of sites and reused or recycled on site is attributable buildings and the use of sustainable to us having to dispose of some material construction techniques.
to landfill because they were unfit for recycling or reuse elsewhere.
2013 2012 2011 Recycling remediation on site Target achieved achieved achieved Percentage of remediated materials reused or recycled 98% 98% 99% 99% Percentage of demolition products reclaimed or retained on site or recycled 90% 93% 93% 96% Percentage of construction waste reused or recycled 80% 91% 90% 88% 98% of remediated materials are recycledor reused 52 St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 GREENhouSE GAS EMiSSioNS organisation boundary and responsibility We do not have responsibility for We are conscious of our carbon footprint emission sources that are beyond the and below have reported emissions for boundary of our operational control.
those sources we deem ourselves to be Consequently, not all gas and electricity directly responsible.
purchased is included within Scope total purchased gas and electricity 1 and 2 as our tenants consumption this represents the gas and electricity is not under our operational control.
which has been consumed at Furthermore, the data excludes properties under our operational consumption from those sites which fall control head office, certain regional within the joint venture with Persimmon offices, including St. Modwen homes as it is our joint venture partner that offices, sales offices occupied by controls the procurement of utilities to St. Modwen homes and vacant space.
For all other joint ventures, 100% of the data is included in our Petrol and diesel emissions table as we are wholly Petrol and diesel from all company responsible for the emissions sources.
cars in use across the Group.
Cars available to certain employees aspart of the Companys car scheme are restricted to Co emissions of 2 130g km or less.
Intensity ratio tCO tCO 2 2 CO emissions emissions 2 emissions full-time m property 1 2 Greenhouse Gas Emissions tonnes employees portfolio Scope 1: total purchased gas 225 Petrol and diesel 495 TOTAL SCOPE 1 720 2.8 0.6 Scope 2: total purchased electricity 961 TOTAL SCOPE 2 961 3.8 0.8 TOTAL SCOPE 1 and 2 1,681 6.6 1.4 1.
Equivalent Co emissions per full-time employee 2 2.
Equivalent Co2 per m of property portfolio held by the Company Reporting year to measure emissions from company cars, we have based this on the our reporting year for greenhouse gas Environmental Reporting Guidelines: emissions is the same as our financial st including mandatory greenhouse gas reporting year, being 1 december 2012 th emissions reporting guidance June to 30 November 2013.
2013 issued by the department for Methodology Environment, Food and Rural Affairs We have reported on all of the emission dEFRA.
We have also utilised dEFRAs sources required under the Companies 2013 conversion factors within our Act 2006 Strategic Report and directors reporting methodology.
Reports Regulations 2013. to calculate this is the first year for which we have emissions from gas and electricity reported our greenhouse gas emissions consumption, we have used the main and this will form the baseline data for requirements of the GhG Protocol subsequent Annual Reports.
As part Standard revised edition and emission of our ongoing commitment to reduce factors from uK Governments GhG our carbon footprint, we will continually Conversion Factors for Company endeavour to improve on the way we Reporting 2014. capture data for future reports.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 53 Strategic Report Corporate social responsibility EMPloyEE diVERSity boARd diVERSity our employees are instrumental to our business success and we respect and value the individuality and diversity that 2 each one brings.
the Company adheres to a clear equality policy which sets out individuals rights and obligations as defined by the Equality Act 2010. this policy covers the responsibilities and approach we 7 have to our employees and our duty to avoid discrimination in all aspects ofrecruitment and employment.
Male 78% A breakdown by gender of the number Female 22% of persons who were directors of the Company, senior managers and other employees both full and part time as th at30 November 2013 is set out here.
SENioR MANAGER diVERSity in considering appointments to the board and to senior executive positions, it is our policy to evaluate the skills, 1 knowledge and experience required by a particular role with due regard for the benefit of diversity and to make an appointment accordingly.
7 Male 87% Female 13% All EMPloyEE diVERSity 152 170 Male 53% Female 47% 54 St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 tRAiNiNG ANd dEVEloPMENt hEAlth ANd SAFEty ChARitAblE CoNtRibutioNS the motivation of our employees is the Company gives high priority to Affiliated to the Governments important to us as it maintains a good safeguarding the health and safety of the landfill tax Credit Scheme and level of staff retention which is key for public and its employees by pursuing a regulated by ENtRuSt, the ensuring stability across the business policy which ensures that: St. Modwen Environmental trust seeks and in turn, ensures our long-term to support projects where alternative its business is conducted in projects are managed effectively.
in the funding is unlikely to be available, accordance with standards that are period, 82% of management had served targeting not-for-profit organisations in compliance with relevant statutory over three years of service 2012: 78%.
such as community groups and charities.
provisions for health and safety during 2013 we improved our appraisal of staff and any other persons on Established in 2008, the trust has funded system which is designed to assist Company premises: over 250,000 of community projects employees in developing their careers, and in 2013, it reached the end of its a safe and healthy working identify and provide appropriate training lifecycle.
We are now working to renew environment is established and support the Companys succession our strategy for charitable support which and maintained at all of the planning objectives.
will be aligned with our business strategy Companys locations: and have both local and national focus.
Senior management also participated in managers at all levels regard health a leadership development Programme and safety matters as a prime during the year.
the programme management responsibility: comprised a series of individual workshops that were designed to sufficient financial resources are enhance effective business skills and provided to ensure that policies can entrepreneurial thinking.
over the next beimplemented effectively: 12 months, the programme will be rolled good standards of training and out at an appropriate level to all other instruction in matters of health and professional staff and tailored to their safety are provided and maintained individual needs.
atall levels of employment: huMAN RiGhtS risk assessments are carried out where appropriate: and Whilst we do not have a specific human rights policy at present, we do have a suitable advisory service in matters policies that adhere to internationally of health and safety is provided proclaimed human rights principles.
We will give careful consideration to the Companys health and safety whether a specific human rights policy is performance continues to be very good, needed in the future over and above our with no enforcement notices issued, no existing policies.
prosecutions for breaches of health and safety, and no fatalities.
APPRoVAl oF StRAtEGiC REPoRt the Strategic Report for the year ended th 30 November 2013, which is set out from this annual report to page 55, has been approved by the board and was signed on its behalf by bill oliver Chief Executive rd 3 February 2014 St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 55
