Berendsen plc Report and 44 Accounts 2013 Our people Investing in our people togrow the business.
Our ability to look after the well-being and development of all our people has a direct impact on our overall strategic performance.
By engaging our people we improve customer satisfaction and retention and ultimately Berendsens growth prospects.
Across the group, 2013 was a year Employee 69% K Ke ey y p po oint ints s in in of implementation of our previously 61% engagement announced plans to motivate, engage, t th hi is s s sec ect ti io on n: : score develop, reward and recognise our % Employee engagement employees.
Here we provide an update Berendsen on progress against our commitments Global norm 69% in areas which relate directly to our employee engagement level.
Areas of strength Leadership Understanding our people k Our people have higher than average In September 2013 we conducted levels of engagement and little 50 our first company-wide One intention of leaving Berendsen Managers invited to attend LEAD Berendsen employee engagement inthenext 12 months: programmes in 2014. survey.
Out of 15,000 people, a total k Our people understand their role of 11,500 participated in the online Investment in people inrelation to organisational success, survey, giving a response rate of 76%.
know what is expected of them 2.24m Consisting of 25 questions, available andfeel comfortable sharing their Training spend.
in 23 languages, the high response opinions with their manager: rate gives us confidence in the survey category results of communication, k Our people believe that the CEO Values andhis team are taking Berendsen engagement, leadership, organisation, my manager, my team, my role, inthe right direction: and 100% performance and personal development.
k Berendsen scores higher than the Roll out to all sites of vision and An overall engagement score of 69% global norm scores for all the above.
put Berendsen 8 points higher than the global norm for the 176 other Areas of attention Monitoring a motivated workforce organisations who have conducted k Our people see that leaders could similar surveys with our chosen partner, 96% increase the amount of visible Get Feedback.
Senior management KPI presence in their area of the 6 retention rate.
Conducting the One Berendsen survey organisation: online enabled us to easily produce k Our people say they would like to detailed engagement summaries have more regular feedback, for all 140 Berendsen workplaces.
particularly when they perform Following receipt of the results, line well:and managers have since been engaged in an open and transparent communication k Our people believe more could be of the results at every location.
done to increase the opportunities for career development within Whats next?
We will continue to communicate the results in 2014, working with Chris Thrush employee groups to identify three to Group Director, four improvement actions for each HumanResources site, aimed at further enhancing levels of engagement before the survey isundertaken again in 2015. s m Strategic report Governance Financial statements h r t e s t d w l & i u e o o B l p p r e o g S r e a t p t r i r a o t o n D t e a n e h g f l e t s i f e c h u m o r g t p r O c m w e u e n i o w s h n p i r t o a g d t s p e i r d l o m o a i r n f E e u a B L a u c t B s u i i m n o e e s n n s s t a n l e m Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2013 45 LEAD behaviours, e. g. including LEAD Whats next?
Embedding in our Performance and Development leadership behaviours In 2014 we will continue to embed Review PDR process to ensure a LEAD through the introduction of In 2012 we developed LEAD, our regular dialogue between a manager LEAD Development Centres.
These are model of 8 key leadership behaviours and his or her manager about progress intensive and stretching one day events which combine both our perceived against the LEAD framework.
aimed at building competency around current leadership strengths with In addition, a LEAD 360 feedback tool LEAD behaviours.
They are either one those we believe we need to develop has been added to further enrich the to one, or group based programmes further for our future success.
LEAD, PDR discussion, together with summary and result in each participating short for Leadership Effectiveness And LEAD development suggestions for manager being provided with a tailored Development, identifies the behaviours each LEAD behaviour so that learning development report identifying we consider will be most effective at and development action plans can be leadership strengths and opportunities both plant and senior leader levels.
put in place for each manager wanting for ongoing learning and development.
In 2013, in addition to communicating to accelerate their progress against 50 managers, selected from the talent and explaining LEAD to the whole the model.
lists in our succession planning process, management group, we developed tools will be invited to take part in LEAD and processes to begin embedding Development Centre programmes in 2014.
Leadership Effectiveness And Development model Always moving forward Engaging with our people 4 8 3 1 values leadership behaviours strategic goals... vision.
In order to maximise the potential response rate in the online employee survey rolled out in 2013, it was necessary to provide a way for all employees who wanted to take part to be able to do so including those with no regular access to a computer.
Advance publicity material created awareness, but this was not enough.
We appointed one or two volunteer survey champions at each Berendsen site.
Their role was to provide support and help to anyone wanting to undertake the survey, together with ensuring dedicated and private computer access was available in normal work time.
This proved so successful that in the end the response rate from our people without regular Our vision access to a computer was higher than our We take pride in doing people working with a computer every day!
what were best at, delivering unsurpassed levels of service, so our customers can do what theyre best at.
76 % response rate to online employee survey.
LEAD r e e e v m o f M o r o t e p o r s t m u r i c e c i v s l t a s a u t i e i l e c t v v i s r s r e D e s m u T n m e c g a o e s n c m o e i s r l f w a f s S C o d t r r e r l k a v e e r n t e l a r c o e m d h t p i a n n r i m o g e t g l n a s n t n i s r u e n t e C x s E Berendsen plc Report and 46 Accounts 2013 Our people Management development Management trainee scheme Developing our people programmes The Berendsen Management Trainee Having a clear strategic approach to In addition to the group level leadership scheme was enhanced and expanded developing our management capabilities development programmes of the further in 2013.
A total of 24 trainees, will shape us for continuous growth.
Berendsen Academy, at the country 14 men and 10 women, an increase of level, management development 50% on the numbers in 2012 began Berendsen Academy programmes, which put in place the or continued a two year traineeship In 2013 we continued to add to the building blocks of management skills and which requires the completion of learning and development opportunities competency, have been implemented.
four six-month projects aimed at provided through the Berendsen addressing complex organisational A number of these took place in 2013, Academy.
The Academy, first launched issues.
Trainees get experience in many with over 300 managers participating in 2012, is Berendsens in-house functional areas, are provided with a in Leading through Change and Cycle corporate university for furthering thorough grounding in the company and of Service workshops in the UK, and company knowledge, expertise and are expected to work internationally for managers in Denmark participating leadership development.
In January at least one of their six month projects.
ina simulation game, Wallbreakers, 2013 the Academy trained over The scheme provides a pipeline of future atool used to train implementation 200 managers in pricing and commercial management talent and at the end of oforganisational change.
terms to improve the profitability of their two year programme trainees our contracts and support our strategy In Sweden the fifth in a series of are typically appointed to middle for higher growth.
In 2014 we will leadership programmes with selected management roles throughout the introduce new courses aimed at building managers was completed, and in organisation.
An example is Christoffer further understanding, involvement 2014 a management development Johansson who graduated from the and empowerment.
programme for managers in Germany Management Trainee Scheme in will be launched.
Following projects undertaken The Academy also introduced in Sweden, the UK and Germany, new online tools for 360 Christoffer has been appointed Deputy feedback, recruitment skills and Plant Manager for a Flat Linen plant in diversity awareness.
the south of Sweden reporting to the Danish Plant Manager who is based there on a part-time basis.
The role will provide Christoffer with the opportunity Integrated model for leadership development to develop operations and people management skills and grow toward k Reward strategy k Group recruitment guide taking full responsibility for the Plant.
k Bonus programme k Gender diversity policy k Long-term incentives k Management trainee scheme Increasing our talent pool k Recognition programme Attract Succession planning measures management k Two identified successors for each talent position in Top 50 list: k Promote from within 70% of management appointments: and k Senior Leader retention 90%.
Motivate, Reward engage, and retain performance Training spend manage 2.24m 2012: 1.77m In addition to the management and leadership development programmes described in this Develop section, we invested in the skills development of our people in the areas of safety awareness, driving, customer service, engineering, selling, and our CL2000 methodology.
k Succession Planning Process k PDR process k LEAD model k LEAD model k Berendsen Academy k One Berendsen staff survey LEAD 360 Feedback k Group induction programme LEAD Development Centres Pricing and Commercial Terms Coaching and Performance E-Learning tools: Recruitment skills Unconscious bias Strategic report Governance Financial statements Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2013 47 Communicating our values Employee communications Reward and recognition In 2013 we continued the embedding We place a high priority on employee We reward our managers based on their of our One Berendsen Vision and communications.
Berendsen Universe performance, potential and contribution Values programme.
We strengthened is our group intranet accessible to to the success of the business.
We aim employee understanding with the all employees.
First installed in 2012, to provide competitive fair rates of help of three DVD film presentations Universe provides a wide range of employee pay and benefits in every containing success stories showing how company information, news, knowledge country where we operate.
our values are being demonstrated sharing and best practice guides.
In 2013 we continued to focus on every day through the work our people There were eight editions of Berendsens clear and transparent links between do.
Aoneyear on competition held online Newsletter in 2013 highlighting performance and reward.
We incentivise in March 2013 was aimed at finding company successes in sales, product managers through annual bonus out how well the Vision and Values news and other developments across programmes aligned to the key programme had been communicated the whole company with each issue performance objectives of each business to date.
The competition proved to introduced by the CEO giving regular line which in turn are in support of be a popular event and our people in updates on company performance.
The new Hofors Sweden, Aalborg Denmark, In addition, local operating companies Berendsen Long Term Incentive plan, UdenNetherlands, Szamtuly Poland, have installed large flat screen TVs first introduced in 2012, rewards Glinde Germany, and Wakefield UK, and internet capability in canteens to approximately 100 managers for the provided the winning entries.
communicate messages and provide achievement of strategic goals and In September 2013 the One access to Berendsen Universe.
Use is encourages share ownership.
Berendsen Employee Survey question also made of management and team At Berendsens 2013 annual Berendsens Vision and Values has briefings, letters to staff and annual kick management conference 60 managers been communicated in a way that off, or ad hoc meetings to ensure our spent two busy days putting growth at I understand them was answered people are well informed.
the centre of the agenda and explored agree or strongly agree by 67% the ways to increase organic growth of respondents.
through best practice sharing, market insights and other initiatives.
At the end of the Conference, Excellence Awards were given to recognise managers for their outstanding achievements in support of the overall goal of higher growth.
Awards were given for Growth Always moving forward Excellence, Service Excellence, Cash Excellence plus further awards for Living our values Management Team of the year and We are driven by a strong sense of passion and Supervisor in our Wednesbury Hotels plant in the Colleague of the year.
We push for engagement through UK.
Having being informed by the customer communication of our values which actively service office, who had taken a call from stimulates discussion within the business, using distraught parents, Jaz and his colleagues set clear explanations and concrete examples.
about rifling through 18 cages of linen recently returned from local hotels until they found a lost An illustration of this is the story of Jaz Dhami, teddy bear.
He then set off to return the much ademonstration of our caring and teamwork loved bear to his owner and the little girls values.
Nineteen years with the company, astonished parents.
Jazhasworked for the last 6 years asaTransport Berendsen plc Report and 48 Accounts 2013 Our people A partnership has been established Focusing on diversity Women in management externally with the EveryWoman Our goal is a working culture that is network which provides access to inclusive for all.
We are committed 0% excellent online learning materials and to eliminating discrimination and Women executives, leadership development training days.
we are building a pipeline encouraging diversity amongst our In addition, an in-house Berendsen workforce.
We aim for our employees Academy training video has been to be representative of the communities produced on the subject of Unconscious in which we operate and for each of our Bias to increase awareness and people to feel respected and able to give is available online to all managers their best.
9% Women senior leaders In 2012 we outlined our commitment Our succession planning process, which to improving gender diversity with includes two reviews per annum at the particular emphasis on the numbers of Executive Board and business line levels, women in management roles.
In 2013 now identifies and reviews development we have continued to focus on this area plans for the numbers of both men 24% through a number of initiatives.
and women who make up the talent Women middle managers pool of future or emerging leaders.
Each member of the Women in The establishment of our new Supply Berendsen network, first established Chain and Procurement function in in 2012, took on the responsibility of 2013 provided the opportunity to make mentoring another more junior woman several new appointments, including the manager to strengthen the network recruitment of a senior woman manager deeper into the company and to 43% as Director of Procurement.
Women employees at Berendsen Whats next?
In 2014 we will undertake a more detailed analysis of women in management positions across the company with a view to achieving a better understanding of their aspirations and career development needs.
Always moving forward Celebrating diversity Our second annual meeting and dinner with senior women in Berendsen was held.
A total of 25 senior women leaders and their mentees met with Peter Ventress, CEO, and Chris Thrush, 43% Group Director, Human Resources, to discuss Women employees progress made in 2013, and in particular, the at Berendsen.
success of the new mentoring programme designed to encourage confidence and ambition and strengthen the network.
Several mentees described the increased confidence and selfbelief that they had derived from participating inthe programme with five women informing thegroup of their promotions in the last year!
One of these is Janni Nielsen who first joined Berendsen as a trainee in her mid 20s in Denmark.
Seven years on Janni has been appointed Plant Manager in our Workwear plant in Svendborg following earlier appointments as Production Manager, Project Leader and Product Manager in our Healthcare and Washroom businesses.
Jannis mentor in 2013 has been LeneFredelokke, Workwear Sales Director in Denmark and a former Svendborg Plant Manager.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2013 49 Maintaining health Major Injury Number of Major Injury Number of Rate major injuries Rate major injuries and safety as a priority 2013 2012 Definition: Number of deaths and major injuries total hours worked x 1,000,000. Business line Facility 0.89 3 Major injury 0.79 Workwear 0.55 4 0.27 2 rate by Business Line UK Flat Linen 0.80 8 1.01 10 0.51 Flat Linen outside UK 1.49 8 0.56 3 Clinical Solutions and KPI Decontamination Target 2012 2013 5 Total group 0.79 23 0.51 15 As part of the process of rolling-out this Due to more manual handling in our Managing our new policy, we asked all businesses in FlatLinen businesses compared to other health and safety the Group to complete a self assessment business lines, we have historically seen The health and safety of our people questionnaire to identify any gaps ahigher major injury rate there.
Tragically last year in compliance.
Our Facility business line had no injuries we saw the death of a driver from To get an external perspective on in 2012 and three in 2013, however this our Frstenwalde plant in Germany.
how we mange health and safety we isnot an obvious trend development.
The roadaccident is still being commissioned a specialist health and investigated.
His colleagues, and all Our Operational Risk Management safety consultant to visit seven plants Berendsen employees, were deeply Group has placed increased focus insix different countries.
saddened by this tragic event.
on health and safety including more This review will be completed in Q1 2014 accurate reporting and categorisation As we operate in many countries, local ofincidents as they occur.
and the findings will be presented to the standards, both in terms of regulation Operational Risk Management Group in and accepted best practice, do vary.
If there were to be any instance of an April 2014.
Any health and safety related Group-wide we want to achieve a much employee becoming disabled during incidents, across the Group, are reported higher standard than mere compliance their employment with us, every effort through our internal reporting system.
would be made to make sure that their This ensures that incidents are promptly employment with us continues and that, We received and updated our Group reported to senior management where needed, appropriate retraining Health and Safety Policy in 2013. and that actions are taken to try and is arranged.
The new policy builds on the standards prevent incidents of a similar nature previously set.
Group incident statistics continue to be regularly collected and reviewed by the board twice each year.
The table above shows the major injury rate and number of major injuries for Berendsen employees in 2013 and 2012 by business line.
