Berendsen plc Report and 50 Accounts 2013 Corporate responsibility The heart of a sustainable business.
A sustainable business requires a proactive and practical approach to corporate responsibility CR.
We recognise that this will continue to be a key driver of our success.
Sustainability is not just important to us, but to our customers Opportunities too.
Our focus is on meeting the changing demands of Commercial opportunities Engage and retain employees our customers.
Many of them Our customers have important sustainability Being a good employer and supporting our acknowledge that we are on commitments of their own and we work people to do their best work helps us attract a journey.
hard to help them meet those commitments.
and retain the high performing individuals Our drive towards sustainability helps support weneed to improve business performance, I think it would be fair to say that their drive towards sustainability.
they are not looking for us to achieve everything tomorrow, but are keen Operational efficiencies Competitive advantage that we demonstrate continuous Improved sustainability performance can We operate in a crowded and competitive improvement, both in terms of the translate directly into operational efficiencies.
Seizing the opportunity to be a sustainability initiatives that we We constantly evaluate how new ideas and more responsible business helps to differentiate undertake, and in the results that technologies can improve how we work, ourselves from our peers.
reducing both our environmental impact we achieve.
In my view, corporate responsibility has become much more than just CO emissions it embraces 2 Risks everything from addressing changing customer demands Environmental risks Regulatory environment and human rights, to how we work with our employees: thats Failure to manage how we use water, electricity, The regulatory landscape in Europe is subject chemicals, oil and gas would damage our to change.
New regulations, such as legislation why its absolutely central to our reputation, increase costs and mean that targeted specifically at our sector or at the key business performance.
customers could fail to meet their own resources and utilities we use, could affect our environmental commitments.
Exposure to price changes Changing customer demands Utilities and textiles are essential to our business.
Customers are increasingly concerned with the If prices change significantly, it could have sustainability performance of their suppliers a detrimental impact on our overall costs such as Berendsen.
As their demands evolve, and competitiveness.
we must ensure that our commercial approach adapts to meet their needs.
Our priorities Managing our environmental impact Engaging with our stakeholders We will strive to minimise our business We work with all our stakeholders including environmental impacts with particular focus on customers, employees, investors and local CO2 emissions, water, chemicals and transport.
communities to understand and action ontheir expectations.
Peter Ventress Operational efficiency Chief Executive Officer We are committed to ensuring that smarter working practices go hand-in-hand with being a more sustainable, responsible andcompetitive business.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2013 51 The business case for Always moving forward corporate responsibility Our Vision is that We take pride in Working with our doing what were best at, delivering suppliers responsibly unsurpassed levels of service, so our We use the services of an external specialist customers can do what theyre best organisation to provide us with assurance that our overseas textile suppliers are adopting at.
To achieve that, we only make appropriate ethical and working practices.
investments that have commercial During 2013 they completed eight audits payback and that includes investments at supplier locations in Cambodia, China, in corporate responsibility CR.
They made a number of recommendations to further improve the high Most companies recognise the many standards that our suppliers adopt.
We have soft reasons why CR matters.
But in our been working with our external specialist and our suppliers to ensure that actions are experience, there are also compelling complete, or are in progress, to address all and indisputable hard reasons why CR oftherecommendations made.
is not just desirable, but fundamental to long-term success of our business.
High among these is that CR issues inform almost every business conversation we have with customers or potential customers.
Customer needs are changing and they are changing fast.
They want to know how we are performing from a CR perspective and In addition, our business success is We work hard to reduce the quantities inextricably linked to the quality of ofWECO we use across our operations.
what we are doing to improve, because their customers are raising the same our people.
We depend on their skills, At the same time, we also aim to be dedication and can-do attitude to issues.
When we use water more wisely, more efficient in effect, using fewer reduce the amount of fuel our trucks provide the best possible service to resources more wisely in order to drive our customers and they deserve our use or support our people in new and down our environmental impact.
Such an better ways, the more we can have a unqualified support.
So we continue outcome is good for our business and to invest in and develop our people, positive impact on those customers our customers because it reduces own CR performances.
And that means creating an environment where they risks and costs and also good for can do their best work.
Again, this increased business for us.
the environment and the communities is an investment that is not just the Secondly, we operate in an where we operate.
right thing to do but one that is also increasingly regulated business sector.
Ultimately, improved WECO Our stakeholders need the reassurance management will help us fulfil our of knowing that we meet all regulations environmental commitments and those and surpass and anticipate them when Managing our of our customers and that means we possible.
Tenders and other procurement environmental impact will win and retain more contracts.
processes ask tough questions about Water, energy, chemicals, and oil and efficiency and compliance and when gas WECO are everyday resources we are able to answer affirmatively, to our business.
All our business lines customers have the confidence to work depend on wash regimes to varying with us.
degrees, which is why WECO forms the core of our commitment to environmental management.
Berendsen plc Report and 52 Accounts 2013 Corporate responsibility CO emissions Certification in the UK 2 Our total CO emissions 2 Last year, for the first time, we reported We value the role of the Carbon Trust Kg of CO2 per tonne of laundry shipped CO2 emissions for each of our business Standard in helping companies reduce lines using the Greenhouse Gas GHG emissions and our UK business is proud 2013 2012 Protocol methodology.
This year, by of its existing certification which we Workwear 522 521 being able to compare two consecutive will actively be looking to renew after Facility 269 280 12-month periods, we can demonstrate the end of 2014.
The standard is only that we continue to move in the awarded to those organisations that UK Flat Linen 387 398 right direction.
measure, manage and reduce their Flat Linen outside UK 391 393 carbon footprint, which is a key priority As the table on the right shows, Kg of Clinical Solutions and for Berendsen.
Decontamination 1,146 1,230 CO per tonne of laundry shipped has 2 fallen from 411Kg in 2012 to 402Kg in Our UK business also achieved Group reduction in2013 of2.2% 402 411 2013, a reduction of 2.2%, although our the Carbon Trust Water Standard tonnes shipped in 2013 has risen by 3.1% certification in 2012 and is currently Group total tonnes of CO2 emissions 247,851 246,228 compared to 2012. going through the application processtobe awarded this again.
We are compliant with all relevant To bere-awarded this unique national legislations and in the UK that accreditation our UK business must includes the requirements that from demonstrate a 2.6% reduction in water October 2013, we should report the usage from 2011 to 2013.
Breakdown of our annual tonnage of CO2 from: scope 1 and 2 emissions k Combustion of fuel and operation of Whats next?
any facility Scope 1 : and 2012 Article 8 of the EU Energy Efficiency k Purchase of electricity, heat, steam or Directive came into force towards the 19.9% cooling by us for our own use Scope 2. end of 2012 and requires that Member States introduce a programme of regular Scope 3 emissions are not included in energy audits for large enterprises.
This is partly due to the The first audit must be completed complexity of assessing those, notably bytheend of 2015, with further audits in terms of emissions linked to our onafour-yearly basis.
In the UK, the Government is now Scopes 1 and 2 emissions are shown consulting on the implementation inthe table on the right: of Article 8, with early suggestions 2013 indicating that the audits will include: Methodologies used 20.5% k A review of the total energy use and As stated above, we use the Greenhouse energy efficiency of the organisation: Gas Protocol methodology and and conversion factors to assess our carbon footprint.
However, we only update k Clear information on potential savings, these once each year from 1 January.
which identify and quantify cost- 79.5% The Greenhouse Gas Protocol has effective energy saving opportunities.
recently updated its conversion factors, We are considering how we can best but we will only implement those from facilitate the audit process and are Scope 1 1 January 2014 to ensure we have identifying an approved assessor to Scope 2 consistent and comparable data till then.
In addition, we believe that our involvement with the Carbon Trust will be of help in the UK.
During 2014, we will work to identify what the audit process will require inourother operating countries.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2013 53 Operational efficiency Always moving forward Water use and recovery Managing our Water plays an inevitably significant environmental impacts role in our washing processes In the UK we have introduced new systems to and its effective use and recovery reduce rinse water volumes and recover the has an important impact on effluent to a quality that is suitable for washing our overall environmental and and rinsing our products.
The award in water operational performance.
management efficiency at the Sustainability Leaders Awards held in London was given Across the group, most operations now to us due to the savings and efficiencies achievedof up to 75%.
The Sustainability have water recovery systems in place.
Leaders Awards remain one of the few Typically, these lead to a reduction in environmental awards schemes recognised water consumption of 20%-25% and bythe European Commission.
also have a positive knock-on effect on energy usage when we use less water, it requires less energy to heat it.
up to Recent initiatives include the trialling of membrane water filtration technology that recovers our waste water for re-use.
7 5% of the effluent This technology also recovers the heat is recovered for re-use.
energy in the waste water which leads to further reductions in our energy consumption.
Because the recovered water is already at a high temperature, Chemical suppliers We have a range of initiatives and we need less energy to bring it up to programmes in place to help us reduce We also work alongside our suppliers the correct temperature for washing.
to validate our water use and recovery This means we use less water and processes.
Chemical suppliers analyse For example, our Flat Linen fleet in less energy.
our performance and identify areas the UK uses a vehicle management Water-related concerns also drive for improvement, while our boiler system to monitor fuel usage and product innovation.
For example, in water treatment suppliers check boiler driver behaviour.
The aim is to reduce the UK, we moved from 100% cotton operation and provide reports on fuel consumption by minimising to 100% poly cotton products, as we efficiency.
An efficient boiler is the mark harsh acceleration, braking, and realised this was driving significant of good energy management, and we excessive idling.
energy and water use reductions, and check performance by monitoring the Across the business, we monitor and that it extended our products lifespan.
We also use flue gas regularly review vehicle routes to thermometers, steam trap surveys and improve fuel efficiency and, wherever Whats next?
check on hot well temperatures to help possible, use fewer large vehicles us identify efficiency issues.
We will continue to focus on initiatives instead of more of the smaller ones.
that will reduce our use of water and Large vehicles have the advantage of Transport and logistics increase our recovery rate, as long as being able to carry greater volumes per they also make commercial sense in mile driven, which enables us to reduce Our customers depend on regular reducing our cost base to the benefit and reliable deliveries, so transport the overall number of vehicles on the ofus and our customers.
accounts for a significant amount of our environmental impact.
In order to maintain tight control on our operations, we own and operate most of our fleets ourselves.
All vehicles conform to the requirements of low emission zones and we always specify the latest and most efficient engines for new vehicles.
We also constantly review fuel costs and usage.
Berendsen plc Report and 54 Accounts 2013 Corporate responsibility At Berendsen, our purpose and so Engaging with partners Engaging with one of our core drivers is to help our and the widerindustry ourstakeholders customers perform better, and we As Europes leading textile Our approach is to engage with all do that by providing a range of high services business, we are keen to stakeholders on a regular basis in quality, innovative and cost-effective play a significant role in how our order to build solid relationships that services.
However, CR issues are also industry develops.
will stand the test of time.
Our key increasingly important factors in stakeholders are: winning new customers and retaining We are members of the European existing contracts.
Textile Services Association ETSA, k Employees: and invest time and resources to help We are proud to be the trusted suppliers k Customers: it fulfil its mission of promoting greater of the NHS covering about 60% of understanding of the key issues that the k Suppliers: their daily needs in the UK, and of the industry faces.
hospitality industry covering about k Local communities: and 30% of the industrys needs in the UK.
We are being recognised for our work k Investors.
Those customers drive us to increase in this area by outside bodies.
We have While each group has different interests our own standards and to be innovative, been shortlisted for the 2013 PLC and issues, we recognise the importance and to deliver safe and efficient products Awards Achievement in Sustainability of all in helping us build a sustainable and services.
Award, the winner of which will be business.
We listen carefully to their announced in March 2014.
Our sustainability management and concerns and needs, and work with performance are frequently of real them to make sure that the way we Engaging with suppliers interest to customers, not only in formal run Berendsen delivers the optimum procurement requests for information The main suppliers we use are in outcomes for all stakeholders.
and questionnaires, but also during Europe and also in Pakistan, Cambodia, meetings and conversations between Vietnam and China.
We work hard Engaging with our employees our customer relationship managers to make sure that not only do our Berendsen is a people business.
supplier arrangements ensure high We engage with our employees through quality products, but also the high How are we doing?
Where have we a number of internal communications environmental and social standards improved recently?
Can we help initiatives and platforms, promoting our thatwe expect all suppliers to achieve.
customers meet some specific Vision and Values and helping to build environmental target that will support Our policy is to award relatively asense of real teamwork and belonging their business or CR objectives?
large contracts to a small number of across the group.
We do this: to We share knowledge and information You will find more details on how we access economies of scale: to ensure with customers wherever possible, both support employees and on our Vision standardisation: and also because a on an ad hoc basis and also through and Values in the Our People section larger contract gives us greater status formal communications such as this ofthis report, on page 44. and influence notably on CR issues Annual Report.
At all times, we stress the asa key customer.
fact that sustainability is integral to the Engaging with customers We regularly visit suppliers and have way we run our business.
It improves our As we explained earlier, we work hard to efficiency and reduces our costs both appointed a single assurance provider meet the many and diverse needs of our to carry out independent audits of of which translate into improved value customers, engaging with them via both for our customers.
In short, our focus on these suppliers to ensure that our informal and formal channels.
ethical standards are being correctly CR helps customers run better and more efficient businesses.
observed, including those relating to human rights and working conditions.
This approach provides us with a standard audit process and reporting mechanism, highlighting each suppliers Always moving forward level of compliance, flagging any actions required for improvement.
Supporting our customers For added assurance, we have a supplier During 2013 our Polish business won the whistleblowing scheme which enables contract to provide garments to one of the countrys largest pharmacy networks, with suppliers to flag up any issues or areas over 600 locations and nearly 2,800 users.
Pharmacists work in pristine white coats, so the customer initially requested that we deliver each We also continue to be committed to clean garment wrapped in plastic.
We proposed the UK governments request that all using re-usable textile covers which do the same businesses in the FTSE 350 sign up to job this initiative removed the need for the the Prompt Payment Code.
Under the customer to dispose of over 200,000 plastic bags each year and reduced their impact on code, we undertake to pay suppliers on the environment.
time, give clear guidance to suppliers on issues such as payment procedures and complaints, and encourage them to implement best practice in their own supply chains.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2013 55 Engaging with local communities The Group Risk Manager is responsible We review these policies on a regular for updating the board on any CRbasis, and a revised and updated Group We understand the important role related incidents and other issues.
Health and Safety Policy was distributed that local communities play in our throughout the business in April 2013 business and strive to maintain The Group Risk Manager also see Our people section on page49 strong relationships with them.
collates and reviews KPIs, helps for further information on Health Many of our employees come from with the completion of CR-related and Safety.
these communities so our reputation survey requests and handles other as a responsible and fair employer external communication.
In addition, we are making good progress with reviewing and updating isvery important.
This includes our annual Communication the Group Ethics Policy.
If local residents raise concerns on Progress to the United Nations about any aspects of our operations, Global Compact, which was reviewed Procurement, bribery and corruption we take them very seriously and by all members of the executive board respond accordingly.
The next We have zero tolerance of bribery and communication will be in April 2014. corruption and rolled-out our minimum During 2013, we received two complaints requirements across the group in 2011. from local residents about employee The business lines are responsible for The audit process for new suppliers vehicles.
At Grangemouth, a neighbour implementing the groups CR policies includes compliance with these was concerned about parking in front in each business unit.
They also keep requirements, a process that is overseen of his house, while at Shrewsbury, a group management informed of any by our group procurement function.
resident expressed concerns about how CR-related issues.
Furthermore, country employees were leaving our premises managers and shared service finance Each year, each business unit must at night.
We investigated both incidents, directors are required to provide a complete an anti-bribery and corruption and engaged with the employees certification of compliance with group risk assessment, and bribery awareness concerned.
Also in Shrewsbury, a CR policies twice each year March and is frequently an agenda item for local ambulance station complained September, with details of any known management meetings.
of fumes from our wiper processing orsuspected breaches.
We have since changed the wash Business continuity processes and no further complaints Data management We take our business continuity have been received.
While we operate in many countries, procedures very seriously.
How effective often with a different mix of business these are directly impacts on the lines in each country, we face broadly assurance that we can provide to Managing and monitoring CR similar material issues across the group.
customers that they will be serviced How we manage CR inall circumstances.
For consistency purposes, data relating We believe that CR is everybodys to health and safety, WECO and CO Understandably, all our customers want 2 responsibility, from the boardroom emissions are collected by each site, to know what our business continuity and the fleet bay to the wiper washing andthen reported by each business unit procedures are.
However, we do also have core and business line in each country.
these and refine them to take into CR governance processes in place to account their changing requirements, ensure consistency and assurance across changes in how we operate and the the group.
Systems and policies products and services that we provide.
Our approach Accordingly we reviewed and updated Governance our Group Business Continuity Planning Key policies guide our approach to CR.
It is the responsibility of the board to Policy in 2013.
Scenario-based testing These are: set group CR policies.
The board also of our business continuity planning receives regular updates on compliance k Ethics: arrangements has previously been done and other CR issues and reviews any k Health and Safety: in the UK and this is now extended actions being taken.
In addition, the to overseas.
k Environment: and board reviews twice each year CRrelated KPIs and data for example, k Community.
data relating to health and safety and Our CR policies recognise our CO emissions.
2 responsibilities to our people, the environment and communities in which we operate.
For more information on our policies regarding human resources and our employees, see Our people section onpages 44 to 49.
Berendsen plc Report and 56 Accounts 2013 Always moving forward Few limits in the market The market for washroom product and services have significant opportunities to grow as the needs served are universal for every kind of business and institution, regardless of size and industry.
There is also a general worldwide trend towards higher hygiene standards and research indicates that standards in shared washrooms are an increasing concern for users.
Combined with a potential of 600 revenue year for every single washroom being serviced, we have high expectations for this business line.
90% By adding new services and products, Our Berendsen Line washroom customer retention within our the market is constantly growing in products are also marketed washroom customers.
Additions include hand widely across the US through sanitisers and vending machines.
Strategic report Financial statements Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2013 57 58 Chairmans address 60 Board of directors 62 Corporate governance statement 80 Report on directors remuneration 80 Annual statement by chair of the remuneration committee 82 Directors remuneration policy 88 Annual report on remuneration 100 Directors report 105 Directors responsibilities for the financial statements Governance.
Berendsen plc Report and 58 Accounts 2013 Chairmans address We are delivering sustainable value.
An effective board must have an open, honest and transparent working relationship between directors and management, which allows an appropriate level of interaction, support and challenge.
Corporate governance is about running tohold management to account.
In this K Ke ey y p po oint ints s in in the business in the right way in order to way the Berendsen board comprises create long-term sustainable value for a team of experienced individuals with t th hi is s s sec ect ti io on n: : the benefit of all of our stakeholders.
the complementary skills and talents to What governance means to us I have been a director of Berendsen carry out their duties to the best of their for over three years and after my first abilities, which we believe engenders the Our governance approach is year as Chairman, I can confirm that trust and respect of all stakeholders.
a vital component of our long-term Berendsen has a strong commitment to growth plans.
I am pleased that on 1 March 2014, we corporate governance and our culture will welcome Maarit Aarni-Sirvi to the of strong delivery and transparency An insight into our board Berendsen board.
Maarit is currently remains one of the companys key non-executive director of Wrtsil and Our diverse and effective board strengths.
Hopefully by reading our Secretary General of the Directors has the necessary skills to lead governance reports you will gain a better Institute of Finland and will provide the us as we grow.
understanding of the Berendsen culture board with additional knowledge and and why our board is effective.
experience of the Scandinavian markets.
Board evaluation and progress Further details on Maarits recruitment We share the outcome of our can be found on page 73.
What good governance means latest evaluation and an update to Berendsen on committed actions to date.
Board achievements At Berendsen, we do not view corporate governance as an isolated exercise during2013 Engaging with our shareholders in compliance but as a core and vital During our board evaluation discussions An overview of our investor discipline that complements our in 2012, the board highlighted the relations activities over the year.
desire to continually improve upon following areas of focus for 2013: the long-term growth and success of strategic oversight, talent management the group on behalf of shareholders.
and succession planning and dialogue Good governance is an evolving process Committee members and reports with shareholders.
I would like to report and our aim is to consistently be at the on how we have approached these focus A report on the activities of our forefront of corporate governance best areas and which will remain as continuing committees and their future plans.
practice in order to deliver effectively priorities for 2014. on the companys strategic objectives.
At Berendsen, we believe that effective governance is realised through Strategic oversight leadership and collaboration, resulting I have had regular meetings with our in consistently focused and sensible Chief Executive Officer, Peter Ventress.
I am very pleased with the leadership and direction being provided to the An experienced board group and I am confident that we are performing well against our strategic As Chairman, my primary responsibility objectives.
My regular meetings with is to ensure that the board has the right Peter will continue in 2014. mix of skills, knowledge and experience so that it works effectively as a team, In September, I organised a strategy supporting management to formulate meeting to give the board the and execute the corporate strategy, opportunity to challenge the Executive whilst encouraging the non-executive Board on the implementation of directors to bring fresh perspectives the groups strategy and to identify to the table and, where appropriate, how the group can develop further.
Iain Ferguson Chairman Strategic report Governance Financial statements Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2013 59 Strategic oversight In 2012 the board identified that a key priority was to understand more about the challenges and opportunities facing the Manage for Value businesses.
On 25 September 2013, the board went to Frstenwalde in Germany to meet with the management team of the German Healthcare business.
This gave the board an excellent insight into the issues facing the German Healthcare business and the managements growth strategies.
How the board spent Always moving forward its time in 2013 Stakeholder engagement 6 On 28 November, the Chairman hosted a 1 5 dinner where major shareholders had the opportunity to meet and raise issues directly with non-executive directors without the executive directors being present.
All of our 4 top 20 shareholders were invited to attend 2 and shareholders representing approximately 36% of the groups issued share capital were able to attend.
We received positive feedback 3 from shareholders who found the event very informative.
1 Strategy formulation, implementation and monitoring 20% 2 Performance monitoring 20% 3 Governance and risk 20% 4 Meeting country management site visits 25% 5 Shareholder engagement 10% 36% shareholders that attended the 6 Other 5% stakeholder engagement dinner.
The board received presentations from The board also met the management Priorities for 2014 the Executive Board on how they have teams of UK Flat Linen and German The board will continue to support and implemented the focus areas agreed at Healthcare.
This involved the board constructively challenge management the last strategy meeting in September meeting 18 senior managers and in the execution of the groups strategic 2012.
The board was pleased with the travelling to our facilities in Basingstoke plan.
Further details on the boards assurance received on the groups UK and Frstenwalde Germany.
priorities for 2014 are detailed below.
strategic direction and performance This provided the board with an and agreed with the Executive Board excellent insight into the challenges and k Supporting the CEO and management the next steps needed to continue the opportunities facing these businesses.
team in finalising and then seamlessly development of strategy in 2014. executing the strategic plan: Dialogue with shareholders k Supporting the further development of Talent management the talent development and succession As Chairman, I am responsible for process with particular reference to key and succession planning ensuring that there is ongoing and business-line succession: effective communication between The board received regular updates from the board and its key shareholders.
k Review strategy with the Executive the Group Director, Human Resources, Board in Q3 2014: and In November, I arranged a dinner on the progress being made throughout where nine of our major shareholders, the group on succession planning and k The successful induction of Maarit and representing approximately 36% of our talent management.
We were provided her establishment on the board.
shares in issue, had the opportunity to updates on the work conducted If you would like to discuss any meet the non-executive directors.
This is through the Berendsen Academy and the third time that Berendsen has held aspect of our groups governance our Leadership framework LEAD.
with me, please feel free to email this type of event and once again the Further information can be found in feedback received from shareholders meatchairman@berendsen.
Ourpeople section on page 45. was positive.
We plan to arrange a similar event in 2014.
