Kidbrooke Village 22 BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2013 9597 001 RA 2013 Front AW.
indd 22 22 07 2013 15:22 HIGHLIGHTS BUILDING HOMES FOR EVERYONE RUNNING A SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS TRADING & FINANCIAL REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS RUNNING A SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS Berkeley has an integrated business strategy dedicated to securing long-term sustainable success, operating in a way that contributes positively to society.
indd 23 22 07 2013 15:22 RUNNING A SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS A SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS Sustainability is at the heart of Berkeley.
This is as true in Berkeleys corporate strategy and commitments to shareholders as it is in the dayto-day running of a business in which our people are driven, across every discipline, to deliver long-term, sustainable success.
Berkeley is aware that it needs to balance its aim to be successful with a will to operate sustainably and with a social purpose.
Creating exceptional places that stand the test of time is at the forefront of this, as is its role in creating new jobs, working in partnership with local communities and contributing to the communities in and around each of its developments.
Berkeley is respectful of the inherently cyclical nature of the property market and is protective of the businesss capacity to operate safely, sustainably and at an optimal size, now and in the future.
indd 24 22 07 2013 15:22 HIGHLIGHTS BUILDING HOMES FOR EVERYONE RUNNING A SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS TRADING & FINANCIAL REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS RUNNING A SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS Stanmore Place What we do The two measures which best demonstrate Berkeleys focus on both performance and balance The Group is focused on its core markets of sheet strength are Return on Equity, which has London and the South of England, markets risen from 21.2% to 22.4% this year, and estimated in which its knowledge, experience and proven future Land Bank Gross Margin, which has risen track record gives it an unrivalled ability to deliver to 2,852 million this year from 2,580 million last new homes and communities.
Consistent, balanced achievement against these two measures will demonstrate long-term Berkeleys initial focus is on identifying and sustainable success.
selectively acquiring the right land, and then obtaining viable, implementable planning Vision2020 consents appropriate to the location of each site.
The Group then works with leading architects, Our Vision2020 framework has now been in place engineers and designers to deliver quality homes for three years and continues to evolve.
The for its customers across the spectrum of size, changes we have made this year to the structure location and affordability in great places which it ensure the framework remains closely aligned with creates for its customers and wider stakeholders.
Our vision Driving financial performance Ultimately we believe that an integrated business for the future strategy is fundamental to running a sustainable Berkeley believes that it can operate most business: sustainability should not be considered effectively by maintaining a secure financial as a separate entity.
Importantly, we have not base and ensuring a disciplined approach to removed any of the commitments set in 2012. risk management over the long-term.
The five areas of focus are: A strong balance sheet and good visibility over performance in the near-term from forward Operations: Running our business efficiently and sales afford Berkeley a flexibility in its business considerately and working with our supply chain plan which enables it to react to changes in the market and continue to deliver new homes.
Homes: Developing high quality, well-designed Berkeley is ready and able to implement swiftly homes with low environmental impact the construction of new phases of its schemes, or to adapt planning consents to meet changes Places: Creating great places where people enjoy in market demand.
a good quality of life, now and in the future The Trading and Financial Reviews elsewhere in Customers: Providing exceptional service to our this report provide an overview of the Groups customers throughout the purchasing process and performance in the year.
after completion People: Retaining a highly skilled and passionate workforce who work in a safe and supportive environment and help us to contribute to wider society BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2013 25 9597 001 RA 2013 Front AW.
indd 25 22 07 2013 15:22 RUNNING A SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS OPERATIONS Running our business efficiently and considerately and working with our supply chain.
Our Vision for 2020 First Sustainability remains fully integrated into our business strategy major and operations.
We have developed excellent partnerships with our housebuilder supply chain to ensure high quality materials and services are consistently to sign up to the Prompt provided, and environmental, social and ethical impacts are minimised.
Payment Code We will continue to conduct our operations in an environmentally efficient manner and with consideration to our neighbours.
35.9 40 2012: 35.7 average Considerate Progress at a Glance: Against key two year commitments 2012-2014 Constructors Scheme score Supply Chain Integrate an assessment of the sustainability of products, suppliers and contractors May to into the formal selection process December Ensure that all wood purchased by Berkeley is certified by a timber certification scheme 7% Community Register all sites with the Considerate Constructors Scheme and achieve a minimum reduction in Relations of 35 points out of 50 in site audits 32 out of 40 prior to January 2013 operational carbon Environmental Reduce average site carbon dioxide emissions by 3% per site operative by May 2014 emissions per Management site operative Reduce average site water consumption by 3% per site operative by May 2014 Re-use or recycle over 85% of construction, demolition and excavation waste Key: Currently on target to achieve Not currently on target to achieve 26 BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2013 9597 001 RA 2013 Front AW.
indd 26 22 07 2013 15:22 HIGHLIGHTS BUILDING HOMES FOR EVERYONE RUNNING A SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS TRADING & FINANCIAL REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS RUNNING A SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS i Learn more about Operations at berkeleygroup.
co. uk vision2020 operations Developing our Approach Our framework is focused on our day-to-day operations, from the inputs to the business to the running of our sites.
Some of the most significant impacts of our work occur indirectly as part of the wider supply chain in the extraction, processing and transportation of materials and as a result of contractors working on our sites.
Running a sustainable business is dependent upon managing day-to-day operations efficiently and with consideration for local people.
Supply Chain All of our construction sites are registered under the voluntary Considerate Constructors Scheme We recognise that we use large quantities of CCS and its Code of Practice.
Our audit scores materials and that some of the most significant continued to increase to an average of 35.9 40 environmental and social impacts of our 2012:35.7.
We score consistently above best operations may arise in our supply chain.
practice guidelines and industry averages.
Our Sustainable Procurement Policy requires Our commitment is regularly recognised by the that we work in partnership with our suppliers Scheme, with Berkeley receiving 20 awards at and contractors to minimise these impacts.
Contractors wishing to tender to work on a Environmental Management Berkeley site must confirm they have appropriate policies and systems in place to address social All construction sites are regularly assessed on and environmental issues, in addition to business compliance with legal requirements, planning risks and health and safety.
conditions and industry good practice to help us to reduce the risk of regulatory involvement We have pledged that all timber, temporary and and to maintain our record of zero environmental permanent, directly and indirectly sourced, must prosecutions.
be certified to either FSC or PEFC standards.
We monitor energy and water usage monthly To give certainty to our suppliers, and particularly and set targets for reduction.
During 2013 our small businesses, we registered for the Prompt operational carbon emissions per person have Payment Code in December 2012, committing reduced by 7% to 2.2 tonnes CO e per year 2 to pay contractors in a timely manner and on a 2012: 2.4 tonnes CO e. During the same period 2 weekly basis where appropriate.
We were the our water usage per operative has increased by first major housebuilder to do so.
20%: principally this was due to significant water demands to ensure effective dust suppression Community Relations during an intensive demolition phase on one particular site.
We aim to conduct our operations with minimal disruption to the communities in which we work Our strategy for waste is not only to reduce and to develop good relationships with local the volume produced, but to ensure that we re-use people and local authorities.
We want to ensure and recycle as much as possible.
This year 93% that we build considerately from the outset.
of all waste generated on site was recycled.
In this way, we can improve our efficiency by minimising regulatory involvement whilst improving community relations.
Each of our sites aims to communicate and engage with their local communities, from sending newsletters to hosting school visits and open days.
indd 27 22 07 2013 15:22 RUNNING A SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS HOMES Developing high quality, well-designed homes with low environmental impact.
Our Vision for 2020 100% Our track record of delivering high quality, well-designed, comfortable percentage homes with low environmental impact makes them highly desirable of new homes to customers.
Homes built by Berkeley are recognised throughout the designed to the principles of industry as the very best examples of quality construction and sustainable Lifetime Homes design.
All our new developments are low or zero carbon.
100% percentage of new homes to be certied to Progress at a Glance: Against key two year commitments 2012-2014 at least Code Level 3 Design Quality Develop minimum design standards on all Berkeley homes including standards for sound insulation, space, storage and overheating 63% 2012: 56% Carry out post-occupancy monitoring of electricity, water and gas heat percentage consumption in order to measure the success of our designs and to influence of completed the design of future schemes homes provided Environmental Undertake R&D to understand the implications of the Governments proposed zero with energy Performance carbon standard on our future developments from low carbon or renewable Design all new homes to achieve at least Level 3 of the Code for Sustainable Homes technology Key: Currently on target to achieve Not currently on target to achieve The Avenue, Farnham Common 28 BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2013 9597 001 RA 2013 Front AW.
indd 28 22 07 2013 15:22 HIGHLIGHTS BUILDING HOMES FOR EVERYONE RUNNING A SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS TRADING & FINANCIAL REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS RUNNING A SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS i Learn more about Homes at berkeleygroup.
co. uk vision2020 homes Developing our Approach Over the past year we have enhanced this aspect of the Vision2020 framework to reflect our overall aim for each home: it must be well-designed, be of a high quality and be environmentally sound.
These three elements are demanded by all of our stakeholders, from our customers to local and national Government.
Build Quality Environmental Performance The quality which we demand in our new homes All of our new homes are designed to achieve at requires a skilled workforce and attention to detail.
least Level 3 of the Code for Sustainable Homes Many checks are undertaken both throughout the and are provided with efficient internal water build process and prior to handover to ensure a fittings and recycling facilities as standard.
high quality finish has been achieved.
In 2013, 77% of completed homes were certified Our specifications are designed to meet the varied using an environmental performance methodology needs of all types of homebuyers, from luxurious and increasingly our new developments are houses to top quality key worker apartments.
targeting Code Level 4 where practical.
63% of our completed homes were provided with energy from Design Quality renewable or low carbon technology in 2013, up from 56% in 2012.
Each of our homes is bespoke and we use qualified architects to design each scheme, whether We continue to support the Governments move it consists of four or 4,000 homes.
This tailored to zero carbon and we have commissioned approach ensures that we deliver homes and experts to conduct research into the implications communities that meet our customers needs.
and practicalities of implementing this across our business.
Together with excellent external design of the buildings and landscaping, we ensure that the homes we build are comfortable places in which to live, and we set standards for storage, sound insulation, air quality and heating.
We are also committed to investigating indoor air quality: this year, we installed air monitoring equipment at one of our sites to obtain data on real-life performance which we will then feed back into the design process.
In 2013, all new homes were designed to the principles of the Lifetime Homes standard for adaptability and flexibility.
To help stimulate discussions and debate around excellent design we opened five of our sites to the public during the London Festival of Architecture.
indd 29 22 07 2013 15:22 E F I Community space L L A R U T Transport linls L Ability to in uence U C L A I C Distinctive character O S V O I Local integration Community facilities C E A N D RUNNING A SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS PLACES Creating great places where people enjoy a good quality of life, now and in the future.
Our Vision for 2020 5 We create high quality, sustainable places where people choose to live, sites already work and spend their time.
These are places that directly encourage assessed under peoples well-being and quality of life and offer them a space and a base our new social sustainability from which to lead safe and fulfi lling lives.
Our ability to transform sites into framework thriving communities is considered the best in our industry.
Through our ability both to collaborate and to deliver, Berkeley is the developer 245m of choice for local authorities and existing communities.
S106 contributions over the last five years Progress at a Glance: Against key two year commitments 2012-2014 94% Quality of Life Work with experts to develop metrics to assess the social sustainability of our live sites developments and pilot the metrics on at least one completed development provided with cycle storage Conduct post-occupancy evaluation to assess the in-use success of community facilities e. g. sports facilities, public realm, open space, childrens activities Working in Follow Berkeleys Community Engagement Strategy on all planning applications we submit Partnership Work with residents, commercial occupiers, local businesses and the local community on at least one mixed-use development to promote local employment opportunities Sustainable Put in place adaptation measures on all developments to address future climate Communities change risks Install living roofs brown or green on all suitable apartment roof spaces Key: Currently on target to achieve Not currently on target to achieve Social sustainability describes the way a neighbourhood supports individual and collective well-being.
It is about peoples quality of life.
For more details on our framework for assessing social sustainability, see Creating Strong Communities berkeleygroup.
co. uk sustainability socialsustainability 30 BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2013 9597 001 RA 2013 Front AW.
indd 30 22 07 2013 15:22 Street layout I N Feelings of safety F E L R U U E T N Adaptable space C C U E R We being llT S A R F N I Links with neighbours L A Willingness to act I C O S D N Local delivery A S E I T I N E M A HIGHLIGHTS BUILDING HOMES FOR EVERYONE RUNNING A SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS TRADING & FINANCIAL REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS RUNNING A SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS i Learn more about Places at berkeleygroup.
co. uk vision2020 places Developing our Approach Delivering well-designed, safe and sustainable places which will endure as settled, vibrant communities long into the future is vital to social and economic sustainability.
We believe that appreciating the needs of our customers and wider stakeholders before, during and after the delivery of our schemes and what makes them thrive as a community, is the right model for a truly successful and sustainable business in our sector.
Quality of Life Sustainable Communities Over the past two years, in partnership with Social In addition to each individual home being designed Life, we have developed a framework which we are to be environmentally sound, it is essential that the now using to measure the social sustainability of our wider development also adheres to these principles developments.
The results will help us to improve and allows people to live a sustainable lifestyle.
the places we build and to ensure that they promote quality of life and well-being.
Our approach begins with the selection of land opportunities, with a focus on developing on In 2013, five of our developments were assessed redundant or under-utilised land: 89% of our against this framework and we plan to roll out development this year was on brownfield rather the assessment process across more of our than greenfield land.
The selection of central sites developments to ensure that our headline also means we continue to build in well-connected successes to date: namely that Berkeley locations: 93% of live sites are within 500m of a residents feel they belong, regularly talk public transport node 2012: 97% and 94% will to neighbours and plan to stay in their provide cycle storage 2012: 95%.
community, will be consistently delivered.
Our commitments apply to every development we We will also be conducting post-occupancy build, regardless of location or scale.
On every site, evaluation of several aspects of our developments potential flood risks are mitigated and ecologists to confirm how they function in relation to aspects are consulted to protect and enhance biodiversity.
such as crime, security, design quality, travel plans We also incorporate living roofs on all suitable and community spaces, to inform our future apartment roof spaces.
student accommodation and Extra Care housing achieve BREEAM Very Good.
Working in Partnership Our new challenge is to ensure that every place Our Community Engagement Strategy is used we create is also designed to provide high levels on all developments.
We collaborate with the of comfort and can cope with more extreme planning authority and other local stakeholders weather conditions.
We will continue our to tackle the shortage of good quality homes research into climate change adaptation and provide an appropriate mix of types and and the additional measures which can be tenures.
Over the last five years, we have signed incorporated into our developments.
commitments to provide over 7,000 affordable homes including social rent, shared equity, shared ownership and Extra Care homes for the elderly.
We also work in partnership with educational establishments to provide high quality student accommodation.
We have funded a broad range of facilities and services.
Over the past five years, we have contributed 245 million through S106 contributions, as outlined in the Economic Impact Assessment of the Berkeley Group berkeleygroup.
indd 31 22 07 2013 15:22 RUNNING A SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS CUSTOMERS Providing exceptional service to our customers throughout the purchasing process and after completion.
Our Vision for 2020 98% We consistently meet or exceed our customers expectations by delivering 2012: 97% well-designed, beautiful homes and communities where they can live percentage happy, healthy and  lifestyles.
The service that we of customers that would aim to provide to our customers throughout the purchasing process and recommend after completion is exceptional.
Customers are positioned at the heart us to a friend of our business and central to the decisions that we make.
81% percentage of customers who Progress at a Glance: Against key two year commitments 2012-2014 are concerned about The Customer Provide every customer with a Berkeley Customer Satisfaction Commitment protecting the Experience environment Provide user-friendly quick start instructions and guides for running a home Customer Survey every customer to measure satisfaction and target that at least 95% of our Satisfaction customers would recommend us to a friend Sustainable Train sales staff in sustainability so that they are able to sell the benefits to customers Living Produce a Berkeley Sustainable Living Guide in conjunction with NGOs for use in sales & marketing suites, at handover, as well as an interactive version of the Guide for our website Key: Currently on target to achieve Not currently on target to achieve 32 BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2013 9597 001 RA 2013 Front AW.
indd 32 22 07 2013 15:22 HIGHLIGHTS BUILDING HOMES FOR EVERYONE RUNNING A SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS TRADING & FINANCIAL REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS RUNNING A SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS i Learn more about Customers at berkeleygroup.
co. uk vision2020 customers Developing our Approach The customer is at the heart of every decision that we make, from the land that we buy, through development planning, to the detailed design, specification and construction of our housing and commercial space.
Our strategy is based on ensuring that customers remain as a central focus and we continue to strive for exceptional performance.
The experience of our customers is central to Berkeleys reputation, its ability to secure sales and hence the viability of the future business.
The Customer Experience Sustainable Lifestyles We aim to make the home buying process as We have a role to play in promoting sustainable straightforward and enjoyable as possible for all our lifestyles to residents and helping them to operate customers, and to provide a professional, efficient, their home efficiently and make the best use business-like and helpful service at all times.
We also believe that this is something our customers want: in our 2012 Our commitment to our customers is that: Customer Sustainability Survey, 81% of customers agreed or strongly agreed that they were When you buy a new home from Berkeley you concerned about protecting the environment.
can be safe in the knowledge that it is built to very high standards of design and quality, has low Helping Create a Better Future: Our Guide to environmental impact and that you will enjoy an More Sustainable Living, was produced to exceptional customer experience.
provide information to customers on sustainability issues and give ideas on how to adopt a more Customer Satisfaction sustainable lifestyle.
This is available within all marketing suites and we will also be developing We support the Consumer Code for Homebuilders an online version.
which applies to all our buyers.
This requires that home buyers are treated fairly, know what service levels to expect, are given reliable information upon which to make their decision and know how to access speedy, low-cost dispute-resolution arrangements if they are dissatisfied.
We use customer satisfaction surveys undertaken by an independent external agency to measure how well we are meeting our customers expectations.
All of our private purchasers are asked to complete a survey, and this year 98% of our customers reported that they would recommend Berkeley to a friend 2012: 97%.
This is above our target of 95%.
We also see the opportunity presented by engaging with customers to inform better design.
We invite feedback from all of our customers and use this to improve our homes.
indd 33 22 07 2013 15:22 RUNNING A SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS OUR PEOPLE Retaining a highly skilled and passionate workforce who work in a safe and supportive environment and help us to contribute to wider society.
Our Vision for 2020 115 We retain a highly skilled and passionate workforce which enables us to number of run a successful and sustainable business.
Our staff are supported in their apprentices who roles and this is extended to our contractors operatives.
Health and safety worked on our sites in 2012 remains a focus area, ensuring that our sites are healthy and safe places to work.
Through the Berkeley Foundation we continue to provide funding 2.99 and support for worthy causes and will have enabled many young people per 1,000 to get into work.
employees and operatives 2012: 2.69 Accident Progress at a Glance: Against key two year commitments 2012-2014 Incident Rate 2.8m Support and Measure staff retention rates and workforce diversity and benchmark performance Training funds Ensure that a minimum of 5% of our own staff and those working on our construction committed to sites are employed in an apprenticeship or training role good causes through the Health and Safety Continue to achieve a RIDDOR reportable Accident Incident Rate AIR of less than 3.5 Berkeley incidents per 1,000 employees and subcontractors Foundation Continue to achieve a RIDDOR reportable Accident Frequency Rate AFR of less than 0.175 per 100,000 hours worked Further enhance the Groups Good Work programme through active engagement with contractors operatives on all our projects The Berkeley Capture and quantify our work with charities and local communities and Foundation benchmark performance Raise 250,000 annually for the Berkeley Foundation through employee fundraising and donations Key: Currently on target to achieve Not currently on target to achieve 34 BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2013 9597 001 RA 2013 Front AW.
indd 34 22 07 2013 15:22 HIGHLIGHTS BUILDING HOMES FOR EVERYONE RUNNING A SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS TRADING & FINANCIAL REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS RUNNING A SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS i Learn more about Our people at berkeleygroup.
co. uk vision2020 our-people Developing our Approach Berkeley has autonomous management teams which operate under five core brands: Berkeley: St George: St James: St Edward and Berkeley First.
These teams represent the people charged with implementing the Groups strategy across all of its day-to-day operations.
Recruiting and retaining a high calibre workforce is crucial to our approach.
We require all of our people to engage in the Groups philosophy, to show the passion for excelling in every area of the business with the Berkeley spirit of entrepreneurial flair and to share in our aspiration for long-term sustainable success.
Support and Training Health and Safety As the business has grown over recent years our Our Good Order and Good Work programmes headcount has more than doubled from some 700 continue to reinforce the importance and culture in April 2009 to over 1,400 in April 2013.
This growth of health and safety on our sites.
Our Accident is coupled with a stability which has retained a Incident Rate AIR is 2.99 2012: 2.69 and remains at core pool of knowledge and experience within the a level which continues to outperform the industry.
Group, demonstrated by an average service length in excess of 10 years amongst senior management.
Our commitment to high health and safety standards has been recognised by both the Royal In recent years the Group has developed a Society for Prevention of Accidents RoSPA and particular focus on helping young people into the National House Building Council NHBC.
Our graduate scheme has been running received two Silver Awards, nine Gold Awards and since 2006 and 87 graduates are in the business five Gold Medal Awards from RoSPA this year, our today.
In 2013, the Berkeley Sales Academy best performance to date.
Four of our sites have was formed to provide structured training for been shortlisted for the NHBC Health & Safety sales consultants joining Berkeley from diverse Awards in the Best Site Award category.
The Berkeley Foundation In the last year, Berkeley directly or indirectly supported approximately 16,000 jobs in the The Berkeley Charitable Foundation, launched UK, including 7,447 contractors employees.
in March 2011, has so far committed 2.8 million On average, 4.5 new jobs are created for each to more than 40 charities and worthy causes.
This included over 115 full time These range from partnerships with major national apprenticeships on our sites during the year charities to small local charities chosen by our staff.
to help young people to gain experience and Our focus areas are tackling homelessness and develop core skills to help provide the workforce youth unemployment.
Currently 7% of our own workforce and those working on our construction sites are The money comes from two sources.
Staff from the employed in an apprenticeship or training role.
Berkeley Group have raised 550,000 from friends, family, colleagues and other companies.
The rest is In June 2013, Berkeley announced a commitment given to the Foundation by the Berkeley Group itself to give training and work to 250 unemployed or generated through fundraising events.
Alongside people through a major new job creation scheme the money they raise, staff donate through Give As through Berkeley and its partners.
You Earn and offer their time and talent to support individual causes.
The Group match funds all the cash raised by staff for the Foundation.
The Berkeley Foundation annual report contains more details of how this money is disbursed through a small set of strategic partnerships, through a series of designated charities chosen by our local offices and through grants and sponsorship.
indd 35 22 07 2013 15:22 RUNNING A SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS 150 Berkeley employees successfully completed the ascent of Tower 42 in London in aid of the Berkeley Foundation this year.
indd 36 22 07 2013 15:22 HIGHLIGHTS BUILDING HOMES FOR EVERYONE RUNNING A SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS TRADING & FINANCIAL REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS RUNNING A SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2013 37 9597 001 RA 2013 Front AW.
indd 38 22 07 2013 15:22 HIGHLIGHTS BUILDING HOMES FOR EVERYONE RUNNING A SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS TRADING & FINANCIAL REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS TRADING & FINANCIAL REVIEW Berkeleys strong results this year are a direct result of a period of sustained investment in the Berkeley business over several years.
indd 39 22 07 2013 15:22 TRADING & FINANCIAL REVIEW Abell and Cleland House, Westminster 40 BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2013 9597 001 RA 2013 Front AW.
