22 3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Market environment Macroeconomic conditions Investment and The macroeconomic environment in Europe remained challenging  inthe period, restricting the ability of certain Eurozone countries toreturn to growth, while balancing austerity measures.
Financial Private Equity markets and M&A activity, particularly in Europe, reflected this in European private equity activity followed a similar pattern to wider contrast to a recovery in activity in the US, Asia and Latin America.
Annual figures, reported by the unquote Private Equity Global M&A activity in2012 was up 5% year-on-year, while European Barometer, showed deal volumes were down 14% in 2012 compared volume fell 3% source: Capital IQ.
Thefinal quarter of 2012 was to 2011, with value down 21%.
However, the private equity market saw stronger, with global growth of 12% andgrowth of 7% in Europe, an increase in activity in the final quarter, with deal volumes up 21% compared to the third quarter.
However, notwithstanding the increase, andvalue up 82% quarter-on-quarter.
In particular, the increase the final quarter of 2012 inEurope was still 4% below the same inlarger transactions reflects a gradual recovery in the health period in 2011. ofthedebt markets.
Stock markets in our core markets of the UK, Europe and the US Notwithstanding the increase in activity in the final quarter, deal flow staged a strong rally since late 2012 with the FTSE 100, Eurostoxx50 remains at an historically low level and we expect 2013 to be another and S&P up 11%, 6% and 9% respectively between 1 November 2012 year of slow improvement as market conditions gradually recover.
Currency markets experienced high volatility in the second half of the financial year, with a 6% weakening of sterling The US and Latin American markets have seen a different trend.
against both the euro and US dollar.
TheUS, in particular, regained momentum through 2012.
Company trading, debt availability and therefore market conditions for investment have been improving and a key trend of the year was positive US bank support for transaction activity involving companies with exposure to North America.
3ibenefited from this improved sentiment with the sale of Canada based Mold-Masters in the year andthe IPO of US based Quintiles, shortly after the period end.
Brazilalso recovered well from a low in2011, with a conducive M&A environment offsetting macro and currency concerns.
Transaction activity was strong, with deal value up78% in 2012, according to the Emerging Markets Private EquityAssociation.
Private equity activity in Asia fell 38% in the year as macroeconomic concerns, political uncertainty and regulatory obstacles made investors question investing in the region.
Global private equity fundraising remained stable in 2012, although atmuch lower levels than pre-crisis and many firms have scaled backambitious fund targets.
There continues to be considerable competition for capital globally: in May 2013, according to Preqin, 264buyout funds are collectively targeting US$236 billion in commitments, giving private equity investors the opportunity tobehighly selective when making allocations.
Business review 3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 23 Private equity remains an attractive asset class, but there is a broader Debt Management range of alternatives over which investors are able to allocate their As with M&A activity and private equity, there was a marked capital.
Whilst there is a suggestion that some limited partners will difference between debtmanagement market conditions in the US increase their allocations to private equity in 2013 and 2014, the trends and Europe.
New Collateralised Loan Obligations CLO issuance, towards reducing the number of managers with whom they invest will tosupport a resurgence in private equity activity, has been strong ensure that the fund-raising market will remain highly competitive inthe US and the market gained momentum throughout the year.
inthe near to medium term.
There were 116 CLOs launched in the US in 2012, raising US$53.5billion, an increase of over four times on the US$12.2 billion Infrastructure raised in 2011.
Indeed, the final quarter of 2012 alone saw Infrastructure as an asset class is becoming increasingly attractive US$23.5billion raised and this momentum has continued into 2013, ina persistently low interest rate environment, as investors seek with 52 new CLOs issued, raising US$26.3 billion.
An interesting trend opportunities that can deliver a stable income.
This has resulted is the increasing size ofissuance through the year, with first quarter instrong demand for infrastructure assets not only from specialist 2013 CLOs averaging above US$500 million in size compared with infrastructure investors, but also from direct investors such as large US$433 million in the third quarter of 2012. pension funds or sovereign wealth funds.
Transaction activity in the New leveraged loan issuance in Europe in 2012 was 28.5 billion, infrastructure market, however, has remained muted and, as demand down 34% from the 2011 total, with ongoing macro uncertainties and for infrastructure assets has continued to increase, price points have a lack of primary loan issuance restricting activity.
The focus for the risen, reducing projected returns.
market in Europe was on larger players looking to increase market We continue to see good investment opportunities in core share through the acquisition of management contracts and teams infrastructure, as corporates and financial institutions sell non-core and diversifying into smaller, more flexible, debt funds focused assets to refocus on their core businesses or to comply with capital onsecondary trading, high yield bonds and secondary senior debt adequacy regulations.
Increased private equity deal flow in the final quarter of2012 and slow recovery in the health of the debt markets across Europe is We also believe that the PPP market is likely to provide interesting expected to improve the market dynamics for CLO issuance in 2013. opportunities in the future.
Investment in social and energy Indeed, the first quarter of 2013 saw a small handful of CLO launches infrastructure is a core strategy of Europe-wide government agendas providing evidence of prospects for a nascent recovery in this core to stimulate economic growth and private sector funding is key to market, after four years of no CLO issuance.
Over time, we expect resourceconstrained governments throughout Europe to privatise or open upessential infrastructure markets through PPP-style transactions.
Infrastructure transaction volumes in India have reduced, as a result of lower GDP growth rates, a growing fiscal deficit, currency volatility and persistently high inflation.
The 3i India Infrastructure Fund reached the end of its investment period in November 2012 and, against challenging economic conditions, we have suspended anynewfundraising in this market at present.
