Review of investments Social infrastructure Performance in the year Cost Closing cost 70.0m Equity interest Opening cost 67.7m Elgin 49.9% Opening value Octagon 36.8% 93.8m Dalmore 9% share of funds Closing value Investment in the year 11.6m 88.5m Realised proceeds in the year 21.2m Income in the year 7.7m Asset total return in the year 12.3m Valuation basis DCF for Elgin and Octagon, LP share of funds for Dalmore 34 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Review of investments Elgin Investment rationale Developments in the year Exposure to social infrastructure through PFI All assets in the PFI portfolio performed well Elgin Infrastructure Limited Elgin is projects provides the Companys portfolio with operationally during the year, delivering good a portfolio of PFI project investments, lower risk, index-linked cash ows.
All assets levels of income.
comprising five schools projects and in the Companys PFI portfolio are fully All 16 projects in the Elgin portfolio are operational and deliver a robust yield.
11 community healthcare schemes, performing in line with the investment case.
all of which arefully operational, Allservice providers are performing well, Achievements in the withno significant operational issues arising under concessions of up to 32 years.
period ofownership atany of the projects during the year.
Theportfolio companies receive All assets in the PFI portfolio have performed Octagon continues to perform well nancially ination-linked payments tocover well through their period of ownership, in line and operationally and has maintained its services and buildings maintenance, with or ahead of expectations, providing a strong working relationship with the NHS goodreturn to the Company since inception.
which are subject toperformance Trustand with Serco.
Serco continues to This has been due to engaged portfolio deductions for service failures and provide a good level of service to the NHS management on the part of the Investment Trust.
In July 2012, the hospital received the top unavailability.
Facilities services Adviser and other shareholders, as well as excellent rating for standards of cleanliness, aresub-contracted to Robertson tomore general factors, including higher food and privacy and dignity, according to the thanexpected ination.
Facilities Management in15 projects results of an annual PEAT inspection by patient and Carillion Facilities Management The Investment Adviser generated significant representatives, independent validators and value through the sale of the Companys NHS staff.
In November 2012, an unannounced in one project.
2 holdings in Alma Mater, I and Alpha Schools inspection of the hospital by the Care Quality Octagon at significant uplifts over cost in 2008, 2009 Commission found that the hospital met all and 2013 respectively, generating an theessential quality and safety standards Octagon Healthcare Limited aggregate IRR of 30%.
At the end of March 2013, the Octagon is a concession hospital announced it had been completely clear of MRSA bloodstream infections for companyunder a 35-year PFI more than a year.
contract to build, operate and In October 2012, the Company announced maintain the Norfolk and Norwich thatit had made a commitment of 15 million University Hospital.
Construction to Dalmore, 10 million of which was drawn ofthe hospital was completed in atthat date to fund Dalmores 89.5 million August 2001.
Octagon receives acquisition of a 49.9% stake in a portfolio of UKPFI assets from Interserve plc.
A further RPI-linked payments from the NHS 1.9 million of this commitment was drawn Trust to cover services and buildings byDalmore in January 2013 to increase its maintenance, which are subject to stake in two of the projects in that portfolio.
performance deductions for service Dalmore is managed by Dalmore Capital failures and unavailability.
Octagon Limited, which is run by key members of the 2 sub-contracts the provision of team that managed I, a secondary PFI fund inwhich 3i Infrastructure previously held an facilities services to Serco.
investment and which generated an IRR for Dalmore theCompany of 23.8% on full exit.
The Dalmore Capital team has an excellent track record Dalmore Capital Fund Dalmore oforiginating, acquiring, nancing, managing is a 25-year LP fund managed by and optimising secondary PFI investments andan extensive network of contacts across Dalmore Capital Limited and investing the financial institutions and contractors active in the equity and subordinated debt in in the social infrastructure sector.
secondary PFI transactions which The investments in Dalmore are performing are both operational and do not have well and income generation has been in line volume-based payment regimes.
The fund can invest across the The Companys investment in Alpha Schools socialinfrastructure sector and was sold in March 2013, as described on targets gross returns of 10% for page13.
At 31 March 2013, Dalmore had total commitments of 170 million.
Subsequently, the fund held a third close, increasing total commitments to 249 million.
3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2013 35 Review of investments 3i India Infrastructure Fund Performance in the year Cost Closing cost 106.9m Partnership interest 20.9% Opening cost 102.0m Investment in the year 4.9m Opening value 1 Asset total return in the year 20.0 m 114.2m Valuation basis LP share of funds Closing value 1 Includes a net foreign exchange loss of 0.9 million sterling 99.1m US$ gain of 6.3 million, and US$ rupee loss of 7.2 million.
36 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Review of investments As at 31 March 2013, the Fund was 73% The 3i India Infrastructure Fund Investment rationale invested in a portfolio of seven assets: the India Fund is a US$1.2 billion The investment case can be summarised Krishnapatnam Port Company Limited asfollows: fund which closed in 2008, investing Krishnapatnam Port has a concession in a diversied portfolio of equity there is much need for infrastructure to develop, operate and maintain the port of investment in India, with the current or equivalent investments in India, Krishnapatnam in the state of Andhra Pradesh.
infrastructure deficit in the country providing focusing on the port, airport, road opportunity for private investment: KMC Infratech KMC Roads is developing and power sectors.
1,000km portfolio of 10 build-operatethe Indian government actively seeks committed US$250 million to transfer BOT road projects, one of the and encourages private investment in largest portfolios of its kind in India.
infrastructure development and is working to mitigate some of the issues which have Adani Power Limited Adani Power The investment period for the affected the sector in recent years: focuseson the development and operation 3i India Infrastructure Fund ended ofpower plants and the sale of power the investment in the India Fund offered on 30 November 2012 and the generated.
With operational capacity of 3i Infrastructure exposure to a diversied 4,620MW and a further 4,620MW under Board expects that the Companys pool of assets and larger investments construction, it is currently the largest remaining commitment will not be than the Company could access on its independent private power producer in India own account, at no additional cost to substantially drawn.
Adani Power the Company: and achieved a successful IPO in August 2009. the India Fund was well positioned, with an GVK Energy is developing a portfolio of power established presence in its market through generation projects 4,047MW, diversied by its investment manager.
fuel type, stage of development and geography.
In addition, GVK Energy is developing two Achievements in the period mining projects to supply coal to its own ofownership thermal power plants.
The India Fund reached the end of its Soma Enterprise Limited Soma is one of investment period in November 2012 and now the leading infrastructure developers in India.
has a diversied portfolio of assets in the Its order book, valued at over US$3.2 billion, power, ports and roads sectors, in line with focuses mainly on BOT road projects, but its mandate.
alsocomprises projects in the hydro power, The Companys remaining commitment irrigation, railways, power transmission and to the India Fund is limited to 15% of the urban infrastructure sectors.
original US$250 million commitment, or Ind-Barath Utkal is building a 700MW US$37.5 million and, in practice, is unlikely coal-red power plant in the state of Orissa.
Supreme Infrastructure BOT Holdings Private Several of the projects, including Adani Power Limited Supreme Roads, a subsidiary of and Krishnapatnam Port, have increased Supreme Infrastructure India Limited, a new signicantly in size since the India Funds investment in the year, isbuilding a portfolio investment.
Despite this, the financial ofBOT road projects.
performance and valuation of the India Funds assets has been affected by a number of market and other external factors, including the depreciation of the Indian rupee.
At 31 March 2013, the India Funds NAV was0.93x investment cost in sterling terms.
Overall, the Board is satisfied that appropriateaction is being taken to managethe performance of the India Fundsassets within the constraints of the macroeconomic and market challenges.
3i Investments, which manages the India Fund, is focused on the realisation of investments over the next two to three years, if market conditions allow.
3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2013 37 Review of investments 3i India Infrastructure Fund continued In February 2011, the Indian government The India Funds port asset, Krishnapatnam Developments in the year responded to the issues arising from coal Port, has continued to be affected by an iron Overall, the assets in the India Funds shortages by directing Coal India Limited to ore export ban, which, although now lifted, will portfoliohave faced significant challenges sign fuel supply agreements with power plants subdue exports for some time as production during the year.
that have a majority of their offtake tied up in resumes and pent-up domestic demand is The power assets have continued to be long-term PPAs, with a minimum commitment satisfied.
The company continued to focus on affected by a number of factors, including: of 80% of the annual fuel requirement of the changing its cargo mix and performed well in plant.
However, due to the weak penalties the year, supported by continued increases in the availability of domestic coal and gas: imposed on Coal India Limited for nonits general cargo and container volumes.
CoalIndia Limited, the largest coal producer compliance, it isexpected that supplies are in India, as well as many gas producers, The two smaller road asset portfolios likely to remain short of the contracted have struggled to match their output to KMC Roads and Supreme Roads are making quantities, increasing producers reliance on demand from power producers and to progress, despite some delays relating to land imports.
On the positive side, merchant tariffs deliver supplies to their customers: acquisitions and environmental clearances have remained relatively buoyant, due to the and saw modest value gains during the year.
the pricing of coal: the domestic coal increasing demand supply gap, but also KMC Roads has also faced funding constraints.
shortage and the depreciation of the rupee duetoa reduction in hydro output as a Soma, the India Funds largest road against most currencies have affected the resultofbelow average monsoon rainfall.
investment, faced significant challenges in price of coal: These factors continued to have a negative project execution, due to delays in receipt of the inability for electricity producers to pass impact on Adani Powers market performance.
approvals from the highways authorities and increased fuel costs through to customers Its shares declined by 40% during the year.
an escalation in raw material costs, resulting under existing power purchase agreements GVK Energy and Ind-Barath Utkal, the India in constraints in working capital.
PPAs, pending a review from the relevant Funds other power investments, were Macroeconomic conditions in India remain authorities: and also affected by these issues, as well as by challenging, with slowing growth, currency delays in construction and some increases in the strain on State Electricity Boards volatility and persistently high ination rates construction costs.
financial position: SEBs have been continuing to affect the economic outlook.
nanciallyconstrained for a number After the year end, Adani Powers share price ofyearsand as a result banks are performance was boosted by a decision by nowreluctant to lend to them.
This has power sector regulator the Central Electricity constrained their ability to enter into new Regulatory Commission to compensate Adani long-term PPAs with power producers.
Powers Mundra project for the escalation of import fuel costs in the form of increases in tariffs under existing PPAs.
38 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Returns and risks Returns and risks 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2013 39
