Corporate responsibility report The Boards aim is to invest responsibly.
Responsible Investment Bribery Act The Board is responsible for the denition policy The Company has its own policy in relation to and implementation of the Companys the UK Bribery Act and is fully compliant with corporate responsibility policy, however 3i Group is a signatory to the UN Principles for the provisions of this Act.
in practice it relies heavily on the relevant Responsible Investing RI and has embedded policies and procedures put in place by RI policies in its investment and asset Environment 3i Group that apply to the Investment management processes.
Adviser and, consequently, to the Company.
As an investment company with no employees, The Investment Advisers philosophy on RI can For more information on 3i Groups governed by a non-executive Board of be summarised as follows: corporate responsibility policies, please Directors, 3i Infrastructure has no material refer to its website: the effective assessment and management direct impact on the environment.
com  of environmental, social, business integrity and corporate governance matters has a Procurement The Board believes that these policies meet positive effect on the value of portfolio the Companys objectives in this area.
3i Infrastructure has developed policies and companies, and hence on 3i Infrastructure itself: procedures in relation to services received compliance with local laws and regulations from third-party providers.
As far as possible, may not be enough to meet global the Company will work only with suppliers who expectations, deliver value and enhance support its aim to source products and reputation and licence to operate: and services responsibly.
3i Infrastructure aims to have a collaborative relationship with its it is vital that the Investment Adviser seeks to service providers and, wherever possible, will identify all material environmental, social and work with them when problems or issues governance ESG risks and opportunities arise to help them meet its requirements.
through its due diligence and effectively manage them during the period of Prompt payment code investment.
3i Group performs most payment and treasury The Investment Advisers RI policy makes clear functions for the Company.
During the year, that it aims to use its inuence to promote a itbecame a signatory of the Prompt Payment commitment in portfolio companies to: Code.
The Code encourages and promotes comply, as a minimum, with applicable local best practice between organisations and and international laws: theirsuppliers.
Signatories to the Code committo paying their suppliers within mitigate adverse environmental and social clearlydened terms, and to ensuring there impacts and enhance positive effects on the isa proper process for dealing with any environment, workers and relevant issuesthat may arise.
stakeholders: and uphold high standards of business integrity and good corporate governance.
The main features of the policy include: clear statements of the commitment to mitigate adverse environmental and social impacts and uphold high standards of business integrity and good corporate governance: an exclusion list of businesses and activities in which investment is precluded: a referral list of businesses and activities which may be particularly sensitive and may require additional scrutiny: and a set of minimum ESG standards that will be implemented during the term of investment.
48 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Governance Summary of Responsible Investment policy The Boards aim is to invest responsibly and it relies on the reputation and policies of its Investment Adviser to achieve this goal.
The key features of the Investment Advisers policies are set out below.
The Investment Adviser will only invest in businesses committed to: a cautious and responsible approach to environmental management of their businessoperations: respecting the human rights of their workers: maintaining safe and healthy working conditions: treating their employees fairly: upholding the right to freedom of association and collective bargaining: respecting the health, safety and wellbeing of those adversely affected by their businessactivities: upholding high standards of business integrity, avoiding corruption in all its forms and complying with applicable anti-bribery, anti-fraud and anti-money laundering laws andregulations: and establishing clearly dened responsibilities, procedures and controls with appropriate checks and balances in company management structures.
The Investment Adviser will implement this policy by: screening all new investment opportunities against its Exclusion and Referral lists: carrying out an initial assessment of all new investment opportunities to identify potentialESG risks and opportunities: where potential ESG risks are identied, evaluating managements commitment, capacityand track record in addressing ESG issues: where due diligence identies material ESG risks, requiring the potential investee companyto commit to implementing appropriate measures to mitigate those risks: encouraging and supporting portfolio companies to pursue continuous improvement inrelation to managing ESG matters throughout the ownership period as best practice continues to evolve: monitoring and recording the portfolio companys performance against agreed action plans, targets and timetables as part of bi-annual portfolio review processes: and monitoring and recording serious incidents involving portfolio companies which result inloss of life, serious injury, material effect on the environment or material breach of law and by promoting corrective actions.
The Investment Advisers responsible investment approach requires it to: promote consistent practice and adherence to this policy: provide sufficient information, instruction, training and resources to ensure that itsemployees can identify and effectively manage ESG matters: pursue continuous improvement with respect to ESG matters, through management systems which effectively identify and address related risks and opportunities: and monitor and audit the implementation of this policy.
3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2013 49
