Corporate responsibility This year, we have succeeded in embedding corporate responsibility CR further into our business culture by: incorporating into the Groups global strategy communication to all employees: engaging more with our investments and our stakeholders on environmental, social and corporate governance issues: becoming a signatory of the UN Global Compact: growing the scope of the Aberdeen Charitable Foundation: widening the coverage of our environmental management system: and introducing training on CR issues for new directors.
Corporate responsibility is managed for the Group by the CR Steering Committee which is chaired by the Deputy Chief Executive, Andrew Laing, who in turn has responsibility for reporting to the Board on developments, risks and opportunities in this area.
Our key risks continue to be those of our people, our stakeholders and our investments.
The Board and its committees have continued to oversee the management of these risks.
Director induction training has been expanded to include ESG environmental, social and governance issues.
Further details of the material CR issues faced by the Group and the steps taken to manage them are contained in the annual CR report which is available on the Group website.
Environmental and social factors Investing responsibly In our equities business, the environmental and social aspects of We continue to integrate ESG factors into the investment process companies are examined by our in-house team who raise potential for each of our asset classes.
risks and issues with the regional equity teams.
This year, the ESG While ESG has its own unique benefits and issues, depending on team spoke with over 150 companies about our challenges from the asset class to which it is applied, overall, it is an invaluable an ESG perspective.
For example, we engaged with a European factor when examining an investment as a whole.
ESG has pharmaceutical group over labour-related lawsuits and improper quickly gained ground with investors as an investment approach promotion of medical products.
We also queried a UK banking or overlay which helps to identify longer term risks within a group over fines from fraud, money laundering, corruption and portfolio.
We know that clients value communication on this tax.
By pushing companies to integrate ESG risks at the Board issue and we are committed to engaging both our investments level we hope to promote financial longevity through prudent and our stakeholders on responsible investing issues.
Corporate governance For our equities, corporate debt and multi manager products, corporate governance is a key consideration when assessing an 1 2 Screened funds 2013 SRI specific funds 2013 investment.
We believe that effective and transparent corporate governance leads to companies being more successful in their 17.7bn 1.1bn core activities allowing for enhanced returns to shareholders.
Aberdeens corporate governance principles for investment provide 2012: 17.6bn 2012: 1.1bn a globally applied framework for investment analysis, shareholder engagement and proxy voting.
Our annual equity engagement 1 Our screened funds refer to those that have restrictions not classed as SRI or ESG, such as country report sets out some of the topics that we have engaged with restrictions or Sharia compliant funds.
companies on over the past year and how this has affected 2 SRI specific funds have certain traditional SRI and ESG restrictions and so prohibit investment in companies that generate revenues through non-compliant activities.
Our equity engagement report and additional information Our property teams have also been working with investors, on our stewardship responsibilities can be found at property agents and tenants to understand and reduce the aberdeen-asset.
nsf AboutUs environmental impact of the buildings that we manage.
We  are committed to developing our capabilities in this area and are undertaking a full review of our property operations, with the intention to embed a global framework across each of our core functions - investment, asset management, property development and property management.
46 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Corporate governance Our environmental impact Aberdeen Charitable Foundation We have assessed that our biggest environmental risk is the This year, in the Aberdeen Charitable Foundations first full year carbon which we emit from the use of energy in our buildings since launch, we made donations to more than 100 charities in and from business travel.
This year, we averaged 1.73 tonnes of 22 of the countries in which we are located.
The Foundations CO per full time employee for our Scope 1 direct and Scope 2 focus is on giving back to those areas which are a key strategic 2 indirect global emissions please see table below.
As this is the focus of the business and to the local communities in which first year we have quantified our global emissions, we are unable Aberdeen employees live and work.
to compare this with previous years.
However, on a like-for-like In emerging markets, we built on our relationship with Action basis, we have reduced our carbon emissions by 10%, compared for Brazils Children Trust and entered into our second long-term to 2012, in our six largest offices, which represent over 75% of partnership with SeeBeyondBorders, a small but dynamic our operations by headcount.
charity which operates in Cambodia and provides access to The Group operates an Environmental Management System better education for children and training and mentoring EMS, which covers our processes to measure and monitors our programmes for teachers.
environmental impact and compliance with legal obligations, At a local level, the committees in our global offices supported a as well as communications to employees.
Through our EMS, we wide range of charities, all of which were selected for the positive have undertaken a range of initiatives to reduce our negative impact they have on the areas where our employees live and work.
Examples include the introduction of In addition to providing monetary support, colleagues used their software to ensure that all computers are switched off overnight: time and expertise to volunteer with our charity partners and this conducting a review of our waste disposal practices to identify year more than 15% volunteered.
areas for improvement and incorporating a wide range of energy saving measures across existing and new offices.
New initiatives this year include the installation of low emission LED lights, which will save 15,000 per year in the UK alone: increased purchase of renewable energy and the installation of smart meters which improve our ability to monitor energy usage.
This is the fifth year that we have been scored by the Carbon Disclosure Project CDP - a not-for-profit organisation working to drive sustainable business practices.
As a direct result of our focus to improve our environmental standards, our score in CDPs annual survey has improved from 46 in 2009 to 91 in 2013.
Our high score this year meant that we were included in the CDP FTSE 350 Climate Disclosure Leadership Index.
In Philadelphia, Aberdeen volunteers helped to plant organic garden beds at Drexel Universitys Dornsife Centre, which will provide food to those in need in the community.
Total global emissions for carbon reporting Charitable contributions, m Scope Emissions source CO emissions tonnes.
Total 4034.0 Intensity ratio: Emissions per full time.
employee for Scope 1 and Scope 2 1.73 1 We have used the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard revised edition for our Note: This includes donations made by the Foundation, Aberdeen PLC and GAYE employer contributions, methodology and gathered data from invoices on energy consumption, register of refrigerants and service but excludes unspent contributions made by the PLC to the Foundation.
We have used emissions factors from the UK Government conversion factors for Company Reporting.
