Our people We are committed to recruiting and retaining talented and motivated individuals who put clients at the heart of our business.
Recruitment and selection Succession Recruitment, development and retention of talent is key to our Succession plans are in place for all roles across the Group from ability to perform well for our customers and, as a consequence, the Board, the Group management board GMB to regional, our shareholders.
Plans are formally reviewed and updated regularly.
The Board has taken advice from an external consultant Our strategy is to recruit, wherever possible, at graduate level, to review our succession plans to help us to challenge and placing an emphasis on succession planning and developing our improve the process.
We also encourage moves within the business, preferring to use our existing talent pool to fill available posts.
Equality and diversity We continue to grow our apprenticeship, intern and graduate As a global organisation with customers spanning a multitude of programmes.
We believe that this approach creates loyalty in countries, cultures and professions, we view diversity as a valuable the organisation.
Our graduate rotation scheme aims to equip business asset.
We strive to be an employer of choice in all of the recruits with a broad based knowledge of both Aberdeen and countries in which we operate and to provide an environment in the asset management industry as a whole, before they choose which everyone is treated equally.
Details of the Groups equal opportunities policy are available This year we hired 109 interns, 43 graduates, 3 apprentices and on our website and this policy is supplemented by specific policies 6 individuals on the Investment 2020 scheme.
We have recruited that reflect local employment legislation and expectations.
We are committed to creating an inclusive environment in which all employees have the opportunity to develop.
Competitive compensation Rewarding employees for their contribution is key to recruiting We have a prominent voice supporting female representation in and retaining a talented workforce.
More information on how we boardrooms and support gender equality.
We support Backroom set compensation packages is given in the remuneration report to Boardroom: this is a forum in which women with boardroom starting on page 64. experience can offer the benefit of that experience to women who may achieve these positions in the future.
Learning, development and talent management This year, we became a signatory to the UN Global Compact.
We continue to improve our training and development for senior Our operations and policies support and reflect the ten Global managers with the goal of building a pool of individuals ready Compact principles and we uphold the Universal Declaration to move into key leadership roles.
We aim to provide bespoke of Human Rights in all our operations.
In countries where an development plans.
employee delegate or works council is not present, employees We fully support performance management and continuous are encouraged to share their opinions with line managers or development.
Our annual appraisal process for all employees is human resources representatives.
at the core of our development process, providing an opportunity to discuss performance, set objectives and identify areas for future development.
Professional training is necessary for certain individuals to ensure that they are proficient in the skills required for their jobs.
Those wishing to pursue a career in fund management are required to complete relevant examinations.
There are opportunities for others to complete relevant industry qualifications.
22 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic report 85% We undertook our first employee engagement survey.
This year, over 85% of our staff in EMEA participated and we are now rolling it out across the rest of the Group.
The results were positive and we are working on action plans for the year ahead to address where improvement is required.
Breakdown of staff by gender: Total workforce 2,200 Male 53% Female 47% Senior managers Male 75% Female 25% Group management board Male 85% Female 15% Board of Directors Male 71% Female 29% aberdeen-asset.
