Business RevieW coRpoRAte ResponsiBility Acting With integRity: An industRy leAdeR in ResponsiBle gAMBling ouR vAlues The four core values of how we do business are: Being tRusted By ouR custoMeRs Acting With integRity ensuRing ouR people ARe inspiRed, engAged And developed tAking pRide in the coMMunities WheRe We live And WoRk.
fRu hAzlitt independent Over the next few pages we will illustrate how Betfair fulfils non-executive diRectoR And chAiR of each of these values.
coRpoRAte ResponsiBility coMMittee 2012 proved to be a wonderful year of sport.
At Betfair we are proud to play our part in helping to keep sport free of corruption by working with sports governing bodies and regulators around the world.
With a dedicated Integrity Team and educational partnerships with the Professional Players Federation and British Athletes Commission, Betfair continues to lead the field on integrity.
Fru Hazlitt, Corporate Responsibility Committee Chair Committed to safeguarding our customers Corporate Responsibility Committee Betfair has never been afraid of doing things differently.
The Corporate Responsibility Committee is responsible for Innovation, transparency and fairness for the customer are values ensuring the Company fulfils its four core values towards its that continue to underpin the business.
The Committee meets on average four times a year responsibility CR isnt something we have talked enough about and reviews Betfairs policies and advises the Board on social, over the years.
And thats because for us being a good corporate ethical and environmental matters.
Among other matters, citizen is simply part of business as usual for Betfair.
But we the Committee is cognisant of external feedback and reviews realise that we should talk about it more and we will do that now.
received in respect of community investment and that those are among the factors used to develop appropriate procedures.
Betfair takes a pioneering approach to some of the difficult issues Members of the CR Committee ordinarily include: gambling can pose for the business and society as a whole.
Betfair recognises that where you have gambling you will have some Independent Non-Executive Director, Fru Hazlitt problem gambling.
It is this acknowledgement that ensures Betfair Group Operations Director, Ian Chuter enshrines responsible gambling policies into everything it does.
HR Director, Lisa Hillier From safeguarding our customers by offering the latest tools to help them control their gambling, to managing the social impact Stakeholders: of problem gambling, Betfair helps to protect its customers across customers all platforms.
We engage with and financially support a wide range employees of organisations to help ensure that the research, education regulators and treatment of problem gambling continues to be improved.
Only with a collaborative approach between the industry, national governments gambling regulators, charities and educational institutions can business partners we help ensure an improved understanding of how to prevent and treat problem gambling.
suppliers local communities third sector 20 Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Responsible advertising Being tRusted By ouR custoMeRs Given our focus on the protection of minors and vulnerable Betfairs primary goal is to ensure its customers have an people we endeavour not to direct our advertising at these two enjoyable and safe gambling experience.
Our advertising and marketing activities comply with UK by the vast majority of people as a leisure activity but a small Committee of Advertising Codes CAP Codes: www.
uk minority unfortunately develop a problem which impacts Advertising-Codes.
aspx which seek to ensure that advertising negatively upon their life.
and sales promotion activities do not give gamblers misleading information, such as a false impression of the odds on winning.
Therefore Betfair has established responsible gambling policies and strategies to ensure that we listen and respond to customers Self-help and awareness information to help prevent in order to help them when needed.
problem gambling Our responsible gambling policy sets out our commitment Early identification of a problem can help combat its development to minimise the negative effects of problem gambling and into something more serious.
Under the clearly marked tab to promote responsible gambling practices.
You can read it at the top of the home page entitled Responsible Gambling, at responsiblegambling.
All customers can click customers are linked through to information to make them aware through to this site directly from Betfairs home page under of the relevant issues.
If a customer identifies that they may have the tab Responsible Gambling.
a problem, they are advised to use Betfairs tools to limit their behaviour and seek help and support.
In accordance with licensing conditions and industry leading best practice, Betfair employs the following methods in order to help Details of professional organisations that can help prevent problem gambling: Betfair provides on its website information on organisations that can help people work through their concerns.
These Customer-driven deposit and loss limits include the National Problem Gambling Clinic, GamCare Customers are able to limit the amount they can deposit into their and Gamblers Anonymous.
Betfair account on a daily, weekly or monthly basis.
In addition they can limit the amount that they can lose over a given time Funding the research, education and treatment period of a week, month or year.
If a customer makes a deposit of problem gambling or loss limit more restrictive, settings on their account are changed In the UK Betfair makes annual voluntary contributions with immediate effect.
If a customer sets a deposit or loss limit to the Responsible Gambling Trust.
Since April 2009, which is less restrictive there is a cooling-off period of at least the gambling industry has voluntarily contributed over 7 days before the less restrictive settings come into effect.
Major operators, like Betfair, donate on the understanding that a minimum target of 5m will be reached each year.
Self-exclusion options Customers who elect to self-exclude will have their Betfair The Responsible Gambling Trust commissions research, accounts closed for a minimum of six months from the date education and treatment services for problem gambling of self-exclusion.
After this date, the customer can apply in as prioritised in a national responsible gambling strategy writing to have their account re-opened.
Each such application advised by the Responsible Gambling Strategy Board and will be considered on an individual basis.
More generally endorsed by the national gambling regulator, the UK Gambling customers are always able to request that their Betfair account Commission.
The Responsible Gambling Trust is made up be closed permanently.
of experts with either a background in helping people with addiction, the gambling industry or Government.
Game session timers Betfair allows customers to limit their session times for games Responsible gambling training for employees or events that have no natural end.
This gives customers greater Betfair employees receive responsible gambling awareness control over their gambling.
On Betfairs games, session timer training within their first three months of employment.
technology gives customers a gentle reminder about how long Customer facing employees receive additional more in-depth they have been playing.
The reminder will appear on screen training which is refreshed annually.
60 minutes after customers have placed their first bet or after a shorter period if selected, and will give the option to continue tRAining includes: playing or to exit the gaming application.
identifying the tRiggeRs And cAuses Preventing under-18s and the vulnerable from gambling of pRoBleM gAMBling: Betfair is particularly concerned about preventing under-18s and vulnerable groups from gambling given that they are notably the Risks specific to ReMote gAMBling: more susceptible to problem gambling.
In accordance with the knoWledge of AvAilABle suppoRt Agencies: law, children are prohibited from betting on the Betfair site.
Betfair has a strict underage policy and a rigorously applied age self-exclusion And otheR plAyeR pRotection verification process.
Betfairs specialist Verification Team has functionAlities: And developed a number of Know-Your-Customer checks in order to age verify customers and prevent under-18s from betting policies, pRocesses And RegulAtoRy on the site.
We are registered as a gambling content site with RequiReMents.
the Internet Content Rating Association ICRA, part of the Family Online Safety Institute, which provides general information and advice about internet safety.
We also encourage customers to use parental filtering solutions.
com investor-relations annual-reports 21 Business RevieW Pioneering partnerships with sport: Establishing a commercial relationship with British Racing coRpoRAte ResponsiBility Acting With integRity Under the terms of Betfairs unique deal with British Racing, Betfairs betting data will be used to help Safeguarding the integrity of sport construct a fixture list that will optimise British Racings Information sharing agreements with sports attractiveness as a betting product for punters, the racing We always act with integrity because we want to build trusted industry and betting operators.
The agreement therefore relationships with our customers, regulators, local communities aligns Betfairs interests with those of British Racing and sports organisations around the world.
We are committed in seeking to increase revenues derived from a thriving to assisting Sports Governing Bodies SGBs in helping to maintain horseracing industry.
the integrity of all such sports.
As acknowledged by leading Susannah Gill, Head of Public Affairs UK & Ireland experts in sport, from the outset Betfairs approach brought unprecedented openness and transparency to the way in which Signing a commercial deal with British Racing we interacted with sport on betting integrity related matters.
In July 2012, Betfair become the first ever betting operator to establish a landmark five-year commercial agreement worth at Paul Scotney, the then Director of Integrity Services & Licensing, least 40m to British Racing and to provide a template to help British Horseracing Authority, in The Guardian 29 August 2007: secure the long-term funding of British Racing.
The deal has The real watershed for racing was the betting exchanges the full support of the British Government and it is hoped that because they didnt cause the corruption, they brought other betting operators will follow where Betfair is leading.
it out into the open and exposed what was already there.
It is essential for Betfairs long-term sustainability that its customers have confidence in the honesty of the markets Pioneering partnership with British Racing on which they place bets.
This means that Betfairs business Betfairs unique landmark five-year commercial deal, along with interests are aligned with those of SGBs in wanting sport supporting organisations and charities at the grassroots of the to be conducted fairly and without corruption.
sport, through to pioneering sponsorship ideas, means it is the betting operator most committed to supporting and investing Our dedicated Integrity Team uses sophisticated forensic and in British Racing.
analytical tools to monitor betting activity.
Crucially, every transaction on Betfair is recorded.
In addition, we have led the Signing a commercial deal way in information-sharing agreements, known as Memoranda In July 2012 Betfair and British Racing, comprised of the British of Understanding MoUs with sports authorities.
In practice Horseracing Authority BHA, the Racecourse Association and MoUs are a commitment from Betfair to share any relevant the Horsemens Group, signed a landmark five-year commercial customer and transactional data, at an account level, with SGBs agreement worth at least 40m to the sport, providing a template in the event of a betting integrity related issue being detected to help secure the long-term funding of British Racing.
We have signed over 50 MoUs with leading SGBs has the full support of the British Government and it is hoped such as the British Horseracing Authority, FIFA and UEFA.
that other betting operators will follow where Betfair is leading.
In 2012 we signed MoUs with the Irish Greyhound Board, European Rugby Cup Limited, the Japanese Football Association The five-year agreement replaces Betfairs annual voluntary Early Warning System, the England and Wales Cricket Board Horserace Betting Levy payments, with the agreement taking and the Danish Football Association.
effect from the 51st Levy Scheme covering 2012-2013.
Betfair made upfront Levy payments of 6.5m for 2012-2013 which Educational partnerships with sports were offset against the first payment due under the new In addition to monitoring and sharing information Betfair along commercial agreement.
In 2013 Betfairs total payment to with bet365, Ladbrokes and the Remote Gambling Association the Horserace Betting Levy Board was 7.6m.
This comprised has established partnerships with the Professional Players of 6.5m under the terms of the Horserace Betting Levy and Federation PPF and British Athletes Commission which provides 1.1m under the terms of the commercial deal.
In future years funds and expertise to help athletes and players understand all payments to the Horserace Betting Levy Board will be in line betting rules and regulations.
Over the last three years the with the terms of the commercial deal.
partnership with the PPF has seen 5,620 players across a range of sports including football, rugby and cricket receive face-to-face education about betting.
Paul Bittar, Chief Executive of the British Horseracing Authority: This agreement has required a high degree of co-operation Brendon Batson MBE, Chairman of the Professional Players both within Racing, with all the major organisations closely Federation: Education for players is the first, and most involved in negotiations, and of course with Betfair, effective, line of defence for sport against match-fixing.
who have shown great commitment in their intent The PPFs arrangement with the betting operators is an to be a constructive commercial partner with our sport.
excellent partnership that is proven to work.
John Penrose MP, the then Minister for Tourism and Heritage at the Department for Culture, Media & Sport said: The Government has always believed there should be a commercial relationship between British Racing and betting operators and I pay tribute to all parties for bringing about this deal.
Betfairs willingness to be the first operator to do a deal is impressive and admirable I hope others will follow swiftly in their wake.
22 Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 The London Olympic Games At the start of 2012 we signed an MoU with the International Olympic Committee IOC to cover the London 2012 Games.
By strengthening its co-operation with operators such as Betfair, the IOC steps up its efforts to protect the integrity of sports competitions through a permanent and efficient system of information exchange.
IOC Spokeswoman Emmanuelle Moreau, 12 January 2012 In addition, Betfair was a leading member of the industry in working with the UK Gambling Commission and IOC in order to ensure a Joint Assessment Unit could be established so information on betting could be shared between stakeholders and action taken if required.
In the event, there was no recorded suspicious betting on the London Olympic Games.
In March 2013, the Gambling Commission produced a report called Working together to protect the Integrity of Sport: The role of the Joint Assessment Unit JAU at the London 2012 Olympic Games.
The report concluded: All the indications are that the JAU approach adopted for the 2012 Games provided an effective mechanism to identify and support decision makers with any suspicious activity driven by either unusual betting, suspected corrupt sports betting or other match fixing activity.
We pride ourselves on trying to provide the best prize money Supporting the grassroots of racing we can we also pride ourselves on providing the very best As well as signing a commercial deal Betfair continues to support of grassroots National Hunt racing, so this link with Betfair the grassroots of racing at a difficult economic time for the sport.
I am very grateful to Betfair for their major Over the past year Betfair has contributed a significant six-figure contribution to the prize money and their generous best sum in supporting a wide range of organisations, charities and turned-out horse awards and free food to stable staff.
initiatives including but not limited to : Fakenhams Chief Executive and Clerk of the Course, boosting prize money and supporting race days David Hunter said following Betfairs support for the course at independent courses: Betfair has supported the work of the Injured Jockeys Fund sponsoring the first Newmarket Open Day for 14 years, at Oaksey House since its official opening by our Patron, as well as sponsoring the Lambourn Open Day and agreeing HRH The Princess Royal, in September 2009.
The Companys to sponsor the Middleham Open Day for 2013: support of our physiotherapy and rehabilitation centre, continuing to fund 50% of the jockeys doctor, Anna known as The Betfair Wing, has enabled us to assist many Louise Mackinnon, in partnership with the Professional jockeys in returning to fitness far earlier than they would Jockeys Association: otherwise have been able to do.
Oaksey House has surpassed all of our expectations in this respect and we are delighted to continuing to support The Betfair Wing of the Injured Jockey be assisting injured jockeys both past and present in this way.
Funds Oaksey House in Lambourn: Lisa Hancock, Chief Executive Injured Jockeys Fund being the biggest corporate sponsor of Racing Welfare which provides help for racings people in need: ensuRing ouR people ARe inspiRed, backing the development of Newmarkets New Astley Club engAged And developed which will provide fitness and physiotherapy treatment for those working in racing: Communicating with employees sponsoring the World Horse Welfares Annual Conference for As at 30 April 2013, we had over 1,700 employees around the second year running: and the world, with major sites in the UK, Ireland, Gibraltar, Malta, Portugal, Romania and the US.
As a global business, we need sponsoring of the Moorcroft Racehorse Welfare Annual good communication so that we can understand, support, grow fundraising quiz and Animal Health Trust raceday at Newmarket.
and develop the people who will help us to execute and deliver our strategy and vision year by year.
We work hard to be an employer of choice and recognise the need to attract, develop, retain and reward individuals who add value to our unique business.
com investor-relations annual-reports 23 Business RevieW coRpoRAte ResponsiBility Managing to high performance tAking pRide in the coMMunities Performance management is a crucial lever to delivering WheRe We WoRk And live high performance and during the year, as with previous years, we have delivered training to equip our managers to have quality Engagement with local communities and charities conversations, set clear performance levels and develop people We take pride in our local communities.
As part of our for future roles.
This work is supported by talent and succession commitment to the communities in which we live and operate, planning which determines the strength of our leadership we have a dedicated CSR resource linked to each of our offices talent pipeline, based on capability, performance, potential around the world.
Employee engagement is a key driver for this activity, alongside We listen to our employees, respond to their feedback and a broader objective to create innovative community partnerships communicate the actions we have taken.
Among other things, that find solutions to local issues.
Our community investment we use Betfairs intranet to ensure that everyone understands programme encourages employees to get actively engaged our focus and vision as it moves forward.
with the communities where we live and work, and provides We review employee performance annually against objectives investment in grassroots sport.
agreed a year earlier, and use this opportunity to formally identify training and career development opportunities.
As in the previous Investing in local communities and charities year, the pay award for 2012 was performance related and As well as encouraging employees to get actively engaged a budget of 2.5% was made available for distribution according through volunteering activity we support a number of charities to performance.
and community organisations across Europe financially and in-kind.
Some of the charities Betfair has supported in 2012 Safeguarding employees are listed below: As part of our Responsible Gambling policy all Betfair employees receive responsible gambling awareness training within their first UK three months of employment.
Employees can seek support Crisis for any issues they might have with problem gambling through Greenhouse Betfairs Employee Assistance Programme which is conducted Maggies Cancer Care Centres by the NHS National Problem Gambling Clinic.
This programme offers staff working in the industry a valuable and strictly SPEAR confidential support service outside of Betfair.
It is a free Special Olympics GB service to staff.
Stevenage Community Trust Helping ensure a work life balance for all employees Wildfowl and Wetland Trust To engage a good work-life balance Betfair helps employees enjoy their time in the office and make the most of it outside Animal Health Trust working hours.
Such initiatives include: Ireland Matching employee fundraising for charity events up to the St Andrews Resource Centre Fettercairn Youth Horse Project sum of 100.
In 2012 Betfair committed 14,200 to this.
Malta All employees are entitled to take two working days a year Stompers Rubgy Football Club to volunteer for a recognised community service or registered charity of their choice which means something to them and St Joseph Home Hostel the community in which they live.
Romania Our industry is often regarded as male-dominated because Asociatia Autism Transilvania of its focus on technology, but we are committed to equal Asociatia Little People Romania opportunities and a diverse, inclusive and representative workplace where everyone is treated with dignity and respect.
Claudia Safta Charity Association Christmas Shoe Box Habitat for Humanity Special Olympics Portugal CrescerSer South Africa Charlton Athletic Community Trust 24 Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Supporting grassroots sport: Cash 4 Clubs Risks and opportunities Sport in the community is about local people, local facilities, Betfair perceives its risk of environmental impact as very low.
local groups and organisations working together to provide The business is 100% online with no retail premises and its opportunities to enjoy sport.
Recognising the importance of key servers held with modern, fit for purpose data centres community sport, we set up Cash 4 Clubs in 2008 to offer through professional third party suppliers.
sports clubs in the UK the chance to win grants ranging from Although the risk is very low there remain opportunities to 250 to 1,000.
The programme has since been launched in reduce environmental impact through consolidation of its office Australia and Malta, and to date in the UK we have supported portfolio, following the restructure of the business.
As a result 271 clubs with grants totalling over 221,000.
A diverse panel c. 50,000 sq ft 20% of office space will be closed, including of judges ranging from sports stars, such as Dame Kelly Holmes parts of Hammersmith, Malta and the San Francisco office.
and Karen Pickering MBE to MPs and sports journalists, helps ensure that Cash 4 Clubs is supporting the clubs that are making The forthcoming mandatory carbon reporting will support a real impact in their communities.
more emphasis on data collection, interrogation and comparatives across all offices helping us to learn from best practice across the portfolio.
enviRonMentAl MAtteRs Our aim for 100% waste recycling will improve local practices We are committed to reducing the environmental impact and the significant investment in video conference technology of our business.
In this section, among other areas, we: supports reductions in travel.
report of the effectiveness of our environmental strategy through a review of various Key Performance Indicators KPIs : Commitment and verification Betfair is committed to continuous improvement in reducing our set out a forward-looking assessment of short and long-term carbon footprint through developing and implementing initiatives, environmental risks and opportunities facing the business: and practices and procedures which will enable us to manage and outline quantative KPIs for greenhouse gas emissions, control the impact our business has on the environment.
Betfair collects data of its emissions and carbon footprint.
As a minimum, Betfair meets or exceeds all relevant environmental Our KPIs include the adoption of a 10% reduction programme legislation.
Where no environmental legislation exists, we develop in each year of operation.
and implement our own appropriate standards, practice and procedures.
Across all business units, we take all reasonable steps This KPI data is reported through an industry standard to manage our operations, so as to minimise our environmental verification system for data collected.
This verification system, impact and to deliver excellence in environmental practice across which is independently verified, confirms that we are already our business.
compliant with the scope 1 & 2 requirements for Mandatory Carbon Reporting and for Greenhouse Gas Emissions.
Respect for the environment is fundamental to assuring a sustainable future.
Betfair recognises that, by managing our We envisage that for the 2014 Annual Report we will set out day to day activities efficiently, we can have a positive impact further KPI details in respect of: on the environment.
We aim to minimise harmful effects Scope 1: Direct emissions resulting from activities within the whenever we can, and will work through a continuous organisations control, including on-site fuel combustion, improvement process to achieve this.
manufacturing and process emissions, refrigerant losses Betfair is an online business and therefore our main focus and company vehicles: is on our offices and data centres.
Betfair uses state of the art Scope 2: Indirect emissions from electricity, heat or steam power usage effectiveness PUE data centre facilities in Ireland, purchased and used by the organisation: and whenever possible we plan to retire inefficient servers and consolidate legacy systems.
Scope 3: Indirect emissions from sources not directly controlled by the organisation, e. g. business travel, outsourced Betfair operates in modern office environments, which have been transportation, waste disposal, water usage and designed to have minimal impact on the environment and all our commuting.
office spaces operate with: perimeter infrared motion detector lighting: Stakeholders As a matter of course, we gauge stakeholder views on low energy lighting: environmental matters and these views are reported to the energy efficient air conditioning systems: Corporate Responsibility Committee.
This process enables us to increase our responsiveness to matters raised by stakeholders, power factor correction: and find new ways to reduce our impacts and maximise opportunities, high densities of occupation in the workplace.
balance business efficiency with economic success and, ultimately, continue to make the business more competitive, profitable Betfair operates largely out of leased premises.
work with our landlords to encourage their investment in energy efficient systems, waste recycling and water consumption.
com investor-relations annual-reports 25 Business RevieW coRpoRAte ResponsiBility Compliance Following on from the details in our 2012 Annual Report, we have since focussed our efforts on KPIs including: Energy KPIs Transport and Travel KPIs We continued to review our energy use and implement new Betfair has a strict travel policy which aims to reduce all ways to enable us and our people to manage and control travel within the business through actively encouraging use consumption.
This included: of videoconference and movi client application.
In addition, Betfair does not operate a company car scheme.
Other data collection of environmental indices across all initiatives include: Betfair offices: cycle to work scheme: desktop power Betfair delivered one switch power modules to 1,000 desktops within the Hammersmith and provision of showers and locker facilities for cyclists Milan offices, as part of a refurbishment programme.
These and runners: enable our people to switch off all power to their desk from global video-conferencing facilities: a single switch.
This cuts the continuous consumption of economy travel across all European destinations: and out of hours energy drawn by phone chargers, PC power modules and other electrical items which continue to feed use of public transport in city hubs.
when not in use: air conditioning settings Betfair teams operate across Capital Improvement KPIs various hours during any 24 hour period and our air conditioning systems are programmed geographically to This year Betfair has introduced a data centre management match the working patterns of our people ensuring that tool called Nlyte, which allows Betfair to track power usage systems are not operating and drawing energy unnecessarily: and improve planning for the efficient utilisation of the data centre facility.
An ongoing programme of consolidation capital improvement projects included high energy efficient continues, including cloud computing solutions, enabling us to air conditioning and UPS systems in line with the Carbon switch off older, inefficient equipment across the whole estate.
Trusts energy technology list that qualify for enhanced capital allowances: and Betfair complies with WRAP UK guidelines when carrying out all fit out and construction works and ensures our contractors retiring end of serviceable life equipment with recycling work to these same standards.
where possible including PCs, laptops, screens, videoconference units, servers and network kit, which During the Hammersmith refurbishment, we recycled 87% allows for the purchase of modern efficient replacement.
of all waste, working within WRAP guidelines, from 184 tonnes of waste removed.
Waste KPIs All redundant furniture is either re-used, through resale, charity or school donation or disposed of through responsible Betfair aims for 100% waste recycling, with no waste going methods and recycled or chipped.
to landfill, and this is achieved where feasible.
All offices, as a minimum, separate waste at source within the Equipment Purchase KPIs opportunities available for recycling locally.
This includes plastics, paper, cans and glass.
In addition: The Betfair procurement process ensures that our environmental Betfair provides separate recycling waste bins at the point responsibility is a key factor in any purchasing decisions including: of disposal: consideration of where goods are manufactured, and the mixed waste is sorted and recycled: disposal of used goods in an environmentally responsible way: wet waste is composted: giving preference to items that are manufactured with a high recycled content: glass is sorted and recycled: and specifying items that can be recycled or reused: cooking oil is collected and recycled, where internal catering facilities are provided.
considering the energy usage cost of operating equipment prior to purchase: favouring suppliers that are committed to environmental Supplier KPIs improvement: Betfair is conscious to ensure that our suppliers also adopt considering whole life costs and impacts when assessing and maintain a good environmental policy as part of our equipment for purchase: and procurement and tender process.
carrying out environmental assessment of all suppliers.
We seek to source products manufactured nationally so as to be aligned to our offices and thereby reduce the impact on the environment through transportation, e. g. all furniture purchased for the Hammersmith office in 2012 was British manufactured, and manufactured in Portugal for the Porto office.
26 Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 In addition to the above Betfair were subject to a Health and heAlth And sAfety Safety inspection by our independent risk assessor, which resulted Alongside our commitment to providing a vibrant working in the following feedback: environment that values wellbeing and diversity, we recognise It is noted that the Company has implemented a number of risk our wider legal and moral obligation to provide a safe and healthy management initiatives commensurate with Good Practice, working environment for our people, visitors and members these include: of the public who may be affected by our activities.
development of a health and safety policy that has been This commitment underpins our approach to health and safety, signed by the Chief Executive Officer: with Board level responsibility being appointed to the Director of Operations, supported by specialist technical advisers in safety preparation of risk assessments for the office activities, and occupational health employed across all our global locations.
to include the use of display screen equipment and fire safety: monthly workplace inspection to monitor the implementation Our operations are fully compliant with all aspects of the current of health and safety risk controls: Health and Safety H&S law, codes of practice and approved industry standards.
Our H&S policy statement, Management robust accident reporting and investigation: and System, Practices and Procedures, reflect Betfairs commitment a high standard of housekeeping throughout the to managing health, safety and welfare across our international Hammersmith office.
portfolio through selected senior representatives and H&S professionals who form the National Health and Safety Forum.
The above stimuli will serve to enhance the risk profile of the In addition, all of our Facilities Managers have IOSH accreditation organisation, with associated business benefits, not least through and two employees are accredited at NEBOSH level.
a reduction in the total cost of risk.
The risk improvements contained at the end of this report are presented in the interests Betfair provides an occupational health helpline, providing of continuous improvement, and are intended to build upon independent and confidential support for all employees.
The the risk control measures you already have in place, as well Employee Assistance Programme EAP, is an expert provider as improve your claims prevention and defensibility strategy.
of employee support services and is completely independent from the Company.
The EAP is designed to help employees It is a statutory requirement to keep a record of all accidents, in those times of need, whether its stress, anxiety, managing incidents and near misses that occur at work.
Our H&S record money, relationships or work.
There were no reportable fatalities or major injuries across our business and a health, safety We regularly review and audit the quality and effectiveness and environment inspection visit in the UK resulted in no of our risk assessment and incident investigation processes and enforcement notices or prosecutions for health, safety the completeness of our health and safety management system.
In addition we continue to develop our procedures for measuring and supporting a proactive approach to meeting our Close commitments to the safety and well-being of all our people, We believe that good corporate responsibility practice is part clients and suppliers.
of business as usual for Betfair.
Health and Safety activity During the past reporting year priority was focussed on fully Fru Hazlitt reviewing and updating all Health and Safety activities at Betfair.
Corporate Responsibility Committee Chair As a result of this review Betfair carried out the following: Health and Safety management system reviewed to include updated legislation and all global locations: roles and responsibilities updated: Practices and procedures, including all risk assessment activities, reviewed and redeveloped in line with current legislation and Betfair good practice: audit process developed and introduced: baseline audits to measure current performance: practices and procedures schedule updated and implemented: formation of the H&S forum led by senior representatives of the business: fire safety systems, practices and procedures reviewed and updated: all staff training requirements reviewed and action plans produced: specialist H&S training provided to all relevant people: and accident and incident statistics collated and reviewed.
