CUSTOMERS AND EMPLOYEES [PULLOUT HAPPY STAFF... TO BE SUPPLIED] HAPPY CUSTOMERS 1 The Customer, The Customer, TheCustomer The Group strives to design products that customers want and In 2013 Admiral implemented a new framework for the that represent value for money, aiming to offer excellent monitoring and reporting of conduct issues.
The most customer service at all times.
meaningful metrics that are used to evaluate a departments performance have been amalgamated, together with complaints Admirals employees are rewarded through incentive schemes data, to build a Conduct Risk Management Information CRMI that place emphasis on the quality of service provided to our Report.
This replaces the Treating Customers Fairly customers.
THE GROUP EMPLOYS SEVERAL The table below contains some of the measures of customer INITIATIVESTOMEASURE THEQUALITY service from theCRMI Report: OFITSCUSTOMER SERVICE: Customer-focused measures programme Conduct risk measure 2012 2013 Target % of customers who would renew Conduct Risk formerly Treating Customers Fairly reporting following a claim 90% 91% 85% Comment form analysis Customer Services, New Business 1 Complaints analysis and Renewals call answer rates n a 92% 90% 1 Customer Services fi first call resolution n a 78% 75% Claims call answer rate 94% 95% 90% Complaints per 1,000 vehicles 1.2 1.2 1.4 Notes 1 2012 data is unavailable due to changes in reporting as described above.
Customer Services fi first call resolution refers to the % of inbound Customer Services calls that areresolved during the initial call.
A Ad dm miir ra al G l Gr ro ou up p p pllc c A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts s 2 20 01 13 3 14 14 x ADM ar13 front.
indd 14 10 03 2014 11:23:58 S STR TRA ATE TEG GIC IC C CO OR RPO POR RA ATE TE F FIINAN NANC CIAL IAL O OTHE THER R IIN NT TR ROD ODU UC CTI TION ON R REP EPOR ORT T G GO OV VER ERN NA ANC NCE E S STAT TATE EM ME EN NT TS S IIN NF FORM ORMA ATI TION ON 2 A GREAT Place To Work!
The Groups principles of respect for human rights, diversity, health If People Like What They Do, Theyll Do It Better.
88% of and safety and workplace ethical standards not only apply to staff staffare happy atAdmiral, according to the 2013 anonymous directly employed by Admiral, butalso to staff employed by the StaffSurvey.
Groups outsourced partner in Bangalore, India.
Tomeet this commitment, Admiral Group maintains regular contact with its THE GROUPS CULTURE RESTS UPON FOUR PILLARS: outsourcers management team and the Groups senior managers visit the outsourcer on a regular basis, whilst the Group also provides Communication open, transparent and two way training and development to ensure that the team uphold these principles.
In addition, Admiral Group has appointed amanager Equality everyone is equal, regardless of seniority or length based permanently at the outsourced operation, who is responsible ofservice for ensuring that the Groups principles are adhered to by the outsourced partner, and that the wellbeing of outsourced staff Fun by encouraging its employees to have a good time in work, the ismonitored.
Group aims to increase levels of employee satisfaction and toenable its people to feel as though they can truly commit to acareer within Gender diversity the Group, reinforcing their desire to produce excellent results The table below provides a breakdown ofthe gender of Company Reward and recognition all staff receive performance-related Directors and employees at the end of the fi financial year: payand across the Group regular award ceremonies Male Female  1 Company Directors 9 4 All staff are awarded shares to ensure interests are aligned 2 Other senior managers 21 13 withthose of shareholders.
For more information about the All employees 3,454 3,531 employeeshare schemes, refer to page 90.
Notes 1 DIVERSITY, ETHICS AND HUMAN RIGHTS Company Directors consist of the Board of Directors, as detailed on pages 38 to 39.
2 Other senior managers is as defi ned in the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Report and include: persons responsible for planning, directing or controlling Admiral Group respects and values the individuality and diversity the activities of the Company, or a strategically signifi cant part of the Company, other ofevery employee.
The Groups Equality, Diversity andDignity at than Company Directors.
Any other Directors ofundertakings included in the consolidated Work Policy ensures that every employee is treated equally and accounts that are not considered strategically signifi canthave notbeen included.
fairly andthat all employees are aware of their obligations.
The Group isfully committed tothe health and safety and the human Environmental impact rights ofits employees regardless of their background.
In addition, Admiral Groups main environmental impact arises from the electricity the Group maintains a number of employee codes of conduct ituses within its offi ces.
Disclosure of the Groups greenhouse gas regardingappropriate ethical standards in the workplace.
emissions is included in the Directors Report, page 65, with more information available online in the Corporate Responsibility Report.
In the photo above Admirals staff celebrate the Groups success in winning the Princes Trust National Million Makers Challenge.
co. uk culture csr A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts s 2 20 01 13 3 A Ad dm miir ra al G l Gr ro ou up p p pllc c 15 15 x ADM ar13 front.
