04 Strategic report BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2013 gloBal Business environment BG Group continues to see strong demand for LNG, which is projected to grow twice as fast as gas demand.
The Group believes that this increase in demand will require substantial new LNG supply sources.
Thecurrent leadership in China amid-year low of $14.35 mmbtu to winter Growth of the global economy in 2013 has signalled anew, broader-based model for peaksabove $19.00 mmbtu.
Domestic demand economic development that will be consumption andexternal trade in themajor economies asopposed to investment led.
Chinas success Gas demand havepicked up, as have manufacturing and inaccomplishing this shift toamore sustainable In light of both the improving global economic construction activity.
The OECD economies growth model may have profound consequences picture and the unlocking of new energy haverebounded better than expected, helping for the global economy and energy demand.
resources, global energy demand looks set tooffset lower growth in emerging economies, togrow over the medium and longer term.
While China has slowed Gas prices slightly, it is still maintaining a high level of Gas prices generally exhibited more movement BG Group expects that global gas demand growth at 7.7%.
Continued slow growth inthe in 2013 than they did in 2012, primarily owing willgrow at a compound rate of 2.4%per annum emerging economies couldimpact global to weather related issues.
Among the OECD economies, the USA energy demand growth in2014 andbeyond.
the year at $3.35 mmbtu, but peaked above should see strong gas demand growth, driven by $4.15 mmbtu monthly basis before returning economic recovery and the increased availability The economic story last year was dominated bythe to around $3.75 mmbtu by the end of the year.
BGGroup expects that USA and China.
The US shale revolution hasbeen The average price for 2013 $3.72 mmbtu rose Japan should also seecontinued robust gas unfolding for some years, but itstrueimpacts are versus 2012 $2.75 mmbtu as a response, demand inview ofareduced nuclear energy now starting to be felt more clearly.
As US oil and inpart, to colder than normal weather in key outlook.
Europe, however, has seen gas demand gas production hasincreased rapidly, energy markets.
However, production growth in 2013 fall, asthe continent turns increasingly imports have fallen sharply, allowing the trade held back further price rises.
BG Group expects torenewables andcoal.
US manufacturing costs have that production increases will continue to also benefited, improving competitiveness.
offset demand growth for some time, keeping The growth in the emerging economies will prices near current levels, in line with forward bedriven primarily by increased urbanisation Chinas rapid growth has already seen itmoveinto market expectations.
NBP National Balancing andprojected income gains.
Urban centres second place behind the USA interms ofGDP Point prices moved from approximately across Asiaare expected to increase in and, although rates may slow, China should $10.50 mmbtu in January to $11.50 mmbtu population byup to5million people per continue to grow at a healthy, and ultimately more inDecember of 2013.
Asian LNG spot prices month, creating new demand for heating, were particularly volatile, moving from cooling, electricity and transportation.
Global gas supply challenge 2012-25 Top four LNG importers by 2025 LNG supply and demand outlook to 2025 bcma mtpa mtpa 5 000 120 500 100 4 000 400 2.4% pa 80 9% 3 000 pa 300 60 2 000 200 40 1 000 1 00 20 0 0 0 2012 Production Consumption New Japan China South Korea India 2015 2020 2025 consumption decline increase supply required by 2025 2013 estimate LNG supply existing and under construction 2025 forecast LNG demand Source: BG Group interpretation of Wood Mackenzie.
Source: 2013 data IHS Waterborne Jan 2014 : Source: BG Group outlook 2013.
BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2013 | Global business environment 05 methane shirley elisabeth lng vessel, lake Charles lngterminal, usa In August 2013, Lake Charles received authorisation for theexport of up to 15 mtpa ofLNG to non-FTA countries.
BGGroup expects that this demand will be BG Group has total committed volumes to oil prices met increasingly with gas, asgovernments China of 8.6 mtpa, which will make the Group Brazil represents a key growth area forBGGroup.
seek ways to address thesocial imperatives the largest supplierof LNG to the country.
Significant production growth in oil is expected ofsatisfying energy demand while controlling from the Santos Basin fields in which the carbon emissions anddemands for cleaner air.
Other markets are also emerging, with the Group has interests.
number of importing countries having grown Given this expected growth in gas use globally, bythree overthe past year to a total of 27.
In contrast to 2012, oil prices exhibited less BG Group continues tobelieve that gas will NewLNG markets in the Middle East, Latin volatility during the year, fluctuating some 10-15%, increase itsmarket share, and that LNG will America and Southeast Asia should continue compared with 20-25% in the previous year.
This play anincreasingly important role within to develop in coming years, helping to grow was despite continued tensions inthe Middle East thisenergydemand mix.
LNG demand ata sustainable pace.
and unplanned outages inOPEC countries.
The primary reason for the limited price movement Gas supply LnG supply appears to have been the fact that non-OPEC Meeting this anticipated increase in demand BG Group believes that these increases in LNG production growth, led by growth in US tight oil willpresent asupply challenge.
Inaddition to demand will require substantial new LNG supply production, essentially matched OPEC outages, the forecasted 2.4% compound annual growth sources, including expected new volumes from providing markets with a degree of stability.
rate CAGR in demand, theindustry will North America and east Africa, between 2014 Prices ended the year at$106 bbl Brent, alsohaveto replace declines inexisting fields.
As with gas development, developing almost exactly where theystarted at $108 bbl.
Asaresult, BG Group believes that, by 2025, this new supply is expected to require material theindustry will need to develop new gas levels ofinvestment some$400 billion.
oil supply production broadly equivalent to the entire Looking ahead to the end of the decade, gasmarket today.
Thisdevelopment will be BGGroup has moved rapidly totake advantage BGGroup expects that supply growth in oil will technically and commercially challenging, ofthis shift by securing LNG offtake export depend critically onadditions from non-OPEC requiring increased volumes of unconventional volumes from the Sabine Pass liquefaction sources, particularly Brazil, Canada, Kazakhstan gas globally and aprojected investment of project.
TheGroup is also working with Energy and theUSA.
The recent momentum inUStight some$2.5 trillion over this period.
Transfer, owner of the Lake Charles import oilproduction isstillin its early phases, and terminal in Louisiana, to adapt the import facility itslong-term sustainability remains anopen The large and rapid development of shale to liquefy natural gas for export, subject to Federal question.
Growth from traditional producing gasproduction in the USA will reduce this Energy Regulatory Commission FERC approval.
countries is also likely to be an important factor supply gap significantly.
Today, at current in coming years, with Iraq, Iran, Libya, and possibly production rates, BGGroup believes that The total volume of US LNG export will be shaped Mexico and Venezuela, re-entering the global theUSA should have sufficient gas tomeet initially by the US licensing process and timing market in material ways.
Inthe past, geopolitical domestic demand formore than acentury, ofFERC approvals and subsequently by a number and other factors have tended to constrain supply andwill soon become an LNG exporter.
of factors, including additional Department growth.
It is expected that this will continue ofEnergy reviews, local opposition, developer tobe afeature of oil markets going forward.
LnG demand capability, access tofinancing and the desire BG Group continues to predict strong demand ofbuyers todiversify supply sources.
Of these oil demand forLNG which is projected to grow twice factors, the Groupbelieves local opposition, On the demand side, BG Group believes that asfast as overall gas demand, at a 5% CAGR, developer capability and buyer supply diversification structural trends in China and other emerging to2025.
The growing urban middle class will ultimately drive how much USexport capacity economies will meanthatoil demand will continue inAsia, particularly in China, is increasingly will get built.
BG Group estimates about 45 mtpa to rise atasteadypace overthe next decade, demanding cleaner air, which will require a by 2020 andaround 60mtpa by 2025. supportingoilprices.
Economies in keyemerging relatively clean and flexible energy source, like markets are entering a phase of development gas, to replace traditional coal consumption.
The cost of turning gas into LNG in the USA, where consumers income growth is driving rapid taken together with the shipping costs to vehicle adoption, spurring oil demand growth.
The23 mtpa of new LNGregas capacity scheduled Asia, lead the Group to believe that US gas and BGGroup also anticipates a resurgence of demand for completion in China in the nextthree years, Asian LNG prices should remain differentiated inthe USAwhich remains the worlds largest oil and a further 12 terminals currently in planning, forthe foreseeable future.
Continued economic growth in the USA are testament to thisgrowing demand.
andother OECD economies could also contribute to future growth in oil demand.
