Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2013 | 21 Investing for Generations sustainability The Alliance Trust sustainability strategy is called Investing In addition to the management of the portfolio, we are for Generations.
This strategy is focused on building our also very conscious of the impact that our interaction business for the long term.
While we have been investing for with the clients of our asset management business and 125 years we realise that to continue for the next 125 years, the customers of our savings platform can have on our we need to remain as relevant to our shareholders, clients, performance and reputation.
and customers as we have always been.
Alliance Trust Savings operates a customer charter that We have identified five key areas of focus for our Investing governs how we treat our customers.
Our training for Generations strategy: programmes are designed to improve customer services and experience as it is by servicing their investment needs that we will provide better returns for our shareholders Responsible investing over the long term.
We support and encourage our investment team to use our influence, as shareholders, to improve corporate Environment responsibility.
For example, following the collapse of the Rana Plaza factory in Bangladesh, we worked with other We are committed to managing the impact of our operations shareholders, representing about 1 trillion of assets under on the environment and embedding environmental management, to champion the Bangladesh Accord on Fire management and improvement into all areas of our business.
Our argument is that if incidents like This commitment is the foundation of our environmental this persist, apart from the devastating human impact, it management system EMS, which is based on International will damage the brands of those companies, so there is a Standard ISO 14001:04. long-term shareholder benefit in making sure that companies Our EMS is supported by our environmental policy respect human rights.
and related policies and procedures which set out our Our policy is to vote whenever practicable.
As the quality of commitment to environmental stewardship and how we the management of a company in which we invest is a key aim to minimise our impact on the environment.
consideration, in most cases we support management but We report on our greenhouse gas emissions on page 70. we will engage with them and ultimately vote against their recommendations where we believe that their proposals are not in shareholders interests.
Community Votes against management were mainly in respect of Asian Our goal is to support the communities in which we operate.
companies and ranged from individual reappointments We established the Alliance Trust Staff Foundation and to severance packages and a corporate restructuring.
Full have supported local charities operating within Dundee, details of our voting record can be found on our website Edinburgh and London.
We support Pilotlight, which places business professionals In favour of management recommendations 75 onto the Boards of charities, and some of our senior team Against management recommendations 10 members are now working directly with local charitable organisations.
In collaboration with FutureReach we ran two We will also engage with management throughout the year if workshops in local Dundee schools, helping to equip students we believe that a proposal is detrimental to the long-term future with the necessary skills to secure employment in the future.
Recently we were concerned about the way in We allocate two volunteering days to our people per which a company was planning a major transaction.
Although annum and encourage them to get involved in local we were ultimately unsuccessful in making them change their projects or charitable activities.
plans many commentators agreed with our position and were critical of the way in which the transaction was undertaken.
People We are signatories to the United Nations Principles for Responsible Investment UN PRI and two of our investment Our goal is to provide rewarding careers for the people we team are members of different UN PRI committees.
employ and we aim to recruit, retain and develop the best talent in the marketplace.
Shareholders and customers We encourage share ownership and this ensures that we align the interests of our people closely with the interests We place our shareholders at the heart of everything that of our shareholders.
They are the ultimate owners of the Trust and we are focused on the return that we generate for them.
