30 | Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2013 Alliance Trust Investments is a specialist fund management Sustainable and Responsible business offering a broad selection of open-ended funds and Investments SRI investment solutions.
Last year we reported that we had entered into an The most profound force agreement with Aviva Investors under which we engaged a shaping the 21st century global team of specialist Sustainable and Responsible Investment SRI managers and acquired around 1.2bn of third party economy is the essential shift assets.
This year we have seen the positive impact of this to environmentally and socially transaction with an improved financial performance and sustainable growth.
We are showing an operating loss for the year of 4.2m compared to 6.6m the previous year.
Our fund managers have delivered good investment performance with over 80% of our funds being ranked Fixed Income in either the first or second quartile against their peers for the year.
We aim to use our knowledge and Our SRI managers are now a core part of our business experience to deliver consistent and have increased the level of retail investor funds under above benchmark returns for our management.
They have also attracted mandates from clients from global bond markets.
institutional investors seeking managers who can provide both a sustainable approach to investment and good returns.
Of our seven UK Sustainable Future funds, six have out-performed their benchmark over the year and are either first or second quartile against their peers.
Global Equities Our Fixed Income funds have also proved attractive to investors and they have grown by around 4% in a sector which has seen significant outflows.
Our three funds serve We search the world for the different markets: the Monthly Income Bond Fund provides best investment opportunities, a vehicle for retail investors seeking a regular income, the combining detailed analysis of Dynamic Bond Fund is designed to provide a solution for institutions and pension schemes.
The Sustainable Future individual companies with an Corporate Bond Fund aims to produce a higher income assessment of how the world than government bonds by investing in bonds issued is changing structurally.
by companies that meet sustainable and responsible investment criteria.
The Monthly Income Bond Fund and the Sustainable Future Corporate Bond Fund were both in the second quartile of their peer group for the year.
The Dynamic Bond Fund delivered its objective of providing an absolute return of around 6% for the year.
Assets under management Third party assets under management Dec 2013 2.2bn Dec 2013 1.8bn Dec 2012 1.9bn Dec 2012 1.4bn Dec 2011 551m Dec 2011 129m including assets under advice Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2013 | 31 Our Global Thematic Opportunities Fund, which aims to Financial performance achieve long-term capital growth, was launched two years ago.
This year it has provided a return of 24% and is in the Net revenue second quartile of its peer group.
It will be marketed actively Alliance Trust Investments 142% increase in net once it has built up a longer track record.
revenue was mainly due to a full year of fees from the SRI In the course of the year we closed two funds which were assets and fees from 424m of capital invested by Alliance not core to our future strategy.
Trust in ATI funds Global Thematic Opportunities Fund, Dynamic Bond Fund and the Monthly Income Bond Fund.
Key strengths Average third party basis points We have a number of key strengths which position us well in The average 45 basis points earned on third party the market: revenue increased slightly from the prior year.
Investment managers - we have a team of experienced and specialist managers who, between them, have Expenses previously managed significant third party assets at Expenses increased by 3.0m.
The increase was largely leading investment houses.
due to the one-off acquisition costs of the SRI funds and the first full years costs of that team, along with the Investment performance - five of our funds were top closure costs of two non-core funds.
Investment choice - we have a wide range of funds Net assets available to suit both institutional and retail investors.
During the year Alliance Trust invested 11.5m in the business reflecting the additional capital required to Strategy support the larger assets under management following the transfer of the SRI assets.
We intend to continue to build upon the investment 2013 2012 skills of our managers and where we identify m m opportunities we will launch new funds to take Net Revenue 9.2 3.8 advantage of these skills.
Expenses 13.4 10.4 Operating loss 4.2 6.6 We will look to reposition our SRI funds as a more Fair valuation 12.8 10.1 mainstream product but still retain the ethical strengths The fair valuation methodology and assumptions are described in Note of these funds.
We plan to extend our distribution channels and target The cumulative capital investment in Alliance Trust those institutional market sectors where we see our fund Investments is 40.2m.
range proving an attractive proposition.
We will continue to seek out strategic partnerships that can add value and pursue other opportunities to introduce additional assets under management to complement the organic growth of our existing funds.
Third party average net revenue Third party net revenue Dec 2013 0.45bps Dec 2013 7.2m Dec 2012 0.43bps Dec 2012 1.8m Dec 2011 0.31bps Dec 2011 0.4m
