Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2013 | 17 We listen to our people People 84% of our people take the time to tell us what they think Purpose through our Employee Engagement Survey.
Platform Our people are the Our engagement results are excellent and 81% of those key to our success who responded tell us that they would recommend Alliance Profile Performance and unlocking their Trust as a good place to work.
We listen to their feedback potential is the route People and build improvements into our plans for the future.
to achieving our 2020 vision and strategy.
Equality & diversity Selecting the best people We fundamentally believe that a diverse workforce will create the optimum environment upon which our business We recruit people who will fit well with the values and will thrive and grow.
behaviours we set out for our business.
We are committed to creating an inclusive environment Where possible, we recruit from within and seek to develop where our people can develop and contribute fully.
and promote from our existing talent pool.
By 2020 we have set ourselves an ambitious target to achieve more In formulating and implementing our employment than 50% of vacancies filled by internal applicants.
and recruitment policies we ensure that they are at all times compliant with all relevant EU and UK legislation.
We grow our own talent through an annual graduate Recruitment, development and promotion is based solely scheme which rotates recruits around key business areas, on their suitability for the job to be done.
We will not before selecting a permanent area of specialism.
A number discriminate on the basis of gender, sexual orientation, age, of senior positions are now held by former graduate race, nationality, disability or political or religious belief.
Our Executive Committee comprises 60% male and 40% female members.
Rewarding success The table below provides the gender split at different levels We reward our people for performance and these rewards within the business.
are linked to the success of our business and also aligned Male Female closely to our shareholder interests.
The majority of our people are shareholders through our All Employee Share Board 3 43% 4 57% Senior managers 47 73% 17 27% Ownership Plan and are therefore closely linked to the Total workforce 121 49% 127 51% performance of the business.
Launch of the new Alliance Trust PLC website November 2013 December 2013 Alliance Trust Investments won Best New Entrant at ESG Investment Awards
