Corporate social responsibility We aim to conduct our business in a sustainable manner, providing continuity through the consistent application of our values in our relationships with clients, employees, shareholders and other stakeholders.
A programme of meetings with major youth, education and sport-based Engaging with our employees investors, following results announcements organisations.
In 2013, Amlin Bermuda We recognise the importance of employee and throughout the year, ensures that we donated $57,500 to support educational engagement.
To encourage discussions and maintain a positive dialogue with our existing scholarships and also donated $10,000 to consultation between staff and managers we investors, taking into account their views and the Bermuda Zoological Society to support operate the Amlin Group Consultation Forum concerns.
We also receive independent research into coral reefs and how to GCF.
Established in 2012, the GCF is a feedback from investors through our joint protect them.
consultation and information forum for brokers Morgan Stanley and Numis.
During employees, that facilitates discussion Amlin also supports scholarship 2013, we had 60 one to one meetings with between management and employees on programmes to support young people.
In current and prospective investors in the UK, Group wide issues and also meets Amlins the UK, Amlin funds vocational training for Continental Europe and the US.
We hosted legal obligation to establish a European Works ten candidates selected by UK Youth, a Group meetings for more than 40 investors Council EWC.
In Bermuda, grants are at our London offices during the year, and offered through the Association of Bermuda The GCF is made up of five members of the also presented Amlins investment International Companies Education Awards.
Senior Management team and employees from proposition to a further 30 international Amlin Singapore supports the General all areas of the Group, proportionally investors at external conferences.
Insurance Associations Global Internship representing each of the different business Analyst coverage of Amlin is extensive, with Programme, providing speakers for their units.
In addition, there is also a Consultation more than 20 equity analysts and several Talent Outreach Project.
Forum in the UK and there are Works Councils credit analysts producing regular research in the Netherlands and Belgium.
We also During 2013, Amlin supported 83 employees reports and commentary on the Company.
encourage employee communication through involved in community activities and charity We seek to maintain an open and productive our intranet and a regular electronic newsletter.
fund-raising, with funding of up to 750 per dialogue with analysts to ensure they event.
Amlins annual sponsored go-karting As noted on page 39, we also regularly seek understand Amlins business model and event raised 22,000, split between Richard employee feedback through surveys.
As well as formal House Childrens Hospice and Macmillan analyst meetings following results To align employee interests with those of Cancer Support, one of Amlins Charity announcements, we also engage with shareholders, we encourage equity Partners.
Additionally, as described on page analysts on an individual basis and obtain participation through a share incentive plan 38, 15 Amlin staff members participated in specific feedback through regular formal SIP and a savings-related share option plan.
the iCAL programme in Namibia.
surveys of analyst opinion conducted on a no Senior employees participate in long term names basis by our advisers FTI Consulting.
share incentive schemes and we have Human rights shareholding guidelines for senior The Amlin Group supports and operates its Community management.
At year end, Directors and staff business in accordance with the Universal Amlin believes in supporting the owned 1.89% of the Company, including Declaration of Human Rights UDHR and communities in which it does business, the shares held on their behalf by trustees of our takes account of other internationally education and development of young Employee Share Ownership Trust and SIP.
recognised and accepted human rights people, and charities which are relevant for 75% of employees held shares through the standards, including but not limited to, the employees.
In 2013, Amlin Groups SIP 2012: 62% International Covenant on Civil and Political charitable giving amounted to 274,438.
In Rights ICCPR, the International Covenant Relationship with shareholders the UK, charitable giving is co-ordinated on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights We strive to be open, transparent and through a Community and Charities Panel ICESCR and the International Labour accessible in our communications with chaired by a senior underwriter.
Five main Organisation Core Conventions ILO.
investors and analysts so that they can make UK charity partners were supported during informed judgements about the Company.
the year as shown opposite.
The support is expressed through our Human We value the support from a high quality Rights Policy, as well as a number of other Outside the UK, community and charities register of long-term institutional investors Amlin Group policies.
budgets are managed under the direction of see table on page 106 as well as private local boards.
For example, Amlin Bermuda investors, many of whom are current and uses its $200,000 budget to support local former employees.
40 Amlin plc 2013 Annual Report Strategic report governance Financial StatementS operations and methodology is available on our website Environment www.
Amlins carbon footprint has decreased by 10% to Amlin is directly engaged with environmental issues, particularly 3.1 CO e per employee, despite an increase in employees in 2013. climate change, through our catastrophe underwriting, which includes 2 protecting clients against weather-related events.
Since 2007, Amlin has Amlin also submits a sustainability report to the Carbon Disclosure been a signatory to the ClimateWise principles, a joint initiative of the Project.
This is a global not-for-profit organisation which assesses the Association of British Insurers, The Prince of Wales Business and the performance of companies against a range of criteria, and then Environment Programme and other insurance market participants.
allocates a score which is comparable across industries and companies.
Amlin measures its annual carbon footprint and in December 2013 we This score is then available to investors and the public to assess the engaged Deloitte LLP to carry out limited assurance in accordance with climate awareness of a company.
Amlin scored 77, comparing the International Standard on Assurance Engagements 3000 favourably to Amlins previous score of 70 in 2012, an industry peer ISAE 3000.
An assurance statement and description of our in-scope average of 64, and the FTSE 250 average of 60.
Summary of calculation Amlins UK Charity Partners 2013 Total CO2e Total CO2 GH Protocol Emissions Tonnes Tonnes Charity and Amlins support Scope source 2013 2012 Macmillan Cancer Support 1 Gas 932.1 846.5 20,000 to fund a Uro-Oncology Cancer Nurse Specialist.
1 Direct Fleet Emissions 72.1 45.3 2 Electricity 2,451.5 2,703.0 UK Youth 3 Water 8.4 9.2 Sponsorship of Art for Youth London Exhibition, funding of vocational 3 Waste 44.0 108.2 training for selected young people and supporting Amlin UK Youth 3 Business Travel Air 2,188.9 2,153.4 Platinum Leadership Programme totalling more than 19,000.
3 Business Travel Other 234.2 233.0 3 Employee Commuting 2,548.5 2,363.0 The Outward Bound Trust Total carbon footprint 8,479.8 8,461.5 Funding of 10,000 for a residential trip for 154 students, in Employees as of 31st December 1,886 1,707 March 2013.
CO e per employee 4.5 5.0 2 Little Havens Hospice, Chelmsford Total CO e per employee excluding 2 Local community support Amlin UK office location.
commuting, waste and water 3.1 3.5 CO2 e equivalent.
Lloyds Community Programme Our carbon footprint has been restated for 2012 electricity in order to account for material Support of Community Action Projects alongside other changes to the conversion factors provided by Defra for company reporting purposes.
These are generally included in t he majority of FTSE company environmental audits but not in CO2 footprint.
Building for the future In 2015, Amlins UK employees will move into new offices in Good BREEAM rating.
Amlins environmental objective is to carry Chelmsford and London.
The Chelmsford building is being built these high ratings through to the design and fit out.
specifically for Amlin, while in London Amlin will be one of the lead A key objective for these offices is to create a dynamic and tenants in the Leadenhall Building, a major new development next collaborative environment, which will support our goal of being the to our existing London offices.
place to work to attract the best talent in our industry.
During 2013, Both buildings are designed to attain a high rating under the the project teams worked with Amlin colleagues to develop an Building Research Establishments Environmental Assessment optimal design and layout for a client focused approach.
These 1 Method BREEAM, which is the worlds foremost environmental designs include provision for shared desks and highly flexible assessment method and rating system for buildings, setting the spaces, which can be configured in different ways to optimise use standard for best practice in sustainable building design, of floor space and resources.
In Amlins existing London headquarters offices, we continued to seek Areas covered by the assessment include elements of the site and opportunities for increasing cost efficiency and reducing our carbon building process, such as location from a transport perspective and footprint.
For example, in August 2013 we launched an HD quality responsible sourcing of construction materials.
For the completed video conferencing facility linking all of Amlins principal office locations.
structure, the assessment includes operational energy and carbon This allows up to 20 parties to join a meeting and also provides for footprint, water consumption and efficiency, and waste document sharing and for participants to dial in by telephone if they minimisation and management.
Currently the building design and do not have access to video conferencing facilities.
This facility is construction of the Leadenhall Building has a pre-certified BREEAM particularly useful for the cross-border cooperation demanded by Excellent Rating, while the Chelmsford building is targeting a Very the Practice Boards and other cross-discipline collaborations.
BREEAM has become one of the most comprehensive and widely recognised measures of a buildings environmental performance.
Since its launch, 200,000 buildings have been assessed and over a million registered for assessment.
A BREEAM assessment uses recognised measures of performance, which are set against established benchmarks, to evaluate a buildings specification, design, construction and use.
The BREEAM addresses wide ranging environmental and sustainability issues and enables developers, designers and building managers to demonstrate the environmental credentials of their building.
