Corporate social responsibility A COMBINATION OF ETHICAL INVESTING WITH SOUND BUSINESS PRACTICE Examples of investment areas where we can offer Investment screening of portfolios based on or informed by Business Conduct and Integrity client requirements using recognised investment We believe that our reputation as an ethical, industry identifiers and coding into our portfolio trustworthy provider of investment services is management system include: essential to our core purpose of helping our clients to Alcohol build their financial security.
We seek to establish and maintain long-term relationships with our clients and Animal Food products intermediaries.
We believe this to be a fundamental Armaments manufacturers or dealers pre-requisite for the growth of our business.
Gambling Responsible investing across our themes Pornography We aim to ensure that investments we make comply Tobacco with their own industry standards and best practice, At a geographical level, we also screen across treat their employees fairly, have active community all of our investment themes for countries which programmes and operate with sensitivity to the are on the United Nations Sanctions and the US environment.
Ashmore has made investments in Office of Foreign Assets and Control OFAC lists.
a number of renewable energy projects in different countries including hydro-electricity, geothermal Environmental, Social and Governance energy and sugar-based ethanol production.
ESG philosophy Investments have also been made in a Middle East Public equities based technology company which provides systems ESG criteria tend to be focused primarily on equity products and services for the reduction and recycling investing because of the influence which shareholder of waste and the preservation, protection and interests are able to exert on the management of restoration of the environment: and, in China, in a a particular company.
company which makes batteries for electric vehicles, principally for use in buses.
These investments Ashmore believes that the way in which companies on behalf of our clients reflect our overall approach manage their relations with stakeholders can have an to combining ethical investing with sound impact on business performance.
encompass employees, local communities, wider society, governments, supply chains, customers Amongst the initiatives we are undertaking and the natural environment.
There is a wide range in South America, we have established an of environmental and social issues which could be Environmental and Social Management System relevant for a company depending on the industry ESMS for the management of investments in which it operates and its specific business profile.
of a new investor fund in Colombia within the Environmental and social issues can become Alternatives investment theme.
This fund has new sources of risk or opportunities for companies been developed in a form and substance acceptable and a companys ability to respond to these issues to the Inter-American Development Bank IDB and can therefore act as an early signal of long-term International Finance Corporation IFC.
To the extent practicable, Ashmore Our funds and segregated accounts each have monitors the environmental, social and corporate a specific investment mandate which sets out governance performance of the companies in which the parameters for investment.
Within our Equities it invests through ongoing company visits and other and Corporate debt themes we are able to screen information channels.
our client portfolios to meet client requirements for geographic, sector and stock specific restrictions.
Stock specific restrictions may include securities which meet clients own ESG criteria.
34 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic overview Performance Governance Financial statements Generally, companies disclose corporate governance constrain investment decisions however: often the practices through corporate policies, stock market best investments can be in companies where we listings for example, Brazils stock exchange has anticipate an improvement in corporate governance a separate category for companies committed practices.
In many jurisdictions, and to the extent to corporate governance best practice and market consistent with our fiduciary duty to our clients, we exercise our voting rights as a means to signal press releases.
They disclose environmental and our views to company management.
We have social practices in annual reports and other reports developed detailed guidelines to guide our voting to investors.
decisions, but will, as appropriate, consider As a global investor, Ashmore recognises that resolutions on a case-by-case basis taking into legislation and best practice standards vary among account all available information.
countries and regions, and that they must remain sensitive to these differences.
However, at As a global investor, Ashmore recognises that legislation a minimum, Ashmore expects the companies in which it invests to comply with the national and best practice standards vary among countries and legislation that applies to them.
regions, and that they must remain sensitive to these Alternatives differences.
However, at a minimum, Ashmore expects Ashmores Alternatives investment theme often the companies in which it invests to comply with the involves our funds taking significant controlling national legislation that applies to them.
In such circumstances we are in a position to positively engage with the management of these companies.
In many cases The majority of our assets continue to be invested we believe it to be beneficial to our investors in either external debt the majority of which is to be proactive in promoting our brand locally by sovereign or local currencies.
In the case of external improving the livelihoods of the employees in those debt investments, our ability to have an influence companies where we have a controlling stake.
When is generally limited to a decision whether or not to undertaking initial due diligence on any investments invest.
However, at a country level we believe that within our Alternatives theme our deal memorandum we are able to exert an influence through dialogue checklist takes into account the consideration of ESG with governments and central banks.
Engagement issues within the investment analysis and decision with a country, as opposed to disengagement, is akin making process, and the investee companys own to many small pressures every day as opposed to one ESG practices.
By remaining engaged over an extended period of time it is often possible to have a positive Fixed income influence and to add credibility.
Within our Emerging Market debt segregated accounts, we offer clients the flexibility to implement Where Emerging Markets are concerned therefore, their ESG constraints related to specific countries, we believe that in certain circumstances it may sectors and securities for example restricted lists, be more beneficial to keep investment flowing concentration limits etc.
combined with the influence which accompanies it in order to continue being able to help a countrys Engagement population.
In country specific terms at the extreme, Within mature markets, ethical investing has often being cut off from capital may allow undemocratic been portrayed as a negative concept i. e. it involves rulers to control their people by attributing blame a decision not to invest in a certain way.
Whilst these for economic problems to foreign actions.
Sanctions concepts are well accepted in mature markets we may be counter-productive and may reduce the believe that they are not necessarily conducive to welfare of the population considerably.
Hence we helping emerging economies develop.
In the context take investment and engagement disengagement of developing countries we believe that it is also decisions on a case-by-case basis relative to the possible to apply other concepts such as specific circumstances and investment criteria engagement with the ethical investment debate.
in the best interests of our clients.
In our public equities theme we believe that good Proxy Voting and Corporate Actions corporate governance helps to align the interests Subject to specific mandate restrictions, Ashmore of company management with those of its shareholders.
Where possible, we seek to maintain is generally responsible for voting proxies and constructive dialogue with company management.
taking decisions in connection with proxy voting We consider whether companies have corporate with respect to equities, bonds, loans or other governance frameworks that are in line with debt instruments held by or held on behalf applicable country codes and serve shareholder of the clients for which it serves as investment interests.
Views on corporate governance do not manager adviser.
Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2013 35 Corporate social responsibility continued Where Ashmore is given responsibility for proxy The Ashmore Foundations assessment process voting and corporate actions, it will take reasonable is designed to review a whole organisation taking steps under the circumstances to ensure that into consideration management, strategies, activities, proxies are voted in the best interests of its clients.
results, resources and accountability before Protecting the financial interests of its clients is the considering any specific projects proposed for funding.
primary consideration for Ashmore in determining The level and depth of due diligence is proportionate how to protect such interests.
This generally means to the size of the grant under consideration.
proxy voting with a view to enhancing the value In addition to the Ashmore Foundations Small of the securities held by or on behalf of Ashmores and Partnership Grants programme, the Ashmore clients, through maximising the value of securities, Foundation supports through a funding partnership taken either individually or as a whole.
the STARS Foundation, which provides awards to a handful of exceptional frontline NGOs changing the lives of children in developing countries each year from thousands of applications.
This strategic UK Stewardship Code partnership brings together the resources of the Details on how, and the extent to which, Ashmore complies with the Ashmore Foundation with the expertise of the STARS principles of the UK Stewardship Code are described separately on the Foundation in sourcing, assessing and awarding Ashmore website at: the best local NGOs working worldwide to solve https: www.
com investor-relations corporate-governance global challenges, and shining a light on the hallmarks of effective NGO practice.
The collaboration has enabled the sharing of methodologies, capabilities and resources and has highlighted new co-funding The Ashmore Foundation: opportunities.
We are delighted that this partnership Making a positive difference which began in 2012 has enabled both the STARS The Ashmore Foundation currently has seven priority Foundation and the Ashmore Foundation to reach countries Brazil, Colombia, Mexico, India, Indonesia, more outstanding organisations in more locations, Philippines and Turkey based on the location impacting more lives.
of Ashmore offices and significant investments, The Foundation is supported solely by Ashmore and as well as the existence of a strong civil sector its employees globally.
Crucially, this support from and clear social needs on which the Foundation employees extends beyond financial aid through can focus.
Supporting locally based NGOs in the to active engagement in fundraising and a network Emerging Markets reflects Ashmores desire to of support which includes mentoring and helping give back to the countries that have contributed NGOs expand their network of contacts.
to its profitability, supporting empowerment and local capacity in the Emerging Markets.
Through the Ashmore Foundation, close to 1.85 million has been donated committed to more The Foundation channels financial support through than 45 charitable causes throughout the Emerging two schemes: Markets since inception in 2008.
Smal l Grants scheme, providing grants of up to grants from the Ashmore Foundation benefited 5,000 to a range of eligible charities, throughout more than 40,000 underprivileged community the Emerging Markets prioritising Ashmore members with a range of services and support.
P artnership Grants scheme for larger grants and At year end Ashmore employed approximately longer-term relationships with strong organisations 300 people in 11 countries worldwide.
Ashmores based in priority countries, where their missions people have always been its most important asset, are clearly aligned with our focus and where there at the heart of everything it does.
Ashmore has many is demonstrable evidence of an effective approach.
talented people and it remains a priority to develop, Whilst the Foundation does review unsolicited manage and retain this talent in order to deliver the proposals which fulfil the eligibility criteria, grantees potential of the organisation.
Ashmore wants to be particularly at partnership level are primarily an employer which the most talented people aspire sourced or recommended and invited to apply to join wherever it operates.
following research to ensure a strong match.
All organisations are assessed using a standard process as outlined below: 36 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic overview Performance Governance Financial statements Importantly the site also allows the New website for the Foundation to showcase its grantees.
Ashmore Foundation We hope that the short case studies 2013 saw the launch of a dedicated of beneficiaries will help NGOs to Ashmore Foundation website.
The site share best practices and also hopeful is designed to help increase the applicants will better understand efficiency of the grant process by the types of projects funded by explaining the different application the Foundation.
stages and by providing a simple online form for potential grantees.
org Ashmore seeks to ensure that its workforce reflects, sex, sexual orientation, race, religion, nationality as far as practicable, the diversity of the many or marital status or on the grounds of disability.
communities in which it is located.
Ashmore This policy applies, without limitation, to promotion, also recognises the diverse needs of its employees training, placement, transfer, dismissal, remuneration, in managing the responsibilities of their work grievance and disciplinary procedures and and personal lives, and believes that achieving decisions.
This policy also applies to persons an effective balance in these areas is beneficial from outside the workplace and the treatment to both the Company and the individual.
Ashmore encourages employees to act ethically and Health and safety to clearly uphold the standards of practice which its The Group has in place a global health and safety clients have come to expect.
It also means ensuring policy which can be accessed by all staff via an that its employees understand the strategic aims and internal database.
The aim of this policy is to provide objectives of the Group and are clear about their role both staff and visitors with a safe and healthy in achieving them.
The Group is committed to adhering to the high standards of health and The Group recognises that the involvement safety set out by its policies and procedures of its employees is key to the future success and to providing training as necessary.
of the business and adopts a practice of keeping employees informed on significant matters affecting Environment them, via email and in meetings arranged for the As an investment manager, Ashmore has a limited purpose.
The Group has consistently operated direct impact upon the environment and there a remuneration strategy that recognises both are few environmental risks associated with the corporate and individual performance.
Ashmore does not own any of the buildings where it occupies floorspace and The Group is also committed to following good invariably buildings in which it does have a lease are practice in employment matters, recognising the part multi-tenanted and costs are apportioned to each this plays in attracting and retaining staff.
The Group tenant pro-rated according to occupancy.
Ashmores promotes the importance of high ethical standards largest property occupancy is at its headquarters to all employees and staff have the opportunity at 61 Aldwych, London, and where it occupies to voice any concerns they may have, either direct a single floor of approximately 19,000 square feet with management or on a confidential basis via the in a nine storey multi-tenanted building.
Water and gas supplied into the building are metered Equal opportunities centrally by the building management and costs The Group is committed to ensuring that all apportioned to each tenant pro rata according to employees are treated fairly and with dignity and flooroccupancy.
This commitment is reflected in the Staff Handbook that all employees receive on joining.
Electricity usage in London is separately monitored by floor with renewable energy accounting for a The policies and practices in place within the Group minimum of 10% of supply.
Energy efficient lighting to deter acts of harassment and discrimination are is installed in the building with sensors which regularly monitored.
turn lights off when no movement is detected.
It is the Groups policy that no employee shall be The building has received an Energy Performance treated less favourably on the grounds of their age, Certificate with an Asset Rating of 98.
Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2013 37 Corporate social responsibility continued Emissions have also been calculated using an Emissions reporting intensity metric, which will enable Ashmore to As of 1 October 2013 all companies listed on the monitor how well we are controlling emissions Main Market of the London Stock Exchange will have on an annual basis, independent of fluctuations in to report their Greenhouse Gas emissions GHGs the levels of their activity.
As Ashmore is a people in their Annual Report after 30 September 2013. business, the most suitable metric is emissions Ashmore will be one of the organisations required to per full-time equivalent FTE employee.
Ashmores report Scope 1 and 2 emissions for its reporting year emissions per person are shown in the table below.
Ashmore has however Emissions per FTE chosen to present the required emissions data in this report for the current reporting year in advance Tonnes CO e employee FY2012 13 2 of the obligations coming into effect.
Further details Scope 1 0.2 on emissions reporting can be found in the CSR Scope 2 2.0 report on our website at www.
Scope 3 7.6 Air travel accounts for the greatest amount of overall Total 9.8 emissions 2,099 tonnes CO e, 78%.
Nearly 20% 2 of Ashmores emissions come from purchased Travel electricity across the business 543 tonnes CO e. 2 Although we endeavour to make maximum use of Natural gas, refrigerants, water and waste account available technology, such as video conferencing, our for the lowest level of emissions, though it is noted business model as an investor in Emerging Markets that data was not available for all offices for inevitably requires that our investment professionals thesecategories.
and other members of staff travel frequently to these Ashmore Groups emissions by scope: countries to investigate and monitor opportunities.
1 Absolute Recycling Tonnes CO e 2 totals Ashmore has in place recycling programmes Scope Source 2012 13 Tonnes CO e 2 for waste paper, photocopier toners and other Scope 1 Natural gas 46.9 disposable materials.
We seek to minimise the 53.1 Refrigerants 6.2 use of paper as part of our clear desk policy Scope 2 Electricity 542.5 542.5 and electronic scanning is actively encouraged.
All printing is two sided by default.
Scope 3 Air travel 2,098.8 Water 5.3 2,105.0 At Ashmore we are conscious of minimising Waste 0.9 our impact on the environment.
For this reason, wherever possible we choose paper stocks that Total 2,700.6 have been sustainably sourced and which are Forest 1.
UK emissions factors have been used for all data, except Stewardship Council FSC accredited or equivalent for electricity emissions where the relevant international for our marketing materials and business stationery.
emissions factors have been applied.
All emissions factors have been selected from the emissions conversion factors Ashmore provides obsolescent computers published annually by Defra.
uk  to Computer Aid International Computer Aid, a UK registered charity that aims to reduce poverty through practical ICT solutions.
Computer Aid sends these PCs to various projects across Africa and South America and furnishes Ashmore with details Ashmore has published a separate corporate responsibility of where they are used.
Any units that are not report which can be found on its website at: usable are disposed of in an environmentally friendly fashion.
com By order of the Board Michael Perman Company Secretary 9 September 2013 38 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2013
