The Environmental and Social Policy and Risk AS A LEADING FINANCIAL INSTITUTION STRATEGIC REPORT Management Procedures, along with other IN GEORGIA, WE UNDERSTAND OUR PERFORMANCE: tools necessary for their implementation, RESPONSIBILITY NOT ONLY TO comprise the core components of the Banks SUSTAINABILITY SHAREHOLDERS BUT TO SOCIETY AT Environmental and Social Risk Management REVIEW LARGE.
THE CONCEPT OF SUSTAINABILITY System ESMS.
The Bank has appointed an LIES AT THE HEART OF OUR BUSINESS Environmental and Social Coordinator, AND REFLECTS OUR CONTRIBUTION TO responsible for ensuring the proper operation and maintenance of the ESMS, and an SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT Environmental and Social Risk Manager, who DEVELOPMENT THAT MEETS THE NEEDS is responsible for the practical, day-to-day OF THE PRESENT WITHOUT COMPROMISING implementation of the Banks ESMS.
THE ABILITY OF FUTURE GENERATIONS TO MEET THEIR OWN NEEDS.
We implement the following procedures to ensure the operation and maintenance of We consider sustainability to be integral the ESMS: to the growth of our business.
Our We refrain from financing environmentally sustainability agenda allows us to be or socially sensitive business activities profitable as well as environmentally and mentioned in the exclusion lists of such socially responsible at the same time.
By Development Finance Institutions as implementing a sustainability approach in EBRD, IFC, DEG, FMO, ADB and others.
our activities, we foster long-term relationships We aim at assessing the relative level of with our main stakeholders by providing environmental and social risk associated high return on investment for shareholders, with clients businesses.
We require satisfying the financial needs of customers, certain customers to develop and developing employees and contributing to implement specific environmental or the economic and social welfare of local social action plans to avoid or mitigate communities, whilst taking into account their environmental and social impact our environmental footprint.
and adhere to specific monitoring and reporting requirements that we set in In order to effectively manage the Groups order to minimise environmental and direct and indirect impact on society and the social risk.
These requirements are to environment, the Board of Directors adopted be included as covenants in agreements an Environmental and Social Policy in 2012. between certain of our customers and This policy defines the Groups strategy to the Bank.
develop solid management controls which will We aim at regular monitoring of conserve natural resources, minimise health environmental and social risks and safety risks, and provide employees associated with the Banks activities, with equal development opportunities, and assessing clients compliance with fair compensation and benefits.
We are the terms of respective agreements.
pioneering sustainability practices in our operations and are constantly seeking new The Bank continues to support Georgias ways to improve our performance.
emerging economy by financing industries SUSTAINABILITY that are strategically important for the Social matters development of the nation.
The Group considers the interests of its LIES AT THE main stakeholders, which include Infrastructure development.
In 2013, the customers, shareholders, employees, Bank financed the East-West Highway HEART OF OUR lenders, and society, in the development rehabilitation project in the amount of of strategy and operations improvement US$15.7 million.
East-West Highway is the BUSINESS processes.
We strive to positively contribute main highway of the country, which links to society through the entire scope of our the regions between Eastern and Western business activities by developing socially Georgia and shortens the journey time oriented products and services, implementing For more information on our needed to travel across the country.
The environmental and social policy, responsible approaches to our business Bank also provided US$2.5 million for the visit www.
co. uk operations, and carrying out sponsorship renovation of roads in the Kutaisi, Kobuleti corporate-governance and charity activities.
Socially Oriented Products The tourism sector has become a vital part and Services of the Georgian economy as demonstrated Corporate Banking by its significant growth since 2000.
In 2013, In order to efficiently manage its indirect we continued to finance the hospitality environmental and social impact, the Bank sector of Georgia by providing loans for prioritised the integration of sustainable hotel construction in Batumi US$33.4 finance principles into its credit risk million and Tbilisi US$23.0 million.
In 2013, the Bank updated its Environmental and Social Additionally, we continued to support Risk Management Procedures in order to construction works in the regions.
In 2013, ensure the proper application of appropriate, we granted extra guarantees, relating to the risk-based and sector-specific environmental renovation of more than 30 public and civil and social risk assessment practices to its buildings, in the total amount of US$8.9 commercial lending activities.
These million and GEL 8.5 million.
procedures are now being integrated into the Banks credit risk management process Healthcare and education support.
and soon will be routinely applied to all Continuous improvement in educational and commercial transactions.
medical services in Georgia remains a top Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC 58 Annual Report 2013 Overview 1-9 Strategic Review 10-27 Performance 28-63 Governance 64-103 Financial Statements 104-182 Additional Information 183-188 priority for the countrys strategic development.
The Bank also strives to improve the access credits to the SME sector, thus allowing In 2013, the Bank financed the construction to its branches for people with disabilities.
enterprises to upgrade their machinery.
of a unique medical facility that will provide In 2014, we plan to finance the adapting This way, the partnership promotes efforts neurosurgery and oncology treatment in of 14 service centres to their needs in an of the SME sector to decrease their energy Tbilisi in the amount of US$9.5 million and a amount of GEL 180,000. use and switch to energy efficient low new multi-profile hospital in Gori which will polluting technologies.
Total amount of provide high quality medical services to the Youth support.
We have developed a wide loans granted for these purposes in 2013 local rural and urban population.
range of financial products to support young amounted to GEL 25,757,664. people in Georgia.
For example, through the One of Georgias leading private universities special conditions of the Child deposit, we Mass retail.
Energy efficiency consumer received US$3.5 million as a financing facility provide parents with an opportunity to open and mortgage loans were also provided to from the Bank in order to finance capital deposit accounts for their children, starting various groups of retail customers including expenditures in 2013.
In addition, the Bank with only GEL 10.
These deposit accounts households, drivers and others committed participated in an EBRD programme which can be opened for two years minimum at any to energy efficiency purposes.
For example, focuses on the renovation of schools, time from a childs birth until the age of 18. the favourable terms of the instant energy resulting in the improvement of schools The annual interest rate 9.25% for GEL and instalment included the opportunity for a energy efficiency.
5.25% for foreign currency is added to the borrower to receive a 10% subsidy of a initial deposit.
In 2013, we opened 16,769 loan principal amount.
Information and communications child deposit accounts.
In 2012, the Bank approved a Affordable Housing credit facility in the amount of US$20 million The Bank also offers special products that Currently, the Georgian real estate market is in order to expand internet coverage in allow the youth to access secondary and vulnerable to various economic and financial Georgia and, as a result, improve access to higher education.
Examples of such products uncertainties.
Numerous construction information and communications technology are school and student loans with favourable projects remain unfinished for long periods of across the population.
In 2013, US$7.3 terms that do not require any financial time while there is a strong growing demand million of the approved credit facility was guarantees and collateral.
The total amount of for housing from Georgian population.
In disbursed in relation to the construction of a school and student loans granted in 2013 was response to this increasing demand, the fibre-optic backbone cable across Georgia.
Groups real estate development business, m2 was established in order to offer Retail Banking Another example of a product supporting affordable housing to the emerging middle The Bank continues to innovate and come youth is a student card which provides class in Georgia, especially young families, up with a wide range of socially oriented special benefits for students of Georgian while at the same time holding and managing financial products and services that bring universities.
The benefits include discounts properties of defaulted borrowers.
Currently, added value to individuals and small and for public transportation, 5% interest rate for m2 is completing its second successful medium-sized businesses SMEs and meet savings on the card, free distance banking project for the development and sale of their respective needs.
In 2013 the Bank affordable residential apartments.
m2 uses an issued 93,994 of these cards.
In addition, innovative approach to design and construction Financial services remain inaccessible to every three months, the Bank awards 20 processes so that each square metre is a large number population in Georgia due holders of student cards with three-month distributed efficiently and fits customers to both economic and geographic reasons.
scholarships to support them financially needs and wishes.
Our Express Banking strategy, characterised during their study.
by its simple and affordable products and Insurance and Healthcare services, seeks to address this issue.
We continue to provide A network of medical centres and hospitals, principal achievements of this strategy are financing to SMEs, a backbone of the My Family Clinic MFC comprises the as follows: Georgian economy that ensures sustainable Groups healthcare business.
MFC provides As at 31 December 2013, the Bank development of our country.
Apart from coverage to approximately 45% of the had a network of 985 Express Pay our own microfinancing and SME loan Georgian population, predominantly in Terminals, 44 Express and 24 Metro programmes, we also participate in various Western Georgia.
Its clinics are located branches which are located all over programmes that support entrepreneurs.
In across the country, including remote the country including remote 2013, the Bank partnered with a non-profit mountain regions, and provide access mountain regions.
Agricultural Projects Management Agency to high quality medical services.
MFC aims Express financial products such as which supports agricultural SMEs together, to ensure accessibility of medical services Express card, Express deposit and the Bank co-financed agricultural loans at is ensured by scheduling regular visits by Express loan are uncomplicated fixed annual interest rates which were specialists to small towns and villages and products, which are easily accessible significantly lower than previous loans by providing patients with transportation to and affordable to a segment of the SMEs received from other institutions.
larger clinics in urgent cases and in cases population that would not have access In 2013, the total amount of Bank loans when more specialised treatment is required.
to banking products and services to SMEs was GEL 644,485,852, of which otherwise.
Since the beginning of the GEL 123,329,405 was issued to female MFC also provides free regular medical Express Banking service in December entrepreneurs.
examinations in various locations across the 2011, the Bank has attracted 526,376 country, including but not limited to Batumi, clients by 31 December 2013, of which Combined with supporting SMEs financially, Khulo, Keda, Shuakhevi, Poti, Kvareli and c. 121,000 were attracted in 2013 alone.
the Bank also plans to organise educational Telavi.
In addition, MFC specialists deliver events and provide financial and business free medical services, including examinations As part of the Express Banking service, we knowledge related advice to entrepreneurs in and treatments for socially and economically prioritise improving financial literacy of our order to enhance their finance management disadvantaged parts of the population.
In every Express branch, our and accounting skill as well as enhance their 2013, free medical treatment was given to current and potential customers can receive knowledge and skills in connection with legal the elderly at various nursing homes in the financial advice and educational support documentation, business development, Adjara, Kakheti and Samegrelo regions, from our employees free of charge.
and children in orphanages and large but we plan to open a Centre of Financial Education low-income families across the country.
within the Bank of Georgia University, where Moreover, the Bank continues to participate Estimated financial value of these free customers will have an opportunity to learn in EBRD and IFC projects aimed at services in 2013 amounted to GEL 90,200. how to plan their budgets, set financial goals, supporting local entrepreneurs.
In 2013, assess financial risks, manage cash flow, we continued our partnership with EBRD In cooperation with other healthcare and use financial instruments.
by providing specialised energy-efficiency institutions, MFC also arranges free blood transportation and donations for its patients.
Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC Annual Report 2013 59 STRATEGIC REPORT PERFORMANCE: SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW CONTINUED Geographically diversified network of clinics RUSSIAN FEDERATION 15 15 15 15 15 Tsalenjikha Chkhorotsku Martvili 150 Zugdidi 15 Khoni Tkibuli Tskaltubo Khobi Abasha 70 Kutaisi 15 15 Black Sea Poti 25 15 Terjola Akhmeta 266 70 20 GEORGIA Kobuleti Akhaltsikhe Kvareli Chakvi 15 110 Telavi Khulo Adigeni 50 82 Akhalkalaki 60 Tbilisi 70 134 Shuakhevi 21 Batumi Keda 120 35 19 15 25 26 Ninotsminda TURKEY AZERBAIJAN ARMENIA N Referral and Specialty Hospitals N Regions of Presence Community Clinics Outpatient Clinics In 2013, as a participant of the Government are unable to receive any support from the literacy of individual customers and SMEs, programmes and a signing party to the State or any other sources.
and the Bank is planning to grant GEL Cooperation Memorandums with the Ministry 300,000 for these purposes.
Another of Internally Displaced Persons Accommodation Currently we are developing the Groups initiative of the University will be to establish and Refugees and the Ministry of Corrections Sponsorship and Charity Policy in order to a programme for an MBA in Finance.
The and Legal Assistance, MFC conducted free formulate and present our vision, goals and cost of studies will be partially subsidised medical examinations of 1,118 Internally activities with respect to the defined priorities by the Bank, while successful graduates will Displaced Persons IDPs as well as minors in this area.
In order to structure and maximise receive full internship, with the opportunity and women prisoners.
In 2014, MFC plans the efficiency of our sponsorship and charity for a subsequent permanent job or career to sign another memorandum pursuant to activities we are expanding the range of within the Bank.
which it will provide free medication and instruments we use to provide financial extra training to personnel at orphanages support.
In 2014 and onwards we plan to In total, the Bank plans to grant and will facilitate transportation of minors channel our sponsorship and charity through GEL 1 million for supporting educational to hospitals.
the Bank of Georgia Future Foundation.
In addition, the Groups insurance business Promoting education.
The Bank contributes Conserving nature.
Another priority of the participated in the Government insurance to the development of education via numerous Groups charity activities is the preservation programme in 2013.
In 2013, the Bank became the of wildlife diversity.
Since 2010, the Bank Aldagi served more than 400,000 policyholders first Georgian company to cooperate with has granted US$300,000 US$75,000 represented by people below the poverty the prestigious Chevening scholarship, in a year to the Caucasus Nature Fund to level, the elderly, children below five years order to provide Georgian students with an cover the maintenance costs of Borjomiof age, students, teachers, and IDPs.
opportunity to pursue higher education in Kharagauli National Park BKNP, one of the the UK.
most treasured national parks in Georgia.
Sponsorship and charity In 2013, the Bank donated GEL 124,088 Within its sponsorship and charity activities, In 2014, the Bank plans to establish the for the development and implementation the Group focuses on promoting education, Bank of Georgia University, the main goal of of a pilot biodiversity monitoring system in conserving nature and supporting children.
which will be to provide high quality financial BKNP, which makes us the Funds largest The Group regularly receives requests from and business education to various groups corporate donor.
In 2014 the Bank plans individuals and charity organisations that of the population.
As part of the project, to grant an additional GEL 150,000 for seek help and we apply our best effort to be establishing Centre of Financial Education environmental conservation programmes.
Priority is given to people who described above will improve the financial Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC 60 Annual Report 2013 220 45 124 Overview 1-9 Strategic Review 10-27 Performance 28-63 Governance 64-103 Financial Statements 104-182 Additional Information 183-188 Supporting children.
The Bank focuses We recognise the importance of observing Employee Matters its efforts on supporting children with human rights and are committed to A key factor to our success is a cohesive and disabilities.
For many years the Bank has implementing socially responsible business professional team, capable of accomplishing patronised non-governmental organisations practices.
In 2013, we updated our Human the Groups objectives.
We are committed NGOs which seek to enhance the quality Rights Policy which establishes priorities to attracting and identifying the best of life for children with special needs.
For and control procedures in place to provide professionals, caring and planning for their example, we supported First Step Georgia, equal opportunities and prevent any sort of needs, investing in their development and an NGO dedicated to providing direct care, discrimination or harassment.
public advocacy, support services and training to children with disabilities and their In order to improve the working environment The HR management system ensures that families.
In 2014, the Bank plans to announce and effectively address grievances or other the Group attracts the best talent in order a grant competition for NGOs which provide employee related issues we conduct regular to guarantee the sustainable growth of our education and develop infrastructure for employee satisfaction surveys.
The system is managed in disabled children as well as integrate them employee feedback is used to improve our accordance with HR Policy and Procedures into society.
The total competition fund is customer focus orientation and client which include a wide range of supporting estimated at GEL 1 million.
policies: employee planning and recruiting: MFC runs a wide range of charitable activities Talent attraction staff administration: on a permanent basis for children with Sustained development of the Groups compensation and benefits: leukaemia.
In 2013, MFC held a charity businesses requires the strengthening of code of conduct: Venetian carnival in Batumi in cooperation with the teams of our subsidiaries both by using employee development and training: the Italian Embassy and state organisations to the Groups own significant internal human rights: support children with cancer.
resources through staff development and grievance policy: and rotation, and by attracting external whistleblowing policy.
MFC also regularly donates personal candidates.
Our recruitment policy and computers to children from socially and relevant control procedures ensure an HR Policy and Procedures determine key economically disadvantaged large families.
unbiased hiring process that provides equal principles, areas, approaches and methods Additionally, on religious holidays we deliver opportunities for all candidates.
According that are crucial for building HR management presents to the newborns across the MFCs systems for all our businesses.
The Banks to the HR Policy, internal candidates have patient network.
priority when filling vacant positions, HR management department works closely with HR managers and executives from our especially in situations where there are Back in 2008, the Bank introduced the vacancies in top and middle management.
subsidiaries in order to ensure proper Orange Santa character as a part of the Thus, in 2013, 157 Group employees were implementation of the main principles and large-scale New Year campaign.
The idea of promoted to managerial positions provision of necessary support in all the initiative called Letter to Santa was to compared with 141 in 2012.
give the Banks Facebook fans a chance to send their message to Santa.
Total expenses for charity and Total headcount per employee category Total headcount by age category 00.0 sponsorship, GEL broken down by gender Senior 2,549 2012 Directors managers Employees Total 2,597 Female 7 48 7,773 7,828 2,289 Male 21 66 3,180 3, 267 2,212 Total 28 114 10,953 11,095 2,853 6.7% 2,820 82.5% 79.6% Senior 79.5% 2013 Directors managers Employees Total 3,900 Female 6 53 8,448 8,507 3,412 Male 23 72 3,109 3,204 13.2% Total 29 125 11,557 11,711 7.2% 2012 2013 2012 2013 Charity 21-30 years old Sponsorship 41-50 years old Less than 20 years old The Groups total sponsorship and charity expenses 31-40 years old increased by 30% in 2013.
Over 51 years old Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC Annual Report 2013 61 531,593 374,580 486,795 694,589 STRATEGIC REPORT PERFORMANCE: SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW CONTINUED In order to attract young talent, we actively employee is provided with regular advice, 2013, no work-related fatalities occurred at partner with leading Georgian business guidance and practical instructions from an the companys construction sites whilst schools and universities, participate in job appointed mentor who later participates in injury incidents dropped from three in 2012 fairs and run extensive internship the new employees performance appraisal.
to zero in 2013. programmes aimed at the professional Through this programme, we aim to provide development of young professionals and individual support to our employees in With regard to emergency preparedness their further employment.
In 2012, Bank of achieving their professional results and and response, m2 established an Emergency Georgia established a new format of its improving their personal effectiveness.
It outlines possible traditional internship programme.
It attracts scenarios during emergency situations promising graduates and provides them MFC provides additional training to its and determines specific strategies for with the opportunity to participate in a major employees that work in the specialised field the Companys employees, contractors professional training and leadership of healthcare.
In 2013, MFC launched a and visitors on how to react when in a development programmes.
Interns are Training-Of-Trainers programme for nurses crisis situation.
directly coached by the Banks executives in the Imereti region.
In January 2014, 30 to help them on their path to gaining their Environmental Matters professional nurses started conducting first management positions in the near training for personnel of MFCs hospital The Group recognises that its operations have future.
In 2013, the number of young both an indirect and direct impact on the network in other regions.
In March 2014 professionals under 30 years old increased MFC also established a unique training environment and therefore seeks to establish by 16% compared to 2012 and currently management approaches which will help it centre in the Kutaisi region that will enhance represents 32% of total headcount.
the professional knowledge and skills of become a more environmentally friendly institution.
Being the largest financial local medical personnel.
Training and development institution in Georgia, the Bank produces To manage our employees in a way that significant indirect environmental impact Occupational health and safety best supports our business strategy, we Ensuring the safety of the workplace and through the projects which it finances.
In seek to help our employees contribute to order to properly manage this impact, the providing healthy working conditions are business performance through personal among the Groups fundamental HR Bank has implemented an Environmental and and professional development.
Social Policy and Environmental and Social management principles.
The Group pays particular attention to preventive measures, Policy and Risk Management Procedures, Following our aspiration to develop strong as described in the Social matters section.
such as conducting regular staff training and leaders, we have developed an extensive medical check-ups, certifying workplaces, programme for leadership development.
As for direct environmental impact, we and promoting healthy lifestyle.
We provide a standard Induction Training believe that the impact of the banking and course for employees appointed to insurance businesses is not significant.
The Groups real estate development managerial positions.
This programme business is associated with high health and Nevertheless, we undertake a number of covers a wide range of topics including measures to reduce electricity, paper, water, safety risks for contractors on sites.
In order corporate values, strategy and objectives, to minimise such risks, m2 established a and fuel consumption.
For example, in 2013 organisational structure, HR management we upgraded our lighting system in the Health and Safety Policy and management policies, history of the Group, specific procedures ensuring implementation of the Banks headquarters by installing energycourses for development of communication, saving bulbs and implemented KNX EIB health and safety measures at all worksites.
presentation, management and leadership The policy contains a range of precautions System management, which not only skills, among others.
Selected mid-level helped us minimise our environmental that seek to prevent any accidents related to and senior-level employees are provided the m2s contractors or community member impact but also reduced our energy costs the opportunity to receive external training by GEL 4,000-GEL 5,000 per month.
injuries, as well as property damage and in well-known training institutions outside incidents caused by the equipment failure.
We plan to implement this system in all of Georgia.
of the Banks branches during 2014.
In order to enhance the awareness of The Groups corporate learning system is The Group is also in the process of employees and contractors regarding comprised of a wide range of internal and health and safety risks associated with the automating its operational processes in external training sessions specifically order to reduce the volume of printed construction process, m2 conducts regular designed to meet the needs of front and training and educational seminars.
In 2013, documents and consequently minimise the back office employees at the Groups overall use of paper.
The Bank continues to the number of health and safety training subsidiaries including banking, healthcare, hours amounted to approximately 500. acquire new printers which offer doubleinsurance and real estate development.
In addition, m2 publishes brochures and booklets with warnings and special rules Every Groups business has developed We are considering replacing part of our to be followed when working on sites.
an extensive training programme for front car fleet, which runs on petrol, with electric office employees in order to provide them vehicles.
In 2013, we acquired two Tesla cars, Respective control procedures include with relevant skills, such as effective quarterly audits by external health and which are more environmentally friendly.
communication and building strong and safety consultants and internal monthly valued client relationships.
For example, the inspections of m2 worksites.
In addition, m2 We aim to reduce greenhouse gas emissions resulting from our operations.
Banks mentoring programme is part of a has a comprehensive reporting procedure front office training process.
Every new for health and safety concerns.
In 2012 and Refer to the Directors report for more detailed information on the issue.
Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC 62 Annual Report 2013 Overview 1-9 Strategic Review 10-27 Performance 28-63 Governance 64-103 Financial Statements 104-182 Additional Information 183-188 2 The most significant direct impact on the W m K. It is expected that utility costs for MFC implemented procedures that are in environment within the Group is created by these buildings will be reduced up to 23% line with the Georgian legislation which our real estate development business, m2.
compared to an average residential building defines risk categories of medical waste and m2 addresses industry-specific environmental in Georgia.
establishes appropriate procedures for its issues and undertakes appropriate measures treatment, storage and disposal.
MFC strives to manage them.
In order to minimise negative impact to to improve its efficient and thus outsources the environment caused by construction medical waste management to a company Focusing on enhancing resource efficiency of process, m2 has adopted an Environmental specialising in medical waste disposal.
The its apartment buildings, m2 started two new and Social Management Plan which helps total amount of generated medical waste in development projects with financial support identify the environmental impacts of its 2013 amounted to 55 tonnes compared from IFC.
m2 not only follows high environmental activities and define measures to prevent with 30 tonnes in 2012, an increase which standards that IFC imposes on its borrowers them as outlined below.
correlated with the significant expansion of but has also become a participant of the MFCs hospital network.
1 IFC-Canada Climate Change Program and m2 is currently working on establishing 1.
The IFC-Canada Climate Change Program, thus meets all mandatory requirements management reporting systems on established in 2011, is a partnership between of the programme regarding green building environmental aspects.
We expect that the Government of Canada and IFC to promote construction.
Aiming at increasing the efficient environmental data will be available for the private sector financing for clean energy projects, use of energy, water, and materials, m2 2014 reporting year.
through the use of concessional funds to installs energy efficient lighting systems and catalyse investments in renewable, low-carbon technologies that would not otherwise happen uses double glazed windows and other MFCs direct environmental impact is mainly www.
modern insulation materials, thus reducing characterised by medical waste which the U-value of constructed buildings to 0.21 needs special treatment and safe disposal.
Environmental aspect Preventive measures Dust Introducing speed limits on unmade roads Damping down using water bowsers with spray bars Sheeting of construction materials and storage piles Using defined moving routes and reductions in vehicle speed limits where required Installing a sealed drainage system at refuelling area Spills and leaks Providing suitable tanks e. g. double skinned, bunds during refuelling and impermeable liners at fuel stores and refuelling points Using drip trays for static plant e. g. generators and pumps Training staff in refuelling and pump operations Shortening the refuelling line as much as possible Performing regular maintenance checks of hoses and valves Conducting follow up procedures for proper and safe refuelling by operators Ensuring that new vehicles comply with the current European Union emissions standards at the time of purchase Air emissions Implementing a regular maintenance programme to ensure all new vehicles continue to comply with relevant EU emissions standards Ensuring that older vehicles are maintained in order to eliminate extra emissions as much as reasonably practicable Strictly enforcing speed limits in order to optimise fuel consumption and production of exhaust fumes, and minimise dust generation on unpaved surfaces.
Locating fuel stores and refuelling points further away from watercourses and aquifers Water Contamination Providing a fire extinguisher adjacent to each item of mobile plant and equipment Fire Fitting effective silencers at all plant and machinery, and providing ear defenders and or plugs on sites Noise No idling or revving of plant engines and all vehicles Using controlled venting, silenced equipment and absorbing screens Working at preferred times of day daylight hours Monday to Saturday, unless communicated to the local community and authorities Operating the equipment within the manufacturer specification limits and limiting any overuse Vibration Ensuring that no ozone depleting substances ODS such as chlorofluorocarbons CFCs and Depletion of the  HCFCs or products with known global warming potential are used stratospheric ozone layer Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC Annual Report 2013 63 STRENGTH THROUGH DIVERSITY COMMITTED TO STRONG GOVERNANCE Kim Bradley Alasdair Breach Neil Janin Irakli Gilauri Chairman Chief Executive Officer Independent Independent Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC 64 Annual Report 2013 Overview 1-9 Strategic Review 10-27 Performance 28-63 Governance 64-103 Financial Statements 104-182 Additional Information 183-188 IN THIS GOVERNANCE SECTION 66 Chairman and Directors Governance Statement 68 Directors Governance Report 72 The Board of Directors 74 Management of the Group 76 Audit Committee Report 80 Directors Remuneration Report 96 Nomination Committee Report 98 Directors Report 102 Independent Auditors Report David Morrison Bozidar Djelic Tamaz Georgadze Kakhaber Kiknavelidze Senior Independent Independent Independent Independent Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC Annual Report 2013 65
