People magazines and intranet content to communicate the Companys results In 2013, we covered a significant amount of ground on our and performance, along with channels such as regular town halls and journey to becoming the Go-To bank and continuing to the Barclays Jam, our first online global discussion which took place in attract, develop and retain the best talent will be critical to July 2013 discussing our purpose and values.
Both latter examples our success.
This year, we have made major changes to provided an opportunity for leaders to talk to colleagues directly and hear their views.
our internal policies and practices, particularly in the areas of leadership, talent, reward and performance, to support We advocate a partnership approach to industrial relations and maintain our commitment to making Barclays a values-driven regular and constructive dialogue with more than 30 national unions, business.
works councils and staff associations across the globe.
Employee representatives are consulted regularly on a wide range of matters All colleagues are expected to align their objectives to the 5Cs of the affecting their interests.
In Europe and Africa we have well established regional consultation forums to engage colleagues on transnational Balanced Scorecard, with individual performance for 2014 measured both on what has been achieved their personal contribution to Go-To issues.
Where business restructuring has been necessary and this has resulted in potential job losses, we have worked closely with colleague and how it has been achieved their demonstration of our Values.
Variable remuneration will be based on an individuals performance representatives to avoid compulsory redundancies where possible, ensuring colleagues leaving Barclays have been supported and treated rating, with the Balanced Scorecard playing a greater role in determining business performance and its impact on bonus pools.
Where there are no collective representative bodies in-country, we engage directly with colleagues.
Our new global recognition plan uses non-financial rewards to celebrate We remain firmly committed to continuing to evolve our people policies outstanding colleague achievements, in particular where they have role-modelled the Values.
Colleagues are also encouraged to share in our and practices to ensure that our colleagues are supported on their journey to becoming the Go-To bank.
We recognise the important role success by participating in our allemployee share plans.
The schemes have been running successfully since their inception over 10 years ago.
our colleagues play as advocates of what we are trying to achieve and, as a result, are focused on sustaining and increasing employee Further details of our approach to remuneration are included in the Remuneration Report on pages 89 to 125. engagement.
Colleagues have demonstrated continued resilience and fortitude in 2013 and remain committed to the goal of becoming the It is our belief that leadership shapes culture, and that this drives Go-To bank.
Consequently, alongside these changes to Reward and Performance, we have focused on the processes that enable FTE by region Barclays to acquire, assess and develop people through the lens of the 2013 2012 2011 Values and Behaviours to ensure that leaders have the personal insight, UK 54,400 55,300 56,100 capability and mind-set to lead the organisation through Transform.
All Africa & Middle East 45,800 45,200 47,900 Barclays colleagues have participated in Values training delivered by Continental Europe 9,800 11,100 11,600 internal Values Leaders, a community of 1,300 colleagues.
This has also Americas 11,100 11,100 10,900 been aligned to the Global Induction programme to ensure all new Asia Pacific 18,500 16,500 14,600 joiners understand who we are and how we work together.
Total 139,600 139,200 141,100 We have made significant progress on our talent development approach Global employment statistics by defining a globally consistent potential framework, and managing a group-wide approach for senior level talent reviews and Managing % of female employees 2013 51.1 Director promotions.
As we look ahead, we will continue to make 2012 stronger connections between past performance, future potential and 51.5 career opportunities across Barclays.
To engage and develop our leaders, % of employees 8.4 we have built a tailored approach, underpinned by a set of clearly working part-time articulated leadership competencies and behavioural standards, levelled 8.3 by role.
The Barclays Leadership Academy was deployed to all Managing % turnover rate Directors in October and, over the course of 2014, we will be rolling out 15.3 the Leadership Curriculum to provide a consistent, rigorous, global 14.4 approach to developing leadership capability for all levels up to Director.
% resignation rate 9.1 Our Early Careers and Graduate recruitment programmes are a crucial 8.6 talent pipeline and the source of Barclays future leaders.
These programmes aim to help Barclays grow a diverse, engaged and highly trained workforce and became increasingly integrated over the course of Diversity & Inclusion D&I At Barclays, we have deployed a global D&I strategy to ensure that 2013.
In line with the firm-wide strategy, we presented a more unified proposition to applicants and have offered students and graduates the colleagues of all backgrounds are treated equitably and can contribute fully to the bank.
This strategy is fully aligned to our business goals: it is opportunity to work across Barclays.
Additionally, our new Grow with Barclays framework presents clear pathways for progression from embedded into our journey to becoming the Go-To bank and integral to our Values.
This approach and the tangible progress we are making apprentice to graduate with recognised qualifications along the way.
We met our commitment to recruit 1,000 apprentices by the middle of 2013 has resulted in national and international recognition from prestigious organisations such as The Times Top Places for Women, Community and set a new goal to recruit another 1,000 by the end of 2015. Business in Asia, and the Human Rights Campaign.
The Group places considerable value on the involvement of its employees and has continued to keep them informed on matters affecting them as The strategy reaches from our employee diversity networks, up through to a dedicated D&I team, business diversity councils, and employees and on various factors affecting the performance of the Group.
It is important that our colleagues are informed of key decisions ultimately leads to the Chairmans office.
Alongside the inclusion of diversity metrics within the companys Balanced Scorecard, creating a which impact upon them, beyond just our business strategy, and have the opportunity to express their views.
The focus in 2013 has been upon diverse and inclusive environment is at the forefront of the banks vision.
establishing a dialogue with our colleagues using a variety of formal and informal channels ranging from Executive presentations, news 86 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2013 barclays.
com annualreport The Strategic Report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Risk management Shareholder information Our 2013 priorities established the D&I foundation.
We have expanded LGBT our global agendas to include multigenerational and multicultural, and Our support for our lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender LGBT have successfully launched the first in a series of listening groups.
We colleagues continued to advance in 2013.
Membership of our commenced our deployment of our Unconscious Bias Leadership award-winning Spectrum network for LGBT employees stands at more programme for our global Managing Director and Director population than 3,000 globally.
The network continued its previous success of of over 8,000 leaders.
Most significantly, we have aligned strategic launching the first ever LGBT employee network mobile app by hosting the UK finance industrys first ever transgender awareness event at 1 deliverables to our Values and to the Transform priorities, and are on course for reaching our 2018 gender target of 26% senior female Churchill Place.
leadership Directors and Managing Directors.
We continue to support Pride events and awareness campaigns around the world, including World AIDS Day and other fundraising events Gender Achieving a better balance between male and female employees, which take place across Barclays.
particularly at the senior leadership level, is a challenge that many financial services organisations face.
Increasing female representation Barclays were ranked second our best ever result by the charity will continue to be a key priority for our diversity and inclusion strategy.
Stonewall in its 2014 Global Workplace Equality Index, whilst also being awarded their Star Performer award for the second year running.
We remain the only financial services organisations to have been named in Female representation the top 25 LGB employers list every year since the launch of the Index, % female staff 2013 marking a decade of being named one of the top LGBT employers.
51 all grades 2012 51 Disability % female Last year saw significant milestones within the disability agenda.
Sir 37 Vice Presidents and David Walker sponsored the Barclays Accessibility statement, ensuring 36 Assistant Vice Presidents we not only comply with UK and international legislation, but we help to create an inclusive environment for all our disabled colleagues.
The % female Directors 23 Reach employee network grew a further chapter in Tokyo, whilst 22 Barclays became signatories to the Disability Confident Campaign.
% female Managing 12 Directors Not only were we named winners of the BDF Disability Standard and 11 Best Service Provider 2013, but our audio ATMs won both Best Innovation at UKUX and the RNIB Exemplars Award, recognising that % female Board 20 we always have our diverse customer base in mind when designing members 8 new and innovative services.
Above shows the positive change in female representation within Barclays Aligned to our equal opportunities approach, applications for from 2012 to 2013 employment by disabled persons are always fully considered, bearing in mind the aptitudes of the applicants concerned.
In the event of We have achieved significant progress in the representation of females members of staff becoming disabled, every effort is made to ensure in senior leadership.
Not only do we have three women sitting on our that their employment with the Group continues.
Furthermore, it is the Group Executive Committee, but also female representation at Board policy of the Group that appropriate training, career development and level reached our target of 20% for 2013. the promotion of disabled people should, as far as possible, be identical to that of other employees.
We also monitor a number of indicators The turnover of all female employees across the bank was 14% in 2013, relating to disability in order to address the underlying causes of below the 15% average for all our employees.
Going forward, we want workplace issues, for example the number of working days lost due to more talented women to join Barclays and develop their careers with musculoskeletal problems.
In 2013 3% of our global workforce us.
Our programme to provide high-potential female employees with declared themselves as having a disability.
targeted development and mentoring currently has more than 100 participants, while membership of our Womens Initiative Network Multigenerational continues to grow globally.
Not only are we looking at the senior leadership population, but our target of a 50 50 gender split for our 62 2013 1% Traditionalists 2012 graduate recruitment means that our efforts stretch across the banks 1% entire talent pipeline.
43 to 61 26% We are consistently seen as leaders within the gender agenda by Baby Boomers 25% external benchmarks, best seen by our seventh consecutive year within The Times Top 10 Workplaces for Women.
Both Maria Ramos and Val 27 to 42 59% Soranno Keating have been listed within Fortunes Most Powerful Generation X 59% Women 2013, giving credit to the strong women we have in leadership positions within the organisation.
26 and below 14% Gen Y Millennials 15% barclays.
com annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2013 87 People continued The Barclays workforce is made up of all generations: from the Traditionalists born between 1925-1945 to Generation Y those born after 1988, we work hard to support all our colleagues at all stages of their career.
The multigenerational agenda has come a long way in 2013 through the launch of the Springboard Mortgage in the UK, to employing our 1,000th apprentice, to ensuring we include all those on maternity leave within the Culture and Values training programme.
Our Barclays Elderly Simulation Kit, which allows colleagues to experience the challenges faced by senior citizens, has been recognised globally as a breakthrough in helping bridge the gap between younger and older generations.
Our LifeSkills and Bridges into Work programmes continue to support those taking their first steps into the industry, whilst initiatives such as the UK RBB Jobshare programme help individuals with career changes whatever their stage in life.
We were named as the joint winners of Best of All Stages of Motherhood Award, winners for Talent Attraction by Working Mums, and named within the Top 10 Working Families Award, all of which is a testament to the traction Barclays has gained within the multigenerational pillar.
Multicultural a UK 2013 25% 2012 24% b US 41% 43% c South Africa 68% 66% Global 43% 40% Above shows the percentage of underrepresented populations that make up our global and regional populations.
Note that underrepresented populations are defined regionally to ensure inclusion with all groups in the workplace a UK includes Asian, Mixed, Black, Other and Non-disclosed b US includes Hispanic Latino, Asian, Mixed, Black, Other and Non-disclosed c South Africa includes African, Indian, Coloured, Other, and Non-disclosed We are committed to supporting all our employees, regardless of religion, ethnicity, nationality, or race.
We respect important cultural and religious calendar dates and our UK canteens offer both halal and kosher food.
There are also quiet rooms available for prayer in many of our larger sites.
This year, Barclays launched its first ever multicultural holiday e-card, which was available to send to all clients and customers, and donated 10m to UNICEF along with additional donations for every e-card sent.
We also recognised our diverse customer base by having multicultural posters in many of our UK retail branches.
After being Highly Commended by Race for Opportunity, recognised as having the Best Diversity Initiative by CIPD Recruitment, and launching the African Afro-Caribbean Society in the City of London, the multicultural agenda has seen some great advancements in 2013.
88 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2013 barclays.
