Corporate social responsibility As an insurer we can exert a strong beneficial influence by promoting effective risk management.
We see a clear correlation between forward looking businesses that have such controls in place and businesses that are good corporate citizens.
In continuing to build Beazley as a premier risk-taking business, During 2012 we undertook a detailed review of our corporate we take our corporate, social and environmental responsibility social responsibility strategy, encompassing the full range of seriously.
We constantly consider the ethical implications our philanthropic, volunteering and environmental activities of how we operate and put policies and procedures in place and programmes.
Our aims were to: to sustain our commitment.
increase the value we provide for our beneficiaries: expand awareness within Beazley of the ways in which Intrinsic to our culture is an ethical approach to business employees can contribute to local communities, as well conducted by and towards all our stakeholders.
The values as to broader philanthropic causes: and that form the essence of our brand and our working culture measure the impact of our contributions to ensure are professionalism, integrity, effectiveness and dynamism.
that we make best use of available resources.
Our code of ethics comprises the staff handbook, the handling of personal data, whistle blowing, and financial crime policies.
Corporate social responsibility is a broad term, addressed Our conflicts of interest policy provides clear guidance to staff at Beazley through a variety of entities: on areas such as inducements and handling sensitive data.
CSR segment Where Beazley addresses these topics Environment responsible business committee sustainability Community responsible business committee community and charity Marketplace, influence responsible business committee marketplace Marketplace, ethical service broker relations and treating customers fairly within compliance Diversity equal opportunity talent management Health and safety Beazley shared services Day of service The restructured responsible business committee, headed For the third year in a row, Beazley employees by Clive Washbourn, will focus on sustainability, community across all US offices hosted a Day of Service where and charity and our influence in our marketplace.
The other employees could directly contribute time to helping segments will be implemented elsewhere.
address the issues of homelessness and hunger in the communities in which we work.
Over 75 employees from our Farmington below and other offices volunteered at food banks, soup kitchens, shelters, meal delivery services and more in their local communities.
com Annual report 2013 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Intrinsic to our culture is an ethical approach to business conducted by and towards all our stakeholders.
The values that form the essence of our brand and our working culture are professionalism, integrity, effectiveness and dynamism.
Offices and furniture Environment sustainability Beazley works closely with its providers of office furniture and We are both users of the environment and insurers of the any refits to monitor savings and ensure that environmentally impact of extreme weather conditions, so understanding and friendly materials and products are utilised whenever feasible.
minimising our own impact on the earth is important to us as During the RFP process Beazley carefully evaluates and a company and as individuals.
We seek to reduce not only our compares each suppliers green initiatives and gives own impact on the environment, but also that of our suppliers appropriate weighting to the quality and consistency of a by selecting organisations that adhere to high environmental suppliers program when making an award.
One of our nominated charities is the Conservation Fund.
The Farmington office in Connecticut is due a refurbishment in early 2014 and Beazley will be removing and donating the Community and charity used ancillary furniture.
The community element of responsible business has many facets.
It can include funding, sharing of skills, offering gifts In the UK head office, Beazley has increased its virtual in kind, and giving local people employment opportunities.
conferencing facility, allowing for additional meetings with all locations and thus reducing the necessity for additional travel.
Beazley supports the Lloyds Community Programme, which Some US offices are also increasing their virtual conferencing provides a framework for Lloyds-based businesses to support facilities to allow for more meetings.
a number of activities in east London, including reading and number partnering.
Our partner school is Canon Barnett Office supplies and printing systems Primary School.
Many teams within Beazley contribute to their By using recycled paper, we saved 315 trees and economised local communities through volunteering days and all employees on our greenhouse gas emissions in 2013.
We use multiare able to maximise their donations to charity through the function print devices where possible to reduce energy payroll giving scheme.
In 2013, in the London office we installed automatic handtowels in all rest rooms, decreasing Marketplace waste paper output.
In the US, increasing glass and mug use in This is a new focus for Beazley.
The aim is to recognise and pantries not already participating in this initiative, example San enhance the positive influence our interactions as a business Francisco, helped us to reduce paper cup use.
have on the wider community.
A good example is the quality indicator return premium QUIRP programme run by our hospitals professional liability team.
Hospitals that make measurable improvements in quality and patient safety metrics are reimbursed a proportion of their premiums.
Review of 2013 activities Environmental responsibility Beazley strives to achieve environmental best practices in the management of its global offices and in the acquisition of its goods and services.
We continue to evaluate the environmentally responsible initiatives of our suppliers, encourage the use of public transport and video conferencing, monitor our carbon footprint and work towards reducing the latter where possible.
In addition to measures we have put in place historically, in 2013 we made the following progress: www.
com Beazley 53 Annual report 2013 Corporate social responsibility continued Travel GHG report for the UK head office for 2012 emissions We use Climatecars, who provide electric and hybrid vehicles, Beazley submitted case studies to Climatewise detailing the as the preferred car transportation company for our UK head environmental measures taken.
Commercial management office and we have installed a permanent charging point in our produced a report which indicated a 7% emissions increase basement for them.
Beazley US does not have a company-wide based on Scope 1 and Scope 3 GHG emissions.
Employees are encouraged to use public transport is attributable to expansion of reporting scope including for their work commute, which is paid for as part of our emissions associated with travel using a second taxi company employee benefits package.
We also track our carbon emission reductions from travellers GHG report for US for 2012 emissions who voluntarily downgrade from a higher cabin class on flights.
In the US we report emissions for our three main offices in In 2013, this occurred on transatlantic flights resulting in a Farmington, Boston and New York.
In 2012, there was a 3% saving of over 175 tonnes of CO which is calculated at 42% increase in emissions based on Scope 2 and Scope 3 GHG 2 of emissions on these designated flights.
This is largely attributable to increased electricity consumption and increased travel by leased cars due to Note: The greenhouse gas GHG emissions reported are for the a higher headcount.
This reflects the reporting cycle, whereby statistics for 2012 become available in 2013.
Similarly, 2013 emissions GHG reporting for rest of world will be reported in 2014.
All GHG reports produced by Beazley The emissions reported above account for 98% of Beazley are externally verified by appointed consultants.
employees in the UK and 67% of Beazley employees in the US.
For our offices located elsewhere, due to the size and nature of these leased premises it is not practical to measure GHG emissions.
Environmental policy Beazley will produce an environmental policy in 2014 with achievable targets to decrease its impact on the environment through the business activities and environmental measures and initiatives.
Poppy appeal Landfill Every year our London colleagues fundraise for the Landfill remains the responsibility of the landlord, but Beazley Royal British Legion to support the British armed actively participates in recycling at all its global offices and forces past and present, and their families.
This year works alongside the landlords CSR policy where published we were honoured to fundraise on Poppy Day to achieve objectives.
alongside serving members of the armed forces, Community and charity raising over 3,000 for the charity.
We are passionate about supporting and getting involved in our communities.
2013 has been a year of focus and action for our community and charity committees.
Weve joined up globally and expanded our UK committee to become the UK and Rest of World RoW community and charity committee, in addition to our US committee, to ensure we are involving all our people and communities around the world.
These committees are made up from people across the business and now have a global remit which is to: 54 Beazley www.
com Annual report 2013 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Over 75 employees volunteered their time at a variety of Encourage and support Beazley people to participate in charitable and community activities: charities focused on the causes of homelessness and hunger in Boston, Hartford, New York, Atlanta, Chicago, Philadelphia weve recognised the fundraising efforts of our people and supported our charity partners by donating over $250,000 and San Francisco.
We plan to keep building our momentum and running initiatives such as our month of service to ensure this year: our people have spent over 300 hours working and helping we are making a positive impact.
our communities: and weve climbed three peaks, baked cakes, run en masse, Our UK & RoW community and charity committee created a fundraising calendar this year to ensure we were getting mentored children in our communities and run through the night to name but a few employee initiatives.
involved in our communities and supporting our charities on a regular basis.
Manage Beazleys corporate charitable partnerships In September we supported Macmillan Cancer Supports This year weve supported Feeding America, the Conservation Fund, Concordia, Trees for Cities and Rwanda Aid as our chosen Worlds Biggest Coffee Morning, raising over 400 to help people affected by cancer, with colleagues donating cakes charitable partnerships.
Weve supported them through corporate funding as well as our peoples volunteering efforts that could be purchased to enjoy over a coffee break.
to raise additional funds for them.
We held our first ever Beazley Christmas market, selling products from our charitable partner, Rwanda Aid, along with Oversee Beazleys response to large scale disasters Beazley people are committed to supporting communities other items donated by our employees.
Our sponsorship with British Fencing even came into play, with an agility test that affected by unexpected large scale disasters.
We gave to the Red Cross when superstorm Sandy hit New York and our people colleagues could donate to take part in.
worked in their communities to help their neighbours get back on their feet.
We also donated to the counselling and support Were proud of our association with the Royal British Legion and donated over 3,000 with serving members from the services which cared for the community after the Newtown, CT school shootings.
Armed Forces selling poppies in our London office.
Specifics: With a budget of 100,000, the UK and RoW community and charity committee financially supported each of our charitable Beazley engages in a number of charitable and volunteering activities across all our offices through employee involvement, partners: Rwanda Aid, Concordia and Trees for Cities and match funded the amazing efforts of our people raising funds for direct financial donations and fundraising drives and events.
Each employee can take up to two days per year to participate charities close to their hearts.
in charitable and local community initiatives.
Globally more than 90 colleagues supported Movember, growing or wearing moustaches to support mens health causes.
Our US community and charity committee, chaired by Bryan Falchuk, supported a number of activities and causes with a All employees were encouraged to vote on who they thought would have the best moustache by the end of November, for budget of $100,000.
Over 100 employees received donations for their efforts, totalling over $30,000.
Additional support a donation to Movember.
In total, Beazley raised over $40,000 globally for Movember.
went to Feeding America, the American Red Cross and several cancer-related causes including Beazleys global support of Movember.
Employees from across the US set out to climb the three tallest mountains in the northeastern states in three days, raising nearly $25,000 for the Conservation Fund in the process.
Additionally, every office hosted a Day of Service in September where employees could directly contribute time to helping local communities.
com Beazley 55 Annual report 2013 Corporate social responsibility continued Marketplace, ethical service our managers and people, giving them the tools and opportunity Treating customers fairly to network and progress on their career life path whilst The Beazley group approaches all dealings with customers continually building a diverse pipeline through our recruitment with regard to: activities.
general good business practice with strong standards of fair dealing: Our focus this year and into 2014 is to engage our managers maintaining positive, continuing commercial relationships so they become owners and advocates of diversity at Beazley.
with our policyholders and their brokers and professional We believe that by capturing our managers imagination they advisers: and will be able to lead and support our initiatives to ensure Beazley delivering high customer service standards compliant remains a diverse and great place to work.
with applicable regulatory requirements and other relevant standards.
Health and safety We take the health and wellbeing of staff seriously and are Beazleys general approach, to ensure the fair treatment of committed to ensuring all staff receive the best standard customer, has always been an intrinsic part of the way we do of benefits and enjoy supportive working conditions.
business, and continues to be so.
Employees are expected to take reasonable care of their own A Beazley groupwide treating customers fairly TCF policy health and safety at work as well as those of others, and to and training programme exists to communicate requirements co-operate with management to create a safe and healthy throughout the group.
All employees, contractors and visitors are subject to induction, training and supervision in aspects of Broker relations health and safety and additional training in ergonomics and fire Strong trust-based relationships with brokers are fundamental safety awareness is provided.
All health and safety matters are to the success of our business and we are constantly looking communicated via noticeboards, email memos, the intranet for new ways to improve access to our underwriters for and safety representatives.
Management of health and safety brokers, and opportunities to strengthen our existing broker is both internally and externally audited for compliance against relationships.
Beazleys dedicated broker relations team best practice.
Quarterly meetings include staff from all levels focuses on acting as a customer service contact point, who feed back on any issues.
removing any roadblocks and providing relationship management at a high level.
Overall responsibility for the management of health and safety at Beazley rests with the chief operating officer.
Workplace diversity equal opportunity We are an equal opportunities employer, ensuring we offer We encourage a work life balance at Beazley and monitor our equal treatment to employees and prospective employees.
We employees for signs of stress.
Our benefits package along with are proud of the fact that there are many different personalities sickness and stress management policies are based around working here and this diversity is the key to our global growth employee wellbeing.
Beazley employees are provided with and success.
We treat all employees fairly, with dignity and private medical insurance and eye tests, a subsidy towards gym respect.
or health club membership, along with lunch and fruit as part of the core benefits.
We also take stress management seriously Our aim is to build on our achievements so far by actively and provide managers with training in identifying and managing attracting and developing people with different experiences, stress.
The services of a confidential and impartial employee backgrounds and lifestyles, with different skills and assistance programme are also available to employees along perspectives, to join and lead our business: a workforce that with quiet contemplation rooms.
We monitor sickness and mirrors the diversity of our customers and the communities absenteeism and support our employees with enhanced sick where we work around the world.
We want to build an even pay, additional holidays and income protection in cases of more open and collaborative culture, generating contagious extended sickness.
energy and a real sense of creativity.
We do this by supporting 56 Beazley www.
