Corporate Responsibility As a leading UK company, we take very seriously our getting to know our clients so that we can do the very best responsibilities as a corporate citizen.
We are proud of the for them.
We are constantly striving to be better, to work contribution we have made to the UK and to the local harder for our clients and provide a better offering.
communities in which we have operated over the past People 250years.
Our primary goal today is to create shareholder We recognise that our people are our greatest assets and value, but in a responsible way which serves all stakeholders that to deliver on the standards we set for ourselves we and the widersociety.
need to attract, nurture and retain the best people.
One of We aim to manage the business responsibly and for the our objectives is to be the employer of choice within the long-term benefit of all stakeholders: clients, shareholders, wealth management sector.
We seek out the best available employees, regulators, suppliers and local communities.
advisers in the UK, with strong client focus, professionalism and integrity.
Corporate Citizenship Governance The Board share a strong commitment to responsible Diversity and Inclusion management.
Our Chairman, Simon Miller is responsible for Brewin Dolphin is an inclusive employer and we view this as Corporate Responsibility.
a critical component of our success.
It allows us to be more creative, bring more value to our clients and to create a more Our Culture enriching environment for our employees.
With a rich heritage, Brewin Dolphin has developed into a modern public company, whilst retaining the values of The Board has a strong commitment to maintaining a founding members.
Our key values are integrity, teamwork working environment based on equality and diversity.
All and client focus and these have been developed over our employment decisions are made irrespective of colour, race, long history.
Our cultural values underpin everything that we age, nationality, ethnic or national origin, sex, mental or do and these values have been a key factor in our success physical disabilities, marital status or sexual preference.
For as a leading discretionary wealth manager.
They have employees who may have a disability, the firm ensures where allowed us to recruit and retain some of the most talented possible that procedures and equipment are in place to aid people in the industry, serve our clients in the best way and them.
For the purposes of training, career development and provide returns for our shareholders.
As the Group continues promotion, all employees are treated equally.
Applications for on its journey, and as we develop our strategic plans, no employment by disabled persons are always fully doubt many changes will take place but our values will considered, with regard to the aptitude of the applicant remain constant.
In the event of employees becoming disabled, every effort is made to ensure that their employment within Governance the firm continues and that appropriate training is arranged, We view sound governance as a critical component of with suitable equipment supplied in order that they can Brewin Dolphins success and it remains of the highest continue in their role.
It is the policy of the firm that the priority.
A robust operating environment and compliance and training, career development and promotion of disabled risk control culture is at the heart of how we work.
We have persons should, as far as possible, be identical to that of an effective and engaged Board, with strong non-executive otheremployees.
presence and well-functioning governance committees.
Through our compensation policies and employee profit At the end of September 2013, the overall female ratio for share scheme, we seek to ensure that our values are the Group was 45%, with a female senior manager ratio of reinforced in employee behaviour and that effective risk 14%.
The Board has committed to a diversity target of 25% management is encouraged.
for the Board and is considering ways in which this can best beachieved.
More information on our corporate governance can be found onpage 39.
People Development Brewin Dolphin is a meritocracy we recognise hard work, Business standards and clients behaviour aligned to our values and a commitment to the Our focus on our clients drives everything that we do.
Many firm, its objectives and its clients.
We support the advanced of our clients and their families have entrusted us to look development of our emerging leaders and invest heavily in after their wealth for generation after generation a employees.
Our development opportunities take place both testament to the high quality of personal service we continue in the classroom and in the workplace.
Brewin Dolphin pursues business standards of training and development programmes centre around the highest excellence, leading to rewarding and enduring creating leaders able to provide the best possible service for partnerships with our clients.
We take an integrated our clients and this is done through managing and approach to protecting and growing wealth that combines developing our talent.
The Brewin Dolphin Graduate Trainee our skills and experience in both investment management Scheme and the work experience scheme continue to and financial planning.
We work hard to retain the trust provide a structured and wide ranging programme for new placed in us and to continue to deliver a high quality service.
Through this programme Our aim is to be the trusted advisor of choice and we work we contribute to local economies through offering in partnership with our clients to achieve this.
We spend time opportunities for work experience.
36 Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Directors Report & Governance Employee Engagement Brewin Dolphin Foundation Delivering on our objectives requires employees to be In recognition of Brewin Dolphins 250th anniversary, the engaged and play an active role in achieving the firms Brewin Dolphin Foundation was born.
To this end the Board seeks to ensure that all of the Foundation is to increase the positive contribution we employees are aware of and are consulted upon desired make to the world outside Brewin Dolphin.
Staff are able to behaviours and financial and economic factors affecting the apply to the Foundation for grants for small charities that performance of the company.
In the first year we have seen good levels of applications to the grant making scheme and We empower employees through regular communications look forward to increasing our grant making levels in the which outline the direction of the firm, its strategy and coming year.
We view this as a critical component of our employee engagement programme as it enables engagement in the firms vision and strategy.
We consult employees on matters that affect their interests and encourage the involvement of employees in the Groups performance through the discretionary bonus scheme.
Health and Safety We view our business as a community to which our Fundraising employees belong.
We work hard to ensure that the working Both on an individual and team level, in the last financial year, environment is safe and conducive to healthy and happy Brewin Dolphin staff raised over 100,000 for their chosen employees who are able to balance work and family causes which the Company further supplemented in commitments.
The Group has a Health and Safety at Work fundraising matching.
These included climbing mountains, policy which is reviewed annually by the Board.
The Group organising charity football tournaments, cake sales, long Board Executive Director responsible for health and safety is distance bike rides, marathons, bake offs, and quadrathlons, David Nicol.
for charities such as Leukaemia and Lymphoma Research, Macmillan Cancer Support, Children First, Cancer Research The Group is committed to the health and safety of its UK and Friends of ANCHOR Aberdeen Royal Infirmary.
employees, clients, sub-contractors and others who may be affected by our work activities.
The Group evaluates the risks Many individual offices have also nominated charity partners, to health and safety in the business and manages this and their annual fundraising efforts have included supporting through an effective Health and Safety Management System.
local hospices, Exeter Royal Academy for Deaf Education, Devon Air Ambulance, Ninewells Cancer Campaign, The The Group provides necessary information, instruction, Princes Trust, Warning Zone, Walk on Wales and The training and supervision to ensure that employees are able to LauraCentre.
The Health and Safety Management System used by the Group ensures Payroll Giving compliance with all applicable legal and regulatory We offer the opportunity for employees to participate in requirements and internal standards and seeks by payroll giving.
In the first year of the Brewin Dolphin continuous improvement, to develop health and safety Foundation, we received the Payroll Giving Bronze award, performance.
awarded by the Institute of Fundraising, in recognition of the Groups commitment to payroll giving.
Communities Brewin Dolphin is committed to the communities in which it Volunteering and Education operates and encourages its employees to participate in In the past year we have supported local school children in local initiatives.
We take an active role in contributing to local conjunction with Enabling Enterprises and Careers communities and our efforts range from local sponsorships Academies and we are proud to help provide bursaries for and volunteering, to offering work experience schemes.
underprivileged children at the Reeds School in Surrey.
Many Employees also take great pride in the impact they make to of our employees volunteer to organisations of their choice their local communities and regularly demonstrate a passion across the country.
37 Corporate Responsibility continued Local sponsorships and community support Environmental Sustainability We are actively involved in our local communities and are Brewin Dolphin has a firm commitment to reducing its proud to support many local causes.
We have been a environmental impact and managing the business in a long-term supporter of Durham County Cricket team and the sustainable way.
The Board has reviewed areas where there Arundel and Cheltenham Cricket Festivals.
For the second may be environmental risk from direct actions by the firm year running we sponsored the Big Bike Ride, a 400 mile and we encourage employees and suppliers to take actions cycle from Durham to Lords in aid of the PCA Benevolent to reduce their environmental impact.
The Groups Fund and the Tom Maynard Trust.
We also support environmental policy is published on our website www.
numerous other local events such as the Scottish Schools brewin.
Full disclosures concerning greenhouse gas Rugby Tournament, Marlborough Jazz and Literature emissions for its 2014 financial year end, as required by The Festivals, Ilkely Literature Festival, Taunton Flower Festival, Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors New Forest Show, Moy Highland Field Sports Fair, the Report Regulations 2013, will be included in next years Chalke Valley History Festival and the Borders Book Festival.
The Groups major suppliers mainly provide market data and computer hardware and software.
Our external consultants with whom we work seek to minimise our computer footprint through virtualisation or consolidation of services wherever possible.
Replacement of equipment is in accordance with this policy.
Obsolete computer equipment is passed to Euro Recycling who provide a fully compliant WEEE service which adheres to the EU Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive WEEE Directive.
The WEEE Directive aims to minimise the impact of waste electrical and electronic goods on the environment, by increasing re-use and recycling and reducing the amount of WEEE going to landfill.
Travel Brewin Dolphin utilises virtual communications wherever possible to reduce our carbon footprint and measures to Brewin Dolphin Birmingham hosted a five-a-side football reduce travel are encouraged.
The impact of the travel tournament for 12 local businesses in aid of Leukaemia and undertaken by our employees in the course of their duties is Lymphoma Research LLR.
shown in the following table.
CO emissions for the 52 week 2 1 period to 29 September 2013 are outlined below.
Tonnes Emissions CO e 2 Air 247 Rail 213 Road 765 1,226 1 The data has been collected for all our branches, and calculated in accordance with the guidelines set out in DEFRA Guidance on How to Report GHG Emissions.
Paper and materials The majority of our paper used is from sustainable sources and is produced in accordance with the Forest Stewardship Council and, where possible, the materials used are made up of 50% recycled and 50% virgin wood fibre for our Brewin Roulers at the finish line in Paris reports, client reports, letterhead and marketing materials.
The Company makes every effort to improve its environmental footprint through the encouraged use of double sided printing, electronic communication, both to and from its clients, and internally by the widespread use of the intranet and email communication.
Recycling of paper, toners and printer cartridges is encouraged across the Group.
Through its confidential paper recycling programme, the Group has recycled over 383,000 kgs during the period, which is the equivalent of saving 6,517 trees and 959 cubic metres of landfill.
38 Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013
