Local Loop Unbundling LLU OUR CUSTOMERS AND MARKETS LLU allows CPs to offer DSL-broadband services by installing their We serve a number of different types of customers in the UK and own equipment in our exchanges and renting the copper line.
In this section we explain who our customers are can use our shared metallic path facility SMPF product to offer and the trends we see in the markets where we operate.
broadband over a WLR line or our metallic path facility MPF product to offer both phone and broadband services using their own UK consumers equipment.
We serve UK consumers through BT Consumer and BT Ireland both parts of BT Retail.
Ethernet There are around 26m households in the UK and our consumer Our Ethernet products offer dedicated, symmetric, bre-connectivity.
products and services can reach almost all of them.
CPs use them in their own networks and to provide high-quality, The market for xed calls and lines, broadband and TV is very high-bandwidth services to businesses and the public sector.
There are around 114 companies offering voice and or broadband services.
The market has concentrated over the last few BT TECHNOLOGY, SERVICE & OPERATIONS years with several strong players emerging.
The four largest providers During the year we brought together BT Innovate & Design and BT are BT, Virgin Media, Sky and TalkTalk.
Operate, our two internal service units, to form BT Technology, Service & Operations BT TSO.
There were around 17,000 people in Fixed calls and lines BT TSO at 31 March 2013, supporting our customer-facing lines of Around 22m, or 84% of homes in the UK have a xed phone line.
That proportion has stayed steady for the past three years.
Around We created it to simplify the way we work, help us further 15% of UK homes only have a mobile phone with around 1% having transform our cost base and speed up and improve delivery to BT no phone at all.
It is a simpler organisation with more efficient processes There were 24.4m home phone lines in the UK as at December and fewer hand-offs.
This means our design and development teams 2012 including some homes which have more than one phone line can react more quickly to operational changes and events.
and some SMEs who buy consumer services.
That is up 2% compared with last year.
An overall rise in the total number of homes in the UK Products and services coupled with more demand for xed broadband connections played BT TSO is responsible for the whole lifecycle of our global networks a part in that growth.
and systems from innovation, design, test and build through to At 31 March 2013 we had a total of 10.2m consumer xed lines in operational management.
We manage BTs voice, data and TV the UK, with around 9.8m active voice lines where a customer buys networks and IT applications which make up the core infrastructure calls from us as well as paying for the line.
for BTs products and services.
Our people also design and deliver the We have the largest share of xed lines to homes in the UK at networks and platforms which are used by our customer-facing lines 42%, compared with 47% last year.
Our share has been declining of business, and the large-scale global managed network services over the last few years as competitors have taken advantage of the which are sold to customers in the UK and internationally.
favourable regulatory regime in the UK.
We manage and deliver BTs long-term technology strategy and The number of minutes spent on calls from xed lines has been research and innovation programmes, including managing BTs falling for some time.
Customers are increasingly using mobiles, worldwide patent portfolio see page 8. email, social networking and other kinds of communication instead.
We are also responsible for managing the groups energy Our total call volumes declined 9% in the year, compared with an consumption and for putting strategies in place to cut our future 11% decline last year.
Broadband Reducing our energy use The UK has one of the highest levels of broadband availability in In the UK, we spent 274m on energy this year.
Almost all homes can get a xed broadband connection and business volumes have increased, we have achieved our fourth around three-quarters do so.
consecutive year of worldwide energy reduction, using 3.3% less The UK also compares favourably on broadband pricing.
Ofcom energy this year against our target of 1.5%.
The energy saving research ranks the UK the seventh cheapest out of 25 European programmes we ran in 2012 13 are expected to generate 33m in countries for standalone broadband and sixth cheapest out of 23 annualised cost benets.
countries for broadband and voice bundles.
At 31 March 2013 there were around 21.9m DSL, bre and cable Climate stabilising intensity broadband connections to homes and businesses in the UK, up by 5% We track how we are doing on climate change with a climate over last year.
Fibre penetration has grown signicantly during the year.
There We want to cut BTs CO e intensity by 80% by December 2020 2 are more connected devices and people are using more bandwidthcompared with 1996 97.
This year we achieved a 77% cumulative intensive applications such as watching video, streaming music and reduction.
More than half of households now own webconnected games consoles, over 40% of individuals connect their TV Security to the internet, and 15% of households own a tablet device.
Our physical and cyber security operations were previously managed According to Ofcom research, the average broadband download by BT Operate.
We now manage these through a separate security speed for the UK was 12.0Mbps in November 2012.
That is up from enterprise, BT Security, which is supported by BT TSO engineers.
Plusnet was ranked highest for average business is in charge of protecting our own and customers data and download speeds over copper.
BT Innity offers the most consistent assets.
We believe that it differentiates the services we can offer and speeds over a 24-hour period, with the lowest network congestion at will help us win in the market.
peak times, and the fastest upload speeds in the country.
We have around 6.7m retail broadband customers including business customers.
We are the UKs biggest broadband provider Report of the Directors Business British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2013 17 with a 31% share of the total broadband market at 31 March 2013.
Mobile Excluding cable, we have a 38% share.
As with xed calls and lines, Revenue in the UK mobile market has fallen, impacted by mobile Sky, Virgin Media and TalkTalk are the other big players.
Mobile termination rate reductions and price erosion.
Call volumes have operator O2 left the xed broadband market during the year.
fallen slightly but data volumes are increasing strongly due to the We now have around 1.3m retail bre broadband customers growth in smartphones and tablets.
We have focused on a few representing 19% of our retail broadband customer base.
We have a small market share but our subscriber base is growing.
The main operators in the UK mobile TV services market are Vodafone, O2 and EE.
Broadcast TV is currently the most common way for people to watch television.
There are three main platforms satellite, cable and digital Conferencing terrestrial.
Demand for conferencing services is growing, particularly as But broadband is revolutionising the way people watch, especially companies seek to reduce their travel costs.
We sell conferencing with interactivity and on-demand TV.
The public sector broadcasters services both in the UK and overseas.
The global audio conferencing offer free on-demand content services such as BBC iPlayer, ITVPlayer, market has continued to expand, with volume growth more than 4oD and Demand 5.
All the UKs main pay-TV providers also offer onoffsetting declining prices.
In video conferencing, growth is demand services.
These are either free as part of a monthly particularly strong in the personal desktop market.
subscription for broadcast channels, covered by an extra subscription or are on a pay-per-view basis.
Large corporate and public sector customers There are other subscription-based providers such as Netix and Large corporate and public sector customers are served by BT Global LOVEFiLM and pay-per-view providers such as Blinkbox.
They are our biggest segment by external revenue.
over-the-top providers stream content over the web without Gartner, a leading information technology research and advisory owning any of the distribution infrastructure.
company, estimates that the global business ICT market is worth There are 14.8m UK pay-TV subscribers, making up 54% of TV around 647bn.
The rest typically receive free digital terrestrial channels The market consists of a wide range of products and services.
Suppliers range from large network-based vendors like us through to Sky has the largest market share of pay-TV subscriptions at 66%.
Vendors specialise in different services such We have a 5% share.
During the year we grew our TV customer base as systems integration, software development, IT hardware and by 15% compared with 1% for Sky and 0% for Virgin Media.
Gartner expects the global business ICT market to grow at a UK SMEs compound annual growth rate of 3.1% over the next three years.
We serve the UK SME market through BT Business and BT Ireland, Demand for network-based services, such as data, mobility, social which both sit within BT Retail.
We also deliver specialist services to networking, cloud and security is driving that growth as businesses SMEs as well as larger corporates through BT Conferencing, BT seek to tap into key technology trends and global opportunities.
Expedite & Fresca, and other divisions in BT Enterprises.
Demand for more traditional services is declining as customers switch There are an estimated 4.8m UK SMEs, from sole traders to to newer technologies.
businesses with up to 1,000 people.
Their communications and IT Gartner expects the market to grow in all the regions we operate needs vary widely, depending on factors such as size, number of sites, in albeit at different rates.
Continental Europe is expected to industry and maturity.
experience the lowest rate of growth at 2.0% a year over the next At the smaller end of the market, customers needs are simple and three years.
In contrast, Asia Pacic, Latin America, Turkey, the they sometimes buy services from consumer-orientated providers.
Middle East and Africa should grow at 3.3% a year.
Larger customers have more complex needs, typically buying a range In the global business ICT market, we are focused on delivering of voice, data, IT and mobile services.
major managed networked IT services securely, efficiently and globally.
We have around 1m SME customers in the UK.
Small businesses According to ISG Research, BT has the highest standalone with fewer than 50 people make up more than 90% of these.
managed network services MNS market share globally, is the only The SME market for xed and mobile communications and IT provider with double-digit share for standalone MNS services in each services in Great Britain is fragmented and highly competitive.
It is of the three major regions Americas, Asia Pacic and EMEA, and is worth around 30bn of which we have a 7% share.
the standalone MNS market share leader in EMEA.
We experienced tough conditions in Europe and the financial Fixed calls and lines services sector during the year.
But we are increasing our market The SME market for xed-voice is declining, with call volumes falling share in the high-growth regions.
due to substitution by mobile, email and VoIP.
The public sector generated 26% of our revenue.
In the UK we are There are 8.8m business lines in the UK many SMEs take more one of the Governments largest suppliers of networked IT services than one line.
We have a 47% market share of business lines, down as a whole, they are our biggest customer.
Except as described on two percentage points in the year.
Our share of access and calls page 20, we have a normal customer and supplier relationship with revenue was at in the year.
We compete against more than 300 them.
Of our corporate customers, financial institutions are our resellers and xed network operators.
Daisy, TalkTalk, Virgin Media, largest customer segment, generating 19% of our revenue in the XLN, Alternative Networks, Cable & Wireless Worldwide now owned year.
We also supply a range of services to other telecoms companies.
by Vodafone, Colt Group and KCOM Group are our main competitors.
We serve: 94% of the FTSE 100 companies IT services 74% of the Fortune 500 companies The IT services market stayed broadly at this year.
There has been 100% of Interbrands top 50 annual ranking of the worlds most more interest in both cloud-based services like managed hosting of valuable brands IT applications and data and unied communications services, which the worlds top stock exchanges, leading broker-dealers and give businesses better exibility over their costs.
Our biggest biggest banks competitors in IT services are SCC, Computacenter, Phoenix IT, Kelway, Dimension Data and Logicalis.
18 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2013 Report of the Directors Business
