30 Annual report 2013 Caledonia Investments plc Corporate responsibility Caledonia considers the impact of its business in the A formal performance appraisal process, through which following areas: employees may be set objectives on an annual basis and their achievement against those objectives assessed at Marketplace the end of the year, is intended to ensure that employees As an investment company, we are committed to a long have a clear view of their performance and the ability to term investment strategy and to maintaining effective develop their potential within the company through relationships with those companies in which we invest.
Together with team We often hold a board seat in our significant investments meetings and company-wide briefings, this provides staff and use this to maintain a close relationship with with the opportunity to be closely involved in the success managements of those companies.
Additionally, we hold of the business.
frequent meetings with managements and review internal documents, such as management accounts and reports.
Community Caledonia encourages employees to support local We also make considered use of our voting rights.
voluntary organisations and charitable causes and As a consequence of our involved investment style, provides matched sponsorship to their fundraising we would expect to vote in line with management activities.
This and other charitable donations made at the recommendations, but are prepared to abstain or vote companys own initiation in the year amounted to 57,000. against recommendations where we consider they Donations comprised 25,000 to support prisoner are not in the interests of our shareholders.
rehabilitation, 20,000 for sea cadets and seafarers and We continue to meet with our shareholders and listen 12,000 for a number of medical and welfare charities.
to any concerns they may have.
The company also supports the work of the Royal Workplace Horticultural Society and contributions to the RHSs Caledonia has in place a set of polices intended to protect campaigns to promote gardening, through sponsorship employees from unlawful discrimination, offer them a of the RHS Chelsea Flower Show Charity Gala Preview, working environment where they have a right to be amounted to 100,000 in the year.
treated fairly, with consideration and respect, and support Environment high standards of conduct and performance.
These Caledonias environmental impact is limited.
However, any policies assist in ensuring that the company meets measures taken to reduce this impact demonstrate the applicable health and safety standards and treats disabled companys commitment to improve the environment and employees in accordance with its statutory obligations.
can have direct benefits through reductions in costs for These policies are communicated to employees by way energy and consumables.
A number of measures have of a staff handbook provided at the time of joining, with been and will be taken in this area: periodic updates thereafter.
encouragement of the use of electronic communications In addition to a grievance procedure, which allows to save paper, printing consumables and energy employees to raise concerns either formally or informally, usage of video-conferencing and telephone conference there are formal whistleblowing arrangements in place, calls rather than travelling to meetings which enable members of staff to raise any issue of recycling of office waste, used paper and other concern regarding possible impropriety in the conduct of consumables.
the companys business, confidentially and independently of line management.
