The City of London Investment Trust plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 23 Report of the Directors continued On 29 October 2012 the directors were granted authority to meeting.
Shareholders wishing to lodge questions in repurchase 36,097,399 ordinary shares with a nominal value advance of the meeting are invited to do so by writing to of 9,024,350 for cancellation or to be held in treasury.
The the Company Secretary at the Registered Office address directors have not bought back any shares and therefore at given on the inside back cover.
the date of this report the directors have remaining authority General presentations to both shareholders and analysts to repurchase 36,097,399 shares.
This authority will expire follow the publication of the annual results.
All meetings at the conclusion of the AGM in October 2013, when a new between the Investment Manager and shareholders are authority will be sought.
The directors believe that, from time to time and subject to New Zealand listing market conditions, it will continue to be in the shareholders It should be noted that the UK codes of Corporate interests to buy back the Companys shares when they are Governance may materially differ from the New Zealand trading at a discount to the underlying net asset value per Stock Exchanges corporate governance rules and principles share.
The Company may utilise the authority to purchase of the Corporate Best Practice Code.
shares by either a single purchase or a series of purchases when market conditions allow, with the aim of maximising j Corporate Responsibility the benefit to shareholders.
Responsible Investment Social, Environmental and Ethical SEE Statement At the AGM in 2012 directors were also granted authority to Responsible Investment is the term Henderson uses to cover repurchase the first and second preference stock and the its work on corporate governance and corporate preferred ordinary stock.
The directors have not bought back responsibility or social, environmental and ethical SEE issues any of the preference or preferred stock.
in the companies in which it invests on its clients behalf, Relations with shareholders across all funds.
In May 2005 Henderson became a founding Shareholder relations are given high priority by the Board.
signatory to the United Nations Principles for Responsible The prime medium by which the Company communicates Investment.
The Principles, developed under the auspices of with its shareholders is through the Half Year Update and the UN Secretary-General, are a voluntary and aspirational Annual Report and Financial Statements which aim to framework for incorporating environmental, social and provide shareholders with a clear understanding of the corporate governance ESG issues into mainstream Companys activities and its results.
This information is investment decision-making and ownership practices.
supplemented by the daily calculation and publication at The way companies respond to sustainability and corporate the London and New Zealand Stock Exchanges of the responsibility can affect their business performance, both net asset value of the Companys ordinary shares and a directly and indirectly.
An investee companys policy on monthly fact sheet.
social responsibility and the environment is therefore The Board considers that shareholders should be considered as part of the investment risk decision.
encouraged to attend and participate in the Annual Hendersons corporate responsibility statement is included General Meeting, which is chaired by the Chairman of the on the website www.
For 2012 it was Board and which all directors normally attend.
Shareholders granted CarbonNeutral Company status which it has have the opportunity to address questions to the Chairman committed to maintain at least until the end of 2015.
The of the Board, the Chairman of the Audit Committee and all Companys annual and half year reports are printed on other directors at the meeting.
The Portfolio Manager, as carbon balanced paper, whereby the carbon impact of the the representative of the Investment Manager, makes a production and distribution process has been balanced, or presentation to shareholders.
A summary of the proxy offset, by the World Land Trust, an international votes received on the resolutions proposed is displayed at conservation charity.
It is the intention of the Board that the Annual Report and Financial Statements and Notice of Voting policy and the UK Stewardship Code Annual General Meeting be issued to shareholders so as Hendersons Responsible Investment Policy sets out the to provide at least twenty working days notice of the Managers approach to corporate governance and
