Close Brothers Group plc 44 Annual Report 2013 Governance Corporate Responsibility Corporate Responsibility Strategy mitigation and management of risks is set out in the Principal As a financial services organisation serving businesses and Risks and Uncertainties on page 26. individuals, we are strongly committed to the highest standards of practice in dealing with environmental, social and governance Employee engagement ESG issues.
This underpins our Corporate Responsibility The group promotes employee engagement through various CR strategy which is focused on four pillars, and our strategic initiatives including focus groups across our businesses.
During priorities for each of these are as follows: the year, 83% of employees participated in the group employee opinion survey, the results of which were shared with ExCo and Employees the board.
We are pleased that the survey identified that 90% of Treat all employees equally, promoting a culture of integrity and our employees are satisfied or very satisfied with their jobs and strong employee engagement, and providing opportunities for 87% feel actively engaged and would recommend the group as a talent development.
Responsible finance The results showed that we have continued to build on the Ensuring all stakeholders are treated fairly, operating with the strengths that were identified in the 2010 survey, which were highest ethical standards in all our dealings.
customer focus, leadership and job enablers.
Results in all these areas have improved, which is a significant achievement given the Environment previous high scores.
In particular, we achieved improvements in Measuring and minimising our impact on the environment.
scores for leadership and the fair treatment of our customers.
We have also made significant improvements on the development Community areas identified in the 2010 survey, principally career development Supporting the local communities where we do business and communication, as a result of the steps we took following the through volunteering, skill sharing and charitable donations.
Action planning is underway at a divisional level to continue to build on these encouraging results.
The ESG risks faced by the group are relatively limited, however we remain focused on continually monitoring the effects.
The Diversity and equal opportunity group has identified the three most significant ESG risks are The group is committed to providing equal opportunities employees, responsible finance and community.
The group has throughout its recruitment processes and to existing employees, a risk management framework, based on three lines of defence, promoting a culture of diversity amongst the workforce.
for managing all risks facing the group, including significant ESG risks.
Business management are responsible for ensuring that all Each of our divisions has a Recruitment and Equal Opportunity key risks have been identified, assessed and evaluated and that policy which provides a framework for consistent fair treatment of appropriate controls are in place to mitigate them.
More detail employees regardless of race, gender, age, disability, sexual can be found on page 37 in the Governance report.
We seek to eliminate any harassment or bullying from the workplace and additionally fair consideration is The group has a CR committee which is chaired by the Head of given to all applications for employment.
Feedback from staff in Human Resources HR, who sits on the Group Executive our recent employee opinion survey indicates our approach is Committee ExCo.
The ExCo and board receive updates working well in practice with positive responses to questions throughout the year on ESG related matters, particularly on about fair treatment of staff and a culture that does not tolerate employee, governance and responsible finance.
Additionally, we bullying or harassment.
have regional CR committees that report to the group CR committee on relevant matters.
The group and local committees Training and education meet regularly throughout the year and are responsible for Our focus remains on maintaining the expertise and skill of our communication of the groups CR efforts and strategic priorities people and we encourage training and education to all staff to raise awareness across the divisions.
This year, the primary throughout their career.
All employees receive annual focus has been on the contribution to communities and performance reviews and as part of the programme for skills charitable work.
management, line managers develop training plans with their direct reports to address skill gaps or to strengthen existing skills.
The group is committed to promoting good ethical and A suite of management development programmes is available to governance standards and fully complies with the UK Corporate ensure staff with line management responsibility have the skills Governance Code see pages 33 and 34. they need to perform that role effectively and a core curriculum of personal and soft skills training is available to support staff in Employees developing their capability in the role.
In addition, our customer The group seeks to treat all employees fairly, promoting a culture facing staff receive regular update training to ensure they are of integrity and strong employee engagement.
Our aim is to aware of the latest regulatory developments which affect their create a work environment which encourages talent retention business areas.
The group also has a mentoring programme and provides opportunities for talent development.
which offers career mentoring and advice from a more senior member of staff, often in a different part of the group.
The Group Head of HR and the divisional chief executives have overall oversight for employee related matters.
Employee related During the year, we have introduced a school leaver programme, key risk indicators are produced by each business and reviewed Aspire, within the Banking division to recruit and develop high at local risk and compliance committees and reported to the calibre individuals with strong academic achievement to increase group risk and compliance committee on a monthly basis.
As a our pipeline of talent for the future.
Aspire offers a structured result, we believe we have adequate measures in place to training programme with direct experience within our Banking monitor and manage potential related risks.
Further detail on the businesses.
Close Brothers Group plc 45 Annual Report 2013 Employee benefits In light of the FCAs increased focus on the front end processes All of the groups UK based permanent and fixed term employees firms use to create and issue new products, we have ensured are offered pension and life assurance.
All employees have that relevant policies, for example the Business Initiatives Policy, access to an Employee Assistance Programme which provides are robust and are followed properly.
These consider the client confidential support and information on a wide variety of associated risks that can arise across a product lifecycle, everyday issues.
The group continues to offer a Save as You including ensuring the documentation is clear, fair and not Earn scheme, which allows employees to participate in the misleading and pricing is fair.
success and growth of the group and at 31 July 2013 the group had approximately one third 31 July 2012: one third of its UK Product design and governance is managed through the risk and based employees participating.
The group offers a tax efficient compliance committees which seek to ensure that customers childcare voucher scheme, and additionally a cycle to work interests are appropriately protected.
Additionally, existing scheme offering a discount on the cost of new bikes and products are reviewed on a regular basis to ensure that they accessories while promoting a healthier lifestyle and a cleaner remain fit for purpose.
All employees and their families have access to health assessments at a discounted rate.
The board and executive management receive comprehensive information to enable them to determine that new products are Responsible Finance being developed in an appropriate manner and that trends The group seeks to ensure that all its stakeholders including identified through complaints are investigated.
customers, shareholders, employees and suppliers are treated fairly, and with the highest ethical standards.
Due to the nature of Complaint handling the groups businesses, the group has direct relationships with Each division within the group operates a transparent complaints many stakeholders and therefore there is a risk that negative handling process which is accessible to all customers.
We behaviour could impact the groups reputation and the outcome endeavour to address all concerns promptly and effectively.
In order to manage and mitigate this, the group Wealso seek to identify the root cause of complaints to ensure seeks to instil a culture of treating customers and other any lessons learnt are suitably addressed.
stakeholders fairly, and that all employees recognise their responsibilities towards this objective.
The group has a wide Anti-bribery and corruption range of policies to establish a framework for best practice for The group conducts its business to the highest ethical standards our businesses, and for employee conduct and behaviour and seeks to mitigate the risks of financial crime.
The groups ensuring strong relationships characterised by trust, transparency Anti-Bribery and Corruption policy applies to all employees and and integrity.
sets out minimum standards and best practice for business conduct.
This policy is communicated to staff at induction and Consistent with a responsible approach to finance, the board has update training is provided periodically.
The group adheres to the adopted a tax policy governing all group businesses.
A key Bribery Act 2010 and compliance, risk and internal audit ensure principle of this policy is that tax liabilities should reflect the compliance across the group.
commercial substance of the groups activities, and by taking this approach the group seeks to maintain a low risk tax profile.
Whistleblowing Substantially all the groups trading is within the UK and therefore The groups whistleblowing policy aims to protect employees subject to UK corporation tax, and for each of the past five who expose wrongdoing.
We seek to ensure transparency in financial years the groups tax expense has been above the dealing with all stakeholders and encourage high standards of headline UK corporation tax rate after adjustments for openness and accountability.
impairments and business disposals, associate profits recognised on a post-tax basis, the impact of write-down of Anti-money laundering deferred tax assets, and a small impact from profits subject to The group complies with all applicable anti-money laundering overseas tax rates.
regulations and all staff are given regular training to raise awareness of their responsibilities.
Each of our regulated entities It is the responsibility of all employees to adhere to the groups has a dedicated money laundering reporting officer who is policies on treating customers fairly.
The group head of responsible for overseeing best practice and reporting any issues compliance is responsible for establishing group policies and appropriately.
maintaining overall oversight of issues.
The heads of compliance within the divisions are responsible for implementing and Supplier relationships monitoring relevant policies and ensuring that they are followed All transactions are settled in accordance with applicable terms by all employees.
Training is delivered by a variety of methods, and conditions of business agreed with the counterparty.
More including online and face to face, across many areas including detail can be found on page 32 in the Report of the Directors.
An anti-money laundering, anti-bribery and corruption, market abuse outsourcing policy is maintained across the group to ensure that and conduct risk.
Records of attendance and completion are the risks associated with the use of third party services are maintained by compliance.
managed appropriately and that controls are in place to protect our customers and fulfil our regulatory obligations.
Conduct risk Treating customers fairly TCF principles continue to be fully embedded within the groups culture.
The employee opinion survey carried out during the year showed 96% of employees believe we treat customers fairly.
Close Brothers Group plc 46 Annual Report 2013 Governance Corporate Responsibility continued Environment Various initiatives take place across the group to support The group recognises its responsibilities in measuring and communities.
As an example, within the Banking division, one of minimising the impact of our business activities on the our businesses purchases fruit baskets for the office from a environment.
We do not believe the group has material exposure supplier who plants one fruit tree in Malawi for every basket we to environmental risks due to the nature of its business activities.
purchase and during the year, approximately 180 fruit trees were However, we remain committed to monitoring and minimising any planted.
impact of such risks such as greenhouse gas emissions, waste and recycling.
Charitable donations As part of the employee opinion survey completed through the It is the responsibility of each of our businesses to manage and year, employees were given the option to vote for a charitable minimise the impact of their activities on the local environment.
Cancer Research UK received the majority Any significant environmental related issues across the group are of votes and therefore the group has appointed them as our highlighted by divisions as appropriate and discussed at ExCo group charitable partner.
A number of our businesses within the meetings when necessary.
group also partner with specific charities for example, our motor finance business supports the motor charity BEN as well Energy consumption and carbon emissions as the Motor Neurone Disease charity: our premium finance The group remains committed to reducing greenhouse gas business has an ongoing relationship with The Princes Trust: and emissions.
At the groups head office, a management information Winterflood voted for Macmillan Cancer Support as their system has been implemented to more accurately monitor data.
divisional charity in the employee opinion survey.
We also use an external specialist to provide advice on the energy markets and the most appropriate green energy rates, The group continued its successful Matched Giving fundraising inaddition to bespoke data reporting monitoring trends and scheme for the fourth consecutive year encouraging members of highlighting changes in usage.
Energy management is prioritised staff to get involved in the voluntary sector and to help fundraise by our mechanical and engineering contractors and is through personal participation in events.
The group matches consistently reviewed to assess where further practical 50% of the fundraised amount up to a maximum of 250 per efficiencies can be introduced.
During the year, the Banking division, carried out a review of all its Through a wide variety of fundraising events, including staff energy providers and as a result of the findings, it has now auctions, pub quizzes and dress down days, the group raised a moved to a more green provider.
The initial phase of the change total of 228,000 2012: 160,000 for charitable causes, of which has been completed across several of the divisions buildings and total matched funding schemes contributed 24% 2012: 36%.
it plans to complete the roll out across all the divisions offices over the course of the next year.
Employee volunteering During the year the group introduced a Matching for Voluntary Waste reduction and recycling Time scheme where the group makes a contribution per hour of In addition to energy management initiatives, the group seeks to voluntary time given to charity by its employees.
improve efficiency of its waste reduction, recycling and water and paper usage.
The groups head office monitors the waste, In addition, the group continues to run the reading to children recycling and water usage from data collected by third party scheme, working as a partner to a school in Tower Hamlets, contractors.
London, where staff volunteer their time to read with primary school children once a week.
Group headquarters has increased its recycling volumes by 32% in the year which has saved 1,803 trees and avoided 301 cubic Give As You Earn GAYE metres of landfill.
Employees are encouraged to donate to charity through the GAYE payroll giving scheme.
During the year, the participation in Occupational health and safety the scheme has remained broadly stable at around 10% 2012: We remain committed to providing a safe and healthy workplace.
The group has maintained its Payroll Each division has a Health and Safety policy and a representative Giving Quality Mark Gold Award since 2011 in recognition of the who is responsible for communicating this policy to all staff.
Given the nature of our business, the rates of injury are low, and there were no work related fatalities.
Community The group remains committed to supporting the local communities where we do business through volunteering, skill sharing and charitable donations.
Community related matters are managed and coordinated by the group CR committee.
We have regular dialogue and an active programme of events for contributing to the communities.
The group and local divisional CR committees are responsible for communicating initiatives and promoting awareness across the group.
