Corporate responsibility and sustainability As a Group, Bodycote is committed to acting responsibly as a good corporate citizen, to reducing the environmental impact of the Groups activities and to providing our employees with a safe working environment.
26 Bodycote plc annual report for the year ended 31 December 2013 23065.02 11 March 2014 1:46 PM Design Shell Bodycotes stakeholder model shows how its interactions on various levels contribute towards socioeconomic growth and development.
These exchanges, based on mutually beneficial relationships, provide the basis for the Companys growth and sustainability, which in return provides benefits to employees, investors, suppliers, customers, the public sector and wider society.
Investors Funders Capital is rewarded through dividends and share price.
Capital Return on Funds Investment Employees Customers 5,800 employees Our services are provided knowledge, expertise and skill are a major part of the aerospace, defence, Groups intangible value.
energy and general 242.3m was paid out as Productivity Sales industrial industries.
Remuneration Services Bodycote: Provides thermal processing services that improve material properties such as strength, durability and corrosion resistance, which in turn Improves the lifetime and Products performance of products Supports businesses and protects lives Payment Suppliers Suppliers profit from the location of the Group in Society local communities and from the Groups need for Bodycote generates wealth long-term stable supply for society and contributes partnerships.
to socioeconomic development through its Services Taxes sustainable business practices, investments Public Sector Tax payments fund services available to the public.
In total employer social taxes, net VAT, corporate and other transactional taxes amount to 91.7m for the year.
com 23065.02 11 March 2014 1:46 PM Design Shell Additional Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report Corporate responsibility and sustainability continued 1 Our approach Accident frequency Bodycotes objective is to create superior shareholder returns 1.9 1.8 through the provision of selected thermal processing services that 1.7 1.5 are highly valued by our customers and to achieve this in a safe working environment, while continually seeking to minimise the impact on the environment.
Bodycote is dedicated to improving the management of corporate responsibility issues and is implementing policies and initiatives to achieve this goal.
The future success and growth of the Group is intrinsically linked to our ability to ensure the Groups operations are 2010 2011 2012 2013 sustainable and that we can nurture and develop our talent.
2 Our people Carbon footprint The strength of the Group primarily rests in its people and one tonne CO e m sales 2 of the key challenges for management is to ensure availability of 639.4 603.4 603.6 appropriately qualified people to support its continued growth.
579.7 Bodycote is fortunate to have a competent and committed international team that is well-respected in technical and business circles.
Bodycote invests in the training and development of its people both at local and Group level.
At a local level the Company is committed to providing the appropriate skills and technical training which will allow its employees to operate effectively and safely in their roles 2010 2011 2012 2013 and deliver excellent customer service.
At Group level a number of initiatives are currently being rolled out to drive excellence Water consumption in management.
3 thousand m m sales A tool to develop further understanding and skill in the area of 1.70 1.67 performance management is in place and is being used globally 1.59 1.48 through the management population.
Through communication of clear messages coupled with skills development, the organisation aims to raise the capability of its management population in driving performance.
This initiative is backed by a performance management IS system which supports the process.
Bodycotes employment policies are non-discriminatory, complying with all current legislation to engender equal opportunity 2010 2011 2012 2013 irrespective of race, gender, religion, disability, sexual orientation or nationality.
Chlorinated solvents Female representation on our Board is currently 17% 2012: 14% kg m sales and at manager level it is 23% 2012: 23%.
We will increase female 201.2 representation on the Board if appropriate candidates are available when Board vacancies arise.
Females represent 17% 2012: 16% 157.0 148.7 of our total workforce.
129.4 Core values It is not just important what we do but how we do it and how we behave in our company.
How we operate as a Group and the behaviours that we expect from all our employees are expressed in our core values.
Our values represent Bodycote and its people and 2010 2011 2012 2013 our commitment to the company and the business.
ISO 14001 accredited facilities Our core values are straightforward and are summarised as follows: % Honesty and T ransparency 85 81 We are honest and act with integrity.
This is not something we take 81 78 for granted.
Bodycote lives by a culture of honest and transparent behaviour, which is at the core of all our business relationships.
Respect and Responsibility We manage our business with respect, applying an ethical approach to our dealings with those we interact with.
We believe in taking ownership and being mindful of the impact of our actions.
2010 2011 2012 2013 Creating Value Creating value is the very essence of our business and needs to be 1 Accident frequency is defined as the number of lost time accidents per the focus of our endeavours.
We create value for our customers, 200,000 hours worked.
our employees and our shareholders.
2 CO e is carbon dioxide equivalent, which represents the CO release due to 2 2 our energy usage.
28 Bodycote plc annual report for the year ended 31 December 2013 23065.02 11 March 2014 1:46 PM Design Shell Safety and health Human rights The nature of the Groups operations is such that employees are Bodycotes human rights policy is consistent with the Universal regularly exposed to hazards in the workplace.
Bodycote aims to Declaration of Human Rights and the UN Global Compacts ten manage these hazards and thereby minimise risks to employees principles.
through the deployment of a robust safety management system We prohibit forced, compulsory and underage labour and any form which includes appropriate policies and procedures.
of discrimination based on race, gender, religion, age, disability or Although Bodycote has reported a reduction in accident rate over political affiliation.
Appropriate mechanisms are in place to support recent years, a review of operational activities and processes any contraventions of these rules.
towards the end of 2011 suggested a high likelihood of underCustomers and suppliers reporting due to a number of factors.
A three-year global Bodycote has no significant suppliers who are wholly dependent improvement strategy began in 2012, and one aspect of this was upon the Groups business.
Suppliers are paid in line with to address the incident reporting and investigation processes.
Although regrettable and not acceptable, accidents represent learning opportunities, and so accurate reporting is an essential part We endeavour to respond quickly to changing customer demand, of building a robust safety management system.
to identify emerging needs and to improve service availability and quality.
We stay close to our current and potential customers, A number of specific actions were taken to encourage the building long-term relationships.
reporting of incidents, including the introduction in 2013 of a new global incident reporting system and a common near-miss unsafe Bodycote seeks to play a positive role in the local communities in condition reporting system at every operational site.
As a result, the which it operates by providing employment opportunities, building number of near-misses and unsafe conditions reported at the end goodwill and a reputation as a good neighbour and employer.
of 2013 was over three thousand, compared with just 58 at the end Responsible business ethics of 2011.
All Bodycote personnel are expected to apply a high ethical The reported number of accidents leading to lost time has also standard, consistent with an international UK-listed company.
shown an increase, from 1.5 per 200,000 hours worked in 2012 Directors and employees are expected to ensure that their personal to 1.9 per 200,000 hours worked in 2013.
Whilst it cannot be interests do not at any time conflict with those of Bodycote.
proven that this increase is due to better reporting, it is highly Shareholder employees are advised of and comply with share likely that this is the principal reason, given the emphasis that has dealing codes.
been placed on incident reporting and the simultaneous safety improvement activities.
Bodycote has systems in place designed to ensure compliance with all applicable laws and regulations and conformity with all relevant Environment codes of business practice.
Further, Bodycote does not make A proactive approach to improving energy efficiency means that political donations.
Bodycote has implemented a variety of systems to reduce water With regard to competition, Bodycote aims to win business in a and gas consumption and re-use energy.
The continuing focus on differentiated high-value manner.
The Group does not employ unfair lessening its impact on the environment has resulted in Bodycote trading methods and it competes vigorously but fairly within the seeking accreditation to ISO 14001 at all of its facilities.
requirements of the applicable laws.
Employees are prohibited from At every stage where Bodycote is involved in the manufacturing either giving or receiving any inducements.
cycle, our operational aim is to reduce the overall impact on the Our Open Door Policy has been translated into all languages used environment, not just in our own operations, but also those of our throughout the Group.
The policy allows employees to report their customers.
Bodycote operates modern, efficient equipment, which concern verbally or in writing and in confidence to an independent is operated around the clock so as to optimise thermal processing third party provider to ensure anonymity.
Without Bodycote, many companies would be using older and sent to the Group Head of Risk, who then passes the matter to in-house technology and running their equipment at reduced the appropriate individual in the business to be addressed.
capacity, both of which are a drain on energy resources.
Working with Bodycote enables our customers to commit more easily to Bribery and Competition Law online training courses have been carbon reduction initiatives.
put in place, translated into the major languages used throughout the Group, and relevant employees have completed the interactive Bodycote also reduces the carbon footprint of its customers courses.
activities by increasing the lifespan of their products, by improving metallurgical properties and by enhancing corrosion resistance.
Operational SHE performance For example, surface treatment technology is widely used in the Bodycote is committed to building and maintaining a high reliability reclamation of damaged and worn components, offering a costorganisation: one that delivers consistently high performance effective and energy-efficient alternative to the need to manufacture across all aspects of safety, health and environmental SHE new replacement parts, and treated parts often last up to twenty management.
Its objective is to be known for the excellence of times longer than the original.
its SHE performance in all of its business activities and at all of its So, whilst thermal processing is an energy-intensive business, it is sites.
a vital part of the manufacturing chain and its use saves the energy it consumes many times over.
com 23065.02 11 March 2014 1:46 PM Design Shell Additional Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report Corporate responsibility and sustainability continued Greenhouse gas emissions Chlorinated solvent use Scope 1 emissions in the year amounted to 154,069 tCO e 2012: The use of chlorinated solvents in Bodycotes thermal processing 2 1 143,576 tCO e. The intensity ratio amounted to 248.7 2012: activities has been reduced in recent years as aqueous degreasing 2 244.3.
Scope 1 emissions are direct emissions resulting from fuel facilities have been introduced.
In 2013 the overall solvent use usage and the operation of facilities.
decreased by 13% compared with the previous year.
Scope 2 emissions in the year amounted to 219,912 tCO e 2012: A greener, cleaner environment 2 1 211,123 tCO e. The intensity ratio amounted to 354.9 2012: 2 Reducing any detrimental impact on the environment has become 359.1.
Scope 2 emissions are indirect energy emissions resulting a growing focus of industry worldwide and Bodycote can assist from purchased electricity, heat, steam or cooling for own use.
with the drive towards carbon reduction and environmentally friendly approaches in a number of ways.
For example, certain heat The sum of both Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions in the year treatment and thermally sprayed surface treatments are leading amounted to 373,981 tCO e 2012: 354,699 tCO e. The combined 2 2 the way in the replacement of older, less environmentally friendly 1 intensity ratio amounted to 603.6 2012: 603.4. processes such as chrome plating.
The financial control consolidation approach has been used to Future restrictions that will be placed on chrome plating due to report the above data.
This method aligns with the reporting scope health and environmental issues have led many businesses, in the financial statements.
including the major aerospace companies, to embark on initiatives The Group collects electricity and natural gas usage information to replace it.
These companies have highlighted thermal spray from each facility on a monthly basis.
The Group then applies coatings as the preferred replacement for chrome plating.
Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs DEFRA Bodycote has been involved in a number of initiatives to replace published national carbon conversion factors to calculate the total chrome plate and results have shown that, in addition to the tonnage of CO e produced.
2 environmental benefits, thermally sprayed tungsten carbide Group operational management actively monitors their monthly outperforms hard chrome plate for both wear and corrosion CO e emissions reported and the Groups Executive Committee protection.
2 reviews the level of CO e emissions on a monthly basis.
2 Modern thermal processing techniques have allowed designers and All entities and facilities under financial control are included within manufacturers to use much lighter materials, such as aluminium the disclosure.
Emissions 1% of the Groups total CO e relating and titanium, and have significantly prolonged component lifetimes.
2 to fugitive emissions and owned vehicles are not material and Through the effective use of thermal processing, parts can now be are excluded.
As such there are no material omissions from this lighter and overall component weight reduced, leading to improved disclosure.
efficiency and reduced fuel consumption of products in service.
KPI ISO 14001 accredited facilities Cautionary statement Reducing the environmental impact of the Groups activities is The Strategic report has been prepared solely to provide additional taken very seriously.
Compliance with the requirements of ISO information to shareholders to assess the Companys strategies 14001 helps to minimise the risk of adverse environmental effects and the potential for those strategies to succeed.
At the end of 2013, 85% of our operating The Strategic report contains certain forward-looking statements.
facilities had achieved ISO 14001 accreditation.
Operational plants These statements are made by the directors in good faith based on which have not yet received accreditation to the standard are the information available to them up to the time of their approval of working towards it, including several of the facilities acquired this report and such statements should be treated with caution due in 2012 and 2013.
The fall in percentage in 2012 was due to the to the inherent uncertainties, including both economic and business facilities acquired in 2012 which had not obtained accreditation.
risk factors, underlying any such forward-looking information.
A number of the acquired plants have obtained the ISO 14001 accreditation during the year.
Approval The Group Strategic report of Bodycote plc was approved by the Carbon footprint and water consumption Board of Directors and signed on its behalf by: The absolute energy usage increased by 5%, in line with the increase in sales.
When normalised, the total CO e emissions per m sales in 2013 2 were 603.6 Te, unchanged from 2012.
However, factors affecting S. C. Harris this normalised value are the effect of foreign exchange rates and Group Chief Executive acquisitions.
If these are ignored, then the normalised value for 27 February 2014 carbon emissions shows a reduction of 6%.
The Groups total CO emission data is based on Scope 1 and 2 Scope 2 emissions, as defined by the UK Governments DEFRA, and data relating to this has been calculated to include countryspecific electricity conversion factors.
Water usage per m sales decreased by 7%.
1 Emissions per m of turnover 30 Bodycote plc annual report for the year ended 31 December 2013 23065.02 11 March 2014 1:46 PM Design Shell
