Corporate social responsibility Embedded in our values Our approach and priorities drive a clear value chain: doing the right thing builds trust, trust builds reputation, and reputation builds value.
Approach and priorities Working in partnership with the business-led charity Business in the Community BitC, we were able to make exciting headway in rolling out our corporate social responsibility CSR initiatives.
Blending input from employees at all levels, representing a wide range of stakeholder interests, together with BitCs expertise in the issues material to our business, we advanced our CSR programme through four key strands sustainable business practices, employee experience, community, and energy and environment.
These strands continue to provide the framework for our CSR activity, against which our key performance targets and sustainability Jane Hanson, Chair of the Corporate Social metrics are tested and monitored.
An absolute priority for the Responsibility Committee Group is to sustain a high rate of employee engagement, and we were pleased that in spite of the significant amount of continuing change in the business, 71% of our employees During 2013, the Corporate Social reported themselves as favourably engaged in our Employee Responsibility Committee has overseen the Opinion Survey conducted in October.
development of the Groups approach to CSR, Governance taking care to embed it in Direct Line Groups To ensure the delivery of our CSR programme, we have core purpose and values.
This ensures CSR is established a robust governance structure, with clear roles relevant to every employee, creating a clear and responsibilities.
This comprises the CSR Committee, value chain doing the right thing builds trust, see page 70, which has complete oversight of our strategy, policy and programme, and a CSR Advisory Group, formed trust builds reputation, and reputation builds of senior managers and chaired by a member of the Executive value and weaving it into business processes.
Committee, which leads CSR within the business.
The Group Communications team has functional responsibility for This approach reflects the way the Group and executing the strategy and managing the CSR programme on I believe our customers want us to do business, a day-to-day basis.
In addition, a clear policy framework has been developed and, in keeping with best practice, our and ensures our strategy mirrors the themes policies are published on our website.
of empowerment and trust which the Board actively leads in the Groups relationships Sustainable business practices Our products, services, business processes and supply chain with its stakeholders.
have a tangible impact on each of our many stakeholders.
By aiming to embed CSR in all our enterprises activity, we Against the backdrop of a challenging operating hope to deliver better outcomes for our customers and our environment, I am pleased to report that good wider stakeholders across society.
progress has been made in establishing solid foundations to enable us to live up to our broad responsibilities as Britains leading personal lines motor and home insurer.
44 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Strategic report Working with Government Innovation The Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs has We believe that ultimately customers determine our future.
cited flooding as one of the key risks facing Britain.
As one That is why we are investing in technology to help give our of Britains largest home insurers, we want to help address customers the products and services they want and need.
In June 2013, the UK Government and the ABI We have developed an Optimum Repair Process ORP.
published a Memorandum of Understanding on flood insurance, ORP is a new, environmentally sustainable approach to which Direct Line Group played a key role in negotiating, as modern vehicle crash repair, which cuts waste and emissions well as preparing for the creation of Flood Re.
This is a vital by encouraging the practice of repair, not replace.
This step in seeking to make insurance affordable and accessible dramatically reduces the volume of new parts used.
ORP to high risk customers.
We are pleased the UK Government has been supported by our research partner, Thatcham, has made significant commitments to help prevent and mitigate which provides technical training courses for vehicle the effects of flooding, most notably not to reduce spending damage assessors.
On average, it used to take 10 days and 16 hours labour The industry has compromised to reach agreement and, to complete a repair.
In working time, a vehicle could be in although there remain a number of issues that need to be a body shop for 64 hours awaiting repair, preventing other overcome, it is committed to continuing to work closely with cars from being serviced.
Much of that time was wasted the UK Government with the objective of ensuring these can waiting for parts.
The repair industry had become accustomed be resolved.
In the meantime, we will meet our flood-related to replacement rather than repair, creating an over-reliance on commitments to our customers under the existing Statement expensive new parts and the accompanying deskilling of many of Principles.
This, in turn, increased both repair times and In June 2013, we hosted a debate in Westminster to discuss costs, which affected customer satisfaction.
the topical issue of insurance for young drivers.
Young drivers As a result of ORP, we are using around 200,000 fewer new aged between 17 and 24 represent 12% of licence holders, car parts per annum.
but account for 25% of all UK motor accidents where someone is killed or seriously injured.
As a result, this demographic Telematics group of motorists face higher insurance premiums.
The debate In response to improving technology and customer interest, brought together Members of Parliament, national and trade during the year Direct Line launched various telematics press, road safety practitioners, academics and trade bodies propositions.
This technology allows us to gather information to discuss how to improve road safety among young drivers.
about customers driving, recording speed patterns and distance Ideas included a graduated drivers licence, a minimum travelled, which can be connected to the types of roads used learning period, a lower tolerance limit to alcohol, and and at what time.
It also monitors braking and cornering to restrictions on passenger numbers and night-time driving.
build up a picture of a customers driving style so that we can We encourage the Government to release its Young Driver better assess each persons individual risk.
This should lead to consultation paper.
greater pricing granularity for drivers opting for telematics.
A number of our Executives are actively involved in various For higher risk motorists, such as young drivers between industry bodies, including the ABI, FCA Practitioner Panel the ages of 17 and 24, who tend to pay higher premiums, and Financial Ombudsman Service FOS Insurance Industry telematics provide a way for these customer groups to pay Steering Group: and Tom Woolgrove was elected President only for how they drive, rather than also pay for how other of the Chartered Insurance Institute.
This involvement informs drivers behave on the roads.
We recognise that there is a general concern that lobbying can have an inappropriate influence on government policy and therefore we engage only in public policy debates that have an impact on our business or our stakeholders.
We do not support party political interests or make political donations.
600,000 new car parts saved through our repair not replace initiative Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2013 45 Corporate social responsibility continued Above all else, we believe the use of telematics technology investments and are therefore unable to use share ownership encourages safer and more considerate driving, which will to influence other companies.
Although we do not set ethical ultimately lead to safer roads for all.
It is an excellent way parameters for our asset managers regarding the issuers in of encouraging drivers to manage their speed one of the which they can or cannot invest, we have, however, committed biggest causes of collisions on European roads.
to mandating only those external asset managers who demonstrate a strong commitment to using their market Other initiatives leverage to support social, environmental and ethical SEE Other initiatives to make things better and easier for our objectives.
We favour those managers with an active, ongoing customers include piloting the capability to use smartphones demonstrable engagement in local or global SEE initiatives to send us live footage of their home claims so we can settle 1 and expect, at a minimum, our managers to be signatories their claim far quicker.
Smartphones can also be used to give to the UN Principles of Responsible Investment.
We will meet claimants a live view of progress on their car repair as it with each of our asset managers annually to review in detail moves through the accident repair centre process.
the initiatives they have taken and successes accomplished.
Supply chain Employee experience Last year, we began a significant piece of work to ensure Our focus continues to be on our people strategy, to build the we were properly managing the risks and improving the future capability required to achieve our strategic objectives sustainability of our supply chain.
We reviewed and and fulfil our people.
We are committed to strong employee republished our Ethical Code for Suppliers and reworked engagement, which we believe underpins the quality of service the selection criteria and contract terms for new suppliers.
Our focus in 2014 is on developing our supplier management programme.
We were also proud to sign up to the Prompt Engagement Payment Code advocated by the Department for Business, We continue to transform our business.
Since the start of our Innovation and Skills, which is aimed specifically at alleviating cost saving initiatives there has been a reduction of 3,200 the pressure of delayed customer payments on smaller roles.
While necessary in order to sustain our business in a businesses that tend to be more vulnerable to experiencing highly competitive market, such initiatives inevitably impact cash flow problems.
Signatories to the code commit to pay on the engagement of our employees.
In line with our values, suppliers on time the default period being within 30 days, we have worked hard to ensure that as much information as give clear guidelines on payment procedures, and encourage possible was communicated, confirmed that our redundancy lead suppliers to adopt the code in their own supply chains.
terms would remain unchanged during this initiative, and fully consulted our employee representatives.
Living Wage While not accredited to the Living Wage Foundation, we Anyone at risk of redundancy had access to our redeployment ensured that all our employees were paid at or above the support and where redundancy resulted, individuals had Living Wage.
We are also factoring the Living Wage into access to both redeployment and outplacement support.
contract renewal discussions with external suppliers.
Clearly this was a very difficult time for those leaving the Responsible investment business, but also unsettling for those remaining.
Not During the year, we set out our approach to responsible surprisingly, it had an impact on morale, as evidenced in this investment.
The asset classes in which we invest are cash, years Employee Opinion Survey, although it was pleasing that government and corporate debt securities, and commercial overall engagement remained high at 71% relative to historical property.
We do not hold equities or have direct equity results.
This survey also showed that there is a high degree of Note: 1.
One fund manager was selected before this new policy was adopted and our approach is to encourage them to move towards becoming signatories in due course.
46 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Strategic report employee understanding of the strategic direction in which Gender diversity of all employees the business is travelling and how individual roles relate to that journey.
At the same time, despite the significant amount Male 49.0% of business change, our employees have maintained a strong Female 51.0% customer focus and still want to make a positive difference to the experience we give our customers.
Recognition Recognition is an important element of engagement.
The Group has established a number of initiatives to recognise the efforts and contribution of our employees.
These range from formal reward arrangements to informal recognition programmes.
Examples of the latter include our Service Awards, which were relaunched in 2013, to recognise Gender diversity of senior managers loyalty: and our Excellence Awards, which recognise employees for outstanding service, innovation, relationship building or leading by example.
We also run a Chief Executive Awards Male 77.5% programme.
These awards recognise those individuals who Female 22.5% clearly demonstrate behaviours in line with our corporate values, which are at the very heart of our culture and demonstrate the great things our people do for each other, our customers, and our business every day.
Last year, there were a record 6,000 nominations.
Those shortlisted attended an awards event where the entertainment was provided by our own people, in the form of Direct Line Groups Got Talent.
Development Our Leadership Framework sets the expectation for leaders at Gender diversity of Board members all levels.
We believe everyone can show leadership in their role.
With the help of our employees, we have created a Male 66.7% framework which outlines the behaviours, personal qualities, Female 33.3% skills and knowledge needed for individuals to be successful in their role.
The Leadership Framework is specific to Direct Line Group and helps drive the performance of our people.
For our people managers, there was significant focus this year on creating an environment where continuous and flexible development opportunities were made available.
This challenged the traditional learning methodologies, reducing the dependency on face-to-face delivery, and has been built around a self-directed learning model where the Gender diversity emphasis is on the job development.
2013 2012 Over 1,000 people in our Claims business have been As at 31 December Female Male Female Male supported in embracing new ways of working to provide Directors 3 6 3 7 them with the skills and knowledge to handle claims in a more pro-active and efficient way.
Senior managers 34 117 38 141 Diversity Employees 6,510 6,256 7,578 7,257 As a Group, we actively celebrate the diversity of our employees.
Our Diversity Network Alliance aims to represent Our analysis has shown that we need to increase the number the full range of populations within our business and seeks of female applicants for senior management positions and we to ensure we have a workforce reflective of society and our shall look at ways in which we might achieve this in 2014. customer base.
The network is still in its infancy, but we remain hopeful of encouraging 10% of our workforce to become members by the end of 2014.
Last year, the network had a particular focus on gender and working families.
The ratio of female to male employees as at 31 December 2013 is shown in the charts along with a year on year comparison by headcount.
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2013 47 Corporate social responsibility continued Human rights Volunteering Our diversity and inclusion practices are in line with the Aligned to our core business, our focus is on Making Communities Universal Declaration of Human Rights and we continue to Safer through improving road safety and reducing crime and work towards an environment that is based on meritocracy and anti-social behaviour.
In 2013, we worked with four charities inclusion, where all employees can develop their full potential, focused on these themes: Brake, RoadSafe, Catch22, and The irrespective of their age, belief, disability, ethnic or national Princes Trust.
Activities undertaken included: Community Space origin, gender, gender identity, marital or civil partnership Challenges, which brought together our employee volunteers status, political opinion, race, religion or sexual orientation.
with young people to improve neglected community spaces: Speedwatch programmes, where we worked with local police Our Employee Opinion Survey indicated that 89% and councils: and Walking Buses, which encourage children 2012: 92% of respondents felt that we provide a working to walk to their school in an organised and safe environment.
environment that is inclusive and accepting of differences We also sponsor Brakes Giant Walking Bus initiative, which in cultural backgrounds and lifestyles.
this year saw 70,000 children from 350 schools march for safer streets while they walk to school.
Through our Ethical Code for Suppliers we adhere to the core International Labour Organization standards.
Best CSR Initiative Our initiative, Get into Car Repairs, won Best CSR Initiative Recruitment at the British Insurance Awards 2013.
Record levels of youth We are actively supporting a range of initiatives to help unemployment mean the young miss out on vital work alleviate youth unemployment, a continuing legacy of the experience, which may hold them back throughout their financial crisis.
During 2013, we joined the UK Governments careers.
It also creates the risk of a rise in anti-social behaviour Wage Incentive scheme and will recycle any funds received and crime, which has a direct impact on our business and into schemes to help young people into work.
We have also wider society.
Get into Car Repairs had a positive impact on provided partner funding to an online resource and careers the lives of a group of disaffected unemployed young people platform for 11 to 24 year olds, entitled Plotr, which helps in Wakefield, Yorkshire, where one in three 16 to 24 year the young get into employment through supporting internships olds are unemployed.
It gave 15 young people first-hand and mentoring.
Additionally, we are working with Generation experience of repairing cars in a body shop at our local Talent, a joint initiative between the UK Government and BitC, accident repair centre.
They also received training on CV writing and interview techniques, as well as soft skills such to tackle the issues surrounding youth unemployment and to as communication and team building.
support young people into work.
Community Our aim is to build Britains best retail general insurer.
675 We recognise that achieving this aim requires us to play an active role in our local communities.
employees took pledges for Comic Relief and Children in Need For Comic Relief and Children in Need, 675 employees were 26% proud to offer their time to take calls from the public wanting to pledge donations.
At a local level, our Community and Social of employees volunteered or fundraised Committees also arranged and coordinated a significant in company time amount of charity activity.
According to our Employee Opinion Survey, last year, 26% of our staff volunteered or fundraised in company time.
48 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Strategic report Supporting employees Waste We align our charitable giving with the interests of our We retendered our waste management services contract, employees in two ways.
We match employee donations excluding paper, for our main office sites and appointed up to 50 per month through our Give As You Earn scheme SITA as provider in October.
SITA has already significantly GAYE : and we provide individual grants of 250 to increased the percentage of our general office waste we organisations for which our employees regularly volunteer recycle.
Our longer-term aim is to increase recycling year on or raise funds in their own time.
In 2013, we donated year and eliminate waste to landfill by 2016.
Iron Mountain 115,000 through GAYE and a further 48,500 in grants.
collects and recycles 100% of our waste paper.
In 2013, Our employees also undertake their own fundraising at work, we generated 1,355 tonnes of waste from our main office typically for local causes, but also for major fundraising events.
sites of which we recycled 55%.
SWR collects waste from our accident repair centres.
In 2013, these centres generated Strategic partnerships 1,085 tonnes of waste of which 86% was recycled or reused.
Now that our volunteering programme is established, our focus is on supporting our network of Community and Social Committees to develop their relationships with local charities 500,000 and authorities.
Centrally, we will focus on two strategic partnerships.
The first is a continuation of our well-established litres of water per annum saved at our partnership with Brake, with whom we plan a series of head office in Bromley campaigns on road safety issues, for example on the introduction of 20 mph speed limits in certain urban environments.
Resource use The second is with Groundwork, who deliver local community Through our desktop and printing transformation programme projects, improving community spaces and getting people we are replacing our old hardware.
This is expected to bring back into work.
We will look to work with them on programmes a significant reduction in both energy and paper use.
Last year, to help 16 to 24 year olds, not in employment, education or we consumed some 416 tonnes of copier paper.
Our default training, onto schemes which give skills and work experience, office paper has a 100% recycled content.
We are currently establishing an accurate measure for our Energy and environment water usage for the Group.
We aim to manage our operations in a sustainable way.
We seek to reduce waste and make efficient use of resources: We have a number of local initiatives to improve our and we aim to cut emissions, as part of the transition to a low environmental performance, supported by a network of carbon economy.
For example, we have made changes to the way in which we consume water in our restrooms in Emissions Bromley, resulting in a significant saving of half a million litres We have established historical data records on energy use of water annually.
which has helped us better understand trends in our associated greenhouse gas GHG emissions.
Group-wide GHG Charlton House was appointed as our new catering emissions in 2013 were 30,624 tonnes of carbon dioxide supplier in 2013.
Significant in their selection was their equivalent CO e, of which 95.1% related to our UK 2 sustainability credentials, including a commitment to healthy operations.
Emissions are calculated in accordance with the eating, a focus on sourcing local and seasonal produce, Greenhouse Gas Protocol and include Scope 1 and Scope and membership of the Red Tractor Scheme an industry 2 emissions.
More details on our emissions are given in the recognised Kitemark covering animal welfare, food safety Directors report on page 100. and environmental protection.
Our emission data has been externally verified by Ecometrica.
Business travel The verification statements can be found on the Groups We continue to seek ways to reduce business travel, website www.
including better use of technology for video and conference calls, as well as enabling colleagues to work more smartly.
During 2013, 94.9% of the Groups purchased electricity We appointed a new travel management company, Capita was from renewable sources on green tariffs purchased from Travel and Events, in October 2013 and will work with them GDF Energy and SSE in the UK, and LichtBlick and Naturstrom to establish a baseline for reporting future travel-related emissions.
British Independent Utilities BIU was appointed as our Energy Partner to advise us on procuring the energy supply for our offices and accident repair centres from 2014.
Part of the agreement is for BIU to work with us to reduce our power and gas consumption over the next three years, through environmental surveys and improvement plans for our buildings.
We have set a target of a 10% reduction in our gas and electricity usage by the end of 2016, against our 2013 annual consumption figures.
In 2014, we are targeting a reduction of 3% of our UK GHG emissions measured by tonnes of CO e. 2 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2013 49
