Investment Highlights Electras flexible investment strategy has once again proved to be key to its continued success.
The ability to adapt to market conditions has allowed Electra to make a record level of new investment in the year at attractive pricing levels, despite a challenging market.
Electra has also been able to take advantage of strong demand for high-quality assets to achieve a number of major realisations during the year.
The high level of recent realisations has reduced the maturity of the investment portfolio.
Despite this we expect to continue to add value growth in the short term through our strategy of purchasing at discounted values as well as in the longer term through investing in growth.
Market environment During the year to 30 September 2013, conditions in the private equity market proved to be challenging and changeable.
Recovering stock markets and loosening credit markets have created a strong demand for high quality private equity assets, particularly from financial buyers.
Electra has been able to take advantage of this by selling assets at excellent prices.
On the other hand, continued economic uncertainty has made it difficult to match vendor expectations in the valuation of potential new investments.
Notwithstanding this, new investment reached a record level in the year made possible by the adaptability of Electras investment strategy to market conditions.
The focus continued to be on transactions where either the vendor was under pressure to sell or the complexities of the deal reduced the level of competition.
Performance During the year Electras share price made strong progress, increasing by 26% compared to a 19% total return by the FTSE All Share over the same period.
Electras diluted net asset value also continued to make strong progress, increasing to 2,764p at the end of the financial year, a percentage increase of 12%.
The total return from the investment portfolio over the year amounted to 222 million or 26%, of which 161 million arose in the first half of the year and 61 million in the second half.
Currency movements had a marked impact on the performance in each half, the first half including 30 million of currency gains whereas the second half performance included 21 million of negative currency movements.
The strong performance of the portfolio resulted in thresholds of management incentive schemes being exceeded, giving rise to a carried interest provision of 63 million, of which 22 million related to gains made in previous financial years.
Analysis of Movement in Net Asset Value m 1 October 2012 Opening NAV 916 Net gains on investments 222 Finance and other costs, other income 19 Priority profit share 22 Incentive provisions 63 Net FX movements 4 30 September 2013 Closing NAV 1,030 Investment Activity Despite a low overall level of activity in the private equity market, Electras investment activity reached record levels in the year to 30 September 2013 in terms of both new investment and realisations from the portfolio.
Total new investment for the period reached 337 million, more than double the level in the previous year.
In line with Electras flexible investment strategy, purchases included investments in buyout, coinvestment, secondary and debt transactions, all of which were made at attractive pricing levels.
Realisations from the portfolio during the year reached 459 million.
Electra was able to take advantage of strong markets in completing the realisations of two of its largest investments.
Allflex was sold to a private equity buyer realising 267 million in July 2013, while esure was listed on the London Stock Exchange in March 2013 generating proceeds of 62 million to add to the 20 million of proceeds 11
