Corporate responsibility In 2013, we became a proud Corporate sponsor of Macmillan Cancer Support.
responsibility The Group is a major UK insurer with nearly 2 million Our approach to equality and diversity, set out on Page 60 customers who are served by a workforce of around 1,600 of this report in the Employees section, is central to our people based in three o ces, in Glasgow, Manchester Business.
All sta inductions include equality and diversity and Reigate.
We are committed to corporate and social training with each new starter signing our Equality and responsibility in four key areas: Diversity policy 100% compliance in 2013.
We seek the same standards from our human resource suppliers and Our people: outsourced service providers.
Every employee also receives Community and issues engagement: refresher training and accreditation when signing our Code of Conduct annually.
Charitable involvement: and We recognise and reward our employees with a wide range of Our impact on the environment.
bene ts and initiatives that include: a performance and Group award scheme for management, a Pro t Share scheme for all Our people other eligible sta, a Sharesave scheme, Childcare Vouchers, We value and reward our sta.
They are our primary asset.
subsidised Cafes, interest-free season ticket loans, exible Our service to our customers rests in their hands and is working practices, long service awards for sta and dressimproved when they are engaged and motivated.
This starts down days for charities.
with our recruitment approach and the environment, rewards, training, policies and the engagement we o er to make Communication is also at the heart of our engagement.
esure Group a great place to work.
Stuart Vann, our CEO, along with other members of the executive team, carry out face-to-face sta brie ngs and Q&A sessions at least twice a year, plus other Q&A lunches in-between.
The Group maintains an intranet news system to keep sta informed, providing access to all its policies and key documentation.
esure Group Annual Report 2013 30 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Our impact on the environment Human rights The Group resides and o ers its products only within General insurance is an  financial services product: but extended areas of our Business and mainland UK.
We are subject to both the European ful lment can adversely a ect the environment: and we seek Convention on Human Rights and the UK Human Rights to limit these.
We work to minimise the environmental impact Act 1998.
We respect all human rights and enact these of our buildings, sourcing all electricity from renewable particularly in relation to fair treatment, the avoidance of sources, and invest in our systems such as auto-shutdown discrimination and privacy for our customers, suppliers facilities and our new, e cient thin-client desktop and sta.
We aim to ensure that employees comply with environment - to ensure these buildings run e ciently.
all relevant UK legislation and regulations: and this is underpinned by the policies in place and managed by We are working towards paper reduction in our o ces and our Human Resources function.
At work, we have increased the use of electronic documentation and teleconferencing.
Every oor Community and issues engagement of each esure Group building features recycling bins and our The Group encourages sta to nominate local causes as o ce waste is separated into recycling streams.
bene ciaries of sta fundraising and engagement activities.
The absolute carbon footprint of the Group in terms of This local engagement dovetails with our work with charities emissions was 3,574 tCO e. Our chosen metric is tonnes of 2 such as BRAKE and Road Peace, and organisations such as CO emissions per m of turnover: and in 2013, we were 2 the Parliamentary Advisory Committee for Transport Safety measured with a creditable 6.23 tCO per million pounds.
2 and Thatcham so that we can engage directly with those We will continue to monitor environmental metrics by o ce promoting values congruent with our Business.
and activity, recording and reporting on these each year, Linking with our charitable involvement below, one of our key while complying with environmental legislation and areas of community and issue engagement is our support for relevant environmental, energy and pollution reduction the Safe Drive, Stay Alive campaign, launched by Surrey Fire or prevention regulations.
and Rescue to educate and engage novice and new drivers in One of the largest environmental impacts of the Group is schools based around our Reigate o ce.
We were founding the despatch of insurance documents to our customers.
sponsors of this initiative eight years ago and are proud of We embarked on a major programme of IT work in 2013 its achievements, which have now been replicated in other to progressively migrate our provision of paper policies, regions around Britain.
booklets and schedules to e-channels, so that we print and post signi cantly less.
Charitable involvement We beat our targets for customer migration during the year During 2013, our primary charitable giving and engagement by over 15%, saving 130 tonnes of printed materials.
This involved our new partnership with Macmillan Cancer Support.
use of emailed documents reduced our postage costs with We became the proud, founding sponsor of their Night In commensurate reductions in the associated environmental fundraising initiative that persuades donors to turn an impact of postal delivery.
This initiative will expand further expensive night out into an equally engaging and fun night in 2014. in, and then donate the di erence in cost to a cause that provides crucial help to tens of thousands of people a ected Through our approved repairers we undertake many by cancer each year.
thousands of repairs each year for customers.
We have mandated compliance with PAS125 for all our approved Through our Sheilas Wheels brand, we worked closely repairers providing quality guarantees for our customers, with Macmillan to make this event a notable new initiative but also setting safety standards for the quali ed sta who in the annual calendar of charitable events.
Night In has conduct repairs.
congruence with our brand and it generated strong support among the Groups sta.
We raised money to supplement Summary our giving and also encouraged our customers to join with Overall, we are proud of our achievements.
There is more Macmillan to raise funds.
Cancer a ects one in two people we can do in each aspect of our Corporate and Social in Britain during their lives and Macmillan Cancer Support Responsibility.
Now, as a plc, we will work towards is there to provide services following diagnosis when many improvements in every aspect of our business, employment, people feel lost and confused.
charitable giving, community involvement and environmental In 2014, we are delighted to have secured the chance to impact reduction and report our progress each year.
In addition, we support local charities and initiatives that This section, together with the reports set out on pages 1 can positively impact the lives of those who live in our to 29 of the Annual Report constitute the Strategic Report.
Fundraising initiatives in all of our o ces Signed on behalf of the Board.
focus on causes that are nominated by our sta so that their e orts are realised locally.
Stuart Vann Darren Ogden Chief Executive O cer Chief Finance O cer esure Group Annual Report 2013 31
