and practices for working with contractors and our operations are obliged Environment and society to plan and execute actions to reach conformance with OMS on contractor management.
Throughout the life cycle of our projects and operations, We seek to set clear and consistent expectations of our contractors.
In our we aim to manage the environmental and social impacts Upstream business our standard model contracts include, for example, of our presence.
health, safety, security and environmental requirements.
Bridging documents are necessary in some cases to define how our t All of our major operating sites, with the exception of recently acquired safety management system and that of our contractors co-exist to operations, were certied to the environmental management system manage risk on the work site.
In 2011 we undertook a review of how we manage contractors in our t All of our businesses that have the potential to spill oil are updating oil Upstream business, which examined best practice in BP and other spill planning scenarios and response strategies.
industries that use contractors to perform potentially high-consequence t We are working towards aligning with the United Nations Guiding activities.
As a result of this review, we are focusing on developing Principles on Business and Human Rights.
deeper, longer-term relationships with selected contractors in our Upstream business.
We have: t We actively monitor and report greenhouse gas emissions to improve our understanding and management of potential carbon risks.
t Established global agreements that help to strengthen our relationships with strategic contractors and suppliers, manage risks more effectively Greenhouse gas emissions and leverage economies of scale.
Mte CO equivalent 2 t Increased the rigour of health and safety qualication and selection 62.0 0.1 11.5 criteria when approving contractor and supplier capabilities.
59.8 t Piloted guidance for the operating line on parts of our OMS that relate to 58.0 working with contractors.
t Continued working with our strategic contractors and suppliers to create 54.0 standardized technical specications and quality requirements for certain 1.0 0.2 49.2 equipment, initially focused on new projects.
50.0 t Worked on incorporating safety and quality key performance metrics into contracts for potentially high-consequence activities.
Our partners in joint arrangements We seek to work with companies that share our commitment to ethical, safe and sustainable working practices.
However, we do not control how our co-venturers and their employees approach these issues.
Typically, our level of inuence or control over a joint arrangement is linked to the size of our financial stake compared with other participants.
Our Managing our impacts code of conduct provides that we will do everything we reasonably can to At a group level, we review our management of material issues such as make sure joint arrangements follow similar principles to those in our GHG emissions, water, oil spill response, sensitive and protected areas code.
In some joint arrangements we act as the operator.
Our OMS and human rights annually.
Using our operating management system provides that where we are the operator, and where legal and contractual OMS, we seek to identify emerging risks and assess methods to reduce arrangements allow, OMS applies to the operations of that joint them across the company.
Our OMS includes environmental and social practices that set out how In other cases, one of our joint arrangement partners may be the our major projects identify and manage environmental and social impacts.
designated operator, or the operator may be an incorporated joint The practices also apply to projects that involve new access, projects that arrangement company owned by BP and other companies.
In those cases could affect an international protected area and some BP acquisition our OMS does not apply as the management system to be used by the negotiations.
operator, but is available to our businesses as a reference point for their In the early planning stages, these projects complete a screening process engagement with operators and co-venturers.
to identify the most significant environmental and social impacts.
Projects We introduced a group policy in 2013 to provide a consistent framework are required to identify mitigation measures and implement these in for identifying and managing BPs exposure related to safety and design, construction and operations.
From April 2010 to the end of 2013, operational risk, as well as bribery and corruption risk, from our 91 projects had completed the screening process, and used outputs from participation in new and existing non-operated joint arrangements.
the process to implement measures to reduce negative impacts.
BPs environmental expenditure in 2013 totalled $4,288 million 2012 $7,230 million, 2011 $8,491 million.
This gure includes a credit of $66 million relating to the Gulf of Mexico oil spill.
For reference, expenditure related to the Gulf of Mexico oil spill was a charge of $919 million in 2012 and $1,838 million in 2011.
See page 252 for a breakdown of environmental expenditure.
See Regulation of the groups business Environmental regulation on page 254.
Oil spill preparedness and response We issued new group-wide requirements for oil spill preparedness and response planning, and crisis management in July 2012.
These incorporate what we have learned from the Deepwater Horizon accident.
All of our businesses that have the potential to spill oil have been updating oil spill planning scenarios and response strategies in line with the requirements.
Meeting the requirements is a substantial piece of work and we believe this work has already resulted in a significant increase in our oil spill 44 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2013 2012 direct GHG Acquisitions Divestments Operational changes Real sustainable reductions 2013 direct GHG Strategic report response capability.
For example, this includes using specialized modelling Greenhouse gas emissions techniques and the provision of response capabilities, such as stockpiles 2013 2012 2011 of dispersants and planning for major offshore recovery operations.
Direct GHG emissions Mte CO e 49.2 59.8 61.8 2 Enhancing response capabilities Indirect GHG emissions Mte CO e 6.6 8.4 9.0 2 Improving our existing oil spill modelling tools helps BP to better define different oil spill scenarios and associated response plans.
For example, The decrease in our direct GHG emissions is primarily due to the following modelling for exploration in the Omani desert, we modied the divestment of our Texas City and Carson reneries.
planned location of pipelines to reduce the impact to groundwater if a spill Intensity were to occur.
The ratio of our total greenhouse gas emissions to adjusted revenue of We consider the environmental and socio-economic sensitivities of a those entities or share of entities included in our GHG reporting was region to help inform oil spill response planning.
Sensitivity mapping helps 0.15kte $million in 2013.
Adjusted revenue reects total revenues and us to identify the various types of habitats, resources and communities other income, less gains on sales of businesses and xed assets.
that could potentially be impacted by oil spills and develop appropriate Additionally, we publish the ratios for greenhouse gas emissions to response strategies.
Sensitivity mapping is conducted around the world upstream production, rening throughput and chemicals produced at and in 2013 we updated sensitivity maps in Angola, Australia, Azerbaijan, bp.
Egypt, Libya, Trinidad & Tobago and the UK.
Greenhouse gas regulation The use of dispersants is an important option in oil spill response planning.
In the future, we expect that additional regulation of GHG emissions We have gained a greater understanding of dispersants and their use as a aimed at addressing climate change will have an increasing impact on response option through scientific research programmes.
We are our businesses, operating costs and strategic planning, but may also examining topics such as the effectiveness of dispersants in the deep offer opportunities for the development of lower-carbon technologies ocean and the efficiency of naturally occurring marine microbes to and businesses.
degrade dispersed oil in the Gulf of Mexico and in the seas of Australia, Accordingly, we require larger projects, and those for which emissions Azerbaijan and Egypt.
costs would be a material part of the project, to apply a standard carbon We seek to work collaboratively with government regulators in planning cost to the projected GHG emissions over the life of the project.
The for oil spill response, with the aim of improving any potential future standard cost is based on our estimate of the carbon price that might response.
For example, in 2013 we shared lessons on dispersant use, realistically be expected in particular parts of the world.
In industrialized controlled burning response strategies and oil spill modelling with countries, our standard cost assumption is currently $40 per tonne of government regulators in Azerbaijan, Brazil and Libya.
CO e. We use this cost as a basis for assessing the economic value of the 2 investment and as one consideration in optimizing the way the project is See page 42 for information on progress on the recommendations of BPs engineered with respect to emissions.
internal investigation into the Deepwater Horizon accident.
Water Climate change BP recognizes the importance of access to fresh water and the need Climate change represents a significant challenge for society and the to manage water discharges at our operations.
We assess risks, such energy industry, including BP.
In response to the challenges and as water scarcity, wastewater disposal and the long-term social and opportunities, BP is taking a number of practical steps, such as increasing environmental pressures on water resources within the local area.
energy efficiency in our operations, factoring a carbon cost into the investment and engineering decisions for new projects, and investing in We are investing in research with several universities in the US to help lower-carbon energy products.
We also require our operations to understand future risks in water management, such as the allocation incorporate energy use considerations in their business plans and to and use of water in the Middle East and the impact of water policies assess, prioritize and implement technologies and systems to improve and regulation around the world.
Unconventional gas and hydraulic fracturing Climate change adaptation Natural gas resources, including unconventional gas, have an increasingly We consider and identify risks and potential impacts of a changing climate important role in meeting the worlds growing energy needs.
New on our facilities and operations.
Where climate change impacts are technologies are making it possible to extract unconventional gas identied as a risk for a new project, our engineers seek to address them resources safely, responsibly and economically.
BP has unconventional in the project design like any other physical and ecological hazard.
We gas operations in Algeria, Indonesia, Oman and the US.
periodically review and adjust existing design criteria and engineering technology practices.
Some stakeholders have raised concerns about the potential environmental and community impacts of hydraulic fracturing.
BP seeks to Greenhouse gas emissions apply responsible well design and construction, surface operation and We report on GHG emissions on a carbon dioxide-equivalent CO e basis.
2 uid handling practices to mitigate these impacts.
This includes CO and methane for direct emissions and CO for indirect 2 2 Water and sand constitute on average 99.5% of the injection uid.
This emissions, which are associated with the purchase of electricity, heat or is mixed with chemicals to create the fracturing uid that is pumped steam into our operations.
Our GHG reporting encompasses all BPs underground at high pressure to fracture the rock, with the sand propping consolidated entities as well as our share of equity-accounted entities the fractures open.
The chemicals used in the fracturing process help to other than BPs share of TNK-BP and Rosneft.
Rosnefts emissions data reduce friction and control bacterial growth in the well.
Some of these can be found on its website.
chemicals when used in certain concentrations are classied as hazardous Our approach to calculating GHG emissions is aligned with the by the relevant regulatory authorities, and each chemical used in the Greenhouse Gas Protocol and the IPIECA API OGP Petroleum Industry fracturing process is listed in the material safety data sheets kept at each Guidelines for Reporting GHG Emissions.
We calculate emissions based operational site.
We submit data on chemicals used at our hydraulically on the fuel consumption and fuel properties for major sources rather than fractured wells in the US, to the extent allowed by our suppliers who own the use of generic emission factors.
We do not include nitrous oxide, the chemical formulas, at fracfocus.
hydrouorocarbons, peruorocarbons and sulphur hexauoride as they are not material and therefore it is not practical to collect this data.
We aim to minimize air pollutant and greenhouse gas emissions by using responsible practices at our operating sites.
For example, at our drilling sites in the US we use a process called green completions, whenever possible, to manage methane emissions associated with well completions following hydraulic fracturing.
This process recovers natural gas for sale and minimizes the amount of natural gas either ared or vented from our wells.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2013 45 t Participation in the work of oil and gas industry organization IPIECAs taskforce on developing shared industry approaches to managing human rights risks in the supply chain.
We plan to monitor the effectiveness of these actions.
More information about our approach to human rights may be found at bp.
Business ethics Bribery and corruption are significant risks in the oil and gas industry.
Our code of conduct requires that our employees or others working on behalf of BP do not engage in bribery or corruption in any form, whether in the public or private sector.
We operate a group-wide anti-bribery and corruption standard, which applies to all BP employees and contractor staff.
The standard requires annual bribery and corruption risk assessments: risk-based due diligence on all parties with whom BP does business: appropriate anti-bribery and corruption clauses in contracts: and the training of personnel in anti-bribery and corruption measures.
Our processes are designed to enable us to choose suppliers carefully on merit, avoiding conicts of interest and inappropriate gifts and Environmental monitoring at our Terre fide Grace oil sands lease area in entertainment.
We are working to respond effectively to the standards arising from We seek to design and locate our equipment and manage our work the UK Bribery Act as well as other anti-corruption legislation such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and certain regulations promulgated patterns in ways that reduce potential impacts to communities such as increased trafc, noise, dust and light.
We also listen to suggestions or under the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act Dodd-Frank in the US.
complaints from nearby local communities and try to address their concerns.
Financial transparency More information about our approach to unconventional gas and hydraulic As a member of the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative EITI, fracturing may be found at bp.
we work with governments, non-governmental organizations and international agencies to improve transparency and disclosure of Canadas oil sands payments to governments.
BP is supporting several countries that are Oil sands in Canada are the third-largest proven crude oil reserves in the working towards becoming EITI compliant.
world, after Saudi Arabia and Venezuela.
About half of the worlds total oil reserves that are open to private sector investment are contained in In countries that have achieved EITI compliance, including Azerbaijan and Canadas oil sands.
BP is involved in three oil sands lease areas, all of Norway, BP submits an annual report on payments to their governments.
which are located in the province of Alberta.
We expect the Sunrise We have taken part in consultations in relation to new or proposed Energy Project, operated by Husky Energy, to be the first onstream with revenue transparency reporting requirements in the US and EU for production expected to begin in late 2014.
Engineering and appraisal companies in the extractive industries.
We are awaiting the publication activities are under way to design and plan the construction of the first of the revised rules of the Dodd-Frank legislation from the SEC and are phase of Pike, which is operated by Devon Energy.
Terre fide Grace, which preparing to comply with the disclosure requirements.
is BP-operated, is currently under appraisal for development.
We are contributing to the consultation process initiated by the UK Our decision to invest in Canadian oil sands projects takes into government in preparation for the adoption of the EU accounting directive consideration GHG emissions, impacts on land, water use, local into UK law.
In the case of joint arrangements in which we are not the operator, we monitor both the progress of these Enterprise and community development projects and the mitigation of risk.
In the Terre fide Grace project where we In a number of BP locations, we run programmes to help build the skills of are the operator, we are responsible for managing these potential impacts businesses and to develop the local supply chain.
For example, we have and the mitigation of risk.
helped some local companies reach the standards needed to supply BP and other organizations through training and sharing of our standards in More information on BPs investments in Canadas oil sands can be found areas such as health and safety.
BPs social investments, the contributions we make to social and Human rights community programmes in locations where we operate, support BPs human rights policy, published in 2013, outlines our commitment development activities that aim for a meaningful and sustainable impact.
to respect  human rights, as set out in the We look for social investment opportunities that are relevant to local International Bill of Human Rights and the International Labour needs, aligned with BPs business, and offer partnerships with local Organizations Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at organizations.
The policy applies to all employees and ofcers in BP wholly In 2013, we contributed $78.8 million in social investment.
More owned entities and in joint arrangements to the extent possible and information about our social contribution can be found at reasonable given BPs level of participation.
The United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights outline specic responsibilities for businesses in relation to human rights.
We are committed to working towards aligning with the Guiding Principles using a risk-based approach.
In 2013 our actions included: t Human rights workshops for senior leaders in Indonesia and the Middle East, with plans to roll these out in other high-priority regions.
t Inclusion of human rights in our impact assessment for the LNG expansion project in Tangguh, Indonesia.
t Collaboration with industry peers on the development of good practice guidance for integrating human rights into environmental and social impact assessments.
46 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2013
