Corporate governance The companys management, with the participation of the companys Shareholder approval of equity compensation plans group chief executive and chief financial officer, has evaluated the The NYSE rules for US companies require that shareholders must be given effectiveness of the companys disclosure controls and procedures the opportunity to vote on all equity-compensation plans and material pursuant to Exchange Act Rule 13a-15 b as of the end of the period revisions to those plans.
BP complies with UK requirements that are similar covered by this annual report.
Based on that evaluation, the group chief to the NYSE rules.
The board, however, does not explicitly take into executive and chief financial officer have concluded that the companys consideration the NYSEs detailed denition of what are considered disclosure controls and procedures were effective at a reasonable material revisions.
Code of ethics Managements report on internal control over financial The NYSE rules require that US companies adopt and disclose a code of reporting business conduct and ethics for directors, ofcers and employees.
BP has Management of BP is responsible for establishing and maintaining adopted a code of conduct, which applies to all employees, and has board adequate internal control over financial reporting.
BPs internal control over governance principles that address the conduct of directors.
In addition BP financial reporting is a process designed under the supervision of the has adopted a code of ethics for senior financial ofcers as required by the principal executive and financial ofcers to provide reasonable assurance SEC.
BP considers that these codes and policies address the matters regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of BPs specified in the NYSE rules for US companies.
financial statements for external reporting purposes in accordance with IFRS.
Code of ethics As of the end of the 2013 scal year, management conducted an The company has adopted a code of ethics for its group chief executive, assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting chief financial officer, group controller, general auditor and chief accounting in accordance with the Internal Control Revised Guidance for Directors officer as required by the provisions of Section 406 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Turnbull.
Based on this assessment, management has determined that Act of 2002 and the rules issued by the SEC.
There have been no waivers BPs internal control over financial reporting as of 31 December 2013 was from the code of ethics relating to any ofcers.
BP also has a code of conduct, which is applicable to all employees.
The companys internal control over financial reporting includes policies This was updated and published on 1 January 2012. and procedures that pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reect transactions and dispositions of assets: provide reasonable assurances that transactions are recorded as Controls and procedures necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with Evaluation of disclosure controls and procedures IFRS and that receipts and expenditures are being made only in accordance The company maintains disclosure controls and procedures, as such term with authorizations of management and the directors of BP: and provide is dened in Exchange Act Rule 13a-15 e, that are designed to ensure that reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of information required to be disclosed in reports the company les or unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of BPs assets that could have submits under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and a material effect on our financial statements.
BPs internal control over reported within the time periods specified in the Securities and Exchange financial reporting as of 31 December 2013 has been audited by Ernst & Commission rules and forms, and that such information is accumulated Young, an independent registered public accounting rm, as stated in their and communicated to management, including the companys group chief report appearing on page 121 of BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2013. executive and chief financial officer, as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.
Changes in internal control over financial reporting In designing and evaluating our disclosure controls and procedures, our There were no changes in the groups internal controls over financial management, including the group chief executive and chief financial reporting that occurred during the period covered by the Form 20-F that officer, recognize that any controls and procedures, no matter how well have materially affected or are reasonably likely to materially affect our designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, internal controls over financial reporting.
assurance that the objectives of the disclosure controls and procedures are met.
Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no Principal accountants fees and services evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, within the company have been detected.
The audit committee has established policies and procedures for the Further, in the design and evaluation of our disclosure controls and engagement of the independent registered public accounting rm, procedures our management necessarily was required to apply its Ernst & Young LLP, to render audit and certain assurance and tax services.
judgement in evaluating the cost-benefit relationship of possible controls The policies provide for pre-approval by the audit committee of specically and procedures.
Also, we have investments in certain unconsolidated dened audit, audit-related, tax and other services that are not prohibited entities.
As we do not control these entities, our disclosure controls and by regulatory or other professional requirements.
Ernst & Young are procedures with respect to such entities are necessarily substantially more engaged for these services when its expertise and experience of BP are limited than those we maintain with respect to our consolidated important.
Most of this work is of an audit nature.
Because of the inherent limitations in a cost-effective control awarded either through a full competitive tender process or following an system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be assessment of the expertise of Ernst & Young relative to that of other detected.
The companys disclosure controls and procedures have been potential service providers.
These services are for a xed term.
designed to meet, and management believes that they meet, reasonable assurance standards.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2013 111
