Corporate governance auditor is only considered for permitted non-audit services when its Key responsibilities expertise and experience of the company is important.
A two-tier system The committee receives specic reports from the business segments but for approval of audit-related and non-audit work operates.
For services also receives cross-business information from the functions.
These include, relating to accounting, auditing and financial reporting matters, internal but are not limited to, the safety and operational risk function, group audit, accounting and risk management control reviews or non-statutory audit, group ethics and compliance and group security.
The SEEAC can access any the committee has agreed to pre-approve these services up to an annual, other independent advice and counsel if it requires, on an unrestricted basis.
For all other services which fall under the permitted The committee met seven times in 2013, including joint meetings with the services categories, approval above a certain financial amount must be audit committee.
At one of the joint meetings the committee reviewed the sought on an individual engagement basis.
Any proposed service not general auditors report on the system of internal control and risk included in the permitted services categories must be approved in advance management for the year in preparation for the boards report to shareholders either by the audit committee chairman or the audit committee before in the annual report see Internal Control Revised Guidance for Directors engagement commences.
The audit committee, chief financial officer and Turnbull on page 110.
In that joint meeting the committees also reviewed group controller monitor overall compliance with BPs policy on auditthe general auditors audit programme for the year ahead to ensure both related and non-audit services, including whether the necessary precommittees endorsed the coverage.
The SEEAC and audit committee approvals have been obtained.
worked together, through their chairs and secretaries, to ensure that the Committee review agendas did not overlap or omit coverage of any key risks during the year.
The audit committee undertakes an annual evaluation of its performance In addition to the committee membership, all of the SEEAC meetings were and effectiveness.
In 2013 the committee used an online survey which attended by the group chief executive, the executive vice president for examined governance processes such as the mix of experience and skills safety and operational risk S&OR and the general auditor or his delegate.
amongst members, meeting content, information, training and resources.
The external auditor also attended some of the meetings and was briefed Areas of focus for 2014 arising from the evaluation included monitoring the on the other meetings by the chair and secretary to the committee.
The length of committee papers, the inclusion of broader business topics on group general counsel and the group ethics and compliance officer also the agenda and suggestions for further committee training.
The committee scheduled private sessions for the committee members only without the presence of executive management at the conclusion of each meeting to discuss any issues Safety, ethics and environment assurance arising and the quality of the meeting.
committee SEEAC Members Name Membership status Paul Anderson Member since February 2010: chairman since chairman December 2012 Frank Bowman Member since November 2010 Antony Member since February 2004 Burgmans Cynthia Carroll Member since June 2007 Ann Dowling Member since February 2012 Activities during the year Safety, operations and environment The committee received regular reports from the S&OR function, including quarterly reports prepared for executive management on the groups Chairmans introduction health, safety and environmental performance and operational integrity.
The SEEAC has continued to monitor closely and provide constructive These included quarter-by-quarter measures of personal and process challenge to management in the drive for safe and reliable operations at all safety, environmental and regulatory compliance and audit findings.
This has included the committee receiving specic reports on the Operational risk and performance forms a large part of the committees companys management of high priority risks in shipping, wells, pipelines, agenda.
facilities and non-operated joint arrangements.
The committee has also During the year the committee received specic reports on the companys undertaken a number of eld visits as described in more detail below as management of risks in shipping, wells, pipelines, facilities and nonwell as maintained its schedule of regular meetings with executive operated joint arrangements.
The committee reviewed these risks, and risk management.
management and mitigation, in depth with the relevant executive The SEEAC has continued to receive regular reports from the independent management.
experts that it has engaged in both the Upstream Carl Sandlin and in the Independent expert Upstream Downstream Duane Wilson.
They have provided valuable insights and Mr Carl Sandlin continued in his role as an independent expert to provide advice on many aspects of process safety and we are grateful to them for further oversight and assurance regarding the implementation of the Bly their work.
He has twice reported directly to the SEEAC in Paul Anderson 2013, and presented detailed reports on his work, including reporting on a Committee chair number of visits he has made to company operations around the world.
He will again report to SEEAC in early 2014.
Role of the committee The role of the SEEAC is to look at the processes adopted by BPs executive management to identify and mitigate significant non-financial risk.
This includes the committee monitoring the management of personal and process safety and receiving assurance that processes to identify and mitigate such non-financial risk are appropriate in design and effective in implementation.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2013 77
