28 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2013 Corporate social responsibility At Hargreaves Lansdown, we want to make sure that our impact on society is a positive one.
Our company values are rooted in providing great service at a great price, and we believe that doing the right thing makes great business sense.
We are committed to managing Environment Tonnes CO2e per employee per annum the environmental impact of As a service business that does not own its 7 our operations, treating our business premises and is fundamentally based on intellectual capital, Hargreaves employees well and maintaining 6 Highest Lansdown has a limited direct impact on a great culture and working the environment.
Nevertheless the Group 5 continues to promote energy efficiency environment.
Our approach to and the avoidance of waste throughout its corporate social responsibility 4 operations.
includes these key elements: FTSE 100 We recently commissioned a report to 3 sector average investigate our output of greenhouse gas emissions and reductive measures we 2 Quality could undertake for more information visit HL Lowest We want to offer the best products www.
As part of this report 1 and offer an excellent service, and Hargreaves Lansdown was compared to FTSE 100 companies in the same sector.
are always looking for ways to 0 The results demonstrate the relatively improve.
low impact our business has on the environment.
Sustainability This low impact on the environment has We have invested heavily in providing a We work for the long-term, looking not stopped us from enacting initiatives user-friendly, comprehensive website beyond immediate success.
to continue reducing our environmental and automated links to banks and fund impact.
providers Integrity Clients are able to opt out of receiving Efficiency and minimising environmental paper valuations and contract notes, We deal with people openly and impact viewing them via our website instead honestly, building strong In many respects, our objective of reducing relationships.
waste and minimising the environmental impact of our business is aligned with Our modern office has chilled our objectives of protecting client data, beam air conditioning, which reducing costs, and improving efficiency.
is up to 60% more energy It is our aim to deal with clients and other businesses electronically wherever efficient.
The building also uses possible not only to speed up information technology to manage lighting transfer but also to reduce the amount of paper we use: minimising wastage www.
co. uk Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2013 29 Environmental initiatives - improvements We aim to further reduce the amount of paper-based processes whilst providing better service.
The benefits will grow as more people and businesses choose to transact business and receive information online.
We aim to increase the take-up of online and paperless services, and have been successful in doing this during the year: 30 June 30 June 2013 2012 Vantage clients were registered as paperless 47% 41% Vantage equity deals placed online 90% 87% Clients registered to use our online services 81% 78% Business travel and commuting Greenhouse gas emissions We do not provide company cars as standard During the year we engaged a consultant to assess our carbon emissions and to managers or to our network of advisers.
benchmark us against other firms in our sector.
The report showed that we have These advisers are spread throughout the achieved reductions in emissions in both absolute terms and on a per employee UK which minimises travel time and carbon basis.
The report was positive and reinforced our belief we are already making good emissions.
We provide a telephone advice progress towards being resource efficient.
In the financial year ending 2013 our use service to handle those cases where a faceof refrigerant gases and fuel consumed per employee fell by 23% and our electricity to-face meeting is unnecessary.
use per employee fell by 15% compared to the previous year.
We also provide a secure bike park at our Global GHG emissions data for period 1 July 2011 to 30 June 2013 office enabling up to 150 staff to cycle to work.
We were also mindful of selecting our Tonnes of CO2e office location close to residential areas Emissions from Current reporting Comparison year Change % where many of our staff live, allowing them year 2012-2013 2011-2012 to walk to work.
Combustion of fuel and operation 220.9 253.6 -12.9 of facilities Recycling We continue to shred and recycle Electricity, heat, steam and cooling 1216.4 1289.1 -5.6 confidential waste and have arrangements purchased for own use for the collection of recyclable waste such as Tonnes of CO2e per average full- 1.97 2.36 -16.5 printer toner cartridges, cardboard, plastics, time equivalent employee newspapers and out-of-date literature.
We also continue to recycle redundant IT Methodology equipment through specialist third parties.
We have reported on all of the emission sources required under the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Reports Regulations 2013.
These sources Electricity usage fall within our consolidated financial statement.
We do not have responsibility Our electricity usage is not high enough to for any emission sources that are not included in our consolidated statement.
We mean that we have to participate in the Carbon have used the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard revised Reduction Commitment CRC Energy Efficiency edition and emission factors from UK Governments GHG Conversion Factors for Scheme.
This scheme was compulsory for UK Company Reporting 2013. organisations that consumed over 6,000 MWh of half-hourly metered electricity for the period For more information visit www.
co. uk csr January 2008 to December 2008.
During that period we consumed well below that level and for the year ended 30 June 2013 we had consumed only 2,731 MWh 2012: 2,802 MWh.
Although we do not set a formal target for the reduction in electricity consumption, the ethos of the company is such that we always try to keep energy consumption to a minimum.
co. uk 30 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2013 FTSE4Good Hargreaves Lansdown is a founding sponsor of the Hargreaves Lansdown has Gromit Unleashed Grand Appeal.
"continued to be included in the FTSE4Good Index series, having ""It was a privilege to be asked to be involved with Gromit been independently assessed according to the FTSE4Good criteria."
Unleashed and the Grand Appeal.
"Bristol Children's Hospital The FTSE4Good index measures is one of the city's proudest achievements and we are the performance of companies that meet globally recognised standards delighted to support, and help raise awareness of, this on corporate social responsibility extremely worthwhile charity. """
It is a tool for sociallyresponsible investors that helps them Peter Hargreaves to benchmark companies on their CSR performance and contributes to the development of responsible business practice around the world.
The FTSE4Good inclusion criteria are enhanced regularly and demand continued improvement in CSR practices in order for companies to gain or maintain inclusion in the index.
Community With the exceptions described below, we have made it company policy to focus our support on one charity or non-profit organisation each year which is selected from suggestions received from employees within the Group.
During the year the chosen charity was Cots for Tots.
This is being run by the Wallace & Gromit appeal and is aiming to raise 1 million for the special care baby unit.
All of our fund raising initiatives are now focused on this charity.
Charitable activity outside of our chosen are competing in the Invesco Perpetual Total donations to charity for the year charity for the year Highland Adventure Race in September ended 30 June 2013 were 62,000 2012: The Group supports a grass-roots sports of this year.
We do not make political club.
A monthly donation is made to facilitating team bonding whilst raising donations the Bristol & West Athletics Club which money for the Mitchemp Trust, which is the leading all-round athletics club aims to provide outdoor adventure The Group also makes significant tax in the Southwest of England, providing programmes for youths in order to help payments which help society as a whole.
coaching and competition for the widest give them hope, confidence and life skills Corporation tax and employers national range of events, for all age groups and all to meet the challenges in their lives insurance paid in respect of the year ended abilities throughout the year We support the Bristol Childrens 30 June 2013 was 45.0 million 2012: We are again supporting two teams of hospital Grand Appeal see above 39.8 million.
In addition other taxes such staff from Hargreaves Lansdown who as VAT, stamp duty and business rates paid.
co. uk Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2013 31 Campaigning Ombudsman Service for the industry.
needs is undertaken and reasonable The Company also actively seeks to The results for the 2013 financial year adjustments are made to the work lobby via public consultation documents compared to the last figures published by environment or practices in order to assist where they believe that investors in the the Ombudsman show that Hargreaves them.
Our latest success has Lansdown is achieving good results in been the Governments agreement to treating our clients fairly.
Hargreaves Lansdown is committed to consult on what we hope to be the first providing a safe and healthy environment step in allowing Child Trust Funds to be Integrity in which its employees can work.
We transferred to far superior Junior ISAs.
For The Company prides itself on its integrity use Health and Safety consultants on an more information on our lobbying see our in dealing with clients and staff openly ongoing basis to ensure that standards website on www.
This is achieved through our are maintained, and the Health and Safety policy of putting clients first.
Internally, policy is made available to all staff via our all staff are trained and made fully aware intranet.
Culture of anti-money laundering procedures which must be adhered to at all times.
The Hargreaves Lansdown actively encourages We have worked hard to create what we Company takes the views of its employees employee involvement and consultation believe to be a unique working culture at very seriously and as such operates a and places emphasis on keeping its Hargreaves Lansdown.
Whistleblowing Policy with any concerns employees informed of the Companys raised about malpractice or wrongdoing activities and financial performance by Putting clients first within the workplace being treated with the such means as the employee intranet At Hargreaves Lansdown there is an utmost confidence and in full compliance and publication to all staff of relevant embedded culture whereby the interests with the Public Interest Disclosure Act.
of clients are always put first and this We have recently carried out a successful is communicated to all employees in Efficiency and cost saving consultation regarding the implementation the business during their induction and We believe that costs require constant of auto-enrolment and the introduction throughout their careers.
In practice this consideration and have built an ethos of of a compulsory employee pension includes elements such as ensuring that: employees continually asking themselves contribution to sit alongside the existing whether their actions are cost effective and employer contributions which Hargreaves all product design and information is efficient.
As a result employees only print Lansdown continues to make on behalf of clear and clients fully understand the documents when necessary, will avoid its employees.
features, benefits, risks and costs of the traveling when not required and generally financial products they buy minimise waste.
As a result, our culture Professional development information and client support is combines well with specific environmental Professional development is actively available to clients after the point of sale initiatives to minimise resource usage encouraged and many of our staff embark appropriate complaints handling and encourages continual improvement in on professional qualifications to further procedures are in place resource efficiency.
their knowledge and careers within the financial promotion and marketing Company.
During the year-ended 30 June practices are unbiased and appropriate 2013 152 staff sat a professional exam and for their audience 47 completed a professional qualification.
Employment As part of this culture we actively monitor Employment and diversity We offer a number of university students all areas of the business via monthly and Hargreaves Lansdown proudly fosters a the opportunity to work in positions quarterly reporting both in terms of treating working environment that wholly supports throughout the business during their clients fairly and ensuring excellent levels the principals of diversity and equality and professional placement year.
This is a year of client service.
Another way to ensure is committed to ensuring that everyone is offered on a number of university courses we are getting things right with clients treated with dignity and respect.
We are an and provides real world experience in the is to listen to them and the changes they equal opportunities employer and it is our work place giving their studies context and would like to see to our services and we policy to ensure that all job applicants and improving their employability at the end of encourage and actively seek feedback from employees are treated fairly and on merit their studies.
A number of these students clients.
regardless of any discriminatory factor have subsequently returned to Hargreaves to ensure the Group attracts, retains and Lansdown in a full time capacity.
If clients ever feel the need to complain, promotes the best available talent.
As at our complaints handling team carefully 30 June 2013, the Group employed a total investigates our clients complaint and of 756 people, of which 527 are male 70% endeavours to provide them with a fair and 229 are female 30%.
We benchmark our performance in treating clients fairly against statistics We offer tangible support to our people.
A published annually by the Financial full assessment of any disabled employees www.
