Corporate Social Responsibility The business of the Company is to make investments in Governance infrastructure assets, to hold these investments and to manage the The Board remains committed to the highest standards of corporate portfolio of investments to achieve an acceptable return for governance and keeps the Companys practices under review with shareholders.
In managing the Company and the Group, the respect to current best practice.
Further details of how the Company Directors have ensured that procedures and policies have been put complies with the various corporate governance standards are set in place by the Group and its service providers to manage the Group out in the Corporate Governance report.
The Board wishes to be at the forefront of disclosure and reporting As part of good practice and to mitigate risk, the Board has in place of the Companys performance and strategic intentions.
The Board a set of Environmental, Social and Governance policies appropriate believe this is achieved by the detailed information provided for a company investing in infrastructure assets, which conform to as follows: current good practice in relation to corporate responsibility.
Annual reports: The Companys Environmental, Social and Governance ESG Interim statement and accounts: policies cover: Detailed presentations to accompany the results: how the Company interacts with stakeholders, including Two Interim Management Statements a year: shareholders: Announcements of all material acquisitions: what ESG considerations need to be made before a new Meetings and lunches with shareholders, by the Directors and investment is acquired: and the Investment Adviser.
how the current portfolio is managed by the Investment Adviser to promote and achieve good ESG practices.
com has further information on each investment and copies of all publications, together with all The Investment Adviser is registered with the United Nations as prospectuses and circulars since launch.
agreeing to adopt and implement its Principles for Responsible Investment PRI which are widely recognised and highly regarded Disclosure of key sensitivities and risks has been developed by the around the world.
The UN PRI can be summarised as follows: Board working with the Investment Adviser and through dialogue with shareholders, the level and type of disclosure has been To incorporate ESG issues into investment analysis and developed and refined in order to assist in a full and fair analysis of decision-making: the Company and its investments.
To be active owners and incorporate ESG issues into ownership Managing the Portfolio policies and practices: Day-to-day management of the Groups portfolio is undertaken by To seek appropriate disclosures on ESG issues by the entities in the Investment Adviser in its capacity as Operator of the Partnership.
which the investments are made: The policies and procedures within each area of ESG are set out To promote acceptance and implementation of PRI within the below as well as examples of where active implementation has investment industry: occurred in projects in which the Group has an investment.
These are To report on activities and progress towards implementing not exhaustive but represent the types and variety of initiatives the PRI.
being undertaken throughout the Group.
Where successful, certain initiatives have been implemented more widely across the Groups During the course of the last 12 months the Investment Adviser has investments e. g. utility smart meter installation.
been progressively incorporating the UN PRI within its business.
As part of this process, it has also been using the Groups role as a Environmental shareholder in each project and its rights to appoint a director on each All of the Groups investments are in project companies who provide project company board, to seek each project company to report services to their clients and who subcontract the provision of these against the Groups ESG policies.
This is taking time to fully implement services to specialist facilities management companies.
due to the number of stakeholders involved, but the Investment Advisers team is making continued progress in this respect.
On a routine basis, the Investment Adviser undertakes a review to ensure that each key contractor or their group has appropriate Annual Review environmental policies in place and that these are being adhered to The Board has reviewed its performance and the performance of its in delivery of the services to the project and that further, there have service providers over the last 12 months and can confirm been no material breaches of their policies.
During the year the compliance with its stated ESG policies, details of which are given periodic reviews carried out have found no issues of concern.
On the basis of the Investment Advisers recommendations the Directors have considered the existing ESG policies relative to The Investment Advisers asset managers continue to take a good industry practice as applicable to an infrastructure Investment proactive approach to work with both clients and key stakeholders to Company and believe them to be current and appropriate.
introduce new environmental initiatives in each project company where appropriate.
H ICL A N N U A L R E PO R T & A C COU N T S 2013 53 Corporate Social Responsibility continued Examples of initiatives in the year: At the Ministry of Defence building in Northwood, the project company and its FM service provider have been working closely At the Fife Schools PFI project, upgraded lighting and control with the client to build closer relationships with the local measures have been installed leading to a saving of a significant community in contrast to the perceptions that might exist with any proportion of electricity as lighting is only activated in the high security facility.
Initiatives include a programme to link with affected areas when required.
the local tradesmen businesses such that the project can give something to the local community through local procurement In a similar variation, West Middlesex Hospital has invested to where feasible.
upgrade its energy management systems.
Taking advice from a third-party consultant, it has undertaken various initiatives such 2012 was the year of the London Olympics and Paralympics and as installing LED lighting to reduce power consumption as well as to commemorate the fact that Stoke Mandeville Hospital in variable speed drive motors in the air-conditioning system.
The Buckinghamshire is the home of the Paralympic movement, the project has also renegotiated its waste collection service contract project company and facilities management company jointly such that it now has a recycling component paid for by the service funded improved landscaping of the main entrance roundabout provider out of savings.
featuring a sculpture based on the Olympic rings as its centrepiece.
This was very visible when the four torch routes At the Metropolitan Police Training Centre in Gravesend, an 11% from Cardiff, Edinburgh, Belfast and London converged on reduction in energy consumption was achieved in 2012 through Stoke Mandeville on 28 August 2012, and the four flames were the installation of a voltage optimiser and occupancy sensors, as combined to create the London 2012 Paralympic Flame.
well as additional metering and the implementation of enhanced boiler management.
The installation of photovoltaic panels also Governance generated over 85,000 kwh of renewable electricity, thereby For all the investments in the portfolio, the Group is entitled to reducing the power requirements from the national grid.
appoint at least one director to the board of the project company and these positions have all been filled by a person recommended by the Social and Ethical Group.
Board meetings are not quorate without the Groups The approach to social and ethical practices is similar to that for nominated director being present and this is part of the Investment environmental in that each key contractors policies are reviewed and Advisers active management of the underlying investments.
All their ongoing compliance to their stated policies reviewed on a directors fees paid by the projects are for the benefit of the Group, regular basis.
In addition, the Investment Advisers team will ensure and not the Investment Adviser.
that the project companies in which the Group has investments are run appropriately in relation to the Groups social and ethical policies.
All the project companies have detailed governance structures including those matters which are reserved for shareholders to Health and Safety performance of each investment is monitored and determine, those items which directors determine and the routine during the year a number of Health and Safety audits were carried day-to-day matters that are delegated to the projects general out by Health and Safety consultants to ensure procedures and manager and his or her team.
policies were in place and being adhered to.
Information on Health and Safety is reported to the Board on a quarterly basis.
Rather than being project-specific, our governance policies and procedures have been implemented across the whole portfolio.
This Examples of initiatives during the year: includes standing agenda items such as: At Haverstock School in Camden, London, there has been extensive Directors conflicts of interest, which are discussed and recorded use of the communal facilities e. g. assembly hall, sports hall by in the company register at each project company Board meeting.
The profit from these activities, above an agreed If any exist, these are discussed and a solution agreed: threshold, is shared with the local authority client.
Health and Safety compliance: In Scotland, the Highland Schools project has allocated 5,000 Cost saving and or efficiency programme initiatives.
per annum for various community initiatives.
This year a specially adapted tricycle and several Nintendo Wiis were purchased With the enactment of the UK Bribery Act 2010, the Investment specifically for disabled children in the community or those with Adviser has developed appropriate polices and made sure that these learning and mobility issues.
These are not just toys, but an are adopted by all project companies within which the Group has integral part of special learning programmes.
This has been taken further by requesting that coshareholder directors of the Groups overseas project companies also acknowledge their responsibilities, even though they are not legally bound by legislation.
54 H ICL A N N U A L R E PO R T & A C COU N T S 2013 Making New Investments The Investment Adviser has a detailed set of procedures and approval processes in relation to the making of new investments.
These include appropriate ESG checks as part of the due diligence processes.
Environmental As part of the detailed due diligence carried out by the Investment Adviser and the advisers, the history of the investment in relation to the Companys environmental policies will be assessed.
Key contractors and service providers are analysed to check they have appropriate policies in place and that there have been no breaches.
Where it is not possible to get comfortable with either a key contractors environmental record or the projects environmental performance to date, the investment will not be made.
There were no circumstances in the year where this was the case.
Social and Ethical The approach to social and ethical practices is similar to that for environmental in that each key contractors policies will be reviewed as part of the due diligence process.
The trading history of the investment will also be reviewed to ensure compliance with the Groups social and ethical policies.
All acquisitions made during the year were subject to these reviews and checks and no material matters were identified.
Governance With regard to new equity investments, the Investment Adviser normally seeks, as a minimum requirement, board representation on the underlying investment company, with appropriate voting rights and reserved matters to ensure it will be possible to manage the investment and achieve the projected returns.
It is unlikely that a new investment will be made where this level of control and influence is not achievable.
In the year to 31 March 2013, all investment opportunities came with appropriate Board representation.
