Value creation and long-term sustainability Through our principal activities making How we create value................................................. 9 payments, holding savings, providing finance Long-term sustainability......................................... 10 and managing risks we play a central role in society and in the economic system.
In May 2013, we reinforced our vision for the long-term direction of HSBC first outlined in 2011, together with a clear strategy that will help us achieve it.
It guides where and how we seek to compete.
We constantly assess our progress against this strategy and provide regular updates to stakeholders.
How we create value Value creation Customers Banks, and the individuals within them, play a crucial role in the economic and social system, Personal, corporate, governmental, institutional and high net worth creating value for many parties in different ways.
customers and counterparties We provide a facility for customers to securely and Branches conveniently deposit their savings.
We allow funds Networks Markets and offices to flow from savers and investors to borrowers, either directly or through the capital markets.
The Products and Income borrowers then use these loans or other forms of Loans Deposits Financial credit to buy goods or invest in businesses.
By these credit investments services means, we help the economy to convert savings Trading which may be individually short-term into financing Interest and fee income and other income which is, in aggregate, longer term.
We bring together investors and people looking for investment funding and we develop new financial products.
We Costs also facilitate personal and commercial transactions Risk and Loan losses by acting as payment agent both within countries and Capital internationally.
Through these activities, we take on Salaries and other payments Employees risks which we then manage and reflect in our prices.
Infrastructure and other costs Third parties Our direct lending includes residential and commercial mortgages and overdrafts, and term Taxes Governments loan facilities.
We finance importers and exporters engaged in international trade and provide advances Distribution to companies secured on amounts owed to them by Dividends their customers.
Shareholders We also offer additional financial products Retained profit and services including broking, asset management, financial advisory, life insurance, corporate finance, Our main products and services are described in more detail on page 79. securities services and alternative investments.
We make markets in financial assets so that investors Our operating income is primarily derived from: have confidence in efficient pricing and the availability of buyers and sellers.
We provide these net interest income interest income we earn on customer loans and advances and on our surplus funds, less interest products for clients ranging from governments to expense we pay on interest-bearing customer accounts and large and mid-market corporates, small and mediumdebt securities in issue: sized enterprises, high net worth individuals and net fee income fee income we earn from the provision of retail customers.
We help customers raise financing financial services and products to customers less fees we pay: and from external investors in debt and equity capital markets.
We create liquidity and price transparency net trading income income from client driven trading activities primarily conducted in Markets, including Foreign in these securities allowing investors to buy and Exchange, Credit, Rates and Equities trading.
sell them on the secondary market.
We exchange national currencies, helping international trade.
9 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report
