The financial and non-financial measures upon request from the Group Company Secretary, incorporated in the annual and long-term scorecards 8 Canada Square, London E14 5HQ.
Particulars of are carefully considered to ensure alignment with the options held by Directors of HSBC Holdings are long-term strategy of the Group.
Further information on the Groups approach Note 7 on the Financial Statements gives details to remuneration is given on page 378. on share-based payments, including discretionary awards of shares granted under HSBC share plans.
Employee share plans All-employee share plans Share options and discretionary awards of shares granted under HSBC share plans align the interests All-employee share option plans have operated of employees with those of shareholders.
The tables within the Group and eligible employees have been on the following pages set out the particulars of granted options to acquire HSBC Holdings ordinary outstanding options, including those held by shares.
Options under the plans are usually employees working under employment contracts exercisable after one, three or five years.
The that are regarded as continuous contracts for the exercise of options may be advanced to an purposes of the Hong Kong Employment Ordinance.
earlier date in certain circumstances, for example The options were granted at nil consideration.
No on retirement, and may be extended in certain options have been granted to substantial shareholders, circumstances, for example on the death of a suppliers of goods or services, or in excess of the participant, the executors of the participants estate individual limit for each share plan.
No options were may exercise options up to six months beyond the cancelled by HSBC during the year.
The middle market closing price for HSBC Holdings ordinary shares quoted A summary for each plan of the total number on the London Stock Exchange, as derived from the of the options which were granted, exercised or Daily Official List on 19 September 2013, the day lapsed during 2013 is shown in the following tables.
before options were granted in 2013, was 6.99.
Further details required to be disclosed pursuant to Chapter 17 of the Rules Governing the Listing There will be no further grants under the HSBC of Securities on The Stock Exchange of Hong Holdings Savings-Related Share Option Plan: Kong Limited are available on our website at International.
A new international all-employee share www.
com by selecting Investor Relations, purchase plan was launched in the third quarter of then Governance, then Share Plans, and on the 2013.
The all-employee share option plans will website of The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong terminate on 27 May 2015 unless the Directors Limited at www.
hk or can be obtained resolve to terminate the plans at an earlier date.
2 The weighted average closing price of the shares immediately before the dates on which options were exercised was 7.30.
369 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report
