HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance continued Board committees Conduct and Values Committee Chairmans Committee Internal control Procedures Committee believes that the Group will continue proposed by search firms for consideration as to face increased financial services regulation non-executive Directors, should be women.
As which will include the requirement to assist the at 31 December 2013, 25% of the Board is authorities to combat financial crime and female.
The benefits of diversity continue to accordingly will broaden the risks facing the influence succession planning and are key Group.
criteria in the instructions to external search consultants.
The Committee monitored the size, structure and Director training and development.
The composition of the Board including skills, Committee reviewed and monitored the training knowledge, experience, independence and and continuous professional development of diversity.
Consideration is given to ensuring Directors and senior management.
that the Boards decision-making is not Time commitment and independence of nondominated by any one individual or small group executive Directors.
The Committee assessed of individuals.
The Committee reviews and the independence of, and time required from, recommends to the Board appropriate changes non-executive Directors.
The Committee is to the roles of the Group Chairman, the Group satisfied that all non-executive Directors have the Chief Executive and the senior independent time to fulfil their fiduciary responsibilities to non-executive Director.
The Committee provide oversight of the business of the Group considered the election or re-election of and to serve on the Committees of the Board.
Directors at the Annual General Meeting and Prospective Directors are asked to identify any has recommended to the Board that all Directors significant other commitments and confirm they should stand for election or re-election, other have sufficient time to discharge what is expected than John Coombe and James Hughes-Hallett of them.
who will retire at the conclusion of the 2014 Annual General Meeting, having served nine Terms of reference and Committee years as Directors.
The Committee undertook a review of its terms of reference and its own Regulatory developments.
monitored regulatory developments as they may affect Board composition.
During 2013, the Corporate Sustainability Committee Committee considered the implications of the Meetings corporate governance requirements of the EUs Meetings eligible Capital Requirements Directive IV and the attended to attend European Parliaments adoption of a proposal Members 1 on gender balance for non-executive directors of Laura Cha Chairman........... 4 4 2 James Hughes-Hallett............. 4 4 listed companies.
Bearing in mind the geographical Dame Mary Marsh................. 4 4 spread of the Groups business, the Committee Meetings held in 2013........... 4 pays particular attention to the ethnicity, age and 1 Appointed Chairman on 1 January 2013. gender diversity of the Board.
Board 2 Appointed a member of the Committee on 1 January 2013. appointments continue to be made based on 3 Co-opted non-director member of the Committee.
merit and candidates are considered against objective criteria, having due regard for the Sustainability governance benefits of diversity on the Board.
The Board The Corporate Sustainability Committee was diversity policy is available at responsible during 2013 for advising the Board, www.
com investor-relations governance committees of the Board and executive management .
The Committee on corporate sustainability policies across the Group regularly monitored progress towards the including environmental, social and ethical issues.
implementation of the Board diversity policy The Committee has been demised by resolution of using the following measurable objectives: 25% the Board with effect from 31 December 2013.
A of the Board should be female, with a target of Conduct & Values Committee has been established 30% to be achieved by 2020: only external which undertakes much of what was previously done search consultants who are signatories to the by the Corporate Sustainability Committee.
Further Executive Search Firms Voluntary Code of information on the Conduct & Values Committee Conduct should be engaged by the Nomination can be found on page 364.
Committee: and at least 30% of candidates, 362 Corporate Sustainability exists as a global Greenhouse Gas Inventories, and HSBCs internal function.
Senior executives are charged with analysis of data coverage and quality.
implementing sustainable business practice in all Carbon dioxide emissions in tonnes major regions through inclusion in the HSBC Global 2013 2012 Standards Manuals: and, through induction and developmental training.
Carbon dioxide emissions in tonnes per FTE HSBC reports on its progress in developing and implementing its sustainability strategy 2013 2012 annually in the HSBC Sustainability Report, which Total............................... 3.43 3.61 is independently verified and prepared using the From energy................... 2.91 3.09 Global Reporting Initiative framework.
The HSBC From travel..................... 0.52 0.52 Sustainability Report 2013 will be issued on 23 May 2014 and will be available at www.
com Our greenhouse gas reporting year runs from sustainability.
For the year from 1 October 2012 to 30 September 2013, carbon dioxide Our sustainable operations strategy emissions from our operations were 889,000 tonnes.
HSBCs carbon dioxide emissions are calculated HSBC Technology and Services employs on the basis of the energy used in our buildings and around a third of our workforce and runs our employee business travel from over 30 countries operations, including real estate, IT infrastructure covering about 93% of our operation by FTE.
One of these goals, known as data gathered on energy consumption and distance REDUCE, is to cut annual carbon dioxide travelled are converted to carbon dioxide emissions emissions per employee by a tonne between 2012 using conversion factors from the following sources, and 2020 to 2.5 tonnes.
Our baseline year is 2011, in if available, in order of preference: which emissions were 3.44 tonnes rounded up to 3.5.
1. factors provided by the data service providers: To tackle this challenge, we set a 10-point 2. factors provided by the local public sustainable operations strategy at the start of 2012, environmental authorities.
For electricity, if listed below.
This strategy covers issues from specific factors cannot be obtained from the sustainability leadership and engagement to supplyabove two sources, we use the latest available chain collaboration, and includes ambitious targets carbon emission factors for national grid to reduce our use of energy and reduce our waste.
electricity from the International Energy Agency We made progress in 2013, but recognise that as recommended for use by the Greenhouse Gas stretching goals like these will take time to achieve.
Protocol: and We have capitalised on quick wins where possible, 3. for other types of energy and travel, if no but have also spent time to analyse thoroughly and specific factors can be obtained from the first prepare for achieving these targets.
two sources, we use the latest available factors Our 10-point sustainable operations strategy provided by the UK Department for Environment, 1.
We are engaging all employees in delivering improved Food and Rural Affairs and or the Department efficiency by 2020 with training and sustainability of Energy and Climate Change in the UK.
We will increase energy consumption from renewables To incorporate all of the operations over which from 24% to 40% and increase self-generated electricity we have financial management control, the capacity from zero to 5%.
calculated carbon dioxide emissions are scaled up on 3.
We will collaborate with our supply chain to achieve the basis of the FTE coverage rate to account for any sustainable savings through efficiency and innovation.
missing data typically less than 10% of FTEs.
We will improve the energy efficiency of our Group data addition, emission uplift rates are applied to allow centres.
for uncertainty on the quality and coverage of 5.
An annual US$5m investment in an HSBC Eco-efficiency Fund has been committed to trial sustainable innovation.
Our target is to increase the recycling of HSBCs waste 4% for electricity, 10% for other energy and 6% for from 60% to 100% of our office waste and electronic business travel, based on the Intergovernmental waste.
Panel on Climate Change Good Practice Guidance and Uncertainty Management in National 363 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report
