HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Strategic Report continued Value creation and long-term sustainability Our strategy We offer products that help a wide range of In addition, we manage risks within HSBC, customers to manage their risks and exposures including those which arise from the business we through, for example, life insurance and pension do with customers.
products for retail customers and receivables finance For further information on our risk measures, see page 38, or documentary trade instruments for companies.
and on how we manage our own risks, see page 39.
Corporate customers also ask us to help with managing the financial risks arising in their Long-term sustainability businesses by employing our expertise and market access.
At HSBC, we understand that the success of our business is closely connected to the economic, An important way of managing risks arising environmental and social landscape in which we from changes in asset and liability values and operate.
For us, long-term corporate sustainability movements in rates is provided by derivative means achieving a sustainable return on equity and products such as forwards, futures, swaps and profit growth so that we can continue to reward options.
In this connection, we are an active marketshareholders and employees, build long-lasting maker and derivative counterparty.
Customers use relationships with customers and suppliers, pay taxes derivatives to manage their risks, for example, by: and duties in the countries in which we operate, and using forward foreign currency contracts to invest in communities for future growth.
The way hedge their income from export sales or costs we do business is as important as what we do: our of imported materials: responsibilities to our customers, employees and shareholders as well as to the countries and using an inflation swap to hedge future communities in which we operate go far beyond inflation-linked liabilities, for example, for simply being profitable.
pension payments: Continuing financial success depends, in part, transforming variable payments of debt interest on our ability to identify and address environmental, into fixed rate payments, or vice versa: or social and ethical developments which present risks providing investors with hedges against or opportunities for the business.
It also depends movements in markets or particular stocks.
on the consistent implementation of the highest standards everywhere we operate to detect, deter and We charge customers a margin, representing the protect against financial crime.
Our response to these difference between the price charged to the customer factors shapes our reputation, drives employee and the theoretical cost of executing an offsetting engagement and affects the riskiness of the business, hedge in the market.
We retain that margin, which and can help reduce costs and secure new revenue represents a profit to the Group, at maturity of the streams.
transaction if the risk management of the position has been effective.
Our international spread and the longestablished position of many of our businesses in We then use derivatives along with other HSBCs home and priority growth markets, when financial instruments to constrain the risks arising combined with our wide-ranging portfolio of from customer business within risk limits.
Normally, products and services, differentiate HSBC from our we will have customers both buying and selling competitors and give our business and operating relevant instruments so our focus is then on models an inherent resilience.
This has enabled the managing any residual risks through transactions Group to remain profitable and grow through the with other dealers or professional counterparties.
most turbulent of times for our industry, and we are Where we do not fully hedge the residual risks we confident that the models will continue to stand us may gain or lose money as market movements affect in good stead in the future and will underpin the the net value of the portfolio.
achievement of our strategic priorities.
Stress tests and other risk management Our business and operating models are described in more techniques are also used to ensure that potential detail on page 13.
For further information on our response to losses remain within our risk appetite under a wide environmental and community issues, see page 34. range of potential market scenarios.
