HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Strategic Report continued Strategic priority 3 Streamline processes and procedures Environmental, social and community obligations Environmental, social and We welcome constructive feedback from NGOs community obligations and campaign groups and regularly engage with a number of them on matters of shared interest.
In We will create a robust, resilient and 2013, HSBC was approached by non-governmental sustainable business in which our clients organisations NGOs raising concerns regarding can have confidence, our employees can the implementation of our forest land and forest take pride and our communities can trust.
If our clients do not comply fully with our policies, or cannot show that they are Our continuing success depends, in part, on our on a credible path to do so, we will exit our ability to identify and address environmental, social relationship with them.
and ethical factors which present risks to our business or offer opportunities to support customers Our approach to managing sustainability risk is described on in a more sustainable way.
These can affect page 297. our reputation, drive employee engagement, help manage the risks of lending, leverage savings Climate business through eco-efficiency and secure new revenue We define climate business as seeking long-term streams.
commercial business opportunities to support transition to a low-carbon economy.
Our climate Human rights business includes clients in the solar, wind, biomass, We apply human rights considerations directly as energy efficiency, low carbon transport and water they affect our employees and indirectly through sectors, and revenues are growing year on year.
our suppliers and customers, in the latter case in HSBCs Climate Change Centre of Excellence, part particular through our project finance lending.
of our global research team focusing on business Human rights issues most directly relevant for risks and opportunities created by climate change, HSBC are those relating to the right to just and was established in 2007 and its research estimates favourable conditions of work and remuneration, that the climate business sector could exceed the right to equal pay for equal work, the right to US$2.2 trillion by 2020. form and join trade unions, the right to rest and leisure and the prohibition of slavery and child Our sustainable operations strategy labour.
Alongside our own commitments, such as HSBCs carbon dioxide emissions are calculated on our HSBC Code of Conduct for Suppliers in place the basis of the energy used in our buildings and since 2005, the HSBC Global Standards Manual, employee business travel from over 30 countries HSBC Values and our Business Principles, we have covering about 93% of our operations by FTE.
The signed up to global commitments and standards, data gathered on energy consumption and distance including the UN Global Compact, the Universal travelled are converted to carbon dioxide emissions Declaration of Human Rights and the Global using conversion factors from the following sources, Sullivan Principles.
if available, in order of preference: Our sustainability risk framework 1. factors provided by the data service providers: We recognise that businesses can have an impact 2. factors provided by the local public on the environment and communities around environmental authorities.
For over 10 years we have been developing, specific factors cannot be obtained from the implementing and refining our approach to working above two sources, we use the latest available with our business customers to understand and carbon emission factors for national grid manage these issues.
We assess and support electricity from the International Energy Agency customers in six sensitive sectors using our own as recommended for use by the Greenhouse Gas policies and, in financing projects, using the Equator Protocol: and Principles as a starting point.
By extending their 3. for other types of energy and travel, if no application to all relevant corporate loans specific factors can be obtained from the first and providing independent assurance on their two sources, we use the latest available factors implementation, we go beyond the minimum provided by the UK Department for Environment, requirements of the Equator Principles framework.
Food and Rural Affairs and or the Department Our sustainability risk framework is based on robust of Energy and Climate Change in the UK.
policies, formal processes and well-trained, empowered people.
To incorporate all of the operations over which we have financial management control, the 34 calculated carbon dioxide emissions are scaled up on Our greenhouse gas reporting year runs from the basis of the FTE coverage rate to account for any October to September.
For the year from 1 October missing data typically less than 10% of FTEs.
In 2012 to 30 September 2013, carbon dioxide addition, emission uplift rates are applied to allow emissions from our global operations were 889,000 for uncertainty on the quality and coverage of tonnes.
The rates are HSBC Technology and Services employs 4% for electricity, 10% for other energy and 6% for around a third of our workforce and runs our business travel, based on the Intergovernmental operations, including real estate, IT infrastructure Panel on Climate Change Good Practice Guidance and supply chain.
One of its goals, known as and Uncertainty Management in National REDUCE, is to cut annual carbon dioxide Greenhouse Gas Inventories, and HSBCs internal emissions per employee by a tonne between 2012 analysis of data coverage and quality.
Our baseline year is 2011, in Carbon dioxide emissions in tonnes which emissions were 3.44 tonnes rounded up to 3.5.
This strategy covers issues from sustainability leadership and engagement to supplyCarbon dioxide emissions in tonnes per FTE chain collaboration, and includes ambitious targets to reduce our use of energy and reduce our waste.
2013 2012 We made progress in 2013, but recognise that Total............................... 3.43 3.61 stretching goals like these will take time to achieve.
From energy................... 2.91 3.09 We have capitalised on quick wins where possible, From travel.................... 0.52 0.52 but have also spent time to analyse thoroughly and prepare for achieving these targets.
We are engaging all employees in delivering improved efficiency by 2020 with training and sustainability leadership programmes.
We will increase energy consumption from renewables from 24% to 40% and increase self-generated electricity capacity from zero to 5%.
We will collaborate with our supply chain to achieve sustainable savings through efficiency and innovation.
We will improve the energy efficiency of our Group data centres.
An annual US$5m investment in an HSBC Eco-efficiency Fund has been committed to trial sustainable innovation.
Our target is to increase the recycling of HSBCs waste from 60% to 100% of our office waste and electronic-waste.
Work on all new and redesigned buildings costing over US$10m in our portfolio of 7,500 buildings will be done to Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design LEED certification standards.
We aim to reduce annual energy consumption per employee by 1MWh.
We will reduce paper usage, ensure it comes from sustainable sources, and encourage paperless banking for all retail and commercial customers.
We continue to promote alternatives to travel, reducing travel carbon emissions per employee.
Further details on our progress with achieving our sustainability operations programme will be published in our Sustainability Report 2013 on 23 May 2014.
Community investment Staff volunteering In 2013, we donated a total of US$117m to Thousands of HSBC employees globally are community investment projects 2012: US$120m.
involved every year through volunteering for our Community Investment programmes.
We report in Youth education detail on this in the HSBC Sustainability Report 2013.
Education is key to prosperity.
We seek to help HSBC Water Programme young people fulfil their potential through global and local investment in education programmes.
Our 2013 was the second year of our flagship programmes span various levels of need, including environmental project, the HSBC Water Programme.
financial literacy training, scholarships, cultural This is a five-year, US$100m programme in awareness programmes and teaching life skills.
partnership with Earthwatch, WaterAid and WWF to deliver water provision, protection, information In 2013, we launched the three-year 30m and education across the world.
In 2013, we US$47m Opportunity Partnership, to help transform developed the programme by connecting specific the lives of 25,000 disadvantaged young people in parts of our business with HSBC Water Programme the UK through education, training and work.
35 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report
