British American Tobacco 58 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financials Governance Corporate social responsibility Key activities in 2013 The CSR Committee ensures that our CSR governance and compliance sustainability programme is on track, considering feedback from the regional audit and CSR committees and that we take advantage of the many and considering CSR-related internal audit reports and recommendations, including in relation to the Groups approach opportunities that sustainability brings to toenvironmental, health and safety issues: the business, society and our stakeholders.
reviewing the potential reputational impact arising from incidents of non-compliance with the Standards of Business Conduct: CSR Committee monitoring adherence to the Groups International Marketing Principles IMP : Current members Karen fide Segundo Chairman considering Group risks in the countries that are of potential Dr Richard Tubb concern from a human rights perspective, and reviewing the Savio Kwan measures and controls in place to mitigate those risks: reviewing the Groups environmental, health and safety EHS strategy, measures, targets and performance data: reviewing the progress of the Groups sustainable leaf strategy, aimed at building long-term partnerships with farmers based upon economic viability, and environmental and social initiatives: Attendance at meetings in 2013 Name Attended Eligible to attend Karen fide Segundo 5 5 reviewing the Groups youth smoking prevention YSP activities, 1 Christine Morin-Postel 4 5 and analysis of their global reach and impact: Dr Richard Tubb 5 5 2 Sir Nicholas Scheele 2 2 reviewing the Groups corporate social investment strategy, plans Notes: and activities: and 1.
Christine Morin-Postel was unable to attend one of the scheduled meetings due to a family bereavement.
She stood down from the Committee on 6 January 2014 to become considering proposed amendments to the Committees terms of amember of the Audit Committee.
reference and forward agenda to enable more in-depth oversight 2.
Sir Nicholas Scheele ceased to be a member upon his retirement as a Non-Executive Director at the 2013 AGM.
of core sustainability principles and how they are embedded within 3.
The Chairman, Chief Executive and the Management Board members responsible for the Group.
Corporate and Regulatory Affairs and Global Operations regularly attend meetings by invitation but are not members.
The Committee held five meetings in 2013.
All of these were scheduled.
reviewing central and local stakeholder dialogue activities in 2013 5.
Savio Kwan became a member of the Committee following his appointment as a Non-Executive Director on 6 January 2014. and planned dialogue activities for 2014: Role reviewing the 2012 Sustainability Summary and two 2013 FocusReports on harm reduction and corporate integrity, The CSR Committee monitors and reviews: includingsummaries of external feedback and endorsements, the Companys management of CSR and the conduct of business andErnst & Young LLPs assurance statements in respect of each: in accordance with our Statement of Business Principles, making appropriate recommendations to the Board on CSR matters: considering a review of the Companys delivery and reporting ofitsCSR agenda compared to industry and other FMCG peers: the effectiveness of the Groups strategy for, and management of, significant social, environmental and reputational issues: assessing progress against the Groups sustainability goals and commitments: the Groups sustainability plans and activities: and considering the Groups 2014 sustainability reporting plans: and the effectiveness of CSR governance including, on an exceptional basis, reports from the regional audit and CSR committees.
re-engaging Ernst & Young LLP to provide assurance services for afurther one-year period.
For the Committees terms of reference visit www.
com governance Group sustainability agenda The Groups sustainability agenda, based on feedback from stakeholders, aims to build value for shareholders and other stakeholders by addressing our social, environmental and economic impacts.
This concept of sustainable value underpins all of the Groups sustainability activities.
British American Tobacco 59 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financials Our sustainability agenda is an integral part of delivering the Group Sustainability reporting strategy and focuses on five key impact areas: The Company has produced independently assured reports since 2001 and believes this long history of reporting demonstrates a Harm reduction: Striving to bring commercially viable, reduced-risk serious commitment to corporate responsibility and sustainability.
products to market: Marketplace: Upholding high standards of corporate conduct within The Company was the first tobacco company to begin reporting on our marketplace: social, environmental and economic performance.
From the outset, a rigorous approach has been applied to reporting processes at both Environment: Actively addressing the impact of the Groups business Group and local level.
This includes following the AA1000 Assurance on the natural environment: Standard and Global Reporting Initiative GRI guidelines and obtaining independent assurance of all reports and engaging with Supply chain: Working for positive social, environmental and stakeholders through independently facilitated dialogue sessions.
economic impacts in the Groups supply chain: and People and culture: Working to ensure we have the right people and This approach has allowed the Company to meet greater demands culture to meet the Groups goals.
Dialogue has also helped the Company to take stakeholder views into account, enabling better business For information on our greenhouse gas emissions see decisions.
Independent assurance has been essential in supporting the sustainability section of our Strategic Report on pages 2223 this commitment to continuous improvement.
Statement of Business Principles In 2013, the Committee approved the Sustainability Summary, published alongside the 2012 Annual Report, covering the The Groups Statement of Business Principles sets out the Companys performance and key issues for the business and expectations for responsible management of the Groups business.
It addition, it approved the publication of two focus It was developed in 2002 in consultation with stakeholders, reports, on harm reduction and corporate integrity, providing supported by the Institute of Business Ethics.
stakeholders with in-depth information on these topics.
The Statement comprises three principles Mutual Benefit, To view our Sustainability Summary and Focus Reports visit Responsible Product Stewardship and Good Corporate Conduct www.
com sustainability and 18 Core Beliefs explaining each principle in more detail.
To view our Statement of Business Principles visit External recognition www.
com governance In 2013, British American Tobacco was included in both the Dow Jones Sustainability World and Europe Indices for the 12th year Human rights running.
The Indexes track the economic, environmental and social performance of leading  companies worldwide.
The Group recognises its responsibilities to the countries in which The Companys overall score was 87%, maintaining our place as it operates and in this context, notes the OECD Guidelines for industry leader.
Multinational Enterprises in their current form.
Our approach to human rights draws on the OECD Guidelines, in addition to the UN We featured in the Carbon Disclosure Projects Carbon Disclosure Declaration of Human Rights and further information in this respect Leadership Index, with a score of 86%.
This index highlights is provided in our Sustainability Summary.
In 2014, we plan to those companies in the FTSE 350 Index that have shown the most review our Standards of Business Conduct to incorporate additional professional approach to managing and disclosing their climate provisions on human rights.
For information on our approach to human rights see the sustainability section of our Strategic Report on page 21 For the second consecutive year, we ranked second in the FTSE 350 for our approach to sustainability assurance in the annual Carbon Smart ranking of assurance practices, and were highly commended Corporate social investment at  annual Building Public Trust Awards for The Company recognises the role of business as a corporate citizen People Reporting in the FTSE 100. and Group companies have long supported local community and charitable projects.
The Groups approach to corporate social We were also listed as a component of the STOXX Global ESG investment CSI is to regard it as a means of maintaining good Leaders indices, an innovative series of environmental, social and relationships with local communities, rather than as a means governance ESG equity indices owned by Deutsche Brse of promotion.
This index model allows investors to understand which factors determine a companys ESG rating Guidance on selecting, managing and evaluating major CSI activities and why these factors are important.
is provided to Group companies.
However, it is recognised that local community needs are diverse.
As a result, within the parameters We were recognised by Ernst & Young South Africa for the quality of this guidance and guidelines on focus of spend, CSI is managed of our integrated reporting, following their assessment of the annual locally to ensure the most appropriate projects are supported.
reports and sustainability reports of companies with a listing on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange against guidelines published by the At Group level, the major activities supported by the Company International Integrated Reporting Council.
are the British American Tobacco Biodiversity Partnership and the Eliminating Child Labour in Tobacco Growing Foundation.
