CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT: CORPORATE sOCiAl REsPONsiBiliTY CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT continued diRECTORs sTATuTORy REPORT continued CORPORATE sOCiAl REsPONsiBiliTy BusiNEss sTANdARds Major interests in shares 0.7 creditor days of suppliers invoices outstanding at the Limiting client losses We recognise the fundamental importance of a reputation Notifications shown below have been received by the year-end 2012: 4.9 for the Group.
We have a number of service offerings that can limit for honesty and transparency in the financial services Company of shareholdings of three percent or more of the client losses: for example, we offer clients the ability Donations industry, and commitment to these values is a cornerstone issued ordinary share capital: to attach guaranteed stops to positions so that the The Group made no political donations in the year of our success.
The Group applies high standards across maximum possible loss to the client is known at the As at 19 July 2013 As at 31 May 2013 2012: nil.
The Group made charitable donations of its businesses, and we also support and adhere to high outset of the trade.
Number Number 79,360 in the year 2012: 56,667 as follows: standards of corporate governance as set out in the of shares % of shares % Additionally, our close-out monitor COM, which Corporate Governance Report and the statement by the Black Rock Inc. 18,303,280 5.0% 18,303,280 5.0% automatically liquidates client positions where their margin Directors in compliance with the Combined Code.
C antillon Capital New Entrepreneurs 20,000 has been significantly eroded, can also limit potential client Management LLC 18,246,245 5.0% 18,246,245 5.0% Responsible Gambling Trust 10,000 Our commitment to high standards is embodied within losses.
At 31 May 2013 98.83% of all client accounts are M assachusetts London to Paris cycle ride 8,500 each of the following service offerings and behaviours: either subject to guaranteed stops or the automatic COM Financial Services Shakespeares Globe 2,500 Company 18,150,880 5.0% 18,150,880 5.0% procedure.
Further details are set out in note 37 to the Commitment to our customers Volunteer reading 3,525 Baillie Gifford & Co 12,683,186 3.5% 12,690,176 3.5% Financial Statements.
We seek to put our customers at the heart of everything Employee matched giving 8,010 A rtemis Investment we do and we strive to ensure that we are consistently Management Limited 11,873,020 3.3% 11,873,020 3.3% Other 26,825 Protection of our clients data and funds delivering good outcomes for our customers.
We M &G Investment We prioritise the security of our clients information Total 79,360 Management 11,066,417 3.0% 11,066,417 3.0% achieve this in part by ensuring that we comply with the and have achieved the ISO 27001:2005 certificate for FCAs Treating Customers Fairly TCF initiative and we Information Security Management Systems.
Independent auditors Change of control have developed a scorecard of measures to monitor how A resolution to re-appoint the Groups Auditors, Following any future change of control of the Company, We segregate all funds for individuals, whether required we treat our clients.
We also achieve this by ensuring that  LLP, will be put to shareholders the Groups banking facilities, which are currently undrawn by regulation or not.
Segregated client money is held our culture promotes a commitment to our customers at the forthcoming AGM on 17 October 2013. refer to note 37 to the Financial Statements, will be entirely separate from IGs own money, ensuring that in Central to our commitment to our customers is cancelled and any obligations will become immediately the event of default by IG, client funds will be returned to Going concern the quality of our order execution.
We offer neardue and payable.
the clients rather than being treated as a recoverable asset The Directors have prepared the Financial Statements on instantaneous execution, with around 99% of client by general creditors of IG.
During the year, we engaged a going concern basis, which requires the Directors to have orders accepted automatically.
We never re-quote prices Annual General Meeting  LLP to conduct an independent a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate and, within our set margin of tolerance, we will accept The Groups Annual General Meeting will be held on review of our controls and procedures for client money resources to continue in operational existence for the orders even if the market moves 17 October 2013.
Details of the resolutions to be proposed calculation and segregation ISAE 3000.
at the Annual General Meeting are set out in a separate Client support and education this report we have taken an additional step, over and circular sent to all shareholders.
The Directors have reviewed the Groups processes to We provide extensive educational resources for clients, above standard audit and assurance processes which control the financial risks to which the Group is exposed, including enrolling new clients on our introductory reflects our commitment to keeping our clients funds Registered number its available liquidity, its regulatory capital position and the education programme, TradeSense, promoting secure and delivering good outcomes for customers.
The registered number of IG Group Holdings plc annual budget.
As a result of this review, the Directors have responsible trading, and a wide range of client seminars is 04677092.
CliENT sERViCEs a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate and webinars, available online and in person Impeccable client service is at the heart of our commitment Conflicts of interest resources to continue in operational existence for the Client suitability to the responsible treatment of all our clients.
Our large In accordance with the Companies Act 2006, all Directors foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to We have a number of procedures to ensure that our team of highly-trained, dedicated client service staff must disclose both the nature and extent of any potential adopt the going concern basis in preparing the products reach the right audience and that our clients delivers a professional and responsive value-based or actual conflicts with the interests of the Company.
understand how our products work: approach to client service.
The articles of association allow the Board to authorise Directors statement as to disclosure of information potential conflicts that may arise and to impose such Our products are not suitable for everyone.
It is for OuR PEOPlE to auditors conditions or limitations as it sees fit.
There were no this reason that we apply strict rules to ensure that we The Group is rapidly growing and provides a fast-moving So far as each person who was a Director at the date of conflicts of interest raised in the year.
only promote our products to the right audience.
We and successful working environment.
As at 31 May 2013, the approving this report is aware, there is no relevant audit also apply strict rules to ensure that any promotion is Group had 991 employees working in 16 countries globally.
Insurance and indemnities information, being information needed by the Auditors clear, fair and not misleading, and contains a balanced Our employees take pride in what we have achieved.
The Group purchases appropriate liability insurance for all in connection with preparing their report, of which the description of risks alongside the benefits of our product Directors and officers.
Each Director has taken all the steps Before we allow clients to open an account, we will that he she is obliged to take as a Director in order to Supplier payment policy and practice undertake an assessment to determine whether our make him her aware of any relevant audit information and The Group does not follow any stated code on payment products are appropriate or suitable for the client in to establish that the Auditors are aware of that information.
It is the Groups policy to agree terms of question.
This involves asking the client about their payment with suppliers when agreeing the terms for each trading knowledge and experience and about their transaction and to abide by those terms.
Standard terms income and savings.
Based on the results of this provide for payment of all invoices within 30 days after assessment, we may choose to provide the client with the date of the invoice except where different terms have a warning about the appropriateness of the account or been agreed with the supplier at the outset.
There were we may decline to open an account 84 | IG GROUP HOLDINGS PLC | 2013 ANNUAL REPORT 85 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT: CORPORATE sOCiAl REsPONsiBiliTY CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT continued CORPORATE sOCiAl REsPONsiBiliTy continued OuR PEOPlE CONTiNuEd The Group has implemented a detailed career sOCiETy The Group encourages involvement with team sport and The Group appreciates that the quality of its employees development plan at all levels of the organisation, defining We are keen to encourage employees to engage in there are IG football, netball and rugby teams.
We also is crucial to the success of the business, and offers roles and responsibilities at each career level.
A mentoring activities that help their development and support local supported the Six in the City, a competition run by Chance competitive packages to recognise past performance program is also in place to motivate and develop the communities.
For example, we match any funds employees to Shine, a charity supporting education through cricket.
and retain key talent in the future.
The Group pays careers of high potential employees, providing insight into have raised for sponsored events.
A summary of our We have a confidential employee assistance programme performance-related bonuses to most staff and has made IGs operations and support from members of the senior charitable donations, including the employee matched which provides a 24 7 impartial telephone counselling awards under value-sharing plans to key personnel.
In management team, thereby strengthening the talent pool.
giving, is provided in the Directors statutory report.
service to all our European office employees and their addition, the opportunity to acquire shares under various EmPlOyEE iNVOlVEmENT We also work with the Charities Aid Foundation CAF to immediate families, offering impartial advice on all matters share incentive plans has been made available to all UK, We take pride in being an open, non-hierarchical allow employees to operate a charity fund and contribute from housing to personal finance.
We also provide a range of other organisation with direct and open access amongst all directly to selected charities from gross earnings directly benefits to employees, including pension contributions, OPERATiONs ANd ENViRONmENT teams and at all levels.
The Chief Executive Officer leads from their monthly pay.
where in the UK the Group contributes up to 10% of the As a business which conducts nearly all of its client trades a quarterly management forum which is recorded and employees basic salary to the employees pension, as The Group not only continues to support charities through online, we do not see ourselves as a significant emitter broadcast to our overseas offices.
long as the employee contributes 5% of their salary if the the giving of money, but also through the provision of time of  substances.
However, we do employee chooses to contribute less than 5%, the Group Employees participate directly in the success of the and resource.
Our absence management policy offers the understand that our operations have an impact on the will contribute double the individual rate.
business through the Groups performance-related bonus opportunity for employees to take up voluntary work, for environment and take steps to manage this.
schemes and employee share plans, and we regularly have which we grant additional leave on a like-for-like basis up During the year the Group carried out an employee ENERGy CONsumPTiON ANd around 35% to 40% of eligible employees participating in to a maximum of five matched days per annual leave year.
Of those who completed the survey, over 80% CARBON mANAGEmENT our share incentive plan.
Bonus payments are based on agreed that IG had a strong and positive working culture.
Additionally, the Group continue to be involved with We have taken steps to minimise the impact of our offices a communal pool driven by both revenue performance For those areas where issues were noted, development a volunteering scheme with Volunteer Reading Help, on the environment.
These include the installation of against budget and a scorecard of non-financial measures.
plans have been formulated to address these and the a national registered charity with 17 regional branches automated sensor lighting and air conditioning, both of The pool is first apportioned by department, and then the progress made will be monitored by department heads.
that gives one-toone literacy support to children in primary which minimise energy usage when offices are not in use.
discretionary payment is distributed to individuals, based The Group has committed to run an annual employee schools in the most deprived areas of England.
Reading We have also invested in the latest systems at our data upon their performance, by department heads.
The next employee helpers volunteer once a week for an hour, and commit centre site, enabling maximum energy efficiency.
survey will be commissioned later in the year, and the TOP EmPlOyER for a minimum of one year to work with the same children Groups results will be benchmarked against other high With the encouragement of employees, we have also Our positive working culture was recognised when IG each week.
improved our recycling facilities, including IT equipment.
was named one of Britains Top Employers for the sixth hEAlTh ANd sAfETy Cannon Bridge House, our London head office, has year running in 2013.
The Top Employers Certification The Group is keen to support the continuing personal The Group believes that its employees are one of its received the ISO 14001 certification for an effective is awarded only to organisations that meet the highest and professional training and development of its staff, most valuable assets, and therefore is committed to environmental management system.
We will assess, standard in Human Resources.
The award, by the and encourages attendance on external and industryproviding each employee with a safe and healthy working minimise and continually improve how our operations Corporate Research Foundation, was based on a strong recognised training courses, sponsors staff to undertake environment.
Health and safety is an integral part of our negatively affect the environment and comply with performance in each of the surveyed categories: pay and a programme of formal education and professional business, and by providing key members of staff with the applicable laws, regulations, and other , training and development, corporate culture, qualification, and often offers internal secondments.
The relevant external training and all other staff with the relevant oriented requirements.
and particularly in career development.
Group has invested in training on a global level to improve in-house training, this ensures compliance with all statutory the quality of learning opportunities and to encourage By order of the Board EquAliTy ANd diVERsiTy health and safety requirements.
Details of all incidents, no employees to progress within the business.
The Group We are an equal opportunities employer and have matter how small, are held on the HR database.
spent 421,000 on training in the financial year ending extensive human resource policies in place to ensure that 31 May 2013 2012: 409,000.
There were no reportable incidents in the year.
employees can expect to work in an environment free from discrimination and harassment.
The Group is further committed to developing high-calibre wEllBEiNG employees and offers three separate graduate schemes in Christopher Hill We are fully committed to our employees health and It is therefore key to our success that we reinforce the need IT, a composite Sales, Dealing and Operations, and Finance.
Chief Financial Officer wellbeing, and the benefits provided to all employees to treat all employees fairly, with dignity and without any The IT and Sales, and Dealing and Operations schemes include private medical cover, permanent health insurance unlawful discrimination.
We are committed to creating a 23 July 2013 have a 12-month training plan before assigning graduates to and life assurance.
Additionally, we reimburse 50% of work environment free of harassment and bullying, where a permanent position.
The Finance scheme is longer term, the costs of employees annual gym subscriptions to everyone is treated with dignity and respect.
with the aim of training graduates as qualified accountants a specified amount for all UK, Australian and European within the team.
The Group introduced an Apprentice The Group gives full consideration to applications for employees.
We further show commitment to the health of scheme during the year, and took on two apprentices employment from disabled persons, where the candidates our staff by providing free fruit on a daily basis and offering to learn and develop through on-the-job training.
particular aptitudes and abilities are consistent with flu vaccinations to all UK staff.
adequately meeting the requirements of the job.
Where The Group encourages cycling, through providing savings existing employees become disabled, it is the Groups on bikes under the government-backed cycle to work policy to provide continuing employment wherever initiative, and offers free-of-charge bicycle parking in our practicable in the same or alternative position, and London office.
to provide appropriate training to achieve this aim.
86 | IG GROUP HOLDINGS PLC | 2013 ANNUAL REPORT 87
