36 Business review: Corporate social responsibility they deploy ESG practices and policies.
All ESG Overview activities across ICG are supervised by ICGs Principles of corporate social responsibility CSR 500k ESG Committee.
In addition ICG is a signatory of are fully incorporated into ICGs business practices.
the united Nations Principles for Responsible 5 yEAR COmmITmENT Both in terms of providing a framework for ICG Investment uNPRI.
FROm ICG TO to operate in a responsible way, and as an investor.
ImPETuS PRIVATE The aim of the uNPRI is to ensure that ESG This section provides some insights in how we EquITy FOuNDATION issues are considered during the investment process THINKFORWARD deploy CSR in practice across the business.
ICG acknowledges that PROGRAmmE ICG is committed to conducting its business ESGissues can affect the performance of investment andtax affairs in an open and transparent way.
Investing practices which incorporate ESG We comply with our tax obligations globally and issues can be both financially profitable and profitable in 2013, ICG paid corporate income taxes of for society as a whole.
Further information on tax can be found where appropriate inthe investment process.
inour financial statements on page 100.
Thisincludes discussions with the businesses that we invest in, about how theydeploy ESG practices Responsible investing and policies, and understanding the ESG impacts ICG believes that Environmental, Social and ofour entire portfolio.
Governance ESG criteria can positively impact For more information on uNPRI please visit investment performance as well as wider society.
ESG policies are incorporated into our investment philosophy and process.
This includes discussions with the businesses that we invest in, about how Think Forward students are introduced to different roles within ICG CFO Philip Keller discusses the office environment and his experience at the July 2012 Think Forward Workshop.
Our business Business review Funds and portfolio Governance Financial statements Intermediate Capital Group plc 2 17 18 37 Annual Report 2013 38 45 46 76 77 112 37 work experience opportunities and encouraging Environment employees to participate in these programmes.
ICG recognises that all businesses have a ICGruns an internship programme which offers responsibility to protect the environment and fourplaces each year.
young graduates who have understand the impact their operations have on achieved academically but do not come from theenvironment.
ICG will be participating in the corporate backgrounds are encouraged to apply Carbon Disclosure Project, which operates under for the positions.
The internship offers the opportunity the Climate Disclosure Standards Board CDSB to rotate through ICGs key business areas, astherecognised authority for measuring the providing that difficult first step on the career ladder.
impact businesses have on the environment.
In addition ICG has made a five year commitment TheCDSB links financial and climate change to be a corporate sponsor of the Private Equity relatedreporting, helping companies evaluate the Foundations Think Forward programme.
Think risk and opportunities that climate change Forward places coaches in schools where there are represents to their strategy, and ultimately providing young people who have been identified as at risk information that helps filter out what is of most value ofdropping out of education or training and to investors in understanding how climate change becoming Neets not in education, employment or affects a companys financial performance and training.
The coaches work with the young people condition.
For more information on the Carbon toprevent disengagement and work with each Disclosure Project please visit www.
net individual to help achieve their goals, providing support both at school and at home.
Social and community For more information about Think Forward ICGs corporate social and community policy is please visit http: www.
org founded in a belief that ICGs business operations our-work think-forward should positively impact society.
Either through ICG facilitates an environment where employees responsible investment practices which incorporate can participate in activities which contribute towards ESG factors or through our contribution to the a social purpose.
In practice, this is through charitable giving, active participation and through the application communities in which we operate around the world, of their knowledge, skills and resources to support our social and community programme is grounded local good causes.
ICG matches monies raised by in promoting opportunities to young people, through employees through fundraising activities.
In practice this meansmaking a contribution to education, creating ICG CSR team host Think Forward studentsin ICG offices andlocal business area.
Office location: Singapore 38 Funds and portfolio Contents Our investment culture 39 Funds overview 42 Investment company portfolio 44
