Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Glossary of terms Business review Annual Report 2013: Directors report Business review and we give an extra 50p for every 1 donated.
We also support Developing Our People employees fundraising through our match funding scheme.
Our peoples performance is the key driver of our growth and success.
Taking action to protect the environment Apart from creating career development through internal job mobility We recognise that climate change is one of the worlds biggest we provide many opportunities for employees to build their challenges and we have a responsibility to take action.
We want to do experience and skills through a wide range of development and skills more than minimising the environmental impact of our operations training.
This is achieved through face to face training by attendance and our products.
An even bigger opportunity lies in working together on external or internally run courses, through our online training and with our 11.2 million customers to inspire them to join with us to tackle education facility, the Sky Development Studio, and through coaching climate change.
Sky Rainforest Rescue we are now in the fourth year of our The Development Studio has had 385,000 visits this year.
More than partnership with WWF and the state government of Acre in Brazil to 160,000 hours of e-learning courses have been completed via the Development Studio, up 93% on the last financial year.
In total, help save one billion trees in the Amazon rainforest and protect the regions rich natural diversity.
In 2013, we worked with Lily Cole, Sky 104,678 development days have been undertaken this year.
Rainforest Rescue Ambassador, model and environmentalist, We have continued to build strong leadership capability of our senior focusing on raising awareness of the threat of tropical team through training and the introduction of leadership surveys deforestation at home in Britain and Ireland.
Weve raised an which provide direct feedback to managers from their teams.
Last additional 1 million, to bring the amount raised to 3 million since year we apportioned an element of the senior managers annual 2009, which Sky has matched pound for pound to a total of bonus directly to their performance in this area.
Weve also worked with over 1,200 families in local series of master classes which focused on delivering Skys communities on the ground in Brazil to make the forest worth more Leadership behaviours and values and continued our programme for alive than dead.
the most senior managers and directors in conjunction with Henley Funds raised for Sky Rainforest Rescue Business School.
During the year, 35.9% of those employed in management positions were females.
Key performance indicator Target 2009 10 2010 11 2011 12 2012 13 Total donations since the We recognise that to offer the best service in the country, its launch of Sky Rainforest important for our people to be at the top of their game.
Across the i ii iii Rescue in 2009 4 million 335,000 790,000 2 million 3 million Customer Service Group we have delivered over 600,000 hours of Total families helped iv v number 1,000 1,241 training and over 100 days of leadership development during the last twelve months.
This has included multi-skill training for advisors so Notes that they are equipped to deal with queries over the full range of our i 2011 12 and 2012 13 data is independently assured by Deloitte LLP and can be viewed online at sky.
com biggerpicture products and leadership training for our first and second line ii Cumulative year on year management teams.
In addition we consolidated the success of our iii 4 million to 2015 which Sky will match to a total of 8 million externally accredited course Aspire by rolling this out to Customer iv Families registered into the Land Certification Scheme Service Advisors as well as Sales Advisors.
We have also implemented v 2012 13 data is independently assured by Deloitte LLP and can be viewed online at large scale training and development programmes at our newly sky.
com biggerpicture created Dublin site.
PEOPLE To further support the Companys ONE Service Pilot we ran team working sessions to promote even higher levels of collaboration We aim to attract and select the best people and provide across the different service activities and delivered new Service opportunities so that everyone can fulfill their potential.
We work Excellence programmes for our Engineers.
hard to create a great place to work and build an open culture that rewards and recognises great performance.
Investing in Future Talent and Youth Creating opportunities We have been investing heavily in providing opportunities for young people.
As well as direct entry roles we have expanded our offer of Over the last year we have provided over 1,200 additional job work experience and work placements this year.
Over 500 young opportunities across a wide range of functions but specifically in people have participated in one of our schemes which range from a Technology, Sales and Marketing and Customer Service.
In addition to weeks work experience programmes to a years paid placement.
We new roles created, we have moved over 1,000 of our people into also run programmes for young people who might otherwise find it different roles, broadening their experience and strengthening difficult to find opportunities in the job market, specifically in the succession for the future.
The new jobs and the internal development areas of Entertainment, Content and News.
The Fast Forward and moves have been spread across our locations in the UK and Ireland.
Mama Youth programmes have been running for several years and go from strength to strength.
We introduced a new programme this year in Sky News for budding journalists from either a Black, Asian and Minority Ethnic BAME or financially disadvantaged background.
The scheme is supported by bursaries for those who would otherwise not be able to take up the opportunity.
We have also continued to develop our 17 year partnership with the National Film and Television School by developing a production diploma that we help to deliver.
British Sky Broadcasting Group plc 21 Annual Report 2013: Directors report Business review Review of our business continued We recognise more and more young people are exploring alternative Inclusion@Sky network to champion diversity at Sky.
We have driven awareness of diversity and the benefits it brings to the business options to university, so we are increasing the number of apprenticeship opportunities to around 100 across Sky with brand through use of stories and blogs on our internal communication new schemes in Marketing, Sky Production Services, Technology, network which often generate higher than typical page views across Contact Centres and Home Service & Supply.
We recruited close to our intranet and the feedback is very positive.
We also continued the roll out of an awareness training programme on unconscious bias.
100 graduates into the business this year.
Our on-campus university campaign was targeted to promote applications from diverse This year we implemented a week long season of programmes across backgrounds resulting in a 12% increase in female hires and a 1% our channels to mark International Womens Day and also held an increase in ethnic minority hires in comparison to 2011 12. event at Sky Studios that was webcast to the business.
We work in Our specialist software Engineering Academy has gone from strength partnership with SWIMM Senior Women in Media Mentoring to to strength, this year hiring 24 of the brightest technology minds.
We mentor rising female stars in the media industry.
invest in an intensive training programme which rapidly develops their Overall, the proportion of female and BAME employees has held firm software skills whilst exposing them to a range of live, cutting edge across the year.
We continue to work with a range of external development projects.
partners to support our work in diversity and our relationship with the broadcasting industrys Cultural Diversity Networks CDN is Employee Engagement particularly important in this regard.
Sky News was one of the first broadcasters to sign up to the campaign to challenge the gender We want all our people to feel involved and engaged in our business.
imbalance among media contributors and we have made great Therefore we need to know what our people are thinking and how they feel about working for Sky.
We have a variety of ways of keeping progress in this achieving a gender balance of on-air contributors.
Over the last eighteen months our average ratio of male to female close to our employees, two of the most significant ways are the Sky commentators has improved from 4:1 to 2:1.
Forum and the People Survey.
Sky is an equal opportunities employer and we believe that everyone The Sky Forum is a team of 88 elected employee representatives from should have full and fair consideration for all vacancies, promotions, across the business.
This year new members from Sky Ireland were training and development.
Should an employee become disabled elected to join the group.
The Sky Forum meets several times a year to discuss a wide range of business challenges and to provide input during their employment at Sky, where possible, we will actively re-train and adjust their environment to allow them to maximise their that helps Sky to continuously innovate and improve the way we potential.
Over the course of the year, we have partnered with various operate.
Meetings are run throughout the year to address local issues not-for-profit organisations with the aim of providing more and are supplemented by two Sky-wide meetings which are attended by the CEO and other executives.
Each member has a responsibility to opportunities for people with disabilities.
collect the views of the people they represent and to provide information back to them.
Increasingly, we are also able to drive Health and Safety information, dialogue and idea generation though use of the The health and safety of all our people is of paramount importance to us.
corporate social media site Chatter.
We take a holistic approach to keeping Sky a safe place to work, so We run our people survey every 4 months and use external whilst accident prevention and safety training is a priority, the benchmark data from Towers Watson, to compare our performance long-term wellbeing of our people is equally important.
This year we against other UK companies.
The benchmark information shows us have implemented a range of new initiatives such as Home Service that participation in our surveys is consistently higher than and Supplys Drive Safe campaign and specific Manual Handling experienced elsewhere averaging 75% across the 3 surveys this year.
We have also introduced Engineer medical assessment It also shows that we perform better than other large UK companies programmes to promote and protect the health of our field in 9 out of the 11 categories we measure.
Our score for employee workforce, a hearing protection programme for the Formula One engagement shows an average of 94%.
This is up 7 points from last support team and a brand new Occupational Health Service in Ireland years reported figure and 11 points above the external benchmark.
launched following the opening of our Dublin contact centre.
The employee engagement category includes questions about whether our people support our strategy, understand how their work It is also essential that as a business we remain resilient to contributes to it, are willing to go the extra mile to help us succeed unexpected events and our dedicated Business Continuity Team help and are proud to work for Sky.
We are delighted that over 90% of our Sky protect the services our people deliver to our customers.
Last people continue to respond positively to these key questions.
year, with the London Olympics 2012 our Business Continuity Team were specifically engaged with multiple stakeholders on the contingency planning in preparation for the impact that the Olympics Diversity and Inclusion could have had on our business operations across the UK.
We have We believe that a diverse workforce creates a stronger business and 500 people across the business now actively engaged on business therefore we work to create an environment that encourages continuity initiatives and training.
As a result, our business continuity diversity and innovation.
We have established a number of diversity plans and our ability to execute against them continues to improve.
networks to connect people to information that is relevant for them and to help us ensure that our employment practices are inclusive.
LGBT@Sky is a network for lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender employees, we have a network for women and a Diversity and 22 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Glossary of terms Business review Annual Report 2013: Directors report Business review Recognition and reward There are a number of recognition schemes across the Company that provide us with the opportunity to reward and recognise employees who have provided exceptional customer service or have gone the extra mile in delivering their normal day to day duties.
In addition, we continue to run an annual Corporate Scheme called Believe in Better that rewards outstanding achievement.
This year the awards had a record number of nominations with over 3,700 people and around 570 teams being nominated.
The 3 top winners were awarded with a long-haul holiday for them and a partner, with close to 50 people receiving other significant prizes.
We continued to share Skys success with our people.
We awarded an above average pay increase and specifically weighted the balance of the pay review to those on lower incomes.
In addition, for those people choosing to participate in the Sky sharesave scheme, they saw gains of up to 90% of the original option price for options which vested in 2013.
Other items included our annual two day music and entertainment event Sky Fest for our employees and their families which included regional events this year to reflect Skys growing regional footprint.
British Sky Broadcasting Group plc 23
