overview our people Our people are critical to Britvics success and we are fully committed to making Britvic a great place to work, with our vision to be a top 5 Great Place to Work.
Our emphasis is increasingly on developing our own talent, combined with proactive external recruitment when we need to introduce new skills or create positions that support our growth plans.
To maximise the potential of our employees we continue to strengthen our focus on performance management, talent management and providing learning and development programmes across all our geographies.
We have embarked on inspiring all our employees across our entire business in our new Britvic plc purpose, vision and values and we expect this to further drive engagement and motivation.
strategy for growth Our vision for Britvic is to become one of the most admired soft drinks businesses in the world.
Our new strategy is designed to realise that ambition and capitalise on the many opportunities available to our business.
Becoming the benchmark branded soft drinks business for both PepsiCo and our own brands in GB & Ireland In our core markets, we will continue to build a company that is acknowledged for commercial excellence, efficient operations and the strength and breadth of our brand portfolio, both our own brands and PepsiCos.
We will maintain a dedicated commercial focus in both countries, but will combine support functions to maximise efficiencies.
Fully exploiting global category opportunities in the kids, family and adult categories We will build on the strength of our own brands in these categories, in particular Fruit Shoot, Robinsons and Teisseire, and leverage them internationally.
We will launch them in countries where we believe they have real potential to succeed and a dedicated International business unit will work with local partners, through franchise, distribution or licensing agreements, to ensure an asset-light and low risk approach to growth.
Creating a simple focused operating model, empowering our people and matching resource and capability to the growth opportunities Delivery of the strategy requires a simpler, more focused and accountable organisational structure.
Resources will be aligned against the growth opportunities and we will create a lower cost and more efficient business.
Being a trusted and respected member of the communities in which we operate We will deliver a strong performance with integrity, acknowledging the responsibility we have to contribute to our local economies and society more broadly.
Corporate social responsibility and sustainability will be fully embedded in our business.
4 Britvic plc Annual Report 2013 business review business review ove over rv viiew ew go gov vernance ernance financial st financial statements atements shareholder inf shareholder information ormation overview our people continued business review 06 Chairmans statement 08 Chief Executive Officers strategic review 10 Chief Financial Officers review 17 Business resources 19 Risks and uncer tainties Britvic plc Annual Report 2013 5
