Corporate governance report Sustainability report Sustainable business practices Guided by our purpose to create sustained long-term wealth, we Our seek to be a positive inuence in all our core businesses and in each of the societies in which we operate.
sustainability We do this by empowering communities through entrepreneurship and education and leveraging the value in philosophy our diversity.
We recognise the challenges that climate change presents to the global economy and we will consider supporting any meaningful activity that either reduces the negative impact on, or prolongs the life of, our planet.
Just as relevant as our business accomplishments is the manner in which we conduct ourselves in attaining them.
Our sustainability goals reect our culture of continuous Sustainability at advancement and reafrm our belief that sustainability in its broadest sense is about Investec is about: managing and positioning the group for the long term.
Investecs sustainability philosophy is based on the recognition that we are a specialist bank and asset manager driven by our r. BOBHJOH BOE QPTJUJPOJOH UIF commitment to our culture and values.
HSPVQ GPS UIF MPOH UFSN Our philosophy seeks to align the interests of shareholders and stakeholders over time, r #VJMEJOH B TVTUBJOBCMF CVTJOFTT and provides the individual business units and regions with a basis from which to determine NPEFM UIBU BMMPXT OWFTUFD UP their own approach.
The groups philosophy is not intended to be mutually exclusive, nor NBLF B WBMVBCMF DPOUSJCVUJPO exhaustive, but allows us to concentrate, for now, on key focus areas.
Deliberately not UP TPDJFUZ UP NBDSP FDPOPNJD driven on a top-down basis, the executive maintains responsibility for oversight, direction, TUBCJMJUZ BOE UP PVS FOWJSPONFOU coordination and integration of our sustainability efforts while the individual business units provide the principal drivers behind our activities, in a manner that best makes sense to each.
r %FWFMPQJOH B TUSPOH EJWFSTF BOE DBQBCMF XPSLGPSDF r SPXJOH BOE QSFTFSWJOH DMJFOUT Sustainability at Investec BOE TUBLFIPMEFST XFBMUI CBTFE PO TUSPOH SFMBUJPOTIJQT PG USVTU Investecs sustainability focus encompasses endurance and the interdependence of the three key areas of profit, people and planet.
profit People Financial strength and Internal employees: resilience of the business t Strong, diverse and and the economy capable workforce Sustainability t Balanced and resilient t Provide a progressive business model work environment at Investec Risk management Engage | Develop | Retain and compliance t Strong risk External CSI initiatives: consciousness t Education t Responsible Asset Management t Entrepreneurship banking practices t Environment Wealth & Investment t Responsible lending 3 and investing Specialist Banking Internal Governance t Reduce operational impacts t Strong culture and values to underpin our External processes, functions t Embed environmental and structures considerations into business Energy | Water | Waste activities Planet During the period under review, a variety of engagements took place across the group on sustainability issues including presentations on climate change issues, changes in local environmental laws and discussions around materiality.
A sustainability management system was designed and implemented to ensure consistent, comprehensive carbon information is captured.
We are now in a position to start setting measurable targets.
Investec maintained its inclusion in the JSE SRI Index, the FTSE4Good Index, the Dow Jones Sustainability Index and the Carbon Disclosure Project.
102 Investec integrated annual report 2013 Corporate governance report Sustainability report continued The scope of our work was agreed with the full 2013 sustainability report containing Responsibility management and based on the result our assurance statement.
thereof, nothing has come to our attention The social and ethics committee to indicate that: is responsible for monitoring Employee report the non-profit elements of t The qualitative sustainability information sustainability, see pages 94 is not a fair statement of Investecs Investec employees remain critical to and 95. corporate responsibility initiatives continued business success and to overall The mandate of this committee places a sustainability efforts.
The expertise and t The quantitative sustainability strong emphasis on the responsibility of the dedication of staff is fundamental in meeting information is signicantly misstated.
group towards the communities in which clients needs and delivering distinctive we operate, on social transformation in the results.
It is therefore vital that we engage, External audit workplace, and on preserving the welldevelop and retain a high-value workforce.
Grant Thornton performed a being and dignity of our employees.
One of the groups values is to ensure open review of the carbon footprint and honest communication and hence We also have sustainability representatives table on page 109. we encourage active and open dialogue in each of the major geographies in which between staff and senior management.
The summarised environmental information, we operate who drive our sustainability As a responsible employer, Investec aims as set out in the sustainability reviews of objectives as well as various forums to offer staff a stimulating and progressive this annual report, has been extracted discussing sustainability considerations.
working environment in which they can from the 2013 sustainability report.
Feedback on relevant sustainability issues is ourish and realise their true potential.
Grant Thornton has provided assurance provided to board members at each board over selected environmental information as meeting.
Our internal people activities involve contained in the 2013 sustainability report dedicated divisions such as Human in which we express that based on the Resources HR and Organisation work we performed, nothing has come to Reporting Development OD which serve to our attention that causes us to believe that supplement the ongoing people focus of the selected environmental information for Our approach to sustainability is our individual business units.
The HR teams the year ended 31 March 2013, has not documented throughout this integrated are mandated to attract, develop and been fairly stated.
report with further detail available in a more retain talent who can perform in a manner detailed sustainability report on our website.
For a better understanding of the groups consistent with our culture and values.
In line with our view on integrated reporting environmental performance, as well as OD acts to strengthen the culture of the and reducing paper consumption, printed the scope of our assurance process, the business, ensure its values are lived, build copies of the detailed sustainability report extracted environmental information in this capability and contribute to the long-term have been limited.
report should be read in conjunction with sustainability of the organisation.
The online version is available on our website.
Number of employees Our approach to reporting has followed 'PS UIF ZFBS FOEFE.
"BSDI guidance from the King Code which #Z EJWJTJPO m QFSNBOFOU FNQMPZFFT 2013 2012 recommends that a company integrates financial and non-financial reporting ""TTFU."
BOBHFNFOU detailing how economic, social and UK and Other 383 359 environmental issues have inuenced Southern Africa 778 728 business strategy.
We have been assisted in this regard by the Global Reporting 5PUBM Initiatives GRI G3.1 sustainability reporting guidelines and an index of these indicators 8FBMUI OWFTUNFOU together with our response to each of them UK and Other 973 1 021 can be found in our separate sustainability Southern Africa 272 239 report.
We have self-assessed our reporting 5PUBM to be application level B.
Certain elements of the sustainability 4QFDJBMJTU #BOLJOH information in this report have been veried UK and Other 1 982 1 821 by the group Internal Audit division.
Southern Africa 2 698 2 694 Internal audit Australia 470 407 Investec Internal Audit USA 19 17 performed a limited review of 5PUBM the quantitative and qualitative sustainability information 5PUBM OVNCFS PG QFSNBOFOU FNQMPZFFT disclosed on pages 102 to 111 of this report.
Investec integrated annual report 2013 103 Corporate governance report Sustainability report continued In assuming responsibility for our human Managing 3 7 capital we seek performance through regular Measures to Facilitating an understanding to promote reviews, learning ensure the of HR policies and procedures, and development health and to allow for guidance and sustainability well-being of opportunity among staff employees through: 4 Specialised Resourcing learning and recruiting programmes for that takes into young talent account a diverse 1 5 workforce Competitive remuneration Succession and reward, and advice for planning and each employee26 business continuity 6 The HR division participates in local and Group training spend international forums, to ensure ongoing 2013 2012 development of HR best practice in the 'PS UIF ZFBS FOEFE.
BSDI b group and the alignment of HR strategy with business strategy.
"As our operating %JWJTJPOT jurisdictions have different legal and 4PVUI ""GSJDB regulatory requirements, our various Specialist Banking 6655846 6475498 HR functions operate independently of one another, while at all times adhering to the Asset Management 532 584 803767 group philosophical approach."
Wealth & Investment 499 852 1214127 5PUBM Employee strategy The core areas of emphasis regarding our 6, BOE 0UIFS people strategy are: Specialist Banking 3009451 3297067 To attract, retain and motivate the right Asset Management 528868 562345 people who can perform extraordinarily Wealth & Investment 508744 467050 We invest signicantly in a number 5PUBM of opportunities for developing and 3 training employees and in leadership.
BVSJUJVT programmes to develop current and future leaders of the group.
"Our Learning and Development Centre plays a critical role ""VTUSBMJB in the development of our employees as well as assisting the business areas to 5PUBM HSPVQ TQFOE PO USBJOJOH achieve their learning objectives."
Such learning objectives are always aligned to the business strategy and market trends.
The Centre is also involved in group-wide activities such as an induction programme for new employees, providing learning advice to individual employees and facilitating the development of generic programmes in the elds of IT, banking 104 Investec integrated annual report 2013 Corporate governance report Sustainability report continued and finance, compliance, e-learning, talent related to talent management.
In South Africa, Investecs retention and mentoring.
our Zebra Crossing initiative, which HIV Aids policy and management forum is aligned to our employment equity extends to all permanent employees.
To retain and motivate staff through plan, aims to raise levels of multicultural appropriate remuneration and reward To enable and develop employee health awareness of staff at Investec and structures and wellbeing, Investec provides employees enable them to appreciate and celebrate with a bespoke Employee Assistance and Our remuneration practices comply with the richness of our diverse population Wellbeing Programme.
The comprehensive the principles of local regulations, while and to take these insights back into the and integrated Health and Wellbeing continuing to reward people meaningfully business.
Programme, which expresses our focus for performance and contribution.
Our Transformation of care and concern for the wellbeing remuneration strategy is based on the of employees, provides personalised philosophy that employees are innovative, In South Africa, Investec remains committed wellness interventions offered in faceentrepreneurial and work in an environment to black economic empowerment.
Our to-face counselling and coaching.
The that encourages and fosters extraordinary approach involves: wellness interventions are provided by performance.
In line with our philosophy of t Using our entrepreneurial expertise a multidisciplinary team of select health employee ownership, staff share schemes to foster the creation of new black professionals who are all specialists in provide all employees, at all levels of entrepreneurial platforms their elds of practice.
Investec values the the organisation, with the opportunity to physical and psychological health, welfare participate in our long-term growth.
As at t Serving as a leading source of and safety of our people.
Our ofces 31 March 2013, management and staff empowerment nancing also host wellness days for staff to raise held an effective interest in the group of awareness and education around health approximately 10%.
t Encouraging internal transformation by issues through a unique, fun and interactive bringing about greater representivity Further information is provided approach which focuses on physical and in our workplace.
In this regard, on pages 113 to 136. mental health.
we are focusing on creating black entrepreneurs within the organisation.
Retrenchment policy To ensure that performance Where it becomes necessary for Investec During the year we completed our third management is effectively and to terminate employment based on Department of Trade and Industry BEE constructively practised operational requirements, the procedure verication according to the generic Our culture of open and honest to be followed will be in accordance codes and received a level 4 rating status dialogue promotes immediate and direct with local regulatory requirements.
We are committed to performance-related feedback between conduct consultation as prescribed by local achieving and sustaining an equitable manager, employee and team, to help legislation during which we attempt to nd a workplace that encourages and manages individuals identify and address their suitable alternative position for the affected diversity.
Meaningful engagement and development needs.
consultation took place with employees across the group as part of a process Working at Investec Freedom of association to develop a new employment equity We fully support employees right to The policies and business practices of plan.
In this regard, two studies relating Investec are outlined in BAWI Becoming freedom of association.
There is no to employment equity and diversity Acquainted with Investec and in the representative trade union for Investec and were conducted during 2012 and a new compliance handbook.
They are intended we are not aware of any employees who employment equity plan was submitted to to guide our conduct and ensure that at all are part of a trade union.
We do however the Department of Labour.
times our actions and attitude reect the uphold the constitutional rights of the Recognising that enterprise development groups values and philosophies.
individual to freedom of association, the is vital to South Africas transformation right to collective bargaining and the right These policies and business aspirations, we launched an Enterprise to be a member of a union of their choice.
practices can be found on our Development programme in partnership website, including more details Human rights with Raizcorp to back 12 entrepreneurs 3 on the following: who are managing their own business We support and respect the protection of and have potential to grow and create jobs.
internationally proclaimed human rights Promoting equity and diversity in the and are not complicit in any human rights workplace Further information on the abuses.
We do not have a formal human employment equity statistics of Our promotion of equal opportunity and rights policy for the group as this would fall workplace diversity is not merely a social our South African business is within the ambit of our Code of Conduct responsibility, but a means of ensuring available on our website.
but we do adhere to the relevant laws in that we foster a culture of diversity in the all our jurisdictions.
Our philosophy as an Health and safety belief that this brings business advantage.
organisation is to respect the dignity and A group-wide formal health and safety We have various processes to encourage worth of the individual.
We uphold the debate and dialogue around appreciating programme identies and manages all constitutional rights of our employees at all diversity and different cultures.
Emerging health and safety risks, and carries out times, do not practise forced or compulsory and established leaders are invited to regular safety audits.
It is overseen by a labour and do not employ children.
participate in talent discussions with health and safety committee that meets executive management around all issues quarterly to review health and safety Investec integrated annual report 2013 105 Corporate governance report Sustainability report continued Discrimination Permanent headcount by geography We endeavour to prevent and or eliminate any form of discrimination based on gender, 8 000 race, religion, age and sexual preference or any other basis.
Investec has a formal 7 000 grievance procedure and a written policy 6 000 to deal appropriately with any incident which may occur.
Furthermore, there are 5 000 several informal avenues for employees 4 000 who wish to discuss concerns for example, OD, HR, Employee Relations and our 3 000 independent external consultants.
2 000 There has been no recorded incidence of discrimination in any of our businesses.
1 000 Australia UK and Europe 0 Whistle blowing policy and protected South Africa and Other 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 disclosures One of Investecs values requires employees to conduct all internal and external dealings with integrity, consistently and uncompromisingly displaying moral strength Group CSI spend and behaviour which promotes trust.
Integrity and confidence are critical to our 2013 2012 reputation and sustainability.
The purpose of 'PS UIF ZFBS FOEFE.
"BSDI R b3 our whistle blowing policy is to encourage employees to raise concerns or disclose 4PVUI ""GSJDB information about possible fraudulent, Specialist Banking 147031 1976467 90955 1077812 unethical, criminal or other improper Asset Management 210898 2834997 140744 1667816 behaviour or workplace misconduct in Wealth & Investment 45855 616408 50034 592905 total condentiality and anonymity and Group Corporate Social without fear of retribution."
We seek to Investment 2467879 33174430 2596811 30772215 protect all employees who disclose unlawful 5PUBM or irregular conduct by the company, its employees or other stakeholders.
6, BOE &VSPQF To review the full details on Specialist Banking 139144 1870442 133366 1580387 employees and our policies Asset Management 689861 9273445 137937 1634554 relating to business practices, Wealth & Investment 9524 128024 48256 571833 please refer to the separate Group Corporate Social sustainability report on our Investment 887128 11925208 1070674 12687487 website.
"BVSJUJVT investment report ""VTUSBMJB Our approach to corporate social Specialist Banking 178917 2409675 131712 1560785 investment CSI has historically placed 3 Group Corporate Social strong emphasis on education and Investment 47681 642170 54796 649333 entrepreneurship, while also supporting 5PUBM other causes, albeit more passively."
We believe this to be the most 5PUBM HSPVQ $4 TQFOE effective way to create opportunities 5PUBM HSPVQ $4 TQFOE BT B for employment, wealth creation and PG PQFSBUJOH QSPU stimulating socio-economic growth.
Group Corporate Social Investment includes spend by the CSI division as well as In keeping with our business model of central services spend.
independent, highly autonomous business Before goodwill, acquired intangibles, non-operating items, taxation and after nonunits, supported by a strong centre, there controlling interests.
is no single overriding approach to social investment within the group, although clear commonalities exist.
Each of the regions has pursued social investment as deemed 106 Investec integrated annual report 2013 Corporate governance report Sustainability report continued from the programme, such as those appropriate to their circumstances and As their pivotal founding partner, where they are in the evolution of their with autism and students with Investec continues to cover around business.
behavioural problems 55% 2012: 40% of Kutlwanong Centres operational costs contributing UK and Other t Investec staff gave 163 762 2012: to the achievement of 947 2012: 752 128 497 to various charities in the last decent passes 50% in maths The corporate social investment programme financial year directly from their salary and 850 2012: 702 decent passes plays a key role in the fullment of through the Give As You Earn scheme nationwide Investecs core values, focusing on making an unselsh contribution to society.
We t 35 runners participated in the 2012 t Investec staff donated a total of champion sustainable social investment by: London Marathon and raised R352 220 2012: R136 475 to various 113 160 2012: 97 000 for a variety charities through the Touch by Giving t Building dedicated charitable of charities initiative during the year.
Touch by Giving partnerships offers Investec staff a simple way to t The Guernsey ofce won the Corporate t Engaging all Investec people in making make a monthly donation, directly from & Social Responsibility Award at a positive difference their salaries, to a pre-selected charity Guernsey Community Foundations t Harnessing our diverse resources and Community Awards 2012, for its strong t The Cradle Project, a group of Investec collective talent.
partnership with local primary school employees who give their time and Amherst, where Investec volunteers resources to improving the lives of Our social investment programme in the are very involved with numeracy and those less fortunate in our surrounding UK is focused on the areas of education, literacy programmes.
communities, allocated R508 999 entrepreneurship and environment: sectors 2012: R734 550 to a variety of worthy identied by staff as best aligned with Southern Africa causes Investecs core values.
Our approach Aligned with the group approach, our t A total of 93 2012: 83 employees encompasses the principal elements of CSI endeavours focus on education and are currently mentoring high school or facilitating employee volunteering with entrepreneurship.
Wherever possible, we our charitable partners, and making other university students providing guidance seek to collaborate with partners so as to and support through their educational charitable donations to small local charities leverage resources and expertise and help journey that t within the education, entrepreneurship ensure enduring impact and long-term and environment sectors.
We also sustainability for our projects.
In all cases, t During the financial year, 380 encourage and facilitate employee giving we look to clear indications that projects 2012: 347 high school learners by providing a Give As You Earn facility and are enduring, sustainable and replicable participated in an eight month long matching funds raised by our employees.
where appropriate and are guided by Investec funded programme focusing on entrepreneurship, financial literacy strategic intent, rather than philanthropic Highlights during the period well-meaning.
and workplace readiness, as well as t Investec was Highly Commended in micro-economics and business ethics.
the Community Impact category at the In the context of the sheer number of national Business Charity Awards, for Investec Bank Mauritius has a CSI strategy socio-economic needs in the South our work with Arrival Education, a social to focus on projects and initiatives in African context, however, we have had enterprise that designs and delivers education, environment and sports to recognise that we cannot be all things programmes to young people from development.
The ofce contributed to all people in respect of our available challenging backgrounds, to develop 75 241 2012: 66 595 to a number of resources.
Our CSI strategy is to focus on a them into adults capable of high levels corporate social investment projects during more clearly dened pipeline of educational of success the financial year.
The strategy is aimed at facilitating the empowerment t In partnership with Arrival Education, Australia of talented individuals within a dened we run a fortnightly success skills The Investec Foundation in Australia continuum of interventions through school workshop as well as a mentoring embodies our philanthropic commitment and university to the workplace.
programme which has supports to the Australian community.
This 3 81 students Highlights during the period commitment is illustrated primarily through supporting meaningful health, In line with our strategy, a total of 88% of t Investec has been the principal welfare and educational programmes, supporter of the Beyond Business South Africas CSI spend was allocated to while remaining focused on preserving education and entrepreneurial initiatives programme with the Bromley by Bow the local environment and managing our Centre for the last two years.
Since t Promaths, which is a partnership environmental footprint.
Investec became the lead supporter between Investec and Kutlwanong in 2011 we have incubated eight new To create a positive social impact the Centre for Maths, Science and east London social enterprises, six of Investec Foundation focuses on a small Technology, offers extra maths and which were launched towards the end number of sustained philanthropic giving science lessons to grade 10, 11 and of 2012, creating a total of 22 jobs and volunteering efforts.
The main aim is to improve local, entrepreneurial organisations which t We increased our support of Morpeth learners performance in maths, hence perform remarkable work in these elds.
Schools Outward Bound programme facilitating entrance into tertiary learning to enable the school to target student institutions.
The results for our 2012 groups who would especially benefit learners were extremely encouraging.
Investec integrated annual report 2013 107 Corporate governance report Sustainability report continued Highlights during the period Promaths programme in South Africa The Australian ofce contributed A$347 600 Number of distinctions in each to a number of corporate social investment Promaths started off academic year: projects: with one centre and 15 learners in 2005. t Over 230 Investec employees 42% 2005 3 Between 2005 and participated in the banks first Australia- 2012 it has grown wide volunteering day, ICARE 2010 2006 162 6 to approximately t The Outback Oral Treatment and 15 centres across 2007 2011 8 169 Health TOOTH programme which South Africa with was launched at the beginning of 2008 2 500 learners.
2012 84 the financial year in partnership with 272 Australias Royal Flying Doctor Service, 2009 120 provided free and comprehensive dental care to over 1 600 patients in total in the last year, consisting of 931 adult patients and 679 children.
This has included Indigenous Breakdown of spend by the CSI division in South Africa Australians, who represented 49% of all adult patients in the last year t Our staff donated A$76 996 c c 2012: A$93 937 to charities of their a a b b choice which was matched by Investec 77.0% 75.0% t Investec staff participated in eight Australian Business Community Network ABCN programmes focused on mentoring and coaching t Investec supports a scholarship 31 March 2012 31 March 2013 programme for Indigenous Australians studying at the University of New South a Education 77% Wales.
The aim of the programme is a Education 75% b Entrepreneurship 14% b Entrepreneurship 13% to increase the number of Aboriginal c Philanthropic and Other 9% c Philanthropic and Other 12% health professionals working in indigenous communities and thereby help improve their communities health outcomes.
Breakdown of spend by the CSI division in South Africa Rmillion 12 10.3 10 3 8 6.3 6.0 6 5.3 4.6 4 3.3 3.0 3.0 2.9 2.8 2.5 2.5 2.1 1.6 2 1.5 1.2 1.2 0.9 0.6 0.7 0.6 March 2012 0 0 March 2013 Education Entrepreneurship Philanthropic and Other 108 Investec integrated annual report 2013 Promaths Bursary programme Universities Schools assistance Private schools assistance Other Schools Other Philanthropic Sports development Special projects Corporate governance report Sustainability report continued across the group around a variety of water, Environmental report waste and energy issues.
Furthermore, Our environmental the Gresham Street waste management As a niched, specialist, knowledgepolicy takes programme won a Platinum Award in the based financial services organisation Clean City Awards Scheme 2012 for the into account the with a limited physical presence, the seventh consecutive year.
They were also direct environmental and social impacts challenges that awarded the ISO14001 certication and the of Investecs daily operations are limited.
climate change Energy Reduction Verication Kitemark.
However, in promoting sustainability as part of Investecs core strategy, we believe there presents to the global Externally, we focus on incorporating needs to be a balance between economic environmental considerations into our economy and we and financial imperatives, the needs of daily operations.
We recognise the society and their combined impact on the will consider any significant opportunities for our clients and environment.
meaningful activity our various businesses in areas such as cleaner and renewable energy sources, Our internal environmental strategy that either reduces the energy efficiency and responsible lending is focused on creating awareness negative impact on, and investing.
During the period under and encouraging behavioural change review, Investec Corporate and Institutional in recognition of our environmental or prolongs the life of, Banking ICIB in South Africa approved the responsibilities.
Investec recognises that our planet.
nancing of R3.2 billion renewable energy effective environmental management is an projects.
ICIB also funded R105 million for essential part of embedding this philosophy South Africas first co-generation power into the organisation.
We are committed We believe that as a plant which uses waste heat from hot water to operating an effective environmental bank, and given our received from a smelter and evaporates it management system compliant with King into a gas to drive an expansion turbine.
III in South Africa and ISO14001:2004 in positioning in the first the UK.
During the period under review, we Please see the online world and emerging continued to focus on our direct operational sustainability report for more impacts by inuencing internal behaviour world, we can make details on our green business and several campaigns were held over a meaningful impact deals and opportunity.
the past year to raise staff awareness in addressing climate change.
Carbon footprint for the group 'PS UIF ZFBS FOEFE.
BSDI $0 NFUSJD UPOOFT 2013 2012 2 Investec managed to reduce carbon emissions per average employee by 19% 4DPQF in the 2013 financial year as a result of a Southern Africa 1476 740 number of initiatives.
The increased use of UK and Other 785 434 video conferencing reduced the amount Australia n a n a of road and air travel by employees.
Paper consumption decreased as a result 4DPQF of greater awareness around wastage, Southern Africa 31561 31801 increased iPad usage and the introduction UK and Other 6609 6539 of swipe-to-print facilities.
The increase in 3 Australia 1013 2358 scope 1 for South Africa and UK relates to refrigerant that was not reported on in the 4DPQF prior year.
The UK managed to keep total emissions relatively at despite the total Southern Africa 4654 5692 ofce space reported on increasing by 54% UK and Other 7589 8001 in the current financial year as a result of Australia 53 165 the acquisitions made and increasing our 5PUBM FNJTTJPOT emissions coverage.
Emissions per average employee 6.62 8.18 Emissions per m ofce space 0.36 0.44 No scope 1 emissions recorded for Australia.
Note: 2012 restatements Southern Africa restated to include Mauritius: UK restated to reect more accurate measurements: Headcount restated for average total employees including temporary employees and contractors.
Investec integrated annual report 2013 109 Corporate governance report Sustainability report continued Highlights for Australia Highlights for the UK Gresham Street t We held a number of staff awareness Head Ofce campaigns during the year on topics t We are continuing to decrease the such as water awareness and Earth t The electricity and natural gas usage number of personal computers used Hour.
On World Environment Day in is 100% covered by smart meters and and now have over 87% of employees May 2012, we turned off the escalators we continue to exceed the energy on a virtual system.
Each virtual system in each of our main ofces for the entire reduction targets set for this ofce: uses only 6W of power compared to day, encouraging staff to use the stairs.
based on the financial year 2009, a 96W for a PC.
As this equipment is left We also turned off all the televisions to reduction of 15% in 2012 and 34% in on 24 7 for maintenance reasons, this highlight energy savings and the money 2020 means that each virtual system saves saved from these two actions was us a potential 788kWh per annum of The formalised energy used to donate solar lamps to charities which we are currently saving 364MWh management system gained through Touch by Giving per annum ISO14001 certication and received the Energy Reduction Verication t The Project and Infrastructure team t We continue to retool lights using Kitemark continues to play an active role in the compact uorescent and LED renewable energy sector and, during Thir d amongst the financial technologies, reducing the wastage of the course of the year, they supported a institutions in the Carbon Reduction power and raw materials number of transactions both as lender Commitment Energy efficiency and equity investor in the countrys Scheme league table for the t Our new Sydney head ofce uses renewable energy programme.
The second consecutive year sensors to activate lights in meeting team takes consideration of the rooms.
The open plan ofce and t We recycled 76% of ofce waste environmental impact of these types interconnecting staircase provide including food waste which is turned of transactions and has partnered improved staff health and a reduction in into bio-fuel and bio-fertiliser with BirdLife South Africa to fund the use of electric lifts First in the Sustainable City research on the environmental impact t Throughout the year, we introduced Awards in the Responsible of renewable energy such as wind print management and swipe-to-print.
Waste Management category in energy facilities on the local birdlife in recognition of outstanding efforts in South Africa.
This research will make waste minimisation a valuable contribution to mitigate the Information technology potential impacts of renewable energy Second in the City of London s developments on South Africas birds Clean City Awards Scheme IT and covers energy developments recognising businesses that relating to wind, solar and nuclear sites Our vision is to deliver an efficient and operate well-managed waste effective IT platform that serves the needs minimisation programmes that t Recognising the intensity of the rhino of the business to deliver excellent client include staff engagement issue in Southern Africa, we partnered service.
with Dr Will Fowlds during the period t We bottled 25 800 one litre bottles of to launch Investec Rhino Lifeline with Key  developments water this year using both fide-ionisation the aim of raising awareness of the during the period include: and reverse osmosis to create pure rhino crisis and responding through drinking water from our main water t Through leveraging global teams education, rescue and prevention supply.
Many of our other UK ofces and a consistent approach, we have initiatives use zip-taps to ll water jugs rather seen an increase in efficiency and the than purchase in pre-bottled water for t Investec Property pledged support for ability to respond in a timely manner to clients the Endangered Wildlife Trusts EWT challenges and opportunities Corporates 4 Conservation by becoming t Team Green focused on improving local t The migration of the backup a platinum sponsor.
In addition to air quality and staff health by running environment from tape to disk has this, we also committed to supporting our Step into Health campaign which mitigated backup and recovery risks of the EWT Carnivore Conservation 3 encouraged people to opt to walk the old tape system while eliminating Programmes research and monitoring of rather than drive be driven around the the cost of consumables, offsite the endangered African wild dogs in the City, and to take the stairs rather than storage and transport logistics Kruger National Park the lifts while in the ofce.
t We continue to improve efficiencies t The group is supporting an Highlights for Southern Africa through our virtualisation strategies a environmental project in Mauritius to aid t Investec Limited was included in the significant number of physical servers local farmers with nutritional farming.
Carbon Disclosure Project for South have moved to the virtual environment The objective of the project is to restore Africa for 2012 and improve soil health and fertility and resulting in energy savings.
Critical t Investec Limited was included in the hence optimise plant nutrition, while review and rationalisation of the Dow Jones Sustainability Index: only reducing the farmers dependence on physical server landscape has resulted five South African companies were soil fertility-destroying and environmentin the fide-commissioning of a large included in the index for 2012 polluting conventional agrochemicals.
number of physical hosts 110 Investec integrated annual report 2013 Corporate governance report Sustainability report continued t We continue to upgrade our video distribution for our Private Banking, of the Department of Trade and Industrys Mortgage and Asset Finance Codes of Good Practice and we have conferencing environment with the businesses an established process for monitoring majority of Investec ofces now running and measuring our broad-based BEE in high denition.
Telepresence is t In South Africa, there is a drive to procurement efforts.
Environmentally deployed in the major centres.
This has provide clients with a consistent digital responsible partners are key to the changed our day-to-day collaboration experience by creating a single view of procurement process and we focus on experience and greatly enhanced all the clients holdings transactions.
sustainability criteria when contracting communication between ofces, with potential and existing vendors.
effectively reducing travel needs This convergence will lead to opportunities Our largest suppliers of PCs and server to leverage resources, skills and licensing at t The UK ofce is expanding its footprint equipment subscribe to an electronic code a global level and aid in the achievement of of thin desktops to more users and of conduct which assists in monitoring our three strategic goals to: therefore continuing to reduce total compliance across several areas such as energy consumption for the desktop t Align architectural principles across all environmental impact, labour, health and environment.
In South Africa, the businesses and geographies safety.
We always consider the Energy Star deployment of thin clients is gaining endorsement before purchasing equipment.
t Reduce the global business momentum applications footprint t A managed print service, similar to the Looking forward t Commoditise common functionality solution deployed in South Africa, is wherever commercially viable.
being implemented in the UK region to During the 2013 financial year we started reduce print wastage engaging with our business areas on a A sustainability reporting system nonvariety of sustainability issues.
During the financial data has been implemented.
The t In South Africa, the migration of the 2014 financial year we will be conducting system imports data from various sources, business continuity environment will an extensive stakeholder engagement consolidates the information and calculates create an opportunity to leverage process beyond that already taken the carbon footprint, human resource and energy efficient, small footprint during the ordinary course of business.
This is a global solution infrastructure We intend to engage externally with a range and covers corporate social investment, of Investec stakeholders to determine t Wherever feasible the use of Cloud human resource data such as headcount, what is important to them in terms of based infrastructure is considered training and health and safety statistics as Investecs sustainability.
Following on from and specic workloads currently well as operational impacts including energy this stakeholder engagement, we aim to utilise Cloud based compare to great electricity, gas and fuel, water, paper, waste do a comprehensive materiality exercise effect resulting in reduced physical and travel.
to ensure we are meeting stakeholder infrastructure and energy requirements The lack of technical skills in South expectations, set measurable sustainability Africa remains a challenge and we have t The deployment of a standardised targets and determine our sustainability implemented an IT graduate programme in enterprise content management system focus going forward.
We intend to offer this on an annual will, over time, result in a reduction of basis and we will be increasing our intake paper based storage in 2014.
This initiative is being coordinated t Global utilisation of corporate mobility and aligned with Investecs corporate social tools has reduced the number of investment programme.
mobile devices required by employees, while ensuring that staff members have secure access to email and calendaring Procurement report functions.
We recognise the potential for our Key business application-related procurement and supply chain practices developments during the period include: 3 to be agents for change in respect of t Across geographies there is a the different aspects of sustainability.
concerted effort to become a more We continue to engineer, within select client-centric organisation.
All client industries, changed outcomes across facing interfaces are being reviewed economic, social and environmental fronts.
and consolidated where appropriate, In the UK additions have been made to our resulting in significant rationalisation procurement policy to incorporate both t The One Bank initiative continues to green and corporate socially responsible focus on the elimination of duplicate aspects.
We now incorporate evaluation business processes across divisions criteria into all of our procurement and to deliver a more cost effective, documentation to allow us to measure and client-focused service offering demonstrate our intent to procure effectively without compromising the environment.
t In the UK there is a drive to move In South Africa, our procurement practices clients into online banking, online seek to accord with the BEE requirements processing and electronic statement Investec integrated annual report 2013 111 Remuneration report
