Sustainability Policy statement IP Group aims to conduct its business in a socially responsible manner, to contribute to the communities in which it operates and to respect the needs of its employees and all of its stakeholders.
The Group is committed to growing the business while ensuring a safe environment for employees as well as minimising the overall impact on the environment.
IP Group endeavours to conduct its business in accordance with established best practice, to be a responsible employer and to adopt values and standards designed to help guide staff in their conduct and business relationships.
Greg Smith Chief Financial Officer Our commitment to the approach best captures the emissions for use of the Greenhouse Gas Protocol environment and sustainability which the Group is directly responsible published by the World Business Having fewer than 40 employees and has control over.
We also report on Council for Sustainable Development operating out of four main locations, we a number of scope 3 emissions such as and the World Resources Institute the consider the direct environmental impact commuting or business travel, where the WBCSD WRI GHG Protocol : of the Group as relatively low.
However, Group has no control or is not directly application of Defra emission factors we firmly recognise our responsibility responsible, but it is recognised that these to the Groups activities to calculate to ensure that our business operates arise as an immediate by-product of IP GHG emissions: in an environmentally responsible and Groups operating activities.
inclusion of all the applicable Kyoto sustainable manner.
While the Board as The table opposite details the breakdown gases, expressed in carbon dioxide a whole has primary responsibility for of the Groups greenhouse gas emissions equivalents, or CO e: and 2 environmental issues, it has allocated split by scope, as well as the Groups presentation of gross emissions as day-to-day responsibility for the review 1 production of waste.
The Groups scope the Group does not purchase carbon of environmental and social issues to the emissions primarily consist of natural credits or equivalents.
Chief Financial Officer, Greg Smith.
2 gas used for heating, while all scope Intensity ratio emissions are from the purchase of This section includes our mandatory 3 As well as reporting the absolute electricity 2013: 168.7MWh.
The scope reporting of greenhouse gas emissions, emissions, the Groups GHG emissions emissions opposite include emissions as well as wider details on the Groups are reported opposite on the metrics of due to business travel, the commuting of environmental impact.
The reporting tonnes of CO e per employee and per employees and the use of couriers.
The period for emissions and waste 2 square metre of office space, these being proportions of these emissions can be production is the same as the Groups the most appropriate metrics given that seen in the chart overleaf.
the majority of emissions result from the The emissions and waste production Organisation boundary and scope operation of the Groups offices and the reported opposite excludes IPGs new of emissions day-to-day activities of the employees.
Given the early stage and We have reported on all of the emission Target and baselines current scale of the US operations, these sources required under the Companies Given the comparatively low GHG impact are considered immaterial to the Group.
Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors of the Groups operations, the Groups Reports Regulations 2013.
These sources Methodology objective is to maintain or reduce its GHG fall within our consolidated financial As was the case in 2012, the Group again per person and per square metre of office statement.
An operational control employed the services of a specialist space each year and will report each year approach has been used in order to adviser, Verco, to evaluate and quantify whether it has been successful in this define our organisation boundary and GHG emissions and the waste production regard.
determine the emissions for which associated with the Groups operations.
the Group is responsible and are to be The follow methodology was applied by included in the scope 1 and 2 emissions.
Verco in the preparation and presentation Though this excludes any emissions of this data: from our investment portfolio of spin-out companies, management believes this IP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2013 50 23002-04 Proof 8a 01-04-14 Our Governance Sustainability Though the Group has previously collected and presented details of emissions, the implementation of the mandatory requirements has brought material changes to the methods such that prior year figures are not comparable.
Comparatives are therefore not presented in the first year of mandatory reporting.
Tonnes CO e per Tonnes Tonnes per 2 2 Tonnes CO e employee CO e per m Tonnes employee 2 2 2 2013 39 employees & 763m office space GHG emissions Waste production 1 Scope 1 3.8 0.10 0.01 Landfill waste 4.8 0.12 2 Scope 2 75.1 1.93 0.10 Recycled waste 0.9 0.02 Subtotal 78.9 2.03 0.11 Total Waste 5.7 0.14 3 Scope 3 109.0 2.79 0.14 Total GHG emissions 187.9 4.82 0.25 1.
Scope 1 being emissions from the Groups combustion of fuel and operation of facilities.
Scope 2 being electricity, heat, steam and cooling purchased for the Groups own use.
Scope 3 being emissions which the Group is not directly responsible for, but arise as a by-product of its operation.
Environment Understanding the indirect environmental 2% impacts of our business activities Breakdown 40% of emissions by Scope 58% Though the Groups day-to-day operational activities have a relatively limited impact on the environment, we do recognise that the more significant impact occurs indirectly through the nature and operations of the companies that we choose to support with human and financial capital.
The Group therefore considers it important to establish and nurture businesses Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 that comply with existing applicable environmental, ethical and social legislation.
Our business ethics and It is also important that these businesses can demonstrate that an appropriate social responsibility strategy is in place to meet future applicable legislative and regulatory The Group seeks to conduct all of its requirements and that these businesses can operate to specific industry standards, operating and business activities in a striving for best practice.
honest, ethical and socially responsible Major portfolio themes for IP Group have included, and will continue to include, manner.
We are committed to acting business opportunities focused on developing clean technology, environmental professionally, fairly and with integrity in improvement and resource efficiency.
Further qualitative and quantitative details all our business dealings and relationships of the Groups holdings in portfolio companies in the Energy & Renewables, wherever we operate, and for its directors Chemicals & Materials, Healthcare and Biotech sectors are detailed in the Portfolio and staff to have due regard to the review, on pages 14 to 26. interest of all of its stakeholders including investors, university partners, employees, suppliers and the businesses in which the Group invests.
The Groups management and employees Employee diversity and are fundamental to our success and as a employment policies We take a zero tolerance approach to result we are committed to encouraging The Group seeks to operate as a bribery and corruption and implement the ongoing development of our staff responsible employer and has adopted and enforce effective systems to counter with the aim of maximising the Groups standards which promote corporate bribery.
The Group is bound by the laws overall performance.
Emphasis is placed values designed to help and guide of the UK, including the Bribery Act on staff development through workemployees in their conduct and business 2010, and has implemented policies based learning, with senior members of relationships.
The Group seeks to comply and procedures based on such laws.
staff acting as coaches and mentors.
The with all laws, regulations and rules All employees who are involved with Group has continued to employ regular applicable to its business and to conduct the regulated business of managing all-staff update meetings as the main the business in line with applicable investment transactions receive source of employee communication.
The Groups compliance and anti-money laundering policy is one of equal opportunity in the training, with periodic refresher courses.
selection, training, career development Stock Code: IPO www.
com 51 23002-04 Proof 8a 01-04-14 Our Governance Sustainability Sustainability continued and promotion of employees, regardless Promotion of health and safety at work of age, gender, sexual orientation, ethnic is an essential responsibility of staff and Community investment origin, religion and whether disabled management at all levels.
The Chief Our employees are or otherwise.
For the year ended Executive has overall responsibility for encouraged to consider 31 December 2013 the Group employed the implementation of the Groups health social issues and the an average of 35 employees and and safety policies and procedures.
The Group is supportive of four Non-executive Directors, and a primary purpose of the Groups health breakdown off staff by gender can and safety policy, which can be located employees pursuing be seen in the table below.
IP Group through the link below, is to enable all roles with charitable supports the rights of all people as set out members of the Groups staff to go organisations.
in the UN Universal Declaration of Human about their everyday business at work Rights and ensures that all transactions in the expectation that they can do so the Group enters into uphold these safely and without risk to their health.
During the year to 31 December 2013, no IP Group and its members of staff reportable accidents occurred under UK have a long history of supporting Breakdown of staff by gender as at Health and Safety regulations.
charities and remain committed date of report to making charitable donations.
NEDs Female Male Copies of the Groups policies in relation to equal opportunities and diversity, The Group aims to donate 1% of Staff 53% 47% health and safety and anti-corruption the previous years realised profits Executives and and bribery can be found on the Groups to one or more charities which Senior Management 36% 64% website, www.
com csr have a particular relevance to IP Board of Directors 11% 89% company-policies.
Groups activities or to members of our team.
The Groups three chosen Total Staff excludes NEDs charities during 2013 were Total Staff 38 Macmillan Cancer Support, a charity providing practical, medical Female Male and financial support for those affected by cancer, Dyslexia 53% 47% Action, which provides help and support to those with dyslexia and other specific learning difficulties, and Imagineering, which works to introduce young people of 8-16 years to the exciting world of engineering, science Executives and Senior Management 11 and technology through fun, hands-on activities and personal Female Male involvement.
Further details of the activities of these charities are 36% 64% set out on the Groups website at www.
Members of IP Group staff raised a total of 10,065 through donate a day salary sacrifice and sponsorship of the Groups 2013 Board of Directors 9 Great Glen Way challenge.
In line with its stated policy, the Group Female Male made charitable donations of 15,000 during 2013 2012: nil.
11% 89% IP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2013 52 23002-04 Proof 8a 01-04-14 Our Governance Sustainability
