Overview Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2013 OUR PEOPLE AND OUR CULTURE Our people At JLT we know that our Across the JLT Group we seek to retain and examples of this can be seen around recruit only the most talented individuals and acquisitions for example, when employees business is first and foremost to provide them with a supportive working with diverse skills, knowledge and expertise a people business.
It is the environment that helps them build their join forces and collaborate to produce knowledge, intelligence, knowledge, capabilities and skills, providing tremendous business-changing results.
entrepreneurialism and opportunities for long-term and fulfilling Wide share ownership and share option integrity of our people that careers.
sets JLT apart and enables us Specific Group-wide development Regular briefings and townhall meetings, to go beyond our clients programmes continue to gain traction across conducted in person or using the JLT intranet, our businesses globally to identify and keep employees informed about the Groups expectations.
develop our managers and leaders of the performance and matters that affect them.
future, combined with a range of technical In 2012 we ran our first Group-wide staff and skills based learning opportunities.
Since then each business An important element of this is to encourage has been focused on acting on suggestions individuals to work together in cohesive and and feedback received through employee focused teams, promoting collaboration, focus groups at business level.
The staff personal accountability and responsibility and engagement survey will be re-run in 2014 to allowing every person to be recognised and measure our progress and to gauge staff rewarded for their efforts.
A number of engagement and gather further feedback.
International Senior Management Programme Each year JLT runs the International Senior Management Programme ISMP its flagship senior development programme for our most promising people drawn from the Group.
Its purpose is to build worldclass leadership capabilities, deep understanding of the JLT Group, promote greater collaboration, strengthen relationships and protect the Groups culture.
Those employees attending the 2013 ISMP included: Alan Butler, Luis Cardoso, Jonathan Collins, Jonathon DArcy, Jeremy Eagles, Graham Edwards, Alvaro Eyler, Duncan Fraser, Matthew Grimwade, Sarah Hughes, Hank Jeuring, Matthew Kimber, Jose Ignacio Lathrop, Joseph Low, Andrew Minnitt, Matthew Riddle, Jeremy Rowsell and Emily Villatte.
Our culture Our People Our Clients We are fiercely protective of our unique culture.
A culture that sets us Client First apart from our competition and that allows us to attract and retain the best talent in the market, generate acquisition opportunities and win Independent and retain clients around the world.
A culture that seeks to balance the Analytical interests of our four stakeholders: our Clients, our People, our Trading Partners and our Shareholders.
As we have grown, we have taken deliberate steps to ensure that our culture is clearly defined and protected.
We take particular care when Our Culture recruiting new colleagues and making acquisitions to ensure that those Innovative Entrepreneurial joining us share our culture and values.
As a result, we believe that our culture is more understood, celebrated and embedded across JLT today than it has ever been.
Passionate Expert Collaborative Advocates Our Trading Partners Our Shareholders 7
