Overview Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY We recognise that our corporate responsibility CR activities are an important 2011-2013 way for us to deliver upon our strategic aims see pages 6 and 23 and of Charitable donations creating a distinctive working environment for our people see page 7.
In 2013, JLT contributed 650,620 to charitable causes.
In 2013 a new Corporate Responsibility Our communities Committee met for the first time to review our We believe we can positively influence, improve corporate responsibility activities and during and support communities local to where we 2014 we will consider further how we: work.
embed our CR activities within the overall The JLT Group Charities Committee makes Group strategy, particularly in respect of donations to organisations based on: creating a distinctive workplace organisational merit 650.6 gather further employee feedback to similarities to our own company vision and identify CR priorities values improve understanding and communication 480.0 alignment with our location of current community-related activities 407.9 employee interest and enthusiasm.
deepen support for organisations more closely aligned to our business activities Organisations and employees can apply for support which we provide where possible in review the scope and outcomes of the conjunction with the employees own Groups Greenhouse Gas Emissions report fundraising activities.
Our UK Charity Matching for 2013 with the objective of continuing to Scheme matches every pound raised by an manage JLTs impact on the environment employee up to 2,500.
Employees are also 000 produce a global framework to coordinate entitled to take one day per year for volunteer 2011 2012 2013 future CR activities.
We continue to support a number of charitable projects, alongside employee contributions.
In 2013 these included: Udaan Foundation - India Action on Addiction - UK Westmead Childrens Hospital Lighthouse Club - UK - Australia The Udaan Foundation, located near Action on Addiction work to better The Lighthouse Club is a charity our Mumbai office, provides understand the causes and treatment which has benefited significantly from JLT Australia continues to hold an education for disadvantaged children of addiction.
Action on Addiction the JLT CR programme throughout annual golf day in support of the living in Mumbai.
The charity consider support a variety of research projects, 2013, receiving over 32,000 to date.
Cystic Fibrosis Clinic at the childrens themselves to be a stepping stone for investigating the effectiveness of new The charity provides financial and hospital in the Sydney suburb of children and young adults towards and existing treatments and emotional support to families of those Westmead.
The event has raised better employment and a better prevention techniques in order to injured or killed whilst working in the more than AUD1.4 million since it quality of life, as well as emphasising reduce the number of addiction construction industry.
Money raised helps the importance of education to problems in our society.
Addiction will fund a part-time dietician for patients, children and their families.
affect one in three people in their as well as annual learning and the JLT lives.
Fellowship research programme for JLT has engaged staff worldwide to cystic fibrosis doctors.
help raise money to support the In 2012, JLT announced a three year school through a number of agreement with Action on Addiction fundraising channels.
We have also to help fund activities and support the been a key provider of volunteers for organisations development.
43 Strategic Report CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Environment We are committed to minimising the impact our businesses may have on the environment.
In line with the Mandatory Carbon Reporting MCR requirements within the Companies Act 2006 the Group has for the first time included a Greenhouse Gas Emissions GHG report within this Annual Report.
Jardine Lloyd Thompson GHG Emissions Report Executive Summary In line with MCR requirements within the Companies Act 2006, this JLTs total GHG emissions for 2013 were 18,120 tCO e. The 2 report outlines JLTs GHG emissions covering the period 1st biggest proportion of JLTs GHG emissions can be accounted for January 2013 to 31st December 2013. by air travel which comprises 58% of the total emissions, equating to 10,436 tCO e. 2 The scope of JLTs reporting encompasses its operational boundary and includes emissions associated with all of JLTs owned offices In order to demonstrate JLTs emissions in relation to a quantifiable worldwide during the period.
JLT has reported on the mandatory factor relating to its business activities, JLT has calculated its scopes 1 and 2, and for the optional scope 3 has opted to include intensity ratio on the basis of number of employees, as this is global business travel given that air travel in particular is considered to relate to company growth and GHG emissions.
acknowledged as a large contributor to greenhouse gas emissions The intensity ratio for 2013 is 2.18 tCO e employee.
2 and non-purchased electricity for the UK only.
JLTs GHG Emissions by Scope and Intensity Ratio JLTs GHG Emissions by Scope Sub Total Total Tonnes Tonnes Intensity CO e CO e Scope Source Details 2 2 Ratio Scope 3 Scope 1 66% 13% Natural gas purchased directly Purchased Fuels 468.92 by JLT Refrigerant leaks and top ups Scope 1 Fugitive emissions for equipment under direct 276.04 2,368.55 0.29 Scope 2 responsibility of JLT 21% Transport owned or controlled Transport 1,623.59 by JLT Electricity purchased directly Purchased Scope 2 3,842.87 3,842.87 0.46 electricity by JLT Flights taken by JLT employees Air Travel 10,435.79 for business purposes Rail Travel by JLT employees for Scope 3 Rail Travel UK only 262.79 11,908.57 1.44 business purposes Non purchased Electricity used by JLT but 1,209,99 purchased by the landlord electricity UK only Total 18,119.99 18,119.99 2.18 Methodology The methodology employed to calculate the GHG emissions is in There were some limitations to the reporting due to gaps in data, accordance with the GHG Protocol Corporate Reporting and and where necessary every reasonable effort has been made to fill Accounting Standard revised edition.
Data has been collated from these and estimate data as accurately as possible.
For air travel, JLTs global offices for electricity, fuels, refrigerants and transport some countries were excluded as this data is not available for this directly purchased or controlled by JLT, in line with the Mandatory reporting period.
JLT will be working with its global offices to Scopes 1 and 2.
With regard to the optional scope 3, JLT has improve data availability for the 2014 reporting period.
included within its report emissions relating to air travel by its As this is the first year of reporting no year on year comparison has employees for business use as this is recognised as a significant been provided, however, this will be included in the submission for contributor to carbon emissions.
For the UK only, JLT has also reported on non purchased electricity usage i. e. used by JLT but purchased by the landlord and rail travel.
The relevant UK or international emissions factors have been applied.
2 It is standard practice to report GHG emissions in tonnes of CO equivalents tCO e. This is a universal unit of measurement used to indicate the global warming potential 2 2 of the GHG in relation to the global warming potential of one unit of carbon dioxide.
The six main greenhouse gases that are converted into tCO e are carbon dioxide CO, 2 2 Methane CH4, Hydrofluorocarbons HFCs, Nitrous oxide N O, Perfluorocarbons PFCs and Sulphur hexafluoride SF.
2 6 44 Overview Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2013 Employee Diversity The value of our business is Our unified mission, strategy, values and Breakdown of JLT employee gender diversity in 2013 culture provides JLT employees with a driven by the quality of advice common identity and focus for the future All Employees Senior Management and level of service we direction of the business.
The diversity of our provide to clients.
The ideas, experiences and perspective enables 53% specialist nature of our us to differentiate ourselves from our 47% business attracts a diverse competitors, by valuing and respecting our clients diverse needs and driving the growth 84% client base and a diverse and development of our business.
employee base enables us to We aim to be the best at what we do and better understand and tailor that means we recruit the most talented our services to meet the 16% candidates for our roles, regardless of requirements of our clients.
Female Male Female Male JLT is an equal opportunities employer and is engaging in programmes to attract greater diversity of talent through increasing the number of apprenticeships in the business, broadening the intake of graduates and establishing targeted management programmes to support diversity initiatives at all levels of the organisation.
Human Rights As a global business, we As an employer in the Developing and Whilst JLT does not have a human rights Developed worlds and with clients who have policy, it does have other policies that adhere recognise and see many of diverse business practices in some of the to internationally proclaimed human rights the economic and social most remote and poor as well as the most principles.
A respect for consistent high challenges facing the affluent corners of the world, we recognise standards, which includes human rights, is countries we and our clients, and support the need to work together to implicit in our employment practices and operate in around the world.
ensure that principles of respect, fairness and within the practices we expect of our integrity remain at the heart of how we run our suppliers.
Our commitment to doing things business.
the right way is reflected in our Values and our Code of Conduct.
The Strategic Report on pages 11 to 45 was approved by the Board on 14th March 2014 and signed on its behalf by: Mike Reynolds Finance Director 14th March 2014 45 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE This section includes a review of our corporate governance and summaries of the work of our Board and its committees.
47 Our Corporate Governance structure at a glance 48 Directors Profiles 50 Audit & Risk Committee Report 54 Remuneration Report 68 Directors Report 46
