Corporate Social Responsibility and Greenhouse Gas Emissions The JLIF Board and its Investment Adviser, John Laing Capital Management Limited JLCM, are committed to socially-responsible investing and understand the need to carry out our activities in a responsible and sustainable manner.
We recognise the environmental, social and economic needs of the communities in which we work and look for suitable opportunities to engage and support communities, by using our skills, time and financial support.
The commitment to corporate social responsibility CSR is delivered through programmes directly supported by JLIF and through the activities of JLCM and JLIFs other partners that manage the projects and provide facilities management services to the Portfolio assets.
JLIF actively encourages its partners to engage with the local communities in which our projects are located.
It is the engagement of these teams that operate our assets on a daily basis and support the communities in which they operate that makes the greatest difference.
A number of the CSR activities that have been undertaken during 2013 are detailed in the section below.
Community Engagement JLIF is supporting teachers at two schools from the North Swindon Schools project Isambard Community School and Nova Herod School through sponsored membership of the Princes Teaching Institute PTI Schools and Schools Leadership Programmes.
This is an inspirational programme providing Head Teachers and subject leaders with access to a national network of peers who are committed to improving and enriching their pupils experience and understanding.
Teachers attend PTI conferences and workshops that aim to re-ignite their enthusiasm for their subject, and which have been proven to deliver improved learning outcomes for member schools.
At the Leeds Combined Secondary Schools project, JLIF sponsors Ahead Partnerships, which provides funding for the Make the Grade initiative at four of the schools.
This is an innovative model which provides a structured programme of business support, such as interview training and mentoring, tailored to meet the educational and vocational needs of each school.
The programme was developed in Leeds and is now gathering momentum with roll-out across other parts of the country.
The number of pupils who have benefitted from JLIF sponsored schools since Make the Grade began is in excess of 2,770.
The projects approach to partnership working and corporate responsibility has been recognised by the schools and Leeds City Council, the Council's PFI Contract Manager commenting, We feel the PFI partners bring added value to the schools through events such as the Make the Grade programme.
This shows a true commitment to ensure fantastic opportunities are afforded to our pupils.
North Swindon It is refreshing to work with private sector partners who are trustworthy, Schools professional and committed to great service delivery.
Location United Kingdom This commitment is shared by MAMG, the management services provider, Having reached Financial Close in and MITIE, the projects FM provider, who have implemented a number of April 2005 the project involved the value-added initiatives including: construction of seven new schools and to operate and maintain the The development of an FM apprenticeship, a fully accredited course, leading schools until 2032. to NVQ qualications, which has been introduced at the Cooperative Academy.
The organisation of a One Leeds event, sponsored by JLIF and organized by MAMG, which took place at the West Yorkshire Playhouse.
This event gives groups of pupils from each of the schools the opportunity to perform on the stage of one of the regions leading theatres in front of an enthusiastic audience of parents and peers.
MITIE has supported the Cooperative Academy in the refurbishment of an offsite community cafe project.
01 Overview 02 Strategic Report 03 Corporate Governance 04 Financial Statements 05 Additional Information Annual Report 2013 31.
We feel the PFI partners bring added value to the schools through events such as the Make the Grade programme.
It is refreshing to work with private sector partners who are trustworthy, professional and committed to great service delivery.
In addition to supporting the activities outlined above, JLCM Greenhouse Gas emissions Statement staff also dedicate their time and skills to act as mentors to sixth JLIF is an investment company and as such holds equity interests form pupils helping them develop skills such as interviewing, in its underlying investments.
The approach that it has used to writing CVs and cover letters, presenting and applying for consolidate its greenhouse gas GHG emissions reects this university or employment.
JLCM staff have also been involved structure and aggregates JLIFs equity share of emissions from with a mock interview day organised by the Westminster each asset.
Academy giving Year 10 pupils the opportunity to practice In collating its data JLIF has considered the GHG emissions important skills and behaviours expected by an interviewee and from the facilities that is manages for the public sector.
However, to develop confidence in this area.
Staff from JLIFs partner JLIF does not have direct control over the energy usage of the organisations, including JLCM, also dedicate their time to other facilities it manages as these are controlled by the public sector CSR activities such as assisting vulnerable tenants of the end-users.
As such JLIF has limited ability to inuence or reduce Islington social housing projects with maintenance of their the energy consumption of the facilities.
gardens and refurbishment of community facilities as well as taking part in local charity projects such as sponsored cycling During 2013 JLIF assessed its carbon footprint in line with the and running events.
Greenhouse Gas Protocol, the results of which are detailed in the table below.
JLIF reported its GHG emissions to the CDP Project Awards formerly the Carbon Disclosure Project and has subjected its In June 2013, the Leeds Combined Secondary Schools project data submission to verication by the Carbon Trust.
Scope 1 GHG won the Best Operational PPP project award at the annual emissions represent JLIFs share of direct emissions from the Partnerships Awards reecting the partnership ethos that is project facilities, typically through the consumption of gas.
fostered by the project teams and the City Council.
Scope 2 emissions are JLIFs share of indirect emissions from the project resulting from the generation of purchased energy.
Also in June 2013 Carillion Integrated Services CIS formerly 2013 2013 John Laing Integrated Services won the Best Facilities 12 13 Greenhouse Gas Emissions Source tC0 e tC0 e m 2 2 Management Provider award at the annual Partnerships Awards.
CIS provides facilities management services to nine projects in Scope 1 20,870 429.3 the JLIF investment portfolio.
Scope 2 77,597 1,596.4 In November 2013 Serco, the facilities management provider at Total 98,467 2,025.7 Forth Valley Royal Hospital was awarded the Gold Award for the Best Cleaned Healthcare Establishment More than 250 Beds in the United Kingdom.
A testament to the hard work and dedication APPROVAL OF THE STRATEGIC REPORT of all the teams engaged in managing and operating the project.
Paul Lester CBE Chairman 24 March 2014 12 In order to ensure the accurate collation and verication of data the GHG emissions above represent JLIFs equity share of annual emissions from the underlying asset portfolio for the period 1 July 2012 to 30 June 2013.
As such these are not consistent with the time period of the rest of the financial statements being 1 January 2013 to 31 December 2013.
Assets acquired during the financial statements period are excluded from the GHG emissions data reported.
13 CO tonnes per m of turnover.
