Strategy 18 18 Delivering value Engagement Combining the things that set us apart with our products and our Our employee engagement index is one of the seven performance customer service delivers value to our customers.
indicators that we use to measure how we are doing as a responsible and sustainable business leader see page 61.
It is based on a five point Improving our customer service helps our customers but also allows us scale and measured 3.69, a small improvement on our score last year.
to cut the cost of serving them.
By reducing the number of times things We will continue our wide-ranging programme of activities to support go wrong, we spend less time and money putting things right.
This and involve our people and aim to further improve engagement in the reinforces our financial strength and helps us to invest in the things that coming years.
2012 13 2011 12 2010 11 That is why the three foundations of our strategy Customer service delivery, Cost transformation and Investing for the future are at the Employee engagement index 3.69 3.68 3.61 heart of the way we run our business.
Our communication with BT people is based on two-way conversation.
The cash that we generate from our customers and cost transformation Proper dialogue helps us keep them engaged about where we are helps us reward our shareholders.
And it means we can full our financial heading as a business, and makes it easier to track their feedback.
obligations to our people and the pension scheme, and to our lenders and suppliers.
We keep our people informed about company results, major business decisions and other things that affect them.
We use a variety of print and What we do matters.
We make connections, create possibilities and digital communication channels to do this.
We give our people plenty of deliver value.
And we give back to the communities we work in.
chances for direct discussion with leaders, so they can ask questions that We measure how we are doing using three Key Performance Indicators matter to them.
These are either online chats, town hall meetings or KPIs : adjusted earnings per share: normalised free cash ow: and round-table events.
customer service improvement see page 4.
We also carry out surveys to ask our people for their opinion.
These helpus measure how engaged they are overall, so we can spot issues We believe our business model is sustainable that we need to look into.
In April 2013 we updated our company We are confident our business model is sustainable and that we will be values to better reect the type of company our people think we are able to deliver value in the long-term.
Our Enterprise Risk Management framework see page 23 helps us to We have a record of stable industrial relations and constructive mitigate the challenges that we face, based on our view of the markets relationships with the recognised unions in the UK and with works in which we operate.
Our knowledge of market trends is maintained councils elsewhere in Europe.
In the UK, we recognise two main trade through dedicated insight teams.
Governance committees make sure unions the Communication Workers Union CWU, which represents that the investments we make are appropriate and will deliver products people in engineering, administrative and clerical positions, and and services that are attractive to customers.
Prospect, which represents managerial and professional employees.
Wealso deal with unions around the world and operate a panWe see more and more demand for our products and services because Europeanworks council, the BT European Consultative Committee.
they play such an integral role in modern life.
They trust us with their condential information and their businesses.
We take this responsibility seriously.
Talent and diversity We gain significant advantage by spotting and developing our own talent as well as bringing in the best skills from outside.
Our people We offer employees who show significant potential a range of support Every day our people touch the lives of millions, mechanisms and development opportunities.
These include access to helping them communicate, do business and be senior leaders, talent events designed to build knowledge, visibility and networks, and support from Human Resources in creating tailored entertained and informed.
We are investing not only development plans.
in our future but more than ever in our people.
Our customer and supplier base is incredibly diverse and our diverse mix of employees helps us to understand their needs.
We demonstrate At 31 March 2013, we had 87,900 full-time equivalent employees of our commitment to equality from board-level down: 30% of our Board which 73,200 were based in the UK.
is female, exceeding our aim of at least 25%.
We were ranked in The Times Top 50 Employers for Women but recognise we need to do more Building our strengths and capabilities to increase the proportion of our people that are female, particularly in We are introducing new ways of working that will equip and empower senior executive roles.
our people to continuously improve their work and better serve our customers.
We are setting up a BT Academy to be the vehicle for delivering world-class leadership and critical skills development, as well as being an enabler of cultural change.
It will allow us to quickly share the BT way which are the methods based on BT at its best.
In Openreach we invested in tools and improved the skills of more than 11,000 engineers, delivering more than 200,000 hours of classroom or simulated workplace training.
We have particularly focused on training to support the planning and rollout of our bre network across the UK.
This investment in skills and capabilities will help our people do things better every day to meet our performance targets and improve quality and customer service.
