Business 36 At 31 March 2013 there were around 21.9m DSL, bre and cable Our customers and markets broadband connections to homes and businesses in the UK, up by 5% We serve a number of different types of customers over last year.
in the UK and around the world.
In this section we Fibre penetration has grown signicantly during the year.
There are more connected devices and people are using more bandwidth-intensive explain who our customers are and the trends we applications such as watching video, streaming music and playing online see in the markets where we operate.
More than half of households now own web-connected games consoles, over 40% of individuals connect their TV to the internet, and UK consumers 15% of households own a tablet device.
We serve UK consumers through BT Consumer and BT Ireland both partsof BT Retail.
According to Ofcom research, the average broadband download speed for the UK was 12.0Mbps in November 2012.
That is up from 7.6Mbps There are around 26m households in the UK and our consumer products a year earlier.
Plusnet was ranked highest for average download speeds and services can reach almost all of them.
BT Innity offers the most consistent speeds over a 24-hour period, with the lowest network congestion at peak times, and The market for xed calls and lines, broadband and TV is very the fastest upload speeds in the country.
There are around 114 companies offering voice and or broadband services.
The market has concentrated over the last few We have around 6.7m retail broadband customers including business yearswith several strong players emerging.
The four largest providers customers.
We are the UKs biggest broadband provider with a 31% are BT, Virgin Media, Sky and TalkTalk.
share of the total broadband market at 31March 2013.
Excluding cable, we have a 38% share.
As with xed calls and lines, Sky, Virgin Media Fixed calls and lines and TalkTalk are the other big players.
Mobile operator O2 left the xed Around 22m, or 84% of homes in the UK have a xed phone line.
That broadband market during the year.
proportion has stayed steady for the past three years.
Around 15% of UK We now have around 1.3m retail bre broadband customers homes only have a mobile phone with around 1% having no phone at all.
representing 19% of our retail broadband customer base.
There were 24.4m home phone lines in the UK as at December 2012 including some homes which have more than one phone line and some BTs retail broadband market share SMEs who buy consumer services.
That is up 2% compared with last year.
At 31 March An overall rise in the total number of homes in the UK coupled with more % demand for xed broadband connections played a part in that growth.
40 At 31 March 2013 we had a total of 10.2m consumer xed-lines in the 38% 37% UK, with around 9.8m active voice lines where a customer buys calls 36% 35% 34% from us as well as paying for the line.
35 We have the largest share of xed-lines to homes in the UK at 42%, 31% 30% compared with 47% last year.
Our share has been declining over the 30 29% 28% last few years as competitors have taken advantage of the favourable 27% regulatory regime in the UK.
25 Market share of UK consumer lines 20 BT 42% 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Virgin Media 18% Other 40% Market share of broadband lines DSL bre Market share of broadband lines DSL bre cable Source: BT and market data TV services Broadcast TV is currently the most common way for people to watch television.
There are three main platforms satellite, cable and digital terrestrial.
Source: Ofcom Telecommunications Market Data Tables, December 2012 But broadband is revolutionising the way people watch, especially with interactivity and on-demand TV.
The public sector broadcasters offer free on-demand content services such as BBC iPlayer, ITVPlayer, The number of minutes spent on calls from xed-lines has been falling 4oD and Demand 5.
All the UKs main pay-TV providers also offer onfor some time.
Customers are increasingly using mobiles, email, social demand services.
These are either free as part of a monthly subscription networking and other kinds of communication instead.
Our total for broadcast channels, covered by an extra subscription or are on a callvolumes declined 9% in the year, compared with an 11% decline pay-per-view basis.
There are other subscription-based providers such as Netix and Broadband LOVEFiLM and pay-per-view providers such as Blinkbox.
These overThe UK has one of the highest levels of broadband availability in Europe.
the-top providers stream content over the web without owning any Almost all homes can get a xed broadband connection and around ofthe distribution infrastructure.
There are 14.8m UK pay-TV subscribers, making up 54% of TV The UK also compares favourably on broadband pricing.
The rest typically receive free digital terrestrial channels ranks the UK the seventh cheapest out of 25 European countries for viaFreeview orFreesat.
standalone broadband and sixth cheapest out of 23 countries for broadband and voice bundles.
