Strategy 18 18 Delivering value Engagement Combining the things that set us apart with our products and our Our employee engagement index is one of the seven performance customer service delivers value to our customers.
indicators that we use to measure how we are doing as a responsible and sustainable business leader see page 61.
It is based on a five point Improving our customer service helps our customers but also allows us scale and measured 3.69, a small improvement on our score last year.
to cut the cost of serving them.
By reducing the number of times things We will continue our wide-ranging programme of activities to support go wrong, we spend less time and money putting things right.
This and involve our people and aim to further improve engagement in the reinforces our financial strength and helps us to invest in the things that coming years.
2012 13 2011 12 2010 11 That is why the three foundations of our strategy Customer service delivery, Cost transformation and Investing for the future are at the Employee engagement index 3.69 3.68 3.61 heart of the way we run our business.
Our communication with BT people is based on two-way conversation.
The cash that we generate from our customers and cost transformation Proper dialogue helps us keep them engaged about where we are helps us reward our shareholders.
And it means we can full our financial heading as a business, and makes it easier to track their feedback.
obligations to our people and the pension scheme, and to our lenders and suppliers.
We keep our people informed about company results, major business decisions and other things that affect them.
We use a variety of print and What we do matters.
We make connections, create possibilities and digital communication channels to do this.
We give our people plenty of deliver value.
And we give back to the communities we work in.
chances for direct discussion with leaders, so they can ask questions that We measure how we are doing using three Key Performance Indicators matter to them.
These are either online chats, town hall meetings or KPIs : adjusted earnings per share: normalised free cash ow: and round-table events.
customer service improvement see page 4.
We also carry out surveys to ask our people for their opinion.
These helpus measure how engaged they are overall, so we can spot issues We believe our business model is sustainable that we need to look into.
In April 2013 we updated our company We are confident our business model is sustainable and that we will be values to better reect the type of company our people think we are able to deliver value in the long-term.
Our Enterprise Risk Management framework see page 23 helps us to We have a record of stable industrial relations and constructive mitigate the challenges that we face, based on our view of the markets relationships with the recognised unions in the UK and with works in which we operate.
Our knowledge of market trends is maintained councils elsewhere in Europe.
In the UK, we recognise two main trade through dedicated insight teams.
Governance committees make sure unions the Communication Workers Union CWU, which represents that the investments we make are appropriate and will deliver products people in engineering, administrative and clerical positions, and and services that are attractive to customers.
Prospect, which represents managerial and professional employees.
Wealso deal with unions around the world and operate a panWe see more and more demand for our products and services because Europeanworks council, the BT European Consultative Committee.
they play such an integral role in modern life.
They trust us with their condential information and their businesses.
We take this responsibility seriously.
Talent and diversity We gain significant advantage by spotting and developing our own talent as well as bringing in the best skills from outside.
Our people We offer employees who show significant potential a range of support Every day our people touch the lives of millions, mechanisms and development opportunities.
These include access to helping them communicate, do business and be senior leaders, talent events designed to build knowledge, visibility and networks, and support from Human Resources in creating tailored entertained and informed.
We are investing not only development plans.
in our future but more than ever in our people.
Our customer and supplier base is incredibly diverse and our diverse mix of employees helps us to understand their needs.
We demonstrate At 31 March 2013, we had 87,900 full-time equivalent employees of our commitment to equality from board-level down: 30% of our Board which 73,200 were based in the UK.
is female, exceeding our aim of at least 25%.
We were ranked in The Times Top 50 Employers for Women but recognise we need to do more Building our strengths and capabilities to increase the proportion of our people that are female, particularly in We are introducing new ways of working that will equip and empower senior executive roles.
our people to continuously improve their work and better serve our customers.
We are setting up a BT Academy to be the vehicle for delivering world-class leadership and critical skills development, as well as being an enabler of cultural change.
It will allow us to quickly share the BT way which are the methods based on BT at its best.
In Openreach we invested in tools and improved the skills of more than 11,000 engineers, delivering more than 200,000 hours of classroom or simulated workplace training.
We have particularly focused on training to support the planning and rollout of our bre network across the UK.
This investment in skills and capabilities will help our people do things better every day to meet our performance targets and improve quality and customer service.
Strategy 19 19 Safety and wellbeing Pay and benets We aim to improve the overall wellbeing of the company by providing We pay our people competitively.
We compare salaries with other information, guidance and instruction to make sure our people are companies in the markets we work in, so we know we pay fairly too.
protected and work together to protect others.
We provide safe systems Engineers and support people get paid in the same way across-theof work, equipment, support services and access to specialist advice, all board.
Managers pay and bonuses are linked to how we are performing of which allow our people to understand the way in which they need to as a business and how they contribute to that personally.
work and any risks associated with their activities.
We offer our most senior managers long-term incentives.
This approach Through our wellbeing framework, we create workplaces which support strengthens further the alignment of rewards for executives with the our employees and where we can each contribute to the health of our creation of shareholder value.
The amount we pay out in these plans business, and of society as a whole.
depends on our corporate performance over a three-year period.
This year, we continued to partner with Business in the Community In accordance with our regulatory obligations, there are different BITC to develop our wellbeing framework and in April 2013 we were arrangements for the most senior managers in Openreach whose ranked as a top five company by BITC for public reporting of employee incentives are tied to the business performance of Openreach rather engagement and wellbeing.
Through this initiative we aim to remain at than the wider BT Group.
the forefront of good people management.
We operate savings-related share option plans saveshare in over We track our performance in lots of different ways.
Around 60% of our people take part in one or more of absence rate SAR is a key measure.
In 2012 13 we missed our target to these.
This year around 20,000 of our people benefited from saveshare cut our SAR to 2.05% after some of our people experienced more strain receiving, on average, BT shares worth over 12,000, a gain of around caused in part by the bad weather.
Our sick pay costs were 84.6m in 8,400.
Over the next two years, around 34,500 of our people could the year.
each receive shares worth over 28,000 on average based on the share price as at 31 March 2013. a Sickness absence rate SAR We also provide pension and retirement benets as well as statutory retirement arrangements.
2012 13 2011 12 2010 11 Sickness absence rate 2.29% 2.16% 2.41% You can nd details of the BT Pension Scheme 51 Sick pay costs 84.6m 80.0m 90.1m on page a SAR is a 12-month rolling average of the percentage of calendar days lost.
Volunteering The BT Volunteering Programme is recognised for its range and diversity Recruitment and exibility and in 2012 received a Big Society Award from the Prime Minister.
All As our markets and environment change, the skills we need change too.
our people can volunteer and in the year BT people volunteered 43,600 If we no longer need a particular skill or role, our transition centre helps days in work time to activities like digital inclusion and helping the people learn new things and look for alternative roles in the business.
Since April 2006, more than 21,000 BT people have gone through the centre.
The programme includes a number of projects which help us apply our This year we recruited around 1,600 engineers to help with our skills and services to support communities and it also encourages people accelerated bre rollout and to improve customer service.
We have to choose activities they are passionate about.
For example, more than created new roles by bringing work into BT which we used to outsource.
800 employees serve their communities as school governors, more than This year we brought around 4,000 roles back into the business.
150 as military reservists, more than 70 as special constables, and more than 1,000 as youth leaders.
We have also created our own recruitment team, which advertises vacancies and deploys people across the business.
We want to foster a culture where everyone can do well.
So we work with agencies to help recruit people with disabilities.
And we cover the cost of rehabilitation and retention services to help our people stay with us when their circumstances change.
We supported nearly 1,000 existing employees with disabilities through our Enable programme, which provides specialist advice with tailored adjustments to keep people in productive work.
Apprentices are a core part of our recruitment strategy.
They bring new skills and innovation to the business and help shape the future workforce of the company.
Through the apprenticeship scheme young people are able to join career paths that can, and often do, lead to senior management roles within the company.
Our apprentices regularly receive external recognition.
This year three of our apprentices won regional apprentice of the year with the National Apprenticeship Service and we also had two national winners in the STEMNET and ITP awards.
