Corporate responsibility report Environmental, social and governance issues are key considerations in all of the decisions that we make.
This helps us to reduce risk, save money and build stronger relationships with our customers, all of which are essential elements in building a sustainable and successful business.
As our business grows we will encounter new challenges so it is vital that we review the impact of our activities regularly and aim to do the right thing.
We focus our activities Areas of focus In this report we provide an overview of our achievements during the in five key areas which we year, disclose our non-financial key 1. Business ethics believe are most relevant performance indicators and provide a 2.
Research and progress report on targets in each of to our business and our five focus areas.
We also disclose development address our principle our aims and objectives for the upcoming year.
Suppliers and customers Read more about corporate 4.
People and communities responsibility online: www.
Environment Business review 36 Corporate responsibility report BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Business review 1. Business ethics Human rights and anti-slavery BTG adheres to numerous international Code of Conduct standards including the United Nations Our Code of Conduct provides guidance Universal Declaration of Human Rights.
on the ethical behaviours that we expect We are developing a human rights policy, from all of our employees.
It describes defining a company-wide standard the principles, policies and procedures for human rights, consistent with that we have developed.
The core internationally recognised standards FTSE Group confirms that BTG has been independently assessed according to the principle is that every one of us must and aim to complete this activity in the FTSE4Good criteria, and has satisfied the take individual responsibility for new financial year.
requirements to become a constituent of behaving ethically and compliantly and the FTSE4Good Index Series.
that we are each accountable for our actions.
It is regularly updated to reflect 2.
Research and changes in legislation and best practice development and annual training is a mandatory requirement for all employees.
Animal research Our Animal Ethics Committee meets The responsible and ethical regularly to review the use of animals commercialisation of our products is at BTG, both in animal research and in essential to what we do.
During the the production of our products.
Animal last year we further standardised and BTG is a constituent of the Kempen welfare is always a key consideration in SNS SRI Universe, which indicates that embedded the processes we use to the decisions that we make.
During the we have passed stringent criteria and review and approve promotional last year we updated our animal ethics can be considered a company that materials and external requests for and welfare standard and have audited demonstrates a clear strategy towards financial support.
We also provided relevant sites to demonstrate corporate responsibility.
greater visibility in our interactions compliance.
All research study contracts with healthcare professionals utilising that involve animals are awarded to monitoring and auditing techniques companies and facilities that employ, to identify areas of non-compliance standards, policies and procedures, with ourpolicies.
equivalent to the BTG standard.
Alternatives to in vivo animal testing Anti-bribery and corruption are always assessed and in vitro testing Our expanding international commercial performed as an alternative wherever activities mean that we operate in parts possible.
Proper account is taken of all of the world where bribery and corruption possibilities for reduction, refinement or are still prevalent.
We take a zeroreplacement and high standards of tolerance approach to this illegal activity animal husbandry are required.
and we are committed to implementing and enforcing effective systems to Clinical trials counter it.
Our anti-bribery and antiWe perform all of our clinical trials in corruption policy provides a useful accordance with the listed directives, reference guide for employees and we applicable laws and the global standards engage the services of an agency to of good practice.
During the last year we assist us with global anti-bribery updated and relaunched our internal compliance assessments.
During the procedures to evaluate and respond to last year, in an effort to ensure that our any serious adverse events which occur business partners share our values, in our clinical trials.
We also finalised we completed due diligence, per our and launched an  policies, on third-parties who conduct study policy and standard operating business on behalf of BTG.
procedure, and provided improved Business review 37 Corporate responsibility report BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Corporate responsibility report continued Taking everything into account, I would transparency on the grant support products available for compassionate say that this is a great place to work.
During the last year we also use in the situation where there is no launched mandatory training for all distributor in place and aim to finalise this relevant employees on Good Practice initiative during the next financial year.
70 % agree 12 13 GxP, including Good Laboratory 66% agree 10 11 Practice GLP, Good Clinical Practice GCP and Good Manufacturing Practices 4.
This has all been completed apart from GLP training which we aim to Employee engagement and well-being complete during the next financial year.
During 2012 we conducted our second biennial employee engagement survey with the Great Place to Work Institute to 3.
Suppliers and customers provide global and local measurements of employee satisfaction and Suppliers engagement.
This year we created a dedicated procurement function and launched a Our global score has improved compared new responsible supply chain policy, to two years ago despite significant including written supplier requirements.
change, including integration of the The results of the assessment are used Biocompatibles business.
Local groups by us to help identify potential risks have been formed to engage with associated with human rights, and to employees and tackle any local issues inform the supplier selection process.
which arose from the survey.
We provide information, instruction and Charitable contributions made training to our employees directly We operate a number of Employee by the Group during the year involved in the selection of new suppliers Assistance Programmes EAP in and ongoing management of existing territories where we have operations, suppliers.
This training covers to protect and enhance employee 15,201 12 13 responsibilities for ensuring ethical satisfaction, mental and physical health.
Our business We also believe that this contributes to partner contracts ensure that all work the retention and productivity of our conducted by business partners on our employees.
These free services provide behalf is in accordance with all employees and their families with applicable laws, regulations, governmental practical information and advice requirements and industry guidelines.
concerning a range of topics affecting health, family, money matters and work.
Customers We aim to forge good relationships with Training and development the specialist physicians who use our Continuous learning is one of our products.
Examples of activities to company values as we recognise that support this include sponsorship of enhancing our capabilities will support educational initiatives and providing our future growth.
Every employee has a funding to explore the use of our training and development plan and there products.
With respect to these activities is an annual Learning and Development and when promoting our products to agenda for all employees, encompassing customers, we abide by all relevant a range of core skills and mandatory regulations.
Compliance training is training, IT training, EHS training, and mandatory for all employees.
We incentivise and reward values-based During the year we made progress behaviour by including a values-based establishing a Standard Operating assessment as part of our annual Procedure to make unlicensed medicinal employee appraisal process.
Business review 38 Corporate responsibility report BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Business review Charitable giving Lost time accident rate per 5.
Environment 1 We implemented our new global 100,000 hours worked Charitable Giving Policy during the year Health and Safety and we focus our activities on corporate Last year we launched our global 1.17 days 12 13 charities that are relevant to our Environmental, Health and Safety Policy 1.29 days 11 12 business or local to our offices and and provided training for all employees.
A number of events were 1 This includes all accidents where one or more A corporate auditing system of all sites days are lost.
UK companies usually only organised during the year to raise money commenced in 2012.
Audits will be report when three or more days are lost.
Also for our charities including a number of undertaken periodically, against our includes accidents where people have walk-a-thons, a relay for life and a returned to work and were given alternative Environmental Health and Safety Policy duties as they were not able to fulfil their treasure Hunt in the City of London.
More information on each of these is available on our corporate website.
We report our global accident rate as the number of lost days per 1 Water consumption at production sites We encourage employees to support 100,000 worked.
events to raise money for their chosen 3 charities and we match individual Sustainability 20,406m 12 13 donations up to a cap of 250.
In the 3 Managing our resources is an essential 21,430m 11 12 UK we also operate a Give As You part of our commitment to becoming Earn Scheme.
1 Water consumption measured at our sites more sustainable as a business.
As a in Australia, Wales, Oxford and Farnham.
growing business, we do expect our During the last year we made donations resource usage to increase in absolute to a number of charities.
A full list of terms, hence our approach is to control these are available on our website.
Waste from our production sites tonnes In addition to the 15,201 of charitable During the last year we built a global contributions made by the Group during environmental management system 1,573t 12 13 the year, BTG made a one-off donation and applied the Global Reporting 872t 11 12 of 125,000 to establish the BTG Junior Initiative GRI Sustainability Reporting Research Fellowship in the Biosciences Guidelines.
Further information on this at Lincoln College, Oxford, a registered is accessible in the Responsibility Waste from our production sites tonnes charity.
This position, which runs in section of our website.
perpetuity, recognises the long-standing 3 relationship between BTG and the We measure water consumption at four Sir William Dunn School of Pathology, of our production sites and implement Lincoln College, including the water saving measures wherever 1 contribution made by the Factor IX possible to aid efficiency.
protein patent originally filed by 2 inventors at the School in 1985 and We measure waste produced from all of licensed by BTG.
This led to the our production sites.
As production has 2012 13 commercial production of BeneFIX, increased over the last year our total 1.
Recycled 508t 32% a Factor IX protein free of contamination waste has increased.
Hazardous Waste by viruses such a HIV or Hepatitis C virus as much as possible and reduce landfill incineration treatment 309t 20% for treatment of Haemophilia B patients.
Land ll 327t 37% Business review 39 Corporate responsibility report BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Corporate responsibility report continued Electricity consumed Energy Efficiency We regularly assess the environmental impact of our business to ensure 1 6,451 MwH 12 13 that were taking advantage of all 1 6,441 MwH 11 12 opportunities to improve our performance 1 Data from all operational sites with more and efficiency.
We operate an international supply chain for the manufacture of our products MwH electricity per production unit and we aim to transport in bulk where during 2012 13 possible and use the most efficient transportation to save money and reduce our carbon emissions.
0.33 MwH per production unit We monitor electricity and gas 192,658 Total production units consumption at manufacturing sites and offices which employ more than 20 people, and we try to reduce our CO2 equivalent emissions generated carbon emissions and increase energy efficiency wherever possible.
1 We participate in CDP, the Carbon 5,687 tonnes 12 13 1 Disclosure Project.
4,573 tonnes 11 12 1 Conversion factors used: Environment Agency 2012.
This year we have started to measure MwH of electricity produced per production unit and kg CO2 produced Kg CO2 per production unit during per production unit.
We aim to increase 2012 13 operational efficiency and reduce kg CO2 per production unit over the longer term.
30 Kg CO2 per production unit 192,658 Total production units 2 CO equivalent emissions generated 3 2 1 2012 13 1.
Gas Heating 623t 14% Business review 40 Corporate responsibility report BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Directors and governance Directors and governance Directors and governance 42 Board of directors 44 Directors report 48 Corporate governance 57 Audit Committee report 61 Nomination Committee report 63 Remuneration Committee report 82 Statement of directors responsibilities 83 Independent auditors report to the members of BTG plc
