CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Sustainable business practices remain a priority for both Bunzl and our supply chain while the services we provide continue to assist our customers to reduce their carbon footprint.
STRATEGY providing local community support by the encouragement of We believe that positive actions with respect to Corporate employee fund raising and by donating stock and cash to charitable Responsibility CR are not only desirable in their own right but are organisations and good causes: and also of potential economic and commercial benefit to the Group.
For working with our suppliers as partners to encourage high levels of many years Bunzl has continued to pursue a consistent strategy of CR and ethical trading initiatives.
focusing on its strengths and consolidating the markets in which it competes.
This requires continually redefining and deepening our These issues are governed by a policy framework, which is approved commitment to customers and markets, as well as extending our and monitored by the Board, with implementation at a business business into new geographies.
Our CR strategy and ambition area level.
directly supports Bunzls strategic vision by seeking to gain sustainable business success through building relationships with BUSINESS CONDUCT CODE OF ETHICS stakeholders.
We deliver this through an approach built on ethical The Groups business conduct code of ethics policy is disseminated values and behaviours and responsible business practices, aimed at to every employee as a guide to how employees are expected winning the trust of our customers, suppliers, investors and other to conduct themselves both from a corporate and individual stakeholders by effectively managing our social, environmental perspective.
The policy clearly states that employees should avoid and ethical impacts.
It also helps us to attract and retain talented conflicts of interest, provides guidance on the giving and receiving and committed employees.
of gifts and entertainment, prohibits illegal payments as well as political donations and reinforces the need to comply with laws, OUR FRAMEWORK AND APPROACH TO MATERIALITY rules and regulations, protect confidential information and company Our approach to CR is straightforward: assets and maintain high standards in relationships with our customers and suppliers.
we communicate our stance on key issues impacting our business and, through our business conduct code of ethics policy, No material breaches of our business conduct code of ethics policy are clear about the standards we expect of ourselves and those were recorded in 2013.
However, some minor incidents relating to we work with: employee conduct, such as theft or misuse of the Groups property, we consult with our employees, customers, suppliers, investors did occur and were dealt with during the normal course of business and wider stakeholder groups to understand the main social and using Group human resource HR policies and procedures.
Seven environmental matters affecting our business: 2012: seven calls letters were received through our confidential whistle blowing process, Speak Up, none of which raised any issues we identify and prioritise the risks we face and the opportunities of material concern.
we have and develop relevant activities, objectives and targets: we manage CR focusing on the most relevant issues and where Performance against 2013 objectives we feel we have the greatest impact: and Our suite of nine tailored e-learning modules including modules which provide an overview of the business conduct code of ethics we communicate our performance with openness and policy and anti-bribery issues such as facilitation payments and transparency, so that our stakeholders understand the progress gifts and entertainment, continues to be used for induction training we are making.
of all managers and sales and procurement staff joining the Group.
These e-learning modules are particularly useful for introducing A strong reputation for CR can provide business advantage and staff from newly acquired businesses to Bunzls standards of contribute to shareholder value.
Conversely, perceived weakness business conduct.
During the year we reviewed the modules to in CR may damage our reputation and cause risks.
identify any gaps and an additional module relating to competition law compliance has been developed and will be launched shortly.
Materiality Understanding our material issues is important to enable us to Taking into account the results of our monitoring and reviewing manage our CR related impacts and stakeholder relationships of the existing CR policies, processes and controls, communication effectively.
It also helps to focus our resources, engagement and of CR was enhanced by upgrading the Responsibility section reporting activities by addressing those issues most material to of our website, www.
Previously the information our business.
Our current areas of focus are: provided on the website mirrored that within the Annual Report.
Additional material has been introduced such as a video describing business conduct code of ethics training: Bunzls approach to CR, as well as case studies which describe the range of CR activities taking place in the Group.
A frequently employee engagement through clear communication using asked questions section is now included to assist researchers.
a variety of channels, as well as provision of training and development opportunities: 2014 objectives improving safety in the warehouses and on our vehicles and Continue to review our policies, processes and controls to ensure ensuring that everyone takes personal responsibility for this: that they continue to support the business appropriately and remain in line with good business practice.
reducing our and our customers impacts on the environment by reducing carbon emissions and promoting the reduction of waste: Refresh and enhance communication relating to business conduct across the Group.
providing innovative products to meet our customers needs, for example environmentally friendly packaging: BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 33 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED EMPLOYEES 2014 objectives Bunzl currently operates in 27 countries worldwide.
We are a service Continue to monitor key HR measures such as voluntary turnover, provider, not a manufacturer and, as such, our business relies sickness absence, training days, workforce gender and age mix heavily on the skills and experience of our employees.
We pride and, as appropriate, take action to address any issues that ourselves on the fact that we run our businesses locally with local may arise.
We do not unfairly discriminate and we respect human rights.
We seek to recruit the right people who are passionate about HEALTH & SAFETY our business and to provide opportunities for people to progress The health and safety of our employees and other stakeholders within the organisation on the basis of their skills, experience and is a priority.
Although we try to minimise the risks which occur, aptitude.
We believe that to get the best from people we need to particularly relating to the operation of our warehouses and vehicles, respect each other and encourage honest, straightforward incidents relating to manual handling, slipping and tripping remain communication.
Our acquisition pipeline continues to be a valuable the highest cause of accidents.
Regretfully in the 2013 reporting source of management talent for the Group and the completion of a period there was one fatality 2012: one when a cyclist was killed number of acquisitions during the year has brought further highly in a road traffic accident in Canada having been struck by a Bunzl skilled people into Bunzl.
Details of the Groups workforce diversity vehicle that was turning right at traffic lights.
The accident was fully at 31 December 2013 are set out in the pie charts below.
investigated and no charges have been brought against Bunzl or our driver.
A number of actions have been taken to raise awareness and Human rights continue to improve our health and safety performance.
Bunzl adheres to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights UDHR and upholds the Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work Performance against 2013 objectives policies, defined by the International Labour Organization, as well as The 2013 target was to reduce the Group accident incidence rate local laws.
The majority of countries in which Bunzl operates have by 3% and the Group accident severity rate by 6% from the 2012 their own laws banning child labour and promoting human rights.
accident rates: We monitor the age of our workforce across the world to ensure for the year ended 30 September 2013 our accident incidence compliance and identify any potential succession issues.
In the US rate reduced by 4%: and some of our operations, particularly in the north east, are represented by trade unions with which we have negotiated pay for the same period our accident severity rate reduced by 1%.
Bunzl does not restrict any of its employees in any of the countries in which it operates from joining a trade union if they wish Accident incidence and severity rates for UK & Ireland and Rest of to do so.
We also work closely with our suppliers to ensure that they the World improved in excess of the respective targets.
However, at least meet internationally recognised minimum requirements for despite improvements in a number of areas, North Americas and workers welfare and conditions of employment, as defined by the Continental Europes performance deteriorated overall, albeit that International Labour Organization or the Ethical Trading Initiative.
some of this deterioration was due to the impact of acquiring a business with health and safety processes below Bunzls standard.
Performance against 2013 objectives Details of our performance from 2011 to 2013 are provided in the bar The Groups annual voluntary turnover, that is the percentage charts on page 35.
The accident data provided is for the whole Group of employees resigning from the Group, is 7.5%.
Considering with the exception of some of the most recent acquisitions which the profile of our workforce, the current turnover level is low, represent less than 4% of the total workforce.
reflecting the underlying economic conditions in many of the countries in which we operate rather than any intrinsic reasons 2014 objectives related to the Group.
Sickness absence has fallen slightly in Reduce the Group accident incidence rate by 3% from 2013.
Continental Europe, North America and UK & Ireland but has Reduce the Group accident severity rate by 5% from 2013. risen slightly in Rest of the World.
No underlying issues of concern have been identified.
An internal social networking tool was introduced into UK & Ireland to improve communication and share best practice.
The effectiveness of this tool will be reviewed once it has been in place for over 12 months to consider whether there would be benefits in implementing it more widely across the Group.
AVERAGE NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES TOTAL WORKFORCE BOARD AND SENIOR MANAGEMENT BY BUSINESS AREA GENDER SPLIT AT 31 DECEMBER 2013 GENDER SPLIT AT 31 DECEMBER 2013 9% 15% NORTH AMERICA MALE 8,350 MALE 308 35% 35% CONTINENTAL EUROPE FEMALE 4,399 FEMALE 30 UK & IRELAND REST OF THE WORLD 25% 25% 65% 91% BOARD COMPOSITION: 8 MALE, 1 FEMALE 34 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 ENVIRONMENT Scope 1: emission rates per m of revenue have decreased We seek to prevent, mitigate and remediate the harmful effects of between 2012 and 2013 by 2% see the KPI bar chart on page 7 and Bunzls operations on the environment.
To ameliorate our impact on from 2010, our base year, by 23%.
In 2013 fuel for transportation and exposure to climate change, our facilities operate worldwide to contributed about 85% of Bunzls Scope 1 emissions.
The level of Group standards, we promote environmental awareness throughout fuel consumed per 000 of revenue decreased between 2012 and the business and our branch network mitigates against the effects 2013 by 9% see the KPI bar chart on page 7.
We continue to focus of extreme local climate conditions.
Our reported environmental on improved fuel efficiency through regular renewal of our fleet, data includes all businesses that are subsidiaries of the Group driver training and the use of telematics providing in-cab feedback for financial reporting purposes, with the exception of recent on performance.
Many of the businesses acquired since 2010 do acquisitions which are excluded from environmental data reporting not operate their own transport fleets and there has been some to allow the acquired businesses sufficient time to adopt our transfer from own fleet to carriers where this has been shown to reporting guidelines.
Bunzl had no significant environmental be more cost effective.
Gas consumption has increased by around incidents in 2013.
This is in part the result of our ongoing acquisition programme which has increased the overall Our direct water usage and emissions are minimal and are largely size of our estate despite a continued programme of site unchanged since the 2011 water audit.
Water usage is principally consolidations.
In addition, we experienced a longer period of cold confined to workplace cleaning and hygiene purposes.
If we lease a weather than in the previous year.
We continue to focus on gas purpose built site, wherever possible the specification includes water usage and boiler maintenance.
harvesting to further minimise our use.
We continue to measure Scope 2: emission rates per m of revenue increased between water usage across a sample of our sites worldwide.
2012 and 2013 by 15% see the KPI bar chart on page 7 but from 2010, our base year, have decreased by 13%.
Most of the increase ISO 14001 accreditation was renewed in a number of locations.
in this years Scope 2 CO e emissions was attributable to the 2 To date all sites in UK & Ireland and Australasia, with the exception impact of new acquisitions.
We have continued to implement of the most recent acquisitions, and many sites in Continental measures to reduce electricity consumption including investment Europe are accredited.
By revenue this represents more than 30% in energy efficient lighting systems, replacement of battery of the Group.
chargers with high frequency energy efficient chargers, purchase of more efficient manual handling equipment and Switch off Performance against 2013 objectives campaigns.
However, the benefits of these measures were offset Our carbon emissions data has been restated for prior years in order by the extended period of cold weather in the year which resulted to account for material changes to the conversion factors provided by in an increased requirement for artificial lighting and space heating.
Defra for company reporting purposes.
Waste data now covers 96% of the Group by revenue.
Our Greenhouse gas emissions data for period 1 October to 30 September businesses in Latin America, Israel and recent acquisitions are not currently included.
The reduction in general waste has been Tonnes of CO e 2 achieved by improved waste management including the elimination Base year 2010 2012 2013 and reuse of transit packaging and more sites providing waste Scope 1 95,249 83,932 89,397 segregation facilities for increased recycling.
The lack of suitable Scope 2 28,757 24,599 30,465 weighing equipment, especially for waste to landfill, continues to Total gross emissions 124,006 108,531 119,862 challenge the accuracy of this data and last years estimated Total carbon emissions figures for North America have proved to be overstated.
However per m revenue 26.3 20.4 20.8 we are working with our contractors to improve this.
Included in the external auditors limited assurance scope referred to on page 36.
2014 objectives Using the 2010 data as the baseline, reduce the Scope 1 carbon Our target for 2013 was to reduce our Scope 1 and Scope 2 carbon emissions by 26% 3% from 2013 to 2014 and the Scope 2 carbon emissions relative to revenue by 22% from 2010, our base year.
This data covers around 99% of the Group by revenue.
During the reporting period 14 acquisitions were completed providing total Develop a Scope 3 carbon emissions report in line with the Groups revenue of c. 350 million.
10 of these acquisitions, representing reporting guidelines.
78% of this revenue, are included in the 2013 carbon emissions More closely integrate the environmental reporting with our data from the date of acquisition.
INCIDENCE RATE SEVERITY RATE WASTE AVERAGE NUMBER OF INCIDENTS PER AVERAGE NUMBER OF DAYS LOST PER TONNES PER M REVENUE MONTH PER 100,000 EMPLOYEES MONTH PER 100,000 EMPLOYEES 159 3,552 3,514 0.21 0.08 0.14 3,446 140 135 INCINERATED WASTE 0.55 GENERAL WASTE 0.73 0.93 RECOVERED RECYCLED WASTE 1.96 1.30 1.14 11 12 13 11 12 13 11 12 13 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 35 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED External assurance SUPPLIERS We engaged KPMG Audit Plc to undertake a limited assurance Price is only one factor in our purchasing decisions and matters such engagement, reporting to Bunzl plc only, using International as quality, availability, our customers preferences and our policies Standard on Assurance Engagements ISAE 3000: Assurance are also taken into account.
The vast majority of our products are Engagements Other Than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial sourced locally by our businesses but many products are sourced Information and ISAE 3410: Assurance Engagements on elsewhere if it is appropriate to do so.
In 2013 approximately 18% of Greenhouse Gas Statements over the three KPIs on page 7 and the our products were sourced from lower cost countries.
Each business data on page 35, in each case that has been highlighted with the area is responsible for implementing appropriate processes to symbol.
They have provided an unqualified opinion in relation to the assess key suppliers compliance with the relevant CR standards relevant KPIs and data and their full assurance opinion is available and to monitor performance and improvements against such in the Responsibility section of our website, www.
Bunzl focuses on its key suppliers to ensure that they meet the same CR standards we have set for ourselves.
We have The level of assurance provided for a limited assurance engagement written to those suppliers that provide us with 50% of our products is substantially lower than a reasonable assurance engagement.
by value to update them on our CR aspirations and to encourage In order to reach their opinion, KPMG Audit Plc performed a range them to adopt a similar approach.
of procedures which included interviews with management, examination of reporting systems and visits to some of our To facilitate the business areas, we have our own quality assurance businesses in the UK, France and the US as well as specific data quality control team based in Shanghai whose main aim is to testing at these businesses and the Group head office.
A summary perform regular audits of our suppliers in Asia to ensure that of the work they performed is included in their assurance opinion.
they meet international standards, as well as testing the factories production capabilities and their quality assurance and quality Non-financial performance information, including greenhouse gas control systems.
Employees terms and conditions of work, quantification in particular, is subject to more inherent limitations customer service, hygiene management systems and their policies than financial information.
It is important to read the selected on environmental issues are also checked.
Our policy is that all our corporate responsibility information contained in this Annual Report suppliers meet internationally recognised minimum requirements in the context of KPMG Audit Plcs full limited assurance opinion and for workers welfare and conditions of employment, as defined the Companys Corporate Responsibility Performance Reporting by the International Labour Organization or the Ethical Trading Guidelines which are also available in the Responsibility section Initiative.
A key tool available to the quality control team is an of our website.
on-site professional laboratory where they undertake tests on manufacturers products.
COMMUNITY Although Bunzls operations are international, our strength is in Suppliers who are unable to meet all the requirements after an initial the local nature of our businesses.
In keeping with this ethos, we assessment audit will be given the opportunity to comply fully within particularly support the fund raising activities championed by our a period which is deemed appropriate for the circumstances.
This is supplemented by donations made at Group serious breach is identified following assessment, an action plan level to charities predominantly in the fields of healthcare, disability will be documented and the supplier will be expected to commit to and the environment as well as benevolent societies to support addressing all the areas where discrepancies have been identified.
projects in communities where our operations are based.
Where The process of improvement via this method is principally down to possible and appropriate, Bunzl also looks to donate stock free of the commitment of the suppliers management team owner agent charge in-kind.
Group wide, Bunzl donated a total of 580,000 to ensure that all areas are addressed.
If we have reason to believe 2012: 480,000 to charities in 2013.
This does not include in-kind that the supplier is not making sufficient or committed progress, this donations or employee fund raising.
could lead to a suspension in the relationship until such time that we are confident that all areas are being satisfactorily addressed.
Bunzl CUSTOMERS companies reserve the right to cease a relationship with a supplier As a service business, our ability both to anticipate and meet our if it is found that unacceptable practices are being employed at any customers needs is key to our success.
We strive to ensure that sites used for producing or sourcing Bunzl products.
Such practices we provide high levels of service.
We achieve this by building solid include use of child labour, forced or bonded labour as well as relationships at a local level by regularly meeting with and seeking physical abuse or discipline and intimidation.
We continue to provide innovative service and product solutions to meet our customers needs, During 2013 we have been liaising with suppliers to ensure that any including requirements to meet sustainability goals.
The Group paper or wood based products are from sustainable sources in provides customers with the ability to benefit from a consolidated compliance with the relevant timber regulations.
delivery of their consumable products.
This reduces carbon emissions by eliminating the need for multiple deliveries from many For more information on all of Bunzls CR policies and activities different suppliers and streamlining the related administration for please visit the Responsibility section of www.
Bunzl is not a manufacturer and therefore there is complete flexibility to offer products that meet customers requirements.
A full range of environmentally friendly products are available.
Bunzl continues to receive awards from its customers for high levels of service.
36 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 RISKS The Principal risks and uncertainties section on pages 30 and 31 details the principal risks and uncertainties which could have a material impact on the Groups business, financial condition or results of operations.
Although many CR risks are not seen as principal risks to the Group, as part of the Group risk analysis a number of CR risks which could impact the Groups business have been identified and these are set out below together with the steps taken by management to mitigate such risks: Risk Mitigating factors CR compliance failures Lack of adherence to the Groups CR policies could result in a variety The Group has comprehensive CR policies and procedures of issues including those relating to inappropriate business including those relating to anti-bribery and corruption in place practices, accidents at work and increased levies due to levels of throughout the business as well as an established reporting waste or carbon emissions.
Loss of key employees The Group is not capital intensive but the business is based on The Group seeks to secure key staff with appropriate incentive strong customer and supplier relationships which are built up packages, development opportunities and career progression.
Stability of key relationship roles amongst the Groups Voluntary staff turnover is measured on a monthly basis, which employees is therefore important.
enables any issues to be identified and resolved.
Loss of operating facilities unavailability of staff Climate change may result in higher frequency of extreme weather The Group has multi-site facilities with products stocked in more conditions.
This could result in some of the Groups facilities being than one location as a result of which the Group usually has the affected or employees being unable to attend for work.
ability to distribute products from nearby facilities.
Business continuity plans are in place to minimise the impact of any such issues.
Suppliers non-compliance with good CR practices The Group is not a manufacturer and has many international The Groups key suppliers are principally publicly owned suppliers across the world.
The failure of one of the Groups key multinational organisations with high standards of operations.
suppliers to adhere to recognised CR standards could affect the Suppliers are monitored by the Groups purchasing departments Groups reputation.
and the QA QC department based in China audits many suppliers throughout Asia.
Key suppliers are made aware of the Groups CR aspirations.
These risks are seen to be outweighed by a variety of opportunities that arise as a consequence of CR and its impact on the business environment as previously outlined in this report.
