Great Brand, Great Company OUR People Burberry recognises that its people are its greatest asset and constantly strives to attract the best talent worldwide, to provide meaningful development opportunities at all levels and to reward and recognise high performance.
Recruit Reward Burberry maintained its commitment to diversity Burberry continued to strengthen the link between reward and equal opportunities in recruitment.
Nearly 10,000 and performance across the organisation, with all associates from over 100 countries are now employed associates in a bonus or incentive scheme and able to across all continents, with an age span from 16 to 77 share in the success of the business through the All and a global management team that is 37% female.
Accessibility was improved The diversity within the Burberry community underpins for the global SAYE programme, complementing existing its energy, vibrancy and connectedness.
online applications with the UK launch of text and telephone requests, which contributed to a 20% increase Following the establishment of a new Resourcing in global take-up.
Centre of Expertise in 2011 12, applications increased by 70% year-on-year and 82% of all recruitment globally The Icon Awards programme, which recognises exceptional was conducted directly.
performance at all levels of the company, reached its sixth anniversary.
A record 10,000 nominations were received Increased use of social media directly impacted these globally and 97 awards were presented across four regions, results.
On LinkedIn, Burberrys followers increased in categories inspired by the Burberry brand, heritage and by 250%, leading to applications from the site accounting core values.
for 6% of global direct recruitment.
In addition to being ranked LinkedIns 29th most in-demand employer globally, The Long Service Awards scheme celebrated the loyalty Burberry was the most-watched midsize company and commitment of around 700 associates who reached by UK students.
milestone service anniversaries with Burberry, including 15 associates with 30 years' service or more.
Retain Burberry continued to enhance its retail teams and secure Reinvent a talent pipeline for the future.
A pilot Retail Management A new, fully cross-functional and global team was Programme was launched to prepare retail associates established to integrate Beauty into the wider organisation.
for a career in store management, through a series This was achieved through strategic recruitment of Beauty of assignments, masterclasses and mentoring support.
expertise and the reallocation of talent within the business.
Regional accountability for organisational design and An extended and improved new associate on-boarding development was ensured, reflecting the diverse markets programme was rolled out in London, New York and Hong in which Burberry operates.
Kong, including regular and consistent pre-communication, defined training modules and in-depth insight into the The technology function was also evolved to support Burberry culture and values over a three-month period.
the Beauty integration, with strategic competences brought in-house.
The Burberry Leadership Council supported the development of 75 high potential associates towards becoming next-generation leaders through international networking opportunities, global strategy off-sites, mentoring from senior executives and leadership training workshops.
