DELIVERING OUR SOCIAL PURPOSE ACTING RESPONSIBLY.
Our social purpose is to provide our customers with financial solutions that help them deal with the most exciting, difficult or critical moments in their lives.
Our commitment to improving peoples lives extends to how we relate to society in areas such as paying tax or ensuring that our investments are in companies that act responsibly.
DIVERSITY OUR SOCIAL COMMITMENTS as well as maximising shareholders Were committed to campaigning for long term interests.
a better society on relevant key issues: We are committed to gender An effective Board is a prerequisite diversity see page 14 and have Housing for a successful company.
Thats why initiatives in place to increase In 2013, we had a strong focus on we engage with companies to help the proportion of females on improving the UKs housing market, them ensure their boards are the best our board and in our senior developing a partnership with Shelter possible.
Key areas of focus here are management team.
to campaign to improve the UKs poor diversity and how they develop future house building record and tackle the Female Male directors.
Inevitably, we also focus problems of homelessness.
on executive remuneration, making Directors 29 sure that success, not failure, Senior managers 6 29 Healthcare and wellbeing is properly rewarded.
Future leaders 77 Were a market leader in providing Employees 4,172 4,197 protection in both the UK and the Our key areas of focus in US.
In 2013, we developed initiatives 2013 were: HUMAN RIGHTS ISSUES to improve our own employees Improving diversity wellbeing.
This links into the work Engaging with US We operate mostly in developed weve done with the rehabilitation of technology companies countries that have strong staff suffering long term sickness.
Board independence in Japan legislation governing human Improving UK reporting standards rights.
We are a signatory to Dignity in later life Increasing auditor independence the UN Global Compact for all Were committed to ensuring that Focusing on sustainability of our worldwide operations consumers get better pensions when and are a Living Wage they retire and have been active in In 2013, the corporate governance employer in the UK.
consultations with the Government team held 480 meetings with 278 on annuities, auto-enrolment pension companies, of which 30% covered charges and changes in social care.
DISABILITY Environmental sustainability TAX MATTERS Our policies support the We reduced the environmental Tax and investors employment, promotion and resources used to run our business We are a leading participant in the career development of disabled like waste collection, energy usage development of companies tax policy, persons, as well as supporting and carbon emissions.
Paper usage tax transparency and international tax employees who become increased in line with the growth reform.
We continue to discuss with disabled during the course of of our retail business.
We also various NGOs their concerns about tax their employment.
We make build climate change resilient responsibility, our own tax position reasonable adjustments, as solutions for our clients and and our role as a significant investor required under the Equality Act ensure our key suppliers comply in other companies.
We hosted 2010, for disabled employees, with our own standards.
a seminar with other investors to including seeking redeployment discuss current tax practices and in the event that reasonable COMMITMENT TO BETTER future expectations.
We continue adjustments are not possible.
STANDARDS OF CORPORATE to talk to companies about their tax We offer appropriate training, GOVERNANCE policy and management as part of including training in relation Corporate governance is about our overall environmental, social to equality, and will make protecting shareholders, aligning the and governance engagement ESG.
adjustments to this training interest of companies with investors where required.
indd 30 14 03 2014 20:37 STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL OTHER INFORMATION OVERVIEW OUR PROGRESS OUR PERFORMANCE STATEMENTS TAX STRATEGY Tax transparency Building Public Trust awards for tax We are rated as low risk by HMRC.
reporting in the FTSE 100 for the third Country by country reporting CBCR year running shows our success in We aim for our tax affairs to be is already enacted for some sectors.
improving our own tax transparency.
transparent and sustainable in As part of our commitment to the long term.
Our tax strategy transparency the first chart below Cash tax reconciliation is reviewed regularly with provides CBCR tax data for our main The second chart below provides a responsibility for this and territories of operation excluding joint summary reconciliation between the management of tax risks ventures.
Taxes in other territories equity holders tax charge in the income resting with the group chief total less than 1 million and have statement 238 million: an effective tax financial officer and director therefore been included in the UK rate of 21% and UK corporate taxes paid of group tax.
Our recognition by PwCs 133 million in the cash flow statement.
We will: COUNTRY BY COUNTRY REPORTING Meet all legal requirements, make all appropriate UK US FRANCE NETHERLANDS returns and payments Always consider the groups reputation, brand and corporate and social responsibilities Consider tax as part of every major business decision Discuss in real-time our 111.5% 100% 100% 100% 100% interpretation of the law with HMRC Operate appropriate tax risk governance processes, including Board oversight Contribute to the 37% 36.1% 35.9% development of UK tax 25.3% policy and legislation 18% 11.3% where appropriate 934m 168m 336m 168m 61m 19m 8m 3m 9m 24m 6m -8.4% Not undertake transactions 2m whose sole purpose is to profit: before tax included in the consolidated IFRS income statement.
Tax borne: taxes borne in each country create an abusive tax result Tax charge: tax charged in the consolidated IFRS income statement.
RECONCILIATION OF TAX CHARGE IN INCOME STATEMENT TO UK TAX Go to our CSR report at PAID PER CASH FLOW legalandgeneralgroup.
com csr for further detail on how we help 250 broader society with housing, pensions, savings, health, total tax contribution and other issues.
200 In advance of 1 July 2014, we will 150 170 publish country by country data as prescribed by the Capital 238 100 Requirements Directive CRD IV, 106 on our group website.
133 50 41 0 Equity holders Accounting 2013 tax 2012 tax UK tax paid per tax in income adjustments instalments instalments consolidated statement including payable paid in 2013 cash ow deferred tax in 2014 statement ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 31 80038 L&G p018-031.
indd 31 14 03 2014 20:37 IN THIS SECTION Financial review 34 Risk management 42 The announcement today that six major insurers will invest 25 billion over the next five years is a massive vote of confidence in the UK economy.
DANNY ALEXANDER, CHIEF SECRETARY TO THE TREASURY, HOUSE OF COMMONS, DECEMBER 2013.
indd 32 14 03 2014 20:45 STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL OTHER INFORMATION OVERVIEW OUR PROGRESS OUR PERFORMANCE STATEMENTS The announcement today that six major insurers will invest 25 billion over the next five years is a massive vote of confidence in the UK economy.
