108 Man Group plc Annual Report 2013 Charitable Trust Mans charitable contribution is based on the financial performance of the The voluntary sector continues to face huge business and as a result no donations were received by the Trust in 2013. challenges to deal with an economic climate However, by utilising the Trusts reserves we were able to run a reduced grant programme, spending $1.8 million on charitable donations and that puts its income under pressure, and employee engagement programmes during the period and enabling the increasing demands to deliver results to charities we support to leverage over $1.1 million from other funding vulnerable people.
It is vital that services are sources.
In the UK our supported projects benefitted over 50,000 individuals including disadvantaged and difficult-to-reach young people delivered more efficiently and effectively to atrisk of exclusion, the homeless and victims of human trafficking.
alleviate some of the impact of funding cuts At Man we recognise the fact that we have far more to give than just on beneficiaries, and charities and social financial support.
We continue to provide our employees with opportunities enterprises have the ability to play a key role to give their time and expertise to those in need in the local community, in improving delivery with their close through our ManKind community volunteering programme.
In 2013, our employees provided over 780 hours of volunteering activity, from mentoring connections with, and understanding of their young people and running employability skills workshops to transforming beneficiaries, strong local community ties and an outdoor space at a local womens refuge.
2013 also marked the end of our two year Annual Charity partnership withStarlight.
Our employees took part in a number of fundraising and Charities can effect real change but with the Governments aim to reduce volunteering activities for the charity throughout the year, culminating in a the deficit there is an increasing emphasis on the service provision role of Last Hour Appeal where employees had the opportunity to donate the last the sector and within that its capacity to deliver public services.
With the hour of their salaries for the benefit of seriously and terminally ill children.
funding mix shifting away from grants to payments by results contracts, Over the course of the partnership employees raised $158,000 in support charities must increasingly compete with the private sector for funding of Starlights work.
and with limited access to capital, most cannot afford to take on contracts to tackle social problems without up-front funding.
Our employees have chosen the Childrens Cancer Recovery Project asour new UK Annual Charity for 2014 15.
The charity provides much Many charitable organisations are not involved in contracting with the needed support to families coping with a childs cancer diagnosis and we state and a large part of the sector continues to operate with very little look forward to working with them over the next two years.
Requirements and expectations have also grown, across aspects such as governance, leadership, financial management and Our thanks go out to all of our employees who supported our charitable reporting and impact measurement.
As funders, the Man Charitable Trust programmes over the past year and volunteered their time to help others.
has an important role to play in shaping behaviour around impact practice Our focus for 2014 is to concentrate our support on literacy, numeracy as it is essential that the charities we support are able to provide us with and programmes that support disadvantaged people to engage with evidence of their impact, effectiveness and efficiency.
This in turn enables education and build the necessary vital life skills to improve life chances them to assess their own performance, develop their work and and employment prospects.
communicate their results to those they need to reach.
Lisa Clarke Trust Manager Registered charity no: 275386 featured grants Community links Community Links is an east London based charity that runs a wide range of community projects working with 16,000 people in each year in one of the most deprived areas of the UK.
The Trusts donation supported the literacy programme at Education Links, an alternative provision school run by Community Links for young people who have been excluded or are at risk of exclusion from mainstream education due to difficulties with their behaviour and attitude, typically driven by a troubled family background.
Education Links students require more support than mainstream schools can offer and staff work closely with students to improve their literacy, a vital skill for life which will help them to achieve their potential.
8 yrs The typical reading age of students joining Education Links is age 8 at 1416 years old.
Teens and Toddlers Teens and Toddlers is an early intervention programme, designed to target young people considered to be at high risk of becoming teenage parents, or disengaging with education, often resulting in NEET not in employment, education or training.
Disadvantaged teenagers, aged between 13 and 17 years, are paired with vulnerable toddlers who they mentor in a supervised nursery environment.
This transformative work experience, combined with classroom training, encourages young people to carefully consider the consequences of decisions they make and builds their sense of responsibility so they make positive decisions about their education, their health and their future.
The Trusts donation supported four new projects in Hackney and Tower Hamlets.
22% Research suggests that by the age of 30, teenage mothers are 22% more likely to be living in poverty than mothers who have their first child at age 24 or older.
Xlp XLP work in some of Londons most challenging areas delivering projects that transform the attitude and behaviour, of young people, increase their educational achievement and empower them to make wise lifestyle choices and realise their potential.
Whilst much of their work is based in schools, XLP also travels to 15 inner London estates each week, in two customised double decker buses, to host a range of activities for young people.
Teams of experienced youth workers and volunteers provide strong positive role models, homework support and other intervention activities to encourage young people to develop positive behaviour and life-skills, raise self-confidence and stay in education.
1.2m There are over 1.2m children and young people of school age in London.
A significant proportion of those live on deprived inner London housing estates and experience high levels of family breakdown, financial deprivation, unemployment, educational failure and criminal and anti-social behaviour.
MAN GrOup plC ANNuAl repOrT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2013 MAN.
COM Man Group plc Riverbank House 2 Swan Lane London, EC4R 3AD Tel: 44 0 20 7144 1000
