Corporate social responsibility We take corporate social responsibility seriously.
CWC and prior to 2010 Cable & Wireless Plc has been a continuing member of the FTSE4Good corporate responsibility index since its inception in 2001.
Below are some examples of how our business units deliver corporate social responsibility programmes meeting our four responsibility principles: 1 We are also a strong supporter of education, and in Contribute positively to the social and Jamaica our annual Skool Aid event attracted 30,000 economic development of the people and helped local children prepare for the new communities in which we operate school year by providing free school supplies, haircuts and medical, dental and eye checks.
Our services directly contribute to the economy of the countries in which we operate.
We also invest in In Panama we teamed up with renowned painter Olga the social development of the communities where our Sinclair to provide a painting workshop for thousands employees and customers live.
We sponsor sporting activities and athletes across We also work to develop the economies in which we pan-America.
In 2012, our Panama business sponsored Connect Americas, a major telecoms conference which In the Caribbean we sponsored several individual discussed ways to close the digital divide in the region.
athletes in the 2012 Olympic Games including Grenadas Later in the year the business sponsored the Britain in Olympic 400m champion, Kirani James and sprinter, Panama conference which celebrated the links between Yohan Blake from Jamaica who won one gold and two the two countries and encouraged more inward silver medals in London.
investment of the type made by CWC.
Our Bahamas business sponsored its national team at the Olympics, and the 2013 CARIFTA Games, a major platform for the regions young athletes.
It is the third year in a row that our Caribbean business has sponsored the CARIFTA Games.
In Panama Movil, our mobile brand, is synonymous with soccer as sponsor of the National Football League, the Movil Cup and the Panamanian Football Federation.
Our sponsorship of the national team last year included the friendly Red vs Red clash between Panama and World and European Champions, Spain.
20 Cable & Wireless Communications 1 2 The recycling programmes in our Panama business, 1.
Cable & Wireless Panama Seek continuous improvement in our started in 2011 12, continued successfully.
This year we supports the Olga environmental performance Sinclair Foundations art ran seminars for colleagues to emphasise the importance workshops for children to of recycling paper and ink products.
We also formalised Our environmental commitment focuses on energy inspire a new generation agreements with recycling enterprises Recicla Panama conservation, recycling, waste management, responsible of artists in Panama and Recitec to dispose of obsolete IT equipment, as we water usage and reducing our carbon footprint.
do in several other businesses.
Panama has recycled Our online system to report on energy use and carbon more than 50,000 pounds of equipment so far.
emissions ensures consistent reporting and provides us The Caribbean region continued to generate the largest with a useful reference point against which to measure proportion of carbon emissions, representing 50% reductions in energy usage and carbon emissions.
of the Groups total emissions for the 2012 13 year.
We estimate our carbon footprint to be 171,398 tonnes Management have initiated a programme with energy of CO e based on our Scope 1, 2 & 3 greenhouse 2 optimisation consultants that is focused on identifying gas emissions.
Our electricity consumption was and executing projects to reduce energy usage and 248,992 megawatt hours this year and our fuel usage carbon emissions, as well as procuring energy more was 5.87 million litres.
These projects will typically The Groups total emissions have increased by 17,540 take three or more years to realise significant benefits, tonnes of CO from the prior year.
This is due to however we expect to see some reduction in energy 2 a 32% increase in the emissions associated with usage in the 2013 14 year.
electricity consumption despite only a 12% increase We also work to support the local ecosystems of the in usage.
This disproportionate increase in electritycountries in which we operate.
Grenada, for example, associated emissions is principally caused by changes is known as the island of spice due to its production in the methodology employed by the Carbon Neutral of nutmeg and mace crops.
Our business has been Protocol and changes in the International Energy Agency promoting the importance of the nutmeg plant and calculated emissions factors for electricity consumption in 2012 provided over 1,000 plants to farmers, and in the relevant regions, particularly Jamaica.
sponsored the Grenada Nutmeg Festival in November.
We continue to use video conferencing facilities to reduce business travel, although travel is still necessary due to our geographical spread, and we estimate that created 6,136 tonnes of CO e usage.
2 Annual report 2012 13 21 Corporate social responsibility 2 3 In Panama we had Movil floats in annual carnival 2.
Children are entertained Respect cultures, values and human parades across the country, and maintained local at LIMEs Skool Aid event rights throughout our operations tradition by spraying the crowds with water as they thronged in the streets dancing to their favourite tunes.
We conduct business with honesty, integrity, openness and with respect for the human rights and interests Since 2005, our Panama business has also sponsored of our employees and the communities in which we and organised the National Oratory Contest, a public operate.
speaking competition which started in the 1970s.
The Oratory contest encourages young people to research Our Panama business joined the Social Enterprise and then discuss topical issues about Panama.
The Alliance for the Prevention and Eradication of Child 2012 National Oratory Contest winner, Suellen Ayala, Labour in Panama.
As part of the Alliance we will defend won a scholarship to university and will be able to study and promote the rights of children and teenagers in towards her dream of becoming a doctor.
Panama so that they acquire training, education and life skills.
As well as celebrating national culture the business also recognises minority groups within Panama.
For Carnival is an important part of cultural activities across example, we celebrated the Chinese year of the snake by pan-America, and our businesses get involved in many supporting celebrations for the Chinese community in locations.
In The Bahamas, for example, we agreed a US$850,000 sponsorship to support the Christmas season Junkanoo parades, which have been a part of Bahamian life for several centuries.
22 Cable & Wireless Communications CWC always take a proactive approach to addressing the threat ofcorrupt activities in the markets in which we operate.
3 4 4 To address all these challenges, we have developed an 3.
Sergio Busquets and Nurture best practice in our activities Sergio Ramos Panama internal programme which set outs our values and our vs Spain friendly Our businesses share best practice across the Group, policies and procedures to prevent bribery and corrupt developing further what is good and removing what isnt.
practices from occurring in our business activities.
LIME sponsors CARIFTA includes: Games 2012 Our success has been built on an honest and transparent approach.
We have recently strengthened our A company-wide code of conduct policy updated procedures in line with the requirements of the UKs annually Anti-Bribery law, but the principles behind this legislation An annual Board review of the Companys compliance are not new to our business.
Our commitment to ethical with the UK Anti-Bribery legislation business behaviour is long-standing and starts at the top of the organisation.
A register of political or charitable contributions, sponsorships, gifts and corporate hospitality CWC always takes a proactive approach to addressing the threat of corrupt activities in the markets in which Company-wide annual training for staff we operate.
Thorough due diligence on the many other businesses Externally, we are taking a more public stand against and organisations with which we have business corruption by increasing the transparency of our dealings relationships with Government and urging our competitors to do the This comprehensive programme has been tailored same.
to minimise the damaging effects of bribery in all We also take very seriously our duty to protect our jurisdictions in which we operate.
We take a zero employees from corruption.
This commitment has tolerance approach to corruption.
enabled us to attract some of the brightest and best talent everywhere we do business.
