How We Nurture Our People People at Cairn are a priority We operate in an increasingly competitive and global industry Cairn continues to ensure that the Company has a steady pipeline of young talent coming into the which requires people who are skilled and experienced in organisation by maintaining strong relationships many different disciplines.
This demand for talented people with a number of schools and universities in addition to offering summer internships.
In 2013, Cairn in the oil and gas industry will continue for years to come partnered with Career Academies, a national as the industry continues to develop organisation which aims to increase social mobility and raise the aspirations of 16-to-19-year-olds, It is against this backdrop that we are looking to The recruitment and retention of this skilled talent is providing them with real-life experiences of the recruit talented people with the required technical one of the challenges facing the oil and gas industry.
workplace and thereby boosting their employability capability in the areas where they are needed most.
In 2013, Cairn increased its staff headcount by skills.
In 2013, Cairn provided work placements for As part of our aim to retain this talent we look to 13.7% globally.
A quarter of these new roles were in six Career Academies students, providing them with create a vibrant working environment and culture geo-science and engineering and were mainly filled an insight into the oil and gas industry and mentoring which engages and retains our talent and to provide by experienced professionals with many years of by a staff member.
the appropriate experience and training to allow experience.
Throughout our recruitment process, staff to perform to the best of their abilities.
the Employee Value Proposition EVP, which Learning and Development outlines Cairns culture and commitment to our Having recruited good people, the Company also people, is well communicated to candidates.
invests in them by ensuring that they have the appropriate training and experience required to perform their jobs effectively in the delivery of the Companys strategy and business plan.
Cairn continues to be very active in providing staff with Cairn cares about career development opportunities through a variety of development and will deliver means internal and external courses, conferences, this through real on-the-job executive coaching, mentoring, on-the-job training, responsibility: individuals will be trusted to select their own projects, etc.
to enhance their skills and capabilities.
challenges and will be supported by the Company In 2013, a total of 1,214 training days were undertaken by staff.
This represents on average 5.8 days per employee compared to 5.5 days in 2012, and a national average of 3.57 days source: CIPD Cairn people care about The workforce is Learning and Development Report 2013. the Company: they are entrepreneurial and loyal and trust Cairn with is focused on their long-term careers sustainable success As an international company, we are able to offer overseas development opportunities for selected EVP individuals.
An example of this is our Deputy Head of Employee Value Legal who expressed an interest in working overseas Proposition and was provided with the opportunity to work in Morocco during our drilling campaign.
As he noted: I believe that my secondment to Morocco as Cairns leadership is The Cairn values are General Manager has been of huge benefit, dynamic, stable and core to the company: from the perspective of both my career and financially astute respect, relationships personal development.
It has given me the and responsibility opportunity to take on a different role from my normal duties in the legal department in Edinburgh, including acting as the Companys liaison with the Moroccan Government departments before and during our first drilling campaign in the country.
22 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic Review Leadership and Governance Financial Statements Additional Information In 2013, Cairn was once again successfully accredited Diversity HSE Culture Framework as an Investor in People IIP, having been accredited Diversity is about valuing variety and individual In June 2013, Cairn commenced the roll-out of its for the first time in 2004.
Investors in People is a UK differences and creating a working culture, HSE culture framework to maintain and strengthen accreditation body which helps employers to realise environment and practices which respect these our existing HSE culture and performance and to the potential of their people and improve standards.
As research indicates, a diverse engage our staff and contractors in that process.
workforce can improve creativity and problem The HSE culture framework identifies and reinforces The assessor commented: solving resulting in better decisions.
the HSE behaviours that Cairn needs to support excellent HSE performance.
The framework was 50% of Cairn staff are women rolled out to our people via workshops which were Learning and development, including giving 10% of Cairn staff work part-time facilitated by the Keil Centre, who are experts in the members of staff regular feedback on their 100% of parents return to work following human and organisational factors which impact on performance, both formally and informally, is maternity adoption paternity leave health and safety.
In total, 15 workshops were held another key strength in your company and the 21 different nationalities are employed at Cairn in the UK and our overseas offices to ensure that standard of on-the-job training and informal 3.4% of the workforce are disabled everyone had an opportunity to attend.
coaching and mentoring for all members of staff Average age at Cairn is 42. is very high.
IIP Scotland Report, April 2013 To continue the process of embedding the HSE Currently, 28% of management roles at Cairn culture framework at Cairn, a number of further are held by women and 20% of the PLC Board is developments are planned for 2014 including: composed of women.
In addition, Cairn is actively The performance appraisal process was identified participating in a major piece of industry research incorporating an HSE objective into every by the IIP audit process as an area for improvement aimed at encouraging more women onto boards.
The senior managers Performance Review: and this is now one of the HR 2014 objectives.
30% Club is a group of chairmen and organisations using the framework in the investigation of committed to promoting more women onto boards.
incidents: and Succession Planning Cairn is actively participating in their Balancing the a follow-up survey in 2015 to measure how we To address risks associated with the potential loss of Pyramid project which is exploring the behavioural have performed in strengthening the visibility key personnel in a competitive labour marketplace, differences between men and women and what of our existing HSE culture.
we undertook a study into succession planning, makes women successful leaders in the corporate the results of which were shared with the Board of environment.
Cairns Managing Director & Chief Directors in 2013.
Our latest review of the talent Financial Officer, Jann Brown, is a committee pipeline demonstrates that in addition to the people member of the 30% Club.
who are ready now to be successors for key roles, our succession planning work also confirmed that 64% of key roles potentially have at least one successor ready in 24 months.
Plans are now being made to develop the identified talent to ensure that they are capable of fulfilling key roles when required, in addition to planning how best to address gaps identified where no potential successor has been identified.
Culture and Engagement The maintenance of our culture is an important factor in differentiating us from other exploration and production companies.
The Cairn values of Respect, Relationship and Responsibility the three Rs are well understood by our employees and as part of our aim to further integrate these core values into all aspects of our business, in 2013 we undertook a 360-degree appraisal on all members of staff.
In 2013, we also started the process of reviewing our performance management practices.
This review is aimed at ensuring a clear Edinburgh Headquarters Edinburgh Headquarters line of sight between Company, team and individual Jean Bernard Houssin, Geoscientist Natalie Adams in the Exploration department.
objectives in addition to recognising and rewarding and Laura Bornatici, Geophysicist.
behaviours which are consistent with our Company values and culture.
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 23
