RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS To be our customers most trusted partner we need to be responsible in all our daily decisions and actions.
Our strategy Our approach Our Responsible Business strategy aligns with our Group strategy Operating responsibly means examining our impacts on society and and corporate vision.
In 2010 we developed our Responsible Business the environment when we make decisions.
This is why our relationships strategy, which identified five pillars that define our approach to with all our stakeholders, including our customers, employees, Responsible Business.
Discussions with our stakeholders this year shareholders, governments, regulators and community groups, have led us to reaffirm our focus on the five pillars, while updating are so important.
The support and input of our stakeholders is critical our objectives and setting new Group and business unit targets.
to our ability to address each of the elements of our strategy.
Core to our future commitments is a continued focus on financial Our customers are the reason we are here and all of our decisions education and on how we can support both our customers and the are made with their needs in mind.
All our business units remain communities in which we operate to improve levels of financial committed to delivering customer service of the highest quality, while understanding.
We know that sustainable economic growth depends making sure that they are also treating our employees fairly, investing on increasing levels of financial literacy, and we believe that we have in a responsible manner, managing our environmental impact and both a responsibility to promote this literacy and an opportunity to delivering sustainable benefits to the communities in which we operate.
create new markets for our products and services by doing so.
In this way, we seek to deliver our Responsible Business strategy.
Our Responsible Business strategy is supported by a strong A respect for human rights is implicit in all our employment practices.
This year we worked to improve We are steered by our Code of Conduct which is guided by the the processes and policies that underpin our strategy, for example International Labour Organisation, United Nations Global Compact through our revised Responsible Business Committee membership and the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.
and our new Responsible Investing Standard, which is now part of our Group Responsible Business Policy.
Governance Our Group Chairman has overarching responsibility for Old Mutual operating as a responsible business and we have processes in place to support him achieving this.
During the last few years with the introduction of significant new reporting and compliance obligations, Governance structure we have revisited our governance model for responsible business and updated it accordingly.
Board We have a Group Responsible Business Policy which is part of our Group Operating Model and in 2013 we added a Responsible Investment Standard to the Policy to lay out how we will integrate environmental, social and governance criteria into our investment and ownership decisions.
Twice a year business unit CEOs sign off compliance to the policy as part of our governance process.
Group Our Responsible Business Committee is a sub-committee of the Group Executive Committee Executive Committee and from 2014 includes representatives from different business functions and business units.
Chaired by our Group Human Resources Director, the committee champions and challenges our approach to responsible business and ensures that it is fully embedded across the business.
The chair is responsible for reporting Responsible to the Executive Committee on the integration of responsible business Business Committee plans in to Group operations, and is supported in this by the Group Responsible Business Team.
The chair also works with the Executive team as they lead the delivery of our Responsible Business strategy.
The Responsible Business Committee has pillar leads who support the sharing of best practice and policy owners and practitioners within Group Responsible each business who liaise with the Group Responsible Business Team.
Business Team The business unit representatives report their progress to the Responsible Business Committee for action and approval.
To learn more about our performance in 2013, our strategic aims and plans for 2014, please see our Responsible Business Report or visit our website.
Policy Practitioners Owners Business Unit Old Mutual plc 28 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic report To provide fully for our customers, we need to make sure that they understand that they can trust us and this trust is represented by being a responsible business in all aspects of what we do.
Julian Roberts, Group Chief Executive Our five pillars Group highlights in 2013 Our annual Group Customer Conference, this year held in South Africa, was Responsible to our attended by over 90 of our Executives customers Rationalised, improved and expanded the product range in our Emerging Markets businesses and improved the customer experience Putting the customer first in Grew distribution capabilities in India, China, Latin America, Kenya and Nigeria.
everything we do Launched a publicly available Responsible Investment Standard across the Group Responsible Provided training on responsible investment and the environmental, social and investment governance issues related to our investment capabilities to relevant employees We were a principal sponsor of PRI in Person a United Nations-supported Incorporation of Principles for Responsible Investment event, held in South Africa.
This and the environmental, social and JSE SRI pre-event had speakers from Old Mutuals Executive Committees.
governance criteria into our investment and ownership decisions The annual Group Culture Survey maintained a high response rate and a positive Responsible to our overall culture score in the Group.
It confirmed that people experience many of our employees company values and ACT NOW!
Behaviours in their everyday work In January 2014 the Old Mutual plc Board announced that it had achieved 33% Building a culture of female membership.
Across the Group 57% of our excellence which our employees are female employees are proud Old Mutual South Africa and Nedbank maintained their Broad-Based Black to be part of Economic Empowerment Level 2 rating.
Invested 16.1 million in our community programmes representing 1% of pre-tax Responsible to our annual operating profit communities Continued to align the strategy of our community investment programmes to deliver maximum positive impact Providing sustainable, tailored Launched and enhanced internal initiatives across the Group to promote employee and meaningful support to volunteering.
the communities in which we operate Improved our ranking in the Carbon Disclosure Leadership Index for FTSE350 Responsible financial services companies from eighth to fifth position environmental Our Group carbon intensity for 2013 was 3.0 tonnes CO e per m FUM 2 2 Increased our carbon emissions by 9.5% per m in our property portfolio management Increased our carbon emissions by 1.9% per employee in our employee-occupied Helping to monitor, manage properties.
and reduce our direct and indirect environmental impacts All of which are underpinned by: We updated our Group Responsible Business Strategy Governance We reviewed the members of our Responsible Business Committee to reflect our new commitments and strategic priorities Our carbon footprint and intensity indicators have been restated for 2011 and 2012 to account for material changes to the conversion factors provided by DEFRA for company reporting purposes as well as the Responsible Business Committee decision to change our reporting methodology from an equity share to an operational control approach, to better align with financial reporting.
Changes came into force from 1 January 2014.
