Corporate social responsibility The Group believes that the long-term interests of shareholders, employees and customers are best served by acting in a socially responsible manner.
As such, the Group ensures that a high standard of corporate governance is maintained.
A5.1 Employees The welfare, development and engagement of the Groups employees are central to developing a strong culture, with employee capability and motivation acknowledged as being central to delivery of the Groups strategy.
The Human Resources department actively works alongside the Groups management to recruit, develop and retain capable people.
Equality and diversity The Group is committed to providing a working environment in which employees feel valued and respected and are able to contribute to the success of the business, and to employing a workforce that recognises the diversity of its customers.
Employees are requested to co-operate with the Groups efforts to ensure the policy is fully implemented.
The Groups aim is that its employees should be able to work in an environment free from discrimination, harassment and bullying, and that employees, job applicants, customers, retailers, business introducers and suppliers should be treated fairly regardless of: race, colour, nationality including citizenship, ethnic or national origins gender, sexual orientation, marital or family status religious or political beliefs or af liations disability, impairment or age real or suspected infection with HIV AIDS membership of a trade union and that they should not be disadvantaged by unjust or unfair conditions or requirements.
When responding to changes in its business, the Group seeks to minimise the requirement for compulsory redundancy, retraining and redeploying employees wherever possible.
The Group aims to ensure that applications for employment from people with disabilities, and other under-represented groups, are given full and fair consideration and that such people are given the same training, development and job opportunities as other employees.
Every effort is also made to retrain and support employees who suffer from disabilities during their employment, including the provision of exible working to assist their re-entry into the workplace.
Flexible working is actively encouraged across all areas, to promote a work-life balance for individuals and to ensure that the Group retains the skills and experience of its people.
Composition of the workforce is reviewed on an annual basis and employee satisfaction with equality of opportunity is monitored as part of the regular employee feedback surveys.
Human Resources policies are reviewed regularly to ensure that they are non-discriminatory and promote equality of opportunity.
In particular, recruitment, selection, promotion, training and development policies and practices are monitored to ensure that all employees have the opportunity to train and develop according to their abilities.
The Paragon Group of Companies PLC 18 A.
