Water usage The Groups water usage is limited to the consumption of piped water in the UK.
No water is extracted directly.
Water usage in the year 3 3 ended 30 September 2013 was 7,720m 2012: 10,099m, based on consumption recorded on purchase invoices, a normalised amount of 3 3 43.4m per m income 2012: 59.3m per m income.
Waste The Groups waste output consists of general of ce waste which includes a mixture of principally paper and cardboard with some wood, plastics and metal.
All of the Groups waste is either recycled or sent to land ll.
Amounts of waste generated in the year ended 30 September 2013 and the methods of disposal are shown below.
2013 2012 Tonnes Tonnes Recycled 88 82 Land ll 80 134 168 216 Normalised tonnes per m income 0.9 1.3 Waste generation data is based on volumes reported on disposal invoices.
The Group provides facilities in its of ces for recycling paper, cardboard, newspapers, glass, plastics and aluminium and steel cans.
Batteries, printer and photocopier cartridges are collected and sent for recycling.
A5.3 Social, community and human rights Commitment to our customers The Group places the needs of customers at the heart of its day-to-day operations.
With a commitment from the Board, fairness to our customers is a key consideration and objective at all stages of the lifetime of a loan.
Treating Customers Fairly The Groups Treating Customers Fairly TCF policy is central to our commitment to customers.
In adopting the TCF principle we recognise that fair treatment of our customers is about adding value to the service we offer by aiming to: protect the interests of our customers at each stage of the product life cycle: and meet, as best we can, the unique needs of each customer by offering a transparent, ef cient and professional service, constantly reviewing our service to identify areas for improvement.
Our TCF policy follows Financial Conduct Authority FCA guidance and is regularly reviewed and updated.
We have a programme of training on TCF for employees and we apply the TCF principles across both our regulated and non-regulated lending.
Strategic report A5.2 Social, community and human rights continued Complaint handling As part of our commitment to TCF we have adopted a complaint handling process that is compliant with the requirements of the FCA and the best practice guidance issued by the Finance and Leasing Association.
We view a complaint as an opportunity to improve our business.
We have dedicated and experienced complaint handling co-ordinators in each business area who work with our customers to ensure that we handle the complaint, ef ciently and effectively.
Charitable contributions The Group contributes to registered charities relating to financial services or serving the local communities in which it operates.
Contributions of 917,000 2012: 353,000 were made by the Group during the year to the work of the Foundation for Credit Counselling which operates StepChange Debt Charity, formerly the Consumer Credit Counselling Service.
The increase in contributions from the previous year re ects the numbers of acquired customers making use of the charitys services.
The Group has also contributed to charities throughout the year by way of single donations.
Other charitable contributions made in the year totalled 21,000 2012: 18,000.
The Groups main objective is to support childrens and local charities, although no charity request is overlooked.
During the last year the Group has helped many and varied charities and causes such as: The Childrens Heart Foundation, Disability Aid Trust, Rotary Club of St Alphege Solihull, Kids in Action, Butter ies Childrens Charity, Brainwave, Motor Neurone Disease, Kids in Action, Happy Days, Lupus, Action for Sick Children, Motability, The Brain Tumour Charity, Second Chance, Myton Hospice, Strong Bones Charitable Trust, The Christie Charity, Chicks, Children with Cancer UK, Marie Curie Cancer Care, Lowes Syndrome Trust, Zoes Place Baby Hospice, Shirley Lions Club, Guys and St Thomas Charity.
The Group also supports Paragons Charity Committee, consisting of volunteer employees, which organises a variety of fundraising activities throughout the year.
In 2012 12,000 was raised for The Birmingham Childrens Hospital and The Alzheimers Society, while in the first nine months of 2013 11,406 has been raised which will be shared between RSPCA Birmingham Animal Centre and Hospital and MacMillan Cancer Support.
All employees are given the opportunity to nominate a charity each year and a vote is carried out to select the charity or charities to bene t from the next years fundraising.
Taxation payments The Group is resident and operates only in the United Kingdom and the amounts of its payments to UK national and local tax authorities in the year, including PAYE and NI contributions deducted from employee wages and salaries was as follows: 2013 2012 m m Corporation tax 22.0 17.0 PAYE and National Insurance 15.9 11.8 VAT 0.4 0.6 Total national taxation 38.3 29.4 Business rates 1.2 1.1 39.5 30.5 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC 24 A.
Strategic report Human rights The Group operates exclusively in the UK and, as such, is subject to the European Convention on Human Rights and the UK Human Rights Act 1998.
The Group respects all human rights and in conducting its business the Group regards those rights relating to non-discrimination, fair treatment and respect for privacy to be the most relevant and to have the greatest potential impact on its key stakeholder groups of customers, employees and suppliers.
The Board and the Group Director of Legal Services have overall responsibility for ensuring the Group upholds and promotes respect for human rights.
The Group seeks to anticipate, prevent and mitigate any potential negative human rights impacts as well as enhance positive impacts through its policies and procedures and, in particular, through its policies regarding employment, equality and diversity, treating customers fairly and information security.
Group policies seek both to ensure that employees comply with the relevant legislation and regulations in place in the UK and to promote good practice.
The Groups policies are formulated and kept up to date by the relevant business area, authorised by the Board and communicated to all employees through the Human Resources Policies Manual.
The Group undertakes extensive monitoring of the implementation of all of its policies and has not been made aware of any incident in which the organisations activities have resulted in an abuse of human rights.
