Corporate social responsibility The Group believes that the long-term interests of shareholders, employees and customers are best served by acting in a socially responsible manner.
As such, the Group ensures that a high standard of corporate governance is maintained.
A5.1 Employees The welfare, development and engagement of the Groups employees are central to developing a strong culture, with employee capability and motivation acknowledged as being central to delivery of the Groups strategy.
The Human Resources department actively works alongside the Groups management to recruit, develop and retain capable people.
Equality and diversity The Group is committed to providing a working environment in which employees feel valued and respected and are able to contribute to the success of the business, and to employing a workforce that recognises the diversity of its customers.
Employees are requested to co-operate with the Groups efforts to ensure the policy is fully implemented.
The Groups aim is that its employees should be able to work in an environment free from discrimination, harassment and bullying, and that employees, job applicants, customers, retailers, business introducers and suppliers should be treated fairly regardless of: race, colour, nationality including citizenship, ethnic or national origins gender, sexual orientation, marital or family status religious or political beliefs or af liations disability, impairment or age real or suspected infection with HIV AIDS membership of a trade union and that they should not be disadvantaged by unjust or unfair conditions or requirements.
When responding to changes in its business, the Group seeks to minimise the requirement for compulsory redundancy, retraining and redeploying employees wherever possible.
The Group aims to ensure that applications for employment from people with disabilities, and other under-represented groups, are given full and fair consideration and that such people are given the same training, development and job opportunities as other employees.
Every effort is also made to retrain and support employees who suffer from disabilities during their employment, including the provision of exible working to assist their re-entry into the workplace.
Flexible working is actively encouraged across all areas, to promote a work-life balance for individuals and to ensure that the Group retains the skills and experience of its people.
Composition of the workforce is reviewed on an annual basis and employee satisfaction with equality of opportunity is monitored as part of the regular employee feedback surveys.
Human Resources policies are reviewed regularly to ensure that they are non-discriminatory and promote equality of opportunity.
In particular, recruitment, selection, promotion, training and development policies and practices are monitored to ensure that all employees have the opportunity to train and develop according to their abilities.
The Paragon Group of Companies PLC 18 A.
Strategic report Information on the composition of the workforce at the year end is summarised below: 2013 2013 2012 2012 Females Males Females Males Employees Number 490 378 436 314 Percentage 56.5% 43.5% 58.1% 41.9% Management grade employees Number 65 88 61 76 Percentage 42.5% 57.5% 44.5% 55.5% Senior managers Number 3 13 3 12 Percentage 18.8% 81.2% 20.0% 80.0% Directors Number 1 8 1 8 Percentage 11.1% 88.9% 11.1% 88.9% Of these employees, ethnic minority employees comprised 12.4% of the workforce 2012: 11.3% and 5.9% of management grade employees 2012: 4.4%.
Training and development The Group has been accredited under the Investors in People scheme since 1997 and achieved the Gold Standard in March 2013, which is currently held by only 3% of companies in the UK.
This demonstrates the Groups commitment to the training and development of its employees.
The appraisal system is designed to assist employees in developing their careers and to identify and provide appropriate training opportunities, with all employees receiving a review at least annually.
The appraisal system also provides a method to track individual progress and identify opportunities to develop them into further roles, thereby supporting the Groups overall succession planning objectives.
The corporate training and development strategy focuses on providing opportunities to develop all employees and is central to the achievement of the Groups business objectives.
On average employees received 8.7 days training in the year 2012: 7.8 days.
Employees involvement The directors recognise the bene t of keeping employees informed of the progress of the business.
The Group sponsors a People Forum, attended by elected employee representatives from each area of the business, which exists primarily to facilitate communication and dissemination of information throughout the Group and provides a means by which employees can be consulted on matters affecting them.
Employees are provided with regular information on the performance and plans of the Group, and the financial and economic factors affecting it, through information circulars and presentations.
The Company operates a Sharesave share option scheme and a pro t sharing scheme, both of which enable eligible employees to bene t from the performance of the business.
The directors encourage employee involvement at all levels through the appraisal process and communication between directors, managers, teams and individual employees.
Strategic report A5.1 Employees continued Health and Safety policy It is the Groups policy to comply with the terms of the Health and Safety at Work Act 1974, and subsequent legislation, and to provide and maintain a healthy and safe working environment.
The health and safety objective of the Group is to minimise the number of instances of occupational accidents and illnesses and ultimately achieve an accident-free workplace.
The Group recognises and accepts its duty to protect the health and safety of all visitors to its premises, including contractors and temporary workers, as well as any members of the public who might be affected by our operations.
While the management of the Group will do all within its power to ensure the health and safety of its employees, it is recognised that health and safety at work is the responsibility of each and every individual associated with the Group.
It is the duty of each employee to take reasonable care of their own and other peoples welfare and to report any situation which may pose a threat to the well-being of any other person.
Health and Safety policies and procedures are managed by the Group Services Division which liaises with senior management and Human Resources as necessary.
All employees are provided with such equipment, information, training and supervision as is necessary to implement the policy in order to achieve the above stated objective.
The Group makes available such nances and resources deemed reasonable to implement this policy.
All injuries, however small, sustained by a person at work must be reported.
Accident records are crucial to the effective monitoring and revision of the policy and must therefore be accurate and comprehensive.
The Group recognises the civil and moral need to ensure that all employees adhere to this Health and Safety policy and is prepared to invoke the disciplinary procedure in case of any deliberate disregard for the Health and Safety policy.
The Groups Health and Safety policy is continually monitored and updated, particularly when changes in the scale or nature of our operations occur.
The policy is updated at least every twelve months.
A six monthly health and safety report is produced by the Head of Group Services for the Senior Management Group.
ISO18001 certi cation has been obtained during 2013 and is audited every six months by an external consultant.
In addition, a health and safety co-ordinator is employed within Group Services to manage all health and safety records, including policies, procedures, risk assessments and training records.
The Paragon Group of Companies PLC 20 A.
