A5.2 Environmental policy The Group is engaged in mortgage and consumer finance and arrears management and therefore its overall environmental impact is considered to be low.
The main environmental impacts for the Group are limited to universal environmental issues such as resource use, procurement in of ces and business travel.
The Group complies with all applicable laws and regulations relating to the environment and intends to align its environmental procedures with the International Standard ISO 14001 during the course of the next financial year.
It operates a Green Charter, which: ensures all buildings occupied by the Group are managed ef ciently by its Facilities Team and Building Surveyor encourages employees to conserve energy promotes recycling by negotiating contracts and providing facilities to enable employees to re-cycle of ce waste and other used products controls business travel and provides opportunities for employees to travel to work in various ways: such as providing cycle racks displays a Paragon Green Charter at all sites to encourage employees to be environmentally friendly at all times ensures liaison with the local community ensures that redundant IT equipment is disposed of within current directives regulations WEEE - Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment, recycling 98% of such equipment ensures that all uorescent light tubes are disposed of in a safe manner, compliant with appropriate regulations arranges for paper waste products to be recycled, securely, by third parties The Green Charter is kept under continuous review by the Facilities team.
The Groups paper based stationery is all procured from FSC certi ed suppliers.
During the year the Group introduced a Cycle to Work scheme, enabling employees to obtain cycles at preferential rates for commuting purposes.
The Group has been involved in no prosecutions, accidents or similar non-compliances in respect of environmental matters.
Performance indicators The environmental key performance indicators for the Group, determined having regard to the Reporting Guidelines published by the Department for Environment Food and Rural Affairs DEFRA in June 2013, are set out below.
The Group does not consider it has signi cant environmental impacts under the headings Resource Ef ciency and Materials, Emissions to Land, Air and Water or Biodiversity and Ecosystem Services set out in the Guidelines, due to the nature of its business activities.
This information is presented for the 12 months ended 30 September in each year and includes all entities included in the Groups financial statements.
Normalised data is based on total operating income of 177.9m 2012: 170.2m.
Strategic report A5.2 Environmental policy continued Greenhouse gas GHG emissions 2013 2012 Tonnes Tonnes CO CO 2 2 Scope 1 Direct emissions Combustion of fuel: Operation of gas heating boilers 638 626 Petrol and diesel used by company cars 202 328 Operation of facilities: Air conditioning systems 25 28 865 982 Scope 2 Energy indirect emissions Directly purchased electricity 1,548 1,521 Total scope 1 and 2 2,413 2,503 Normalised tonnes - scope 1 and 2 CO per m income 13.6 14.7 2 Scope 3 Other indirect emissions Purchased goods and services Fuel and energy related activities not included in scope 1 or 2 281 272 Water consumption 8 11 Waste generated in operations 18 28 Total scope 3 307 311 Total scopes 1, 2 and 3 2,720 2,814 Normalised tonnes scope 1,2 and 3 CO per m income 15.3 16.5 2 The decrease in GHG emissions shown above is despite changes in the Groups property pro le which have increased the oor space in use by 22%, although the number of leased buildings was reduced in the year.
This is in excess of both the growth in income and the increase in average headcount of 13% as the Group positions itself to implement the business development plans detailed elsewhere in the Strategic report.
Additional space has also been allocated to support the Groups Business Continuity plan.
The principal expansion in the year was in the Groups Homer Road headquarters building, which had until recently been sub-divided and leased out.
As a result of this, the building management systems are not fully coordinated, leading to inef ciency.
A project is in progress to align the systems, which should increase ef ciency in the future.
The Group has also retained the services of external energy consultants, to further address issues of consumption and ef ciency.
Gas and electricity usage is based on consumption recorded on purchase invoices.
Vehicle fuel usage is based on expense claims and recorded mileage.
CO values above are calculated based on the DEFRA DECC guidelines published in June 2013.
CO values for the year ended 2 2 30 September 2012 have been restated for the revised conversion factors published by DEFRA DECC.
The amounts shown above for total scope 1 and scope 2 emissions are those required to be reported under the Companies Act Strategic Report and Directors Reports Regulations 2013.
Other scope 3 emissions not reported above are not considered to be signi cant.
The Paragon Group of Companies PLC 22 A.
