Corporate responsibility Partnership is a resource efficient, sustainable business GHG Emissions data for period 1 January 2013 to Environment 31 December 2013 1BSUOFSTIJQ SFDPHOJTFT UIBU XF BMM IBWF B SPMF UP QMBZ JO looking after the environment for future generations, and Tonnes of CO2e Base year 2013 have adopted anumber of environmental policies across oursites including: Combustion of fuel and operation of facilities 90 Electricity, heat, steam and cooling for our 538 We aim to recycle the majority of our paper and other items, ownuse including ink cartridges, batteries, old IT equipment and general recyclable waste where appropriate, and reduce our generation Business travel and office refurbishment 341 ofpaper by automatically printing double-sided.
Total emissions 969 We re-use furniture and electrical equipment where appropriate Intensity measurement Tonnes of CO e per FTE 2 1 580 full-time employees 1.67 and also consider its sale or donation to charity where re-use is not possible.
Intensity measurement Tonnes of CO e per total 2 m sales Single Premium Equivalent SPE 0.79 In September 2013, a team of Partnership staff joined together Notes: for a day to clear woodland in the area of Croydon, Surrey to help 1.
Number of full-time employees as of 31 December 2013. create a wetlands environment.
They worked with the organisers, The Conservation Volunteers, together with members of the Total CO by emission type 2 local community.
"Combustion of fuel and Greenhouse Gas Emissions Report operation of facilities 9% We have reported on all of the emission sources required VOEFS UIF $PNQBOJFT ""DU 4USBUFHJD 3FQPSU BOE Business travel and Directors Reports Regulations 2013. office refurbishment 35% We have used the Greenhouse Gas GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard revised edition, and emission factors from UK Governments GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting 2013."
Electricity, heat, steam and cooling for own use 56% 1.
Reporting period Our base year is 1 January 2013 31 December 2013, which we set using a xed-base year approach.
Approach We have followed the governments guidance on how to measure and report greenhouse gas emissions.
Partnership Assurance Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 36 3.
Targets We have used the financial control approach to identify the GHG For our UK operations, we set annual targets in each of our key emissions, which meets the denitional requirements of the areas of environmental impact, all of which are designed to reduce Regulations in respect of those emissions, for which we have our overall GHG emissions intensity as well as contribute to our UK responsibility.
The boundaries of our reported emissions comprise sustainability and CSR goals.
all locations operating in the United Kingdom.
Our emissions reduction target excluding office refurbishment is to reduce our global GHG emissions CO e by 5% from 2013 2 4.
GHG Emissions 2013 in tonnes of CO2e 7.
Intensity measurement Combustion of fuel and operation In order to express our annual emissions in relation to a offacilities quantiable factor associated with our activities, we have used Gas consumption 74 both a financial emissions intensity metric tonnes CO e per m 2 SPE and a headcount intensity metric tonnes CO e per FTE to Fugitive emissions 16 2 normalise our data and provide usefulperformance indicators.
Total 90 Office energy usage and business travel to our clients accounts Electricity, heat, steam and cooling for for the majority of our carbon footprint.
Since our revenue is our own use largely relative to our business activity levels with our clients Purchased electricity 538 which in turn inuences our level of business travel and revenue Total 538 growth, these are the most appropriate and useful intensity measurements for our sector.
Business travel and office refurbishment 8.
Approach to assurance 1 Business travel 183 Alphacello Ltd conduct an annual review of our environmental data Refurbishment of new office 158 collation and calculation processes and provide verication of our Total 341 GHG Emissions Statement.
Notes: 1. Business travel emissions include the following travel modes: car, taxi, train, 9.
Carbon offsets Londonunderground, bus, ights and tram.
At present, carbon offsets do not form part of our carbon mitigation strategy.
Base Year Our base year is 2013 which we set using a xed base year approach.
The Board confirms in the Directors responsibility statement on page 55 that the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the performance, strategy and business model of the Company.
This Strategic Report has been approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by: Steve Groves $IJFG &YFDVUJWF 0DFS 18 March 2014 Partnership Assurance Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 37 HOW WE ARE GOVERNED In this section: 39 An introduction from our Chairman 40 Corporate governance overview 42 Leadership 42 Board of Directors 44 Senior management 45 Effectiveness 49 Nomination Committee report 50 Audit Committee report 53 Risk Committee report 54 Directors report 55 Directors responsibilities Partnership Assurance Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 38
