Strategic report Provident Financial plc continued Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Corporate responsibility Being a successful and sustainable business requires more than generating strong financial results and returns for our shareholders.
We believe our continued success cannot be separated from the responsibilities we have to our customers, employees and other stakeholders.
Peter Crook Chief Executive As a leading lender to non-standard customers, our most important Key areas of corporate responsibility CR is to lend to our 2.6 million customers in a responsible manner.
We do this by ensuring that our products are focus tailor-made to meet the needs and behaviours of our customers.
We are transparent and straightforward about the costs and terms and conditions of our products.
We behave responsibly throughout a customer's relationship with us from the first time they get in touch with us to apply for one of our products through to their final payment, and if they experience difficulty in meeting their repayments along the way.
But our approach to CR extends beyond this: it guides how we treat our 3,600 employees, and the suppliers we engage with, as well as committing us to play a positive role in the many communities we serve andtomanage our environmental impacts.
Overall responsibility for our CR programme rests with the Chief Executive, How CR is Peter Crook.
CR and community affairs are regularly considered by the board, and a corporate affairs activity report, which includes updates on governed the groups CR and community involvement activities, is presented at each board meeting.
The group executive committee, which includes the executive directors and senior management, and ischaired by Peter Crook, reviews and approves the CR programme and budget.
Day-to-day management of the CR programme is undertaken by the CR Management Manager, Community Affairs Manager and Community Affairs Executive.
To support this team, the following working groups have been established: of CR - Corporate responsibility working group: - Environmental working groups within Vanquis Bank and CCD: - Vanquis Banks Active Community Programme board: and - Head office travel plan steering group.
32 Strategic report Governance Remuneration Financial statements Shareholder information Provident Financial plc Strategic report Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 continued Our CR strategy Our CR strategy involves acting responsibly in our relationships with customers and making a positive contribution to the communities served by the groups businesses, and is organised around the following themes: Earning high levels of customer satisfaction.
Meeting or exceeding regulatory requirements on responsible lending.
Following our corporate mission and values in the treatment of ourstakeholders.
Investing in the communities in which our customers and agents live and in which our staff work.
Maintaining a system to manage wider corporate responsibility issues.
Our key stakeholders Case study: We have identified six main stakeholder groups that have an interest in, or are affected by, Engaging with stakeholders to improve our business activities.
They are: our CR performance customers, communities, employees, suppliers, shareholders and regulators.
During 2013, we worked with Corporate Citizenship to convene an To understand whether we are invitation-only online forum for delivering against our strategic stakeholders to share opinions and objectives and aware of these engage with the business.
The aim of stakeholders views and concerns, we the forum was to foster transparent engage with them on an ongoing basis.
discussion among a variety of important We do this by conducting regular stakeholders on CR issues in general, surveys and focus groups, and by as well as more specific views on the participating in consultation exercises.
performance and responsibilities of the group.
The feedback which was generated by the forum will ensure that there is continual improvement in the performance of our CR programme.
33 Strategic report Provident Financial plc continued Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Corporate responsibility continued Lending responsibly Lending responsibly For Provident, responsible lending is about developing and delivering products that meet the needs of our customers.
We do this by offering Vanquis Bank credit cards, home credit loans and Satsuma loans, which share the same responsible lending characteristics: they are all simple and transparent financial products which are delivered through a friendly and personal service and which have higher levels of forbearance and flexibility than the products offered by other lenders.
Being a responsible lender such as Account Freeze, Payment We have unrivalled experience and Holiday, Lifeline, Payment Reminders, Customer satisfaction expertise in supplying financial and Over-limit Alerts, to assist them 1 Vanquis Bank 1 customers products which are tailor-made to whilst they get back on track.
thespecific requirements of those Our home credit and Satsuma loans 88% inthe non-standard credit market.
are for small sums and have their costs The Vanquis Bank credit card has fixed at the outset with no extra credit limits as low as 250, which charges whatsoever.
Repayments are are smaller than those of mainstream collected on a weekly basis, by a self- 2 Home credit credit cards.
This enables Vanquis employed agent in the customers 2 customers Bank employees to observe and home in the case of our home credit understand the behaviour of loans, and via a Continuous Payment 93% customers before granting any Authority on a pre-agreed day for a further lending, in a responsible and pre-agreed amount only, in the case of sustainable manner.
High levels of contact maintains higher levels of contact are maintained with home credit with its customers than mainstream andSatsuma loans customers through The percentage of customers who are satisfied with the service they have been credit card providers, which enables face-to-face meetings or over the given by Vanquis Bank and our home it to provide a higher level of help and telephone, which enables the customer credit business.
support to customers and resolve any to discuss any difficulties or queries issues which arise.
Vanquis Bank is that they might have at an early also able to offer customers a range stage and agree a course of action of extra features through its optional toresolve them.
Repayment Option Plan with features 34 Strategic report Governance Remuneration Financial statements Shareholder information Provident Financial plc Strategic report Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 continued Playing a positive role in the communities we serve Supporting money advice 39 As a responsible lender, we continue to work with and support a wide range of free and voluntary money advice organisations, to help The number of three-year consumers who may have problems repaying their debts to us and funded Good Neighbour others.
These include: Advice UK, Citizens Advice, Step Change Debt projects Charity, Institute of Money Advisers, Money Advice Liaison Group, Money Advice Scotland, Money Advice Trust, and National Debtline.
We also work with more specialised providers on a range of financial education initiatives and support publicly available, independent 2.0m research to help understand the financial behaviour of those on modest Community incomes and increase the quality and availability of free, independent investment money advice in the UK.
Community investment Our community outreach activities are As we serve customers in so many delivered through two programmes: communities across the UK and The Good Neighbour programme, Ireland, we believe we have a duty which delivers local project to be a model corporate citizen and support and provides employees a positive force in peoples lives.
with volunteering and matchedThestrategy behind our community giving opportunities in the many activities has stood the test of time communities we serve across the and comprises two strands: UKand Ireland.
i Helping to address the social The Vanquis Bank Active inclusion needs of people who Community Programme, which live in deprived communities: and encourages employee volunteering ii Supporting the money advice and provides support to local sector to address financial charities in London, Chatham education issues and carrying and Bradford, and through the out social research into matters international charity Hatua in that relate to our customers.
Vanquis Bank supports the UKregistered charity Hatua which means the next step in Swahili.
Hatua helps talented children from Nairobis slums, typically from families living on less than $1 a day.
Every Vanquis Bank employee has the opportunity to support the initiative, be it by fundraising in the UK orthrough a visit to schools in Nairobi.
35 Strategic report Provident Financial plc continued Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Corporate responsibility continued Playing a positive role in the communities we serve continued Case study: Community project support As of 31 December 2013, the Good Neighbour programme was supporting 39 local community projects across the UK and Ireland.
These include: Young People Cornwall Young People Cornwall supports young people aged 11 to 25 through projects including health education, youth clubs and the arts.
Cornwall has one of the highest rates of suicide in the UK amongst young people and of those, only 14% were known to the mental health authorities.
The project also works with young people who are experiencing, or likely to experience, mental health issues.
Were funding a professional trainer for the Heads Up programme, part of the Hear Our Voice project.
Hear Our Voice has been running for over 15 years, working with young people who have, or are at risk of developing, mental health issues.
The programme increases the resilience of young people through the use of simple tools such as personal plans and coping strategies.
It also improves awareness of emotional literacy and tackles stigma through interactive and group activities.
Scottish Youth Hostel Association SYHA Give Us A Break Since our partnership with the SYHA began in 2004, over 3,000 young people have had the opportunity to enjoy a break through the Give Us A Break programme.
The programme aims to tackle social exclusion through the provision of hostel-based short breaks for groups of disadvantaged young people: for many it is the first time they have stayed away from home.
Activity breaks are designed to encourage the young people to broaden their horizons, develop new ideas and skills, and to build their self-confidence to tackle everyday situations.
As a result of the breaks, the young people feel more confident after facing their fears and being out of their comfort zone.
These newly-acquired skills and personal development have also been observed back in the classroom, where teachers have found that the young people listen more and work better as a team.
Several of our employees have been volunteers on the breaks and weve been able to link up with some of the other projects which we fund by providing breaks for the young people they support.
36 Strategic report Governance Remuneration Financial statements Shareholder information Provident Financial plc Strategic report Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 continued Our Good Neighbour three-year projects 1 Aberlour, Elgin 2 Boomerang, Dundee 1 3 S cottish Youth Hostel Association, Stirling 4 V enchie Children and Young Peoples 2 Project, Edinburgh 3 5 The Royal Lyceum, Edinburgh 5 4 6 Made4U in ML2, Wishaw 6 7 Sycamore Project Zacs Bar, Bolton 33 8 Scholemoor Beacon, Bradford 9 Joshua Project, Bradford 34 16 17 10 Holmewood Executive, Bradford 9 8 10 11 S edbergh Youth and Community 15 35 Centre, Bradford 11 7 36 14 12 13 12 B radford and District Senior Power, 18 39 37 38 19 Bradford 20 22 13 Participate Projects, Bradford 21 23 14 One in a Million, Bradford 15 Immanuel Project, Bradford 24 26 27 25 16 B radford City Womens Football 28 30 Club, Bradford 29 17 B radford City Football Club 31 Community Stand, Bradford 18 N orthfield Sports Association, 32 Bootle 19 Yorkshire Dance, Rotherham 26 Youth Network MK CIC, 33 REACH Across, Londonderry 20 Harvey Girls, Burton on Trent MiltonKeynes 34 Hostelling International Northern 21 Sycamore Adventure, Dudley 27 Battersea Arts Centre, London Ireland, Belfast 22 M owmacre Young Peoples Play and 28 Ahoy Centre, Deptford 35 Early Focus Project, Dublin Development Association, Leicester 29 CEN8, New Cross 36 Solas Project, Dublin 23 P roject for the Regeneration of Druids Heath, Birmingham 30 Baggator, Bristol 37 Ballymun Music Programme, Dublin 24 The Door, Stroud 31 St Petrocks, Exeter 38 An Oige, County Wicklow 25 Riverfront Theatre, Newport 32 Young People Cornwall, Truro 39 Laois Partnership, Portlaoise Community involvement in numbers Employee volunteering in numbers 79,347 the number of people who, in 2013, benefited We continue to encourage employees from across our directly from the support provided by the projects we businesses to participate in their communities through funded through our Good Neighbour programme.
97% the percentage who felt that team challenges 34,736 the number of people who accessed improve employee morale.
new services and activities delivered through our Good Neighbour-funded projects during 2013.
96% the percentage of volunteers who felt that team challenges make a positive contribution to the community.
12,173 the number of people who developed new skills during 2013 as a result of their involvement in the programmes supported by Good Neighbour.
37 Strategic report Provident Financial plc continued Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Corporate responsibility continued Managing our environmental impacts Live version 1, 2, 3 Key statistics for the period 1 January to 31 December 2013 6,421 GHG emissions Business travel GHG emissions Ungroup Copy lines dividing segments Tonnes of CO e Tonnes of CO e 2 2 Paste on top tonnes Correct stack order 2 1 Direct scope 1 1 Air travel 1 1 Total scope 1 and 2 emissions CO2 emissions 3 5 208 tonnes in tonnes of CO e 2 1,826 2 Rail travel 2 tonnes 56 tonnes 4.00 4 2 Indirect scope 2 CO2 3 Car travel own vehicles emissions Scope 1 and 2 carbon intensity ratio 1,823 tonnes 4,595 kg CO e 1,000 2 4 Company car fuel use of receivables tonnes 1,495 tonnes 5 Extracting, refining and transportation of rawfuel associated withbusiness travel 740 tonnes 1 Our emissions are reported in accordance with the WRI WBCSD Greenhouse Gas GHG Protocol.
We use an operational control consolidation approach to account for our GHG emissions and use emission conversion factors from Defra DECCs GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting 2013.
2 Our GHG emissions are calculated using energy use data accessed via meters and energy suppliers, and from records of fuel use.
3 The emissions associated with Vanquis Banks pilot credit card operation in Poland are excluded from thedata disclosed above.
Environmental management Greenhouse gas GHG We recognise the importance of emission reporting minimising the environmental impacts UK legislation on mandatory GHG of our business activities and ensuring emission reporting, which came into that we contribute to building a more force on 1 October 2013, requires us environmentally sustainable society.
to disclose the annual amount of GHG We do this through an environmental emissions from activities for which management programme which we are directly responsible scope enables us to reduce the energy and 1, including combustion of fuel or natural resources we use, and the operation of any facility, and for which waste we generate.
we are indirectly responsible scope 2, such as the electricity and heat we purchase.
Case study: Carbon offsetting One of the ways we reduce the carbon intensity of our business activities is by offsetting some of the GHG emissions for which we are responsible.
During 2013, we offset 4,322 metric tonnes of carbon emissions associated with the companys business travel.
These emissions were offset through an investment in the Gold Standard Data Aegean Wind Project in the Mugla Province of Turkey.
38 Strategic report Governance Remuneration Financial statements Shareholder information Provident Financial plc Strategic report Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 continued Our role as an employer of choice All of the 3,600 people that we employ across the UK and Ireland are important to us.
They play a key role in developing and delivering products that meet the needs of our 2.6 million customers, so they are one of our key stakeholder groups.
By creating a working environment that helps our employees to achieve their potential, we also help our businesses flourish.
To run our business successfully, we need to attract talented individuals and provide a working environment that trains and develops them.
We provide our staff with training and development opportunities.
This enables our people to meet their own personal goals as well as to continue to respond to the needs of our customers.
Human rights CR reporting A component of our CR programme We also publish a stand-alone, annual relates to ensuring that our business CR report which sets out a full account activities are conducted in such a of our social, environmental and way that we are not complicit in the economic performance.
Our 2013 CR abuse of fundamental human rights report will be published during the and labour rights.
This commitment summer of 2014. is enshrined in our corporate code Further information on our of ethics which has been in place CR reports can be found at since 2005.
This code states that all www.
com fundamental human rights should be respected and, in the conduct of our business, should be guided by the provisions of the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the core standards of the International Labour Organisation.
Key diversity statistics Proportion of male female Proportion of male female senior employees % managers % 1 Male 1 Male 1 1 48% 66% 2 2 Female 2 Female 52% 34% 2 39
