54 Prudential plc Annual Report 2013 Strategic report Corporate responsibility review Helping build strong communities Our corporate responsibility strategy Our long-term sustainable approach to business is reinforced by our Group-wide corporate responsibility strategy.
While we believe that Serving our Supporting corporate responsibility is best Wellbeing and protection customers local managed on the ground by those communities closest to the customer and local Helping provide resources, such as clean water stakeholders, our Group approach is and shelter that are essential for health and a underpinned by four global themes: thriving future B Serving our customers: Education and life skills B Valuing our people: Valuing our Protecting the people environment B Supporting local communities: and Strengthening knowledge in numeracy and financial literacy, while improving B Protecting the environment.
employment training Disaster readiness and relief Providing financial, physical and infrastructure support to help prevent disasters, and to deal with their impact Performance highlights Our commitments to our customers and our employees, as well as our support for 1 in 3 18.5m communities and our employees volunteer worldwide total community investment spend responsibility towards the environment, are rooted in our determination to continue delivering a strong, sustainable US$2m 3,400 financial performance.
donated to disaster relief in the employees donate through payroll Philippines following Typhoon Haiyan giving across the Group Paul Manduca Chairman Strategic report Corporate responsibility review Prudential plc Annual Report 2013 55 Our corporate responsibility Serving our customers continued to develop educational approach Prudential has been meeting peoples programmes, designed to help existing and As a business that provides savings, needs for more than 165 years and today potential customers understand how income, investment and protection we serve around 23 million insurance better to prepare for their financial future.
products and services we create customers in diverse markets.
The Center for Financial Insight, a new social value through our day-to-day In each of our businesses, we are online thought leadership community, operations.
We provide customers with focused on providing for a distinct set launched on Jacksons website in March ways to help manage uncertainty and of customers needs: the significant and 2013.
It is an educational resource build a more secure future.
In seeking growing demand for saving and protection designed to provide information for to match the long-term liabilities we of the middle class in Asia, the retirement investors, offering insights on many have towards our customers with income requirements of baby boomers in aspects of financial planning from basic similarly long-term financial assets, the US and the ageing population in the terminology and fundamental investment we provide capital that finances UK, which needs both to save more and concepts to information on investment businesses, builds infrastructure to access secure income in retirement.
and fosters growth in both developed We want our customers to stay with us Jacksons educational efforts include a and developing markets.
We know this means we focus on alternative investment strategies, Our long-term sustainable approach to must constantly listen to them to understand a growing area in portfolio planning.
business is reinforced by our Group-wide their changing needs, and that we must Jackson also launched a series of corporate responsibility strategy.
While we provide them with fair and transparent alternative educational training days believe that corporate responsibility is best products and customer service that designed to demonstrate the role that managed on the ground by those closest to maintain their trust and faith in us.
alternative investments can play in helping the customer and local stakeholders, our investors potentially grow returns and Group approach is underpinned by four Asia manage risk in their portfolios.
global themes: As part of the process of listening and understanding our customers needs, UK Serving our customers: we aim to Prudential Corporation Asia launched a Annuities remain a key product provide fair and transparent products number of tailored products and services in for Prudential UK, and in 2013 we worked that meet our customers needs: 2013.
Prudential Hong Kong introduced closely with the Association of British Valuing our people: we aspire to PRUmyhealth crisis multi-care, which offers Insurers on the launch of the Code of retain and develop highly engaged comprehensive financial protection against Retirement Choices.
This means that we employees: critical illness.
It is the only all-in-one product are more focused than ever on ensuring in Hong Kong to offer complete protection that customers looking to take income from Supporting local communities: against the financial impact of critical their pensions make informed choices.
Our we seek to make a positive contribution illnesses for multiple stages and multiple UK business paid out 3 billion in income to to our communities through long-term incidences of major illness, covering an UK annuitants in 2013. partnerships with charitable extensive range of conditions.
We are committed to responding to organisations that make a real Prudential Singapore introduced the customer concerns quickly and efficiently difference: and PRUVantage iPad application, a customer and we aim to maintain loyalty by Protecting the environment: engagement tool to help customers better continuing to improve our service we take responsibility for the understand different investment concepts year-on-year for both customers and environment in which we operate.
and what to look for when considering intermediaries.
This focus on continuing to investing.
Prudential was the first to launch deliver excellent customer service was These themes provide clarity to our this state-of-the-art interactive client recognised at the 2013 Financial Adviser businesses as to how they should focus engagement tool in the market, allowing Service Awards, where we retained our their corporate responsibility efforts quick and easy access to product two five-star ratings in the Life & Pensions and resources in the context of their information and investment concepts.
In the most individual markets.
its launch, the application has been well recent data published by the Financial This review gives an overview of our received by customers and agents.
Ombudsman Service, Prudential UK activities and progress.
Prudential also At present, more than two-thirds of the continued to perform well and was placed publishes an annual Corporate agency force is using this tool as part of their second in the life and pension and Responsibility Report, which will be sales and customer engagement process.
co. uk In the UK we also believe in finding ways in summer 2014.
US to improve the financial capability of the In the US, the squeeze on the cost of living next generations.
Prudential UK works in and market volatility has led many people partnership with various organisations to to be unprepared as they approach deliver front-line financial education retirement.
In Jackson in 2013 we training to adults and children, helping 56 Prudential plc Annual Report 2013 Strategic report Corporate responsibility review continued people become more informed about required, and provide training and career the leadership skills of the senior their financial needs and community development opportunities for all.
We also executive population through the organisations to provide financial give full and fair consideration and delivery of the top of the class education in future.
encouragement to all applicants with Leadership Development Series, and In partnership with the Personal Finance suitable aptitude and abilities.
the launch of the Jackson Development Education Group we have developed a There are several initiatives across our Zone in the US offers a flexible work Quality Mark for financial capability businesses that maintain our commitment environment where university students teaching resources, giving reassurance to to diversity and inclusion.
Examples can gain real-life work experience and teachers that they are using reliable material.
include: pay consistency reviews, engaging career opportunities.
Career with recruitment firms to mitigate bias, development centres within Prudential UK Asset management providing training for managers and enable colleagues to consider how they M&G, Prudentials UK and European asset non-managerial staff, and running want to develop their careers, and M&G management business, is a long-term, apprenticeship schemes.
In addition, we has continued to run programmes to active investor that takes seriously its have collaborative partnerships with develop individuals with the potential to responsibility to look after our customers organisations that further the diversity and excel, supporting junior talent into wider assets, often working closely with the inclusion agenda, including Diversity and and more senior roles.
At Group head management of the companies in which it Inclusion in Asia Network, and Peckham, office, all employees have access to invests.
Active voting is an integral part of an American non-profit community sessions that focus on cross-cultural M&Gs investment approach.
awareness, building effective partnerships that exercising our votes both adds value The gender diversity across Prudential and self-motivation, while targeted talent and protects our interests as shareholders.
as of 31 December 2013 is shown below.
development initiatives aim to support the The M&G website provides an overview of development of senior managers and voting history: www.
co. uk Talent development future leaders.
Corporate  We offer a range of programmes that CorporateGovernance Voting history.
jsp enable our people to continue to grow Employee engagement M&G continues to provide market and develop.
The majority of these are An array of initiatives are in place to drive insights to clients, intermediaries and managed by our business units, while employee engagement.
These include: others through a number of channels, Group Human Resources focuses on Prudential Corporation Asia using including a programme of roadshows and tailored programmes for senior leaders employee survey results to deliver on events, such as Meet the Managers and across the organisation, succession feedback received in 2012, and the Annual Investment Forum, and its Bond planning for senior roles, and development Prudential UK utilising an online health Vigilantes blog.
of our overall leadership talent pipeline.
manager tool, an employee assistance Colleagues based in the UK have joined helpline, occupational health support, and Valuing our people The Pearls Programme run by An locally-organised wellbeing and sporting At Prudential, we foster an environment in Inspirational Journey, a UK-based activities.
Group Head Office also which our people find value and meaning development initiative designed to support convened a Wellbeing and Engagement in their work, and deliver outstanding women in middle to senior management Forum, where colleagues review, develop performance for our customers, positions, in building confidence, and implement various engagement shareholders and communities.
This is capabilities and contacts.
achieved through our focus on diversity and Within our businesses there are several The success of our engagement efforts inclusion, talent development, employee examples of our continuing commitment has been recognised internally and engagement, and performance and reward.
In 2013, engagement surveys in Corporation Asia has further improved various business units have again shown Diversity and inclusion excellent results, and several of our As an international provider of financial businesses have won prestigious awards.
services, operating in diverse markets and For example, in 2013 our Singapore Gender diversity cultures, Prudential recognises its business won the Asia Best Employer obligations to supporting human rights award and the Philippines employee Headcount Total Male Female as a consequence of its principles of acting engagement programme PRUblic Service Non-executive 9 7 2 responsibly and with integrity.
All the Way received an Award of directors including We provide opportunities for our Excellence at the Philippine Quill Awards.
the Chairman employees regardless of their gender, PPMA one of our US-based indirect ethnicity, disability status, age, religion, subsidiaries was awarded the #1 Top Executive directors 7 6 1 caring responsibilities or sexual orientation.
Workplace in Chicago by Chicago Tribune Group Executive 11 9 2 Our diversity and inclusion policies are and Workplace Dynamics, Prudential UK Committee includes guided by the principles of the UNs was awarded a Business in the Community executive directors Universal Declaration of Human Rights and Big Tick for our focus on colleague Senior managers 76 62 14 the International Labour Organisations engagement, and M&G was once again does not include the core labour standards.
These are also named as one of the best places to work in Chairman, directors, incorporated into our Group Code of the City by the website Here is the City and GEC members Business Conduct, which sets expected News.
In addition, our businesses in the standards of employee behaviour across UK have a long-standing relationship with Whole company 22,308 10,138 12,170 the Group, and in our Group Outsourcing the union Unite.
includes the and Third Party Supply Policy.
We encourage volunteering, through Chairman, directors, We maintain an inclusive culture that is which our employees can support our and GEC members sensitive to the needs of employees.
We communities and acquire new skills.
See make appropriate disability adjustments as Excludes joint ventures.
Strategic report Corporate responsibility review Prudential plc Annual Report 2013 57 Performance and reward Education and life skills been recomposed and sung in Thai and Bahasa Indonesia thus far.
At Prudential, we offer reward packages In Asia, the Prudence Foundation was that attract, retain and motivate talented established in 2011 as an umbrella to In addition to engaging children through television and online platforms, the learning people to support a high-performing coordinate all community investment and culture.
Each individual contributes to charitable activity in the region.
The concepts have been integrated into tailored the success of the Group and should be Foundation focuses on three key pillars: programmes for schools in partnership with rewarded accordingly.
Children, Education and Disaster financial education focused NonReward is linked to the delivery of Preparedness and Relief, and under each of Government Organisations NGOs like business goals and expected behaviours, these it has regional flagship programmes.
The Philippines and there is an emphasis on objectives The Prudence Foundation has Department of Education has incorporated being met in an appropriate manner.
supported First Read, Save the Childrens Cha-Ching into the curriculum of public To ensure this, employees are not only unique programme that works with parents primary schools and has just completed its regularly assessed on what they have of pre-school children in the Philippines first year.
Prudential is exploring ways in achieved, but also on how they did so.
and Cambodia to provide them with which this application of Cha-Ching can be There are several recognition initiatives knowledge, skills and materials to support brought to other markets.
running across our businesses, including their childrens literacy and numeracy.
Youth unemployment is a huge social the High Five Recognition Program in Over three years, the programmes will challenge in many economies, prompting the US, which allows associates to choose benefit nearly 150,000 children aged demand for initiatives that can drive from a list of badges for actions such 0 to 6 years and their parents.
They will also educational improvement in order to help as teamwork, innovation and inspiration, benefit almost 850,000 community get young people into work.
to formally recognise when colleagues members indirectly through the expected Prudential UK piloted an apprenticeship have gone above and beyond sharing of knowledge and resources.
programme in 2013 for 47 young people, expectations.
Similarly, at Group head We support the educational needs of providing an opportunity to launch a career office the Prudential Star awards are Asian families and have continued to in the finance sector.
made to individuals nominated by their extend our long-standing commitment to We have now committed to a four-year colleagues for outstanding examples financial literacy.
The Prudence Foundation annual scheme of 40 apprenticeships with of execution, impact and engagement.
launched Cha-Ching in 2011 to help the aim of keeping a significant number of We continue to believe in the parents instil money-smart skills in apprentices on in permanent roles after importance of enabling our employees children aged seven to 12.
The programme they have completed the scheme.
to have the opportunity to benefit from has gained international recognition for Our three-year partnership with the Groups success through share promoting financial literacy and won Greenhouse has allowed over 1,000 ownership, and operate employee share several industry awards.
Over the past year disadvantaged young people to participate plans across the UK and Asia.
it has grown to become one of the top-rated weekly through their basketball childrens television programmes in Asia.
Greenhouse uses sport to Supporting local communities At its core, Cha-Ching consists of a encourage educational performance The inherent long-term social value of series of three-minute animated music among teenagers from some of Londons our business is augmented by community videos featuring six band members most deprived areas.
Sport coaches work investments in each of the markets where developed with Cartoon Network and full time in schools to help young people we operate.
We provide support to Dr Alice Wilder to help children learn the improve their health and fitness, while charitable organisations both through fundamental money management mentoring them to increase their funding, and the experience and concepts of earn, save, spend and donate.
engagement with their education and expertise of our employees.
The episodes air daily on Cartoon community.
Through these intensive sport We establish long-term relationships Network, the number one childrens programmes participating teenagers have with our charity partners to ensure channel in Asia, in seven countries: Hong improved school attendance and better that the projects we support are Kong, Indonesia, Malaysia, the Philippines, classroom discipline, as well as showing sustainable and we work closely with Singapore, Thailand and Vietnam.
significant progress in maths and English.
them to ensure that our programmes In 2013, Season Three of Cha-Ching We have embarked on a new continuously improve.
premiered with three new music videos.
A partnership with Save the Children to The diversity of our markets means new online game, Cha-Ching Saver World support their FAST programme in London.
that our programmes vary from region Tour, and Cha-Chings first mobile tablet This aims to improve basic educational to region, but a shared focus for our game, Cha-Ching Band Manager, attainment for 3,000 of the most deprived community investment is education and completed the season.
The programme children by coaching parents to help them life skills.
These activities include financial materials have been developed into Bahasa support their childrens learning.
education, support to improve social Indonesia, Traditional Chinese, In the US, Jackson has opened a new mobility and employee volunteering.
Vietnamese and Thai, while the songs have downtown East Lansing office next to the Michigan State University MSU campus with the aim of offering students real-life work experience that could potentially lead to career opportunities after graduation.
The Jackson Development Zone has also become the new home for the Jackson National Community Fund, offering students and the community opportunities to volunteer alongside Jackson employees.
This will not only benefit the business, but will also encourage employees, MSU students and local community partners to collaborate.
58 Prudential plc Annual Report 2013 Strategic report Corporate responsibility review continued Disaster relief and preparedness Chairmans Challenge example is the Investing in Your Future programme, which teaches women sound Unfortunately many of our communities in and employee volunteering Asia are exposed to approximately Many of our employees play an active role money management, such as the key considerations when making financial 75 per cent of the worlds natural disasters.
in their communities through volunteering, For many years we have supported local charitable donations and fundraising.
In the decisions, balancing the family budget and how to plan for different life stages.
initiatives to aid relief efforts following UK, US and in Asia we offer our employees disasters and we also maintain a disaster the opportunity to support charities Female volunteers from Prudential donate their time and expertise to deliver the relief fund which can be activated in through payroll giving.
Our commitment to disaster, We recognise that employee seminars and so far over 38,000 women in China, India, Indonesia and Vietnam relief also often goes beyond financial aid, volunteering brings benefit not only to with our people helping on the ground.
the charities but also to the development have benefited.
Jackson employees volunteered The Prudence Foundation is working of our people, and we actively encourage with NGOs to help communities to be colleagues to participate in our approximately 9,000 hours of their time building houses, mentoring children, better prepared with vital skills before programmes.
In the Philippines, across the Group volunteered in their feeding the elderly and improving Thailand, Vietnam and Indonesia, around communities on a range of projects.
In 2013, the JNCF and 23,000 young people and their teachers Of these, almost 5,000 employees Jackson in Action were honoured with the will receive training in lifesaving skills and volunteered through Prudentials flagship First Place award for the US Presidents knowledge about preparing for disasters, international programme, the Chairmans Volunteer Service Awards for 5,000 working with Save the Children and Challenge.
The programme encourages service hours with Junior Achievement.
people from across the Group to volunteer In addition, Jackson is a finalist in the Prudential has been an emergency on projects initiated by our global charity Nashville Business Journals Corporate partner of Save the Childrens Emergency partners, including Plan International, Help Giving Awards.
Fund for a number of years and has Age International and Junior Achievement.
It In 2013, Prudential UK employees spent committed to a further three years.
allows us to support many different charities approximately 14,500 hours engaged in Typhoon Haiyan, which struck the with volunteers as well as financial support.
This included Philippines in November 2013, caused Prudential donates 150 to our charity mentoring schoolchildren, supporting widespread loss of life as well as destruction partners for every employee who registers the elderly and skills-sharing with local to homes, businesses and infrastructure.
Rebuilding costs are estimated to be this money to seed-fund charitable projects At M&G, employees have spent over 3.6 billion.
We have worked with NGOs for Prudential volunteers.
1,000 hours actively involved in initiatives in the region to provide emergency relief.
Each year employees across the Group with community organisations, charities Immediate donations were made and vote for the shortlisted project they believe and schools in and around Chelmsford and mechanisms established for employees has made the greatest impact.
London with a particular focus on helping across the Group who wished to contribute, In addition to volunteering efforts on the disadvantaged in those communities.
which were matched by the Group.
In the behalf of Chairmans Challenge, our It has also maintained its sponsorship of longer term we will look at how Prudential employees around the Group volunteered the Women in Investment Management can assist with rebuilding initiatives in those on a number of charitable projects.
event targeted at female students, and areas affected.
The Prudence Foundation Prudential Corporation Asia employees continued to support underprivileged has pledged a total of 1.25 million to the donated over 25,000 hours of their time to students through the Social Mobility relief and community-rebuilding effort in support a number of charitable activities Foundation in the form of both mentoring the Philippines.
across our markets in South-east Asia.
Strategic report Corporate responsibility review Prudential plc Annual Report 2013 59 Colorado: and Nashville, Tennessee.
We plan to broaden the scope of our sustainability reporting in 2014.
During 2013 we embarked on a major project to capture greenhouse gas emissions for all global operations in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 Strategic and Directors Reports Regulations 2013.
We now report greenhouse gas data for 389 leases covering approximately 517, 934 square metres of office space in 26 countries.
Within the UK occupied properties the continued implementation of ISO14001 has given us the framework with which to implement further initiatives across our portfolio.
These have included the installation Prudential RideLondon Political donations of more efficient lighting in a number of our The inaugural RideLondon event, sponsored It is the Groups policy not to make donations buildings, the introduction of more efficient by Prudential, took place in August 2013. to political parties nor to incur political air conditioning systems and continued The world-class festival of cycling took expenditure, within the meaning of those monitoring of our buildings running times place over a weekend in August 2013 and expressions as defined in the Political Parties, to maximise efficiencies.
As of June 2013, attracted 65,000 cyclists who collectively Elections and Referendums Act 2000.
The all waste generated from UK occupied raised 7 million for charity.
The expectation Group did not make any such donations or properties was diverted from landfill.
for 2014 is that the numbers of cyclists incur any such expenditure in 2013.
In our global operations we have taking part will increase.
implemented projects to reduce our impact Protecting the environment on the environment as a result of energy use.
Charitable arts sponsorships We recognise that managing our buildings Prudential has a proud tradition as a efficiently and minimising our greenhouse Reducing our impact: supporter of the arts.
In the UK, we support gas emissions is not only beneficial to the property investment portfolio a number of charitable institutions including environment but also makes good M&G Real Estates approach to the Royal Opera House, the National business sense.
Responsible Property Investment RPI Theatre, the National Gallery, Holland Park Our strategy focuses on reducing the enables it to manage and respond to the Opera and the British Museum.
With each environmental impact of the properties growing range of environmental and social of these institutions we seek to focus our we occupy as well as the properties we issues that can impact property values.
It partnerships on education and access to manage through M&G Real Estate Limited also helps M&G to protect and enhance the arts for the wider community.
previously known as Prudential Property fund and asset performance for its clients.
Investment Managers Limited, which is a RPI is well integrated within our Charitable donations top-25 global real estate fund manager.
It enables We calculate our community investment The management of environmental us to adapt and respond to the challenges spend using the internationally recognised issues is an integral part of managing the and opportunities posed by various issues, London Benchmarking Group standard.
total risks faced by our business.
In addition such as rising energy and resource costs, This includes cash donations to registered to meeting legal requirements, our key greater legislative demands and stronger charitable organisations, as well as a cash environmental objectives are to: tenant and investor requirements.
M&G Real Estates focus on delivering a Continuously improve environmental In 2013, the Group spent 18.5 million energy reductions across its managed performance: supporting community activities, an portfolio has achieved some significant increase of 47 per cent on 2012.
This b Reduce emissions and waste: results.
For example, in the UK, M&G has: reflects the strong growth and cash 1 Reduced CO emissions at UK offices c Raise awareness among employees: 2 generation of our business and the and shopping centres by 11 per cent, increased prioritisation of community d Strive to ensure that our suppliers saving occupiers 430,000: investment across the Group.
adhere to the same environmental The direct cash donations to charitable standards: and 2 Rolled out Green Leases to our managed office portfolios and worked organisations amounted to 15.9 million, e Protect shareholders and other of which approximately 4.7 million came with Marks & Spencer to include Green stakeholders interests by careful Lease Memoranda of Understanding at from our EU operations, which are management of our environmental impacts.
principally our UK insurance operation their stores: and and M&G.
The remaining 11.2 million was Reducing our direct impact: 3 Submitted 76 per cent of funds under contributed to charitable organisations by management to the Global Real Estate occupied properties Jackson National Life Insurance Company We monitor energy consumption and Sustainability Benchmark.
carbon dioxide emissions globally for all M&G Real Estates progress can be found in The cash contribution to charitable sites where we have operational control.
organisations from our EU operations its annual Responsible Property Investment We also measure water consumption, report at www.
co. uk - media is broken down as follows: education waste, paper use and recycling in the UK 1,878,000: social, welfare and Literature UK Institutional MG-Real-Estateand at Jacksons main premises in North .
pdf environment 2,493,000: cultural America in Lansing, Michigan: Denver, 226,000 and staff volunteering 111,000.
60 Prudential plc Annual Report 2013 Strategic report Corporate responsibility review continued Prudential plc greenhouse gas emissions statement We have compiled our greenhouse gas Scope 1 direct emissions such as as a consequence of the activities of the emissions data in accordance with the combustion of gas for heating and 2 Company, but occur from sources not Companies Act 2006 Strategic and indirect emissions for consumption of owned or controlled by the Company.
Directors Reports Regulations 2013. electricity, heat and steam emissions For the purpose of the 2013 report, The data presented below is now more where operational control of the emissions these Scope 3 emissions include: waste comprehensive than in previous years and of the sources concerned was generated in operations and business travel represents our baseline year for carbon demonstrated.
We have also reported on a booked from UK employees.
number of Scope 3 emissions as a matter of with our business units to review the extent We have included full reporting for all best practice.
These are emissions arising of our Scope 3 reporting.
Assessment parameters 1 October 2012 to 30 September 2013 baseline year Consolidation approach Operational control Boundary summary All entities and all facilities under operational control including those owned were included Consistency with the financial This period does not correspond with the Directors Report period January 2013 to December 2013. statements The reporting period was brought forward by three months to improve the availability of invoice data which often lags by one month or more after the usage period and reduce the reliance on estimated data.
Prudential owns assets, which are held on its balance sheet in the financial statements, over which it does not have operational control.
These are excluded from the data below.
Assets not included on the balance sheet but held under an operating lease and where we have operational control are included Emission factor data source DEFRA 2013 obtained from www.
co. uk Assessment methodology The Greenhouse Gas Protocol Revised A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard Revised Edition 2004 Materiality threshold 5 per cent Intensity ratio Tonnes of Carbon Dioxide Equivalent per metre squared Net Lettable Area Greenhouse gas emissions source 2013 2 tCO2e tCO2e per m Scope 1 CO e emissions total 21,918 0.0067 2 Fuel combustion UK Occupied 1,216 0.0155 UK Investments 12,099 0.0054 Continental Europe Occupied 111 0.0097 Continental Europe Investments 41 0.0003 US Occupied 1,448 0.0136 North America Investments 2,716 0.0110 Asia Occupied 35 0.0001 Asia Investments 266 0.0021 Vehicle fleet UK Occupied 1,421 0.0182 UK Investments 0 0.0000 Continental Europe Occupied 94 0.0083 Continental Europe Investments 0 0.0000 US Occupied 39 0.0004 North America Investments 0 0.0000 Asia Occupied 1,004 0.0030 Asia Investments 0 0.0000 Fugitive emissions UK Occupied 305 0.0039 UK Investments 575 0.0003 Continental Europe Occupied 0 0.0000 Continental Europe Investments 0 0.0000 US Occupied 437 0.0041 North America Investments 111 0.0004 Asia Occupied 0 0.0000 Asia Investments 0 0.0000 Strategic report Corporate responsibility review Prudential plc Annual Report 2013 61 Greenhouse gas emissions source 2013 2 tCO2e tCO2e per m Scope 2 CO e emissions total 133,209 0.04069 2 Purchased electricity UK Occupied 11,212 0.1433 UK Investments 32,671 0.0145 Continental Europe Occupied 2,092 0.1829 Continental Europe Investments 256 0.0020 US Occupied 25,813 0.2424 North America Investments 18,120 0.0735 Asia Occupied 27,305 0.0849 Asia Investments 15,740 0.1220 Statutory total CO e emissions Scope 1 & 2 155,127 0.0474 2 Scope 3 CO e emissions 10,404 0.0032 2 Waste generated in operations UK Occupied 50 0.0006 UK Investments 522 0.00023 Continental Europe Investments 230 0.0001 US Occupied 116 0.00005 North America Investments 41 0.00017 Asia Investments 47 0.00002 Business travel Booked by UK employees only 9,398 0.003 Scope 1, 2 and 3 total 165,531 0.051 Statutory carbon reporting disclosures required by the Companies Act 2006.
Accountability and governance Local governance supplies to include the performance The Board In M&G, Jackson and Prudential UK there of its suppliers and contractors.
The Board regularly reviews the Groups are governance committees in place with It is our policy to work in partnership corporate responsibility performance senior management representation that with suppliers whose values and standards and scrutinises and approves the Group agree strategy and spend.
In Asia, the are aligned with our Group Code of Corporate Responsibility report and Prudence Foundation has been established Business Conduct.
strategy on an annual basis.
as a unified charitable platform to align and Procurement practices in Prudential UK maximise the impact of community efforts have been successfully accredited with the Code of Business Conduct across the region.
Chartered Institute of Purchasing and Consideration of environmental, social and Supply certification, an industry benchmark community matters is integrated in our Code Supply chain management of recognised good practice.
Our code is reviewed Prudential recognises that its own social, by the Board on an annual basis.
Refer to environmental and economic impacts go page 71 for more information.
beyond the products and services it Signing of strategic report Signed on behalf of the Board of directors Tidjane Thiam Group Chief Executive 11 March 2014 62 Prudential plc Annual Report 2013 Governance Prudential plc Annual Report 2013 63 Section 3 Governance 64 Board of directors 69 Corporate governance report 69 Board 73 Board committees 74 Audit Committee report 78 Nomination Committee report 80 Risk Committee report and risk governance 83 Remuneration Committee report 83 Corporate governance codes 84 Shareholders 86 Additional disclosures 87 Index to principal directors report disclosures 3
