Sustainability 31 The success of a bank depends on two things.
A strong financial position: and a reputation for great customer service based on a deep connectivity with the society the bank supports, and is in turn supported by.
Ross McEwan Chief Executive representatives from the customer facing inform decision making and ultimately Sustainability divisions as well as Human Resources, improve our company.
More detail about our Sustainability, Risk Management, stakeholder engagement is available at Communications, Legal, Strategy and rbs.
The Chairman of the board also regularly attends the meetings.
The work As part of our wider stakeholder engagement Sustainability at RBS means building our of the Committee is essential to ensuring that programme, the Committee runs its own future on long term thinking that focuses our approach to issues is managed effectively programme of structured stakeholder on our customers and supporting the and debated at the appropriate level.
In 2013, the Committee communities in which they live.
We are took part in seven of these stakeholder sessions, committed to being open and transparent The Committee has overseen a number of open forums where advocacy groups can regarding the challenges faced by our important developments within the company discuss key areas of concern with the most business, so our stakeholders can see what since it was established in 2009.
For more senior decision-makers in RBS.
we are doing to become a more sustainable information on the work of the Committee in bank.
You can read more about the issues 2013, see the report of the Chair of the We will continue to host these sessions to raised here, as well as about our wider Committee on page 64. ensure that we understand our stakeholders sustainability agenda, at rbs.
For more detailed information on Stakeholder engagement these sessions see our sustainability pages on Governance Operating in a sustainable manner is about rbs.
The sustainability programme at RBS is managing our business in a way that takes built on a robust governance framework account of the impact of our activities on our External commitments that provides direction on our sustainability stakeholders.
As such, we work with a number RBS is a signatory to a number of voluntary objectives.
The Group Sustainability of stakeholder groups to understand their sustainability commitments and standards.
Committee the Committee is a Committee views of our organisation, to help shape the We understand that implementing of the Board and comprises three independent way we do business.
As a large company we commitments is an ongoing process, and non-executive directors.
The Committee is have many stakeholders and we engage with we are continuously working to integrate chaired by our Senior Independent Director, them in a variety of ways, from focus groups to these into how we run our business.
We are a Sandy Crombie, and attended by senior meetings to online forums.
These interactions member of the Equator Principle EP 32 Environmental impacts table Assessment Parameters Baseline year 2011 Consolidation approach Operational control Boundary summary All entities and facilities either owned or under operational control Emission factor data source DEFRA 2013 Assessment methodology The Greenhouse Gas Protocol revised edition 2004 Materiality threshold Materiality was set at group level at 5% Intensity ratio Emissions per full time employee FTE Independent assurance Limited assurance provided by Deloitte LLP over all Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions Change Change GHG Emissions 2011 2012 2013 2011 vs 2013 % 2012 vs 2013 % 2 Total Scope 1 CO e emissions tonnes 73,117 61,880 79,855 9.2% 29% 2 Total Scope 2 CO e emissions tonnes 559,389 486,872 434,816 -22.3% -10.7% 2 Total Scope 1 & Scope 2 CO e emissions tonnes 632,506 548,752 514,671 -18.6% -6.2% 2 Total Scope 1 & Scope 2 CO e emissions per FTE tonnes 4.7 4.3 4.2 -12.1 -3.2 2 Total Scope 3 CO e emissions tonnes 79,120 67,109 89,164 12.7% 32.9% Emissions of ozone-depleting gases Emissions of ozone-depleting gases tonnes n a 9,185 23,928 n a 160.5% Incidents Total number of environment incidents, fines and 0 0 0 n a n a legal non-compliance Scope 1: Emissions from fluorinated gas loss and Scope 2: Emissions from electricity, district heating Scope 3: Emissions related to RBS business travel fuel combustion in RBS premises vehicles and district cooling used in RBS premises Association Steering Committee.
The EPs are measurement and disclosure of Green House The activities of RBS and those of our clients a voluntary set of standards adopted by banks Gas GHG Emissions for 2,500 organisations can present a number of Environmental, for determining, assessing and managing in over 60 countries.
In 2013 RBS received a Social and Ethical ESE risks and it is our social and environmental responsibilities in disclosure score of 88% and a performance responsibility to manage these risks.
We will not provide project score B. a robust ESE policy framework, with sector finance where the borrower will not, or cannot, specific policies relating to high risk sectors comply with these principles of socially The FTSE4Good Index Series measures the including oil and gas, mining and metals and responsible investment.
performance of companies that meet globally forestry.
We have been members of the United Nations RBS has been included in the FTSE4Good We are reducing the environmental impact of Global Compact UNGC since 2003, the since it was launched 10 years ago.
our operations, led by our 2011 Environment leading platform for the development, Targets that cover our use of energy, water, 2 implementation and disclosure of responsible Transparency and disclosure waste, paper and CO emissions from policies and practices in the areas of: human We are committed to being open and transparent business travel.
In order to ensure our targets rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption.
in our reporting of material issues facing our continue to be stretching, we have company.
Here we present data on our GHG re-examined the baseline on which they Each year RBS receives ratings for its emissions, diversity data, as well as an update are set and adjusted for the decrease in environmental and social performance by on our approach to managing Human Rights headcount the company has experienced external indices.
RBS has been included in the issues.
To find more sustainability data read since they were set.
Dow Jones Sustainability World Index DJSI our latest Sustainability Report, available at every year since its launch in 1999, achieving rbs.
For a full breakdown of our direct environmental our best ever score in 2013.
The Index impacts, as well as the basis of reporting for ranks companies corporate sustainability Managing our impact on the environment the data above, please visit our sustainability performance, based on analysis of economic, We aim to be recognised as a leader pages on rbs.
environmental and social issues like corporate among large global financial institutions in governance, risk management, branding and managing our own environmental impacts and climate change.
developing financial services that support sustainable development.
The CDP is an independent, investor-driven organisation which facilitates the Sustainability 33 RBS in the Community We run a number of targeted programmes focused on providing support to the communities where we operate.
In addition to this, we have a well established employee volunteering and giving programme in RBS.
As well as matching employee donations and fundraising, we also support volunteering during work time.
For more information on our community investment please visit rbs.
Diversity at RBS population and individuals who are directors issues regarding their working environment.
We believe it is important that everyone of our subsidiaries.
The Companys Board of We also have in place an independent in RBS feels valued and supported.
We Directors has 11 members, comprising eight whistleblowing facility for employees to appreciate the unique perspective and skills male and three female directors.
raise concerns, without fear of adverse that individual staff can bring to the business.
Inclusion is more important to RBS than its Our approach to Human Rights ever been.
Through 2013, weve taken time We recognise our corporate responsibility to Our Sustainable Procurement Code sets out to refresh our focus, step back and think respect and uphold human rights, regularly our expectations of the companies that we about how we support all our colleagues to review our policies and procedures to ensure work with.
It clearly states that our suppliers reach their full potential and better serve our that we avoid infringing on the human rights should not engage in breaches of human customers.
This is delivering a more joined of others, both in our own operations and rights or labour rights, or in discrimination.
up approach to influencing key organisational throughout our sphere of influence.
In 2013, We are also committed to equal opportunities processes and practices, achieving better we contributed to the Thun discussion paper for suppliers, and we recognise that diversity balance and sustainable development.
Weve on the implications of UN Guiding Principles strengthens our supply chain.
continued to progress diversity and inclusion 16-21 for banks and are committed to the initiatives including Sexual Orientation, implementation of the Guiding Principles Our ESE risk policies include sector-specific Disability, Race and Gender.
Our inclusion within our operations.
human rights risk screenings and are policy standard applies to all employees, in regularly reviewed and updated to ensure every part of the business, in every part of the We have adopted and contributed to a best practice.
We conduct due diligence on world and is published online.
The strategy for number of internationally accepted codes, clients relating to human rights standards, and diversity and inclusion sits with the Board and notably the Equator Principles and the UN expect our clients to share our commitment Executive Committee.
Global Compact, which specifically address to respecting human rights within their the management of human rights issues.
As at 31 December 2013, of our global RBS Group Code of Conduct sets out the population of 118,079 employees, 54,370 standards we expect our people to work to, 46% were male and 63,709 54% female.
We including a clear commitment to respecting had 1,071 senior managers of which 915 human rights.
We listen to our people in a 85% were male and 156 15% were female, variety of ways, including through an annual which encompasses our executive employee employee survey, enabling our people to raise For further information visit rbs.
