26 OUR PEOPLE INTRODUCTION STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION OUR PEOPLE FEMALE REPRESENTATION ON MOTIVATED, ENGAGED AND SKILLED DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMMES EMPLOYEES ARE CRITICAL TO OUR 47% 43% LONG-TERM SUCCESS.
27% A B C KEY A Executive Development Programme FOSTERING DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION The gender breakdown for the Group at B Senior Talent Acceleration Programme The Groups commitment and desire is to 31 December 2013 was: C Fast Track Programme always appoint the best person for the job.
Total Female Male We are committed to the promotion Group Board of equal opportunities for all employees, of Directors 10 2 8 creating a working environment that FEMALE REPRESENTATION supports diversity and inclusion.
We seek Group ON THE GROUP BOARD to ensure that recruitment, talent selection, Executive Female development, reward, performance Committee 12 2 10 20% management and internal promotion are Top 100 87 20 67 all carried out solely on the grounds of ability, Senior and are entirely free from any form of discrimination.
We are committed, wherever Management Male Group 926 259 667 possible, to employing and developing people 80% who are disabled, or become disabled, during Group Overall 23,330 12,132 11,198 their career with the Group.
In order to reflect the needs of our Our key area of focus is to strengthen customers, facilitate innovation and our pipeline of female employees in senior collaboration, and ensure we have the leadership positions.
We have a number of capabilities we need for the future, we believe initiatives under way, including a global female that fostering a diverse workforce and sponsorship programme, female networking inclusive culture are central to our long-term events and mentoring programmes.
In 2013, we initiated a global Enhanced flexible working opportunities have Diversity and Inclusion Programme, with been introduced, along with a new global a number of workstreams to further recruitment policy and increased intake of develop the diversity of our workforce.
females on our global talent programmes.
In 2013, we entered into a partnership with Mumsnet, a UK social networking site for parents and carers, and RSA is a member of its Family Friendly Employer scheme.
RSA ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 27 DEVELOPING A HIGH As well as our talent programmes we PERFORMANCE CULTURE have built Academies and Centres of We believe we can create competitive Excellence to support the development advantage by building and maintaining a of specialist and technical expertise.
culture where high performance is recognised There are Centres of Excellence for and rewarded, and appropriate actions are Marketing and eBusiness as well as the taken to address underperformance.
This focus is underpinned by robust performance management processes to CREATING AN ENGAGED AND ensure a rounded assessment of employee MOTIVATED WORKFORCE performance.
All employees are set clear In 2013, the Group continued to partner with annual goals built around three key areas leading engagement specialist Gallup, using of people, customer and outperformance.
The Q12 Alongside these goals we also set clear survey is completed by around three million Group-wide expectations of employee people globally every year and measures the behaviour.
In 2013, our employee behaviours key drivers of employee engagement.
The were revised to reflect the Groups increased Group runs its engagement survey annually customer focus.
All employees have twice and it is open to all employees, with 92% of yearly performance reviews and ratings, employees participating in the survey in 2013. which are formally validated against peers The results of the 2013 engagement to ensure consistency.
survey placed RSA in the top 5% of global As well as assessing current performance organisations with 1,000 or more employees.
we have a rigorous process to support In 2013, the Group also won a range of personal development, evaluate future awards recognising it as a great place to potential and ensure a strong and robust work.
These included the Gallup Global talent pipeline.
The Executive Team actively Workplace Award, presented annually to manage senior succession plans, and annual the worlds most engaged and productive talent and succession reviews are completed organisations and being placed in the across all of the Groups businesses and Top 10 of the UKs Sunday Times Best Big functions.
To further strengthen our Companies to Work For, for the second approach, in 2013 we initiated a partnership consecutive year.
with leading consultancy YSC and RSA has a long-standing philosophy implemented a new potential model.
This of encouraging employee share ownership, model enables us to identify and externally operating two HMRC-recognised share benchmark our highest potential talent and schemes: Sharebuild and Sharesave.
Details The Group is also committed to fostering get focused insight to tailor appropriate of the Executive Directors interests in a constructive relationship with recognised development interventions.
Sharesave and Sharebuild are noted on page independent trade unions, ensuring a regular To support this, in 2013, we refreshed 87.
The current participation in the two and open dialogue on business issues and our leadership development programmes, schemes is as follows: early consultation on changes affecting the a number of which were already externally workforce.
In the UK, Unite is formally Average Monthly recognised and award winning.
The Group Total Contribution recognised through a partnership agreement Employees now has programmes in place at all levels which covers collective consultation and Participating 3 Year Plan 5 Year Plan to develop its future leaders and realise bargaining on behalf of non-management Sharesave 5,635 73.38 60.73 the potential of its talented people.
The Management Association Sharebuild TMA represents managerial employees The Executive Development Programme UK Only 2,389 77.26 under a separate consultative agreement.
EDP focuses on increasing the In Scandinavia, the Group has formal meeting leadership capabilities of senior employees forums with the national unions in Denmark, regarded as having the potential to EMPLOYEE RELATIONS Sweden and Norway, respectively, where be amongst the future top leadership Across the Group we place a major emphasis the Group informs and negotiates changes of the Group.
on informing and involving employees with affecting the workforce.
Within the Groups clear and regular communication around The Senior Talent Acceleration CNS operation in British Columbia, Canada, our strategy, and all changes that affect our Programme a new programme designed there is a collective bargaining agreement people.
We have established channels to specifically for high-potential leaders with the Canadian Office and Professional support collaboration and the sharing of best who could step up to leading a function.
The European Works practice such as our intranets and our Share Council EWC is a cross European body The Fast Track Programme for emerging e-newsletter.
There are also regular webexes that meets annually and was created to talent, and is styled on a Mini-MBA.
with senior leaders as well as business and enable information sharing and consultation functional conferences.
In line with our diversity strategy, we aspire on transnational issues affecting our to have equal numbers of male and female European workforce.
In 2013 the representation of females was 47% on the Executive Development Programme, up from 18% in 2012, 27% on the new Senior Talent Acceleration Programme and 43% on the Fast Track Programme.
