28 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY INTRODUCTION STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY WE MANAGE OUR BUSINESS RESPONSIBLY AND AIM TO HAVE A POSITIVE IMPACT ON OUR CUSTOMERS AND SOCIETY.
STRATEGY OUR MATERIALITY MATRIX As the worlds population continues to grow, demand for housing, food, clean water and energy will put considerable strain on finite Climate Change and natural resources.
Meanwhile, continuing Extreme Weather changes to our climate will add to the risks Natural Catastrophes Macroeconomic people face in going about their daily lives.
Providing good environment customer service At RSA we view corporate responsibility Financial inclusion CR as an opportunity to help address these Crime and Safety challenges.
We believe that by working together we can make a difference to our staff, customers and the communities in which we operate.
We have a track record we are proud Trust and Transparency of.
In 2013, we retained platinum status in the External Innovation Employment standards and product development including Diversity Business in the Community CR Index, ranked Regulation Quality of management Prime by Oekom and were listed in the Connectivity and and Governance FTSE4Good Index.
stakeholder power Environmental and Social impact 2013 saw us develop and implement an of products and operations exciting new five year 201418 CR strategy with targets covering three themes: Safe, Secure World: Thriving Communities: and Sustainable Future.
The strategy is based on extensive internal and external stakeholder engagement and analysis of material issues Natural resource scarcity the results are outlined in the matrix Urbanisation and Talent availability Resource use on the right.
population growth Ecosystems decline and waste production To support the delivery of our goals, Corruption we have established a CR Steering Committee, made up of senior leaders.
Each of the themes are led by a member of the Executive Committee.
OUR ABILITY TO INFLUENCE low to high STAKEHOLDER PRIORITY low to high RSA ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 29 ISSUE RESPONSE Our products and services provide everyday We want to make roads safer for everyone.
SAFE, SECURE WORLD protection for our customers families, pets, This year we ran 11 road safety campaigns homes, cars, businesses and possessions.
These targeted locally They help make our communities safer relevant issues, so for example, in Scandinavia places to live, work and travel.
we focused on night-time visibility for Motor insurance is a significant part of vulnerable road users and in Latvia we our business and that means we have a clear worked with our fleet customers on safer interest in making driving safer.
Other countries chose the safety that more than a million people every year issues most relevant to their customers.
are killed on roads and a further 50 million Road safety is something the whole are injured.
Road accidents are the worlds Group unites behind but we continue leading cause of death for young people and to work on other prevention and safety the World Health Organization believes they issues too, including our ongoing water will be the third-largest burden on global safety programmes in Sweden through health by 2020.
The emotional, economic and our Trygg Hansa brand.
social cost is substantial, with most countries losing 13% of their Gross National Product as a direct result.
ISSUE RESPONSE Our customers and our business thrive Our new approach will support communities THRIVING COMMUNITIES when they are part of healthy, prosperous by targeting two specific areas: Education communities and we believe there are and Employability: and Enterprise and twin challenges in bringing down youth Entrepreneurship.
We will be asking our unemployment around the world which people to use their knowledge and skills to stands at nearly 73 million and in fostering help raise the achievements and aspirations entrepreneurship that supports economic of young people and to champion the next growth.
That is why we empower our people generation of entrepreneurs.
to champion these issues and the causes In addition to the two areas of focus, which are close to their hearts and can we want to encourage our people to have the most impact in the places they support issues close to their hearts.
has a workforce that is passionate about making a difference to local charities and we encourage them to support the causes they care about by providing matched funding and time off for volunteering.
In 2013, RSA made 1.86 million 2012: 1.6 million of charitable corporate donations.
ISSUE RESPONSE Globally, we have seen substantially more Our ambition is to be counted among the SUSTAINABLE FUTURE weather-related catastrophes in the last worlds most environmentally sustainable five years than in the previous thirty.
Over the next five years we have also been increasingly costly in terms will establish a network of sustainability of insured and uninsured losses.
We need champions who will be trained, empowered to be prepared for this trend to continue and challenged to find ways to reduce energy in the future.
and resource use in our direct and indirect We understand the impact adverse activities.
This network will also investigate weather can have on our customers, from solutions that help our customers respond flooding to extreme cold and periods of to the challenges presented by environmental drought.
We have an important role to play change.
Work to initiate this network began in helping people manage the associated risks.
in late 2013 with Global Action Plan, an We also have a responsibility to limit the award-winning environmental change charity, environmental impact of our own activities.
and with our sustainability partners, WWF.
In the UK, for the third consecutive time, we have achieved the Carbon Trust Standard.
30 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY INTRODUCTION STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION SAFE, SECURE WORLD ACTION In Denmark, Codan developed its programme with the Childrens Accident Foundation, a charity it set up with a local childrens hospital five years ago.
This year it distributed 70,000 free reflectors and held night-time Reflectors Races with over 500 participants.
In Sweden, Trygg-Hansa handed out 85,000 reflective slap wraps used on wrists and ankles at more than 100 schools, with people able to request more free reflectors via our website, while 450,000 existing customers received an e-newsletter with more information about the day.
The Manifesto issues most material to the countries Meanwhile in Norway, Codan volunteers of the Movement was signed by partner we operate in, working with partner handed out 30,000 reflectors.
This year organisations, volunteers and members of organisations to deliver our vision of more than 300 RSA people volunteered the press and all 200 INTOUCH staff played creating safer roads for everybody.
to help make the events a success.
All the their part in the internal launch.
Meanwhile National Reflectors Days boosted their road safety messages were taken to a number impact with lots of social media activity of Moscow schools as part of an ongoing on websites, Facebook and Twitter.
The Movement has its In Russia, INTOUCHs Responsible own website and Facebook page with more Driving Movement created a community than 30,000 unique users per month.
which united responsible drivers who believe To meet our targets, we will be in safe roads.
In Moscow, billboards with organising more road safety campaigns across safety warnings were put up on five streets the Group and extending their reach and known to be particularly dangerous and seen impact.
We will continue to address the Team, a network of athletes who act as positive role models for young people.
245,000 THRIVING COMMUNITIES We are also supporting the School for HIGH VISIBILITY EQUIPMENT Social Entrepreneurs, sponsoring seven HANDED OUT ACROSS ACTION entrepreneurs through their action-learning THE GROUP Flash floods in Alberta, Canada in the programme and providing each with a summer of 2013 caused widespread mentor from RSA.
As Tara Kneafsey, devastation, cutting off vital supplies and Commercial Director of SME, said: This submerging thousands of homes and partnership fits perfectly with RSA.
Our priority was to ensure our 274,000 our heritage as a business founded to meet customers were receiving the support and a social need.
Its also about our future as DRIVERS REACHED WITH service they needed, with our claims teams we are targeting growth with SMEs.
This INTOUCHS RESPONSIBLE out in full force to help people get their lives gives us an opportunity to gain some real DRIVING CAMPAIGN and businesses back on track as quickly as insight into a sector thats growing fast, possible.
To support the relief efforts further, with social enterprises being set up at twice a corporate donation of $100,000 was made the rate of traditional small firms.
to the Canadian Red Cross.
We also matched In 2014, we will continue to make 1.86m donations made by employees across the a positive impact in our communities country, while a group of employees spent through our strategic themes of Education CORPORATE DONATIONS two days volunteering in High River, one and Employability, and Enterprise and of the hardest-hit regions in the province.
We will also carry In November, the Canadian Red Cross on empowering our people to tackle recognised RSA Canada for its contribution the issues close to their hearts.
to the largest emergency response deployment in the countrys history.
In the UK, we launched a new partnership with the Dame Kelly Holmes Legacy Trust DKHLT, a charity which helps disadvantaged young people build their confidence and employability skills.
Our three-year funding, and access to our online Adrian Brown, RSA UK and Europe CEO, training resources, supports their Give Back is a trustee of DKHLT RSA ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 31 GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS FOR RSA INSURANCE GROUP TONNES OF CO e 2 SUSTAINABLE FUTURE 2013 2012 Scope 1 12,968 13,262 ACTION Scope 2 25,787 27,263 RSA has partnered with WWF-Canada since 2009, funding critical marine conservation Scope 3 23,901 19,946 activities and working to understand better Total gross 62,656 60,471 the impact of a changing climate on our Gross tonnes CO per m NWP 7.2 7.2 2 oceans.
Expert ecological and environmental insight gained through this partnership Carbon offsets UK and Ireland 27,278 27,124 helped RSA to underwrite a historic journey Total net emissions 35,378 33,347 made by the Nordic Orion, a 225-metre, Net tonnes CO per m NWP 4.1 4.0 2 ice-strengthened vessel, when it sailed from Vancouver, Canada to Pori, Finland Group carbon dioxide equivalent emissions tonnes in September 2013.
Rather than travelling Scope 1: All direct GHG emissions.
Scope 2: Indirect GHG emissions from consumption of purchased electricity, heat or steam.
through the Panama Canal, as would usually Scope 3: Other indirect emissions be the case, the voyage went through the Northwest Passage, becoming the GEOGRAPHICAL BREAKDOWN OF GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS FOR 2013 first commercial bulk carrier to do so.
TONNES OF CO e 2 The benefits were significant, with 1,000 nautical miles taken off the route-cutting Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 USD$80,000 in fuel consumption and UK and Western Europe 7,276 13,171 8,330 reducing the journey time by five days.
Canada 1,213 3,459 5,570 The ship was also able to take 25% more cargo than if it had gone through the Scandinavia 937 2,544 4,130 shallower Panama Canal.
Providing expert Emerging Markets 3,542 6,613 5,871 advice on ecologically sensitive ares is one way in which RSA, as a leading marine insurer, This assessment has been carried out in accordance with the World Business Council for Sustainable Development and World Resources Institutes WBCSD WRI Greenhouse Gas Protocol: a Corporate Accounting and Reporting is committed to promoting the adoption Standard, together with the latest emission factors from recognised public sources including, but not limited to, Defra, of best environmental practices within the International Energy Agency, the US Energy Information Association, the US Environmental Protection Agency the worldwide shipping industry.
RSA is a and the Intergovernmental panel on Climate Change.
member of the Sustainable Shipping Initiative 3 Water m Waste Tonnes Paper Tonnes SSI, an alliance of global companies and non-governmental organisations NGOs 2012 2012 2012 210,423 5,398 2,107 founded by the Forum for the Future.
2013 270,572 2013 5,014 2013 1,920 To celebrate our 300th birthday, in 2011 RSA ran an Arctic Challenge to raise Energy MWh CO e Tonnes 2 awareness of the impact of global warming.
2012 2012 107,283 60,471 The idea that won the Bright Green Ideas 2013 2013 114,325 62,656 Challenge enables employees to save costs and help protect the environment by leasing environmentally sustainable, low CO cars, 2 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS OUR SUPPLY CHAIN insured by RSA, through our staff benefits Our CR programme is underpinned by a We work closely with our business partners programme.
In 2013, this idea came to robust internal governance structure and and intermediaries to reduce our collective life in the UK as Green Drive and already policy framework.
Ultimate responsibility rests environmental impacts and manage social 100 of our people are taking advantage of with our Group Chief Executive and our CR issues in our supply chain.
The winning team went on a trip to the Committee ensures accountability and delivery RESPONSIBLE INVESTMENTS Arctic to experience for themselves the across business lines.
Our key non-financial During 2013 the majority of our UK equity impacts of climate change and see why data is assured annually by external auditors.
assets were managed by F&C Asset it is important they help reduce their Our CR policies form part of our Management.
F&C follows a policy of active own and RSAs carbon footprint.
operational risk framework, with compliance engagement on environmental, social and reviewed by the Group Executive Committee governance issues.
Last year, F&C engaged and Group Board.
with 17 companies on a wide range of issues HUMAN RIGHTS from climate change to labour standards RSA policy requires compliance with across our portfolios.
corporate best practice which encourages In 2012, we began working with our underwriters to consider human rights investments teams and WWF to understand implications.
Our high risk country referral how environmental, social and corporate guide forms part of our Underwriting Policy.
governance issues are, or can be, integrated Countries are graded against their risk using into fixed income investment pricing and a number of criteria, including operational assessment.
This work continued in 2013. risk, socio-political environment including human rights and including sanctions applied by UK HM Treasury.
