Corporate responsibility We strive to be socially responsible, We are committed to complying with our tax obligations worldwide and to focusing on our core values of maintaining a good reputation with tax authorities in the jurisdictions in which integrity, passion, innovation, we operate.
In the UK, Schroders was one of the first businesses to enter into teamwork and excellence.
Under this framework, we keep HMRC informed of business activities, results and key developments as they arise Corporate responsibility CR is an integral and proactively disclose issues, risks part of Schroders.
Our approach to CR is and uncertain tax positions.
built on four pillars marketplace, people, environment and community.
We have also signed up to the Code of Practice on Taxation for Banks and comply With 262.9 billion of assets under with its requirements.
During 2013, we management, we recognise that it is engaged in dialogue with a number of in the marketplace that we can have external action groups to share details the most impact and deliver the greatest of our approach in this area.
Marketplace Our HR team works across the As one of the largest fund managers in the In 2013, we further strengthened business to help identify, retain UK, we take our ownership responsibilities our approach to this area of CR, by and develop a deep pool of talent.
We monitor the activities of the bringing together the Responsible companies in which we invest and use our Investment and Corporate Governance influence as a shareholder to encourage teams under the oversight of a Global Oversight these businesses to act responsibly.
Head of Stewardship and Environmental, Social and Governance ESG Investment.
To ensure that Corporate responsibility is Our economic contribution managed and dealt with at the appropriate Schroders is committed to conducting We believe that engaging with companies level, there is a Corporate Responsibility its tax affairs in an open and transparent strategically is good for returns as well Committee which is chaired by Philip way.
In 2013, we paid corporate income as CR.
Constructive engagement with Mallinckrodt, an executive Director.
corporates has been a long-standing Further information on tax can be found theme in the US institutional investment in our financial statements on page 104. market and is becoming increasingly important in the UK.
Our approach to CR is built around four pillars: Marketplace People Environment Community Being transparent in our Developing and retaining a deep Minimising our environmental Supporting the communities operations and reporting pool of talent footprint in which we operate Encouraging and supporting these principles in the companies in which we invest For a more detailed look at Schroders activities across all areas of CR, please visit www.
com cr 42 Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic report Business review Our global Investment and Corporate Governance Policy outlines our approach to engaging with companies in which we hold equity investments and our approach to conflicts of interest in that regard.
We will engage and normally vote on any issue affecting the long-term sustainable value of a company in which we invest.
Our focus is primarily on issues material to This year we brought together the value of a companys shares.
the Responsible Investment and Schroders is a member of the Collective Corporate Governance teams Engagement Working Group, established During the year, we voted on the and appointed a Global Head of Stewardship and ESG Investment.
in 2013 and supported by the Association resolutions of 6,500 company meetings.
of British Insurers, Investment Management We aim to vote at all company meetings Association, and National Association of where we have an equity holding and will Pension Funds, to identify how investors vote on all resolutions except where there can work together in their engagement are onerous conditions attached to voting.
with listed companies to improve sustainable, long-term company Voting reports are provided quarterly to Company resolutions voted on performance and overall returns.
institutional clients and we also publish % details of our voting record on our 2011 85 We support the creation of an Investor website.
This is done after a suitable 2012 90 Forum in 2014, to operate Engagement period so the publication of our voting 2013 96 Action Groups to address and resolve record does not unduly influence the issues of concern when they arise at outcome of discussions with the major UK listed companies.
We believe that effective engagement with management Corporate engagement is an integral should normally remain confidential part of our investment process.
It allows since publicity can frequently entrench us to understand the sustainable value positions rather than resolve issues.
of the companies in which we invest on behalf of our clients.
During 2013, our Ethical screening is also becoming an fund managers and analysts attended increasingly important area for our clients.
Group Ethical AUM over 14,500 meetings with companies We integrate our ESG analysis into our % billion to discuss issues such as strategy, investment processes and assets under 25 10 management, governance and management with ethical screening have financial performance.
increased significantly in recent years to 20 8 over nine per cent.
15 6 We are also committed to the UK Stewardship Code, published by the 10 4 Financial Reporting Council in 2012.
5 2 Information about how we comply with 0 0 the code can be found on our website 2010 2011 2012 2013 www.
Ethical AUM As a % of Group AUM We are a member of the We are included in We are a member of We participate in the Carbon London Benchmarking the FTSE4Good Heart of the Citys Disclosure Project CDP Group LBG.
Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2013 43 Corporate responsibility continued Managing diversity People Employees are not permitted to solicit Identifying, retaining and developing a or accept any inducements that are We believe that appointments to roles should deep pool of talent is one of our key likely to conflict with their duties.
be based on merit and performance, and do strategic aims.
Training is provided in relation to not support quotas.
We recognise that we anti-bribery, anti-money laundering, must have a proactive and coordinated We recognise that good communication terrorist finance, data protection approach to attract, retain and develop is important to ensure that employees are and treating customers fairly.
engaged and committed to Schroders and our strategic goals.
We communicate Equal opportunities Schroders is already diverse in terms regularly through a variety of channels, We are committed to providing equal of the nationalities employed in our local including management briefings, an opportunities in employment and avoiding offices across the world.
This is a key in-house magazine and TV channel, unlawful discrimination.
We expect our strength that provides us with local market and online news articles.
We provide workforce to reflect the diversity of the knowledge and a deep understanding training for our people to help with many communities in which we operate.
In 2013, the number of sessions Where possible, we monitor the ethnic, held has increased significantly reflecting age and gender composition of our The gender diversity within the Group is the additional recording of Continuous existing workforce and those applying shown below.
Professional Development for the RDR.
2013 Female Male Annual employee meetings are also held Our policy is to give fair consideration to Directors 1 10 to facilitate the exchange of views with all applications for employment, having senior management and discussion of the regard to particular aptitudes and abilities.
Senior managers 138 426 progress made by the Group.
In the UK, The Group gives full and fair consideration Subsidiary directors 11 52 an Employee Forum provides an additional to applications for employment from Total senior management 149 478 channel for representing employee views disabled persons.
If employees become All employees 1,487 2,041 to management.
disabled, employment continues wherever 42% 58% possible, with retraining given if necessary.
Competitive remuneration is one of For the purposes of training, career the keys to achieving this goal and our development and progression, all approach to remuneration is explained employees are treated equally.
in the Remuneration report on page 66.
The Group is committed to creating High ethical standards a work environment free of harassment We promote high ethical standards and and bullying, where everyone is treated have an internal whistleblowing policy, with dignity and respect.
A policy is in whereby employees can raise concerns place to assist in treating everyone fairly about behaviour or decisions that could regardless of their age, gender, race, indicate potential wrongdoing.
Personal sexual orientation, disability, religion This year we continued to support the securities trading by employees is subject or beliefs.
This policy is monitored ELBA Graduate Local Employment Scheme EaGLES which aims to address to clearly defined internal policies.
periodically to judge its effectiveness.
high unemployment levels in the local community though six-month placements.
Human rights We comply fully with appropriate human rights legislation in the countries in which we operate.
Our business is undertaken predominantly in countries that have strong legislation in this area.
We also encourage our business partners to adopt the same standards.
44 Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic report Business review Total CO e emissions Environment We also operate payroll-giving schemes in 2 tonnes We are committed to minimising the a number of our offices.
In the UK, 25 per 2012 9,353 7,273 16,626 environmental impacts of our operations cent.
of employees 2013 7,656 7,025 14,681 and to delivering continuous improvement donated in this way in 2013, and the firm Combustion of fuel and operation of facilities in our environmental performance.
made charitable matching donations of gas, oil, all travel 311,000 2012: 280,000 to support Electricity, heat, steam and cooling purchased In 2013, we used DEFRAs conversion these.
We again received the Payroll for own use electricity only factors to calculate our CO e emissions Giving Quality Mark Platinum Award from 2 for all office locations.
In 2012, we used the Charities Aid Foundation in recognition CO e emissions per employee DEFRAs conversion factors for UK of this.
2 tonnes reporting, and either local conversion 2012 5.5 factors or guidelines from the UN for all To underpin our focus on employee 2013 4.2 other office locations.
The total CO e community involvement, employees in 2 emissions data disclosed is consistent many of our offices are able to take up with our Carbon Disclosure Project to 15 hours of paid leave each year for submission which will be externally volunteering services.
If the volunteering verified during 2014. they wish to do takes place outside working hours, our employees can claim Our total carbon output has decreased by volunteer time matching to secure a 11 per cent.
which reflects our continued donation for the charity they work with.
investment in energy efficiency measures.
More information, as well as stories and More information on other environmental case studies of our charitable activities, performance can be found on our website can be found on our website www.
Community The Companys Strategic report is set We support the communities in which we out on pages 2 to 45 of the Annual Report, operate and encourage our employees to and is comprised of the Overview, Strategy do the same.
and Business review together with our Financial review which is contained within In 2013, we donated 1.0 million 2012: the Financial report section pages 86 to 97.
1.2 million to charitable causes around The Strategic report outlines our performance the world, which included discretionary against our strategic goals, operational In London, Schroders raised 10,000 to adopt donations of 300,000 to charities highlights for 2013, our financial position and name a puppy for Hearing Dogs for Deaf involved with social welfare.
Once trained, Tumble will provide support for a hard of hearing recipient.
Our approach to charitable giving focuses The Strategic report was approved by the on employee choice, and we support and Board on 5 March 2014 and signed on its encourage employees to raise money for behalf by: the charities which matter most to them.
These fundraising efforts are matched by Michael Dobson Schroders, up to 2,400 per employee, Chief Executive per year.
Read Alliance New York For the past five years, Schroders in New York has supported Read Alliance through a corporate sponsorship initiative.
Working in the Bronx, Read Alliance employs teenage tutors to assist with improving the educational skills of kindergarten and first grade students through one-to-one tutoring in foundation reading skills.
Through the Adopt-A-School initiative in 2013, Schroders helps fund the Read Alliance programme at PS5X school in the Bronx.
Employees can also support teenage tutors and students by volunteering as in-class tutors.
Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2013 45 Oversight Ensuring operational effectiveness Operational effectiveness is about ensuring that we maintain a high quality of service while controlling operational risk.
We aim to manage costs at between 65 and 70 per cent.
of net revenues over a market cycle, dependent on market conditions.
65% cost:net revenue ratio in line with our target 46 Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Governance Board of Directors 48 Group Management Committee and Company Secretary 50 Corporate governance report 52 Remuneration report 66 Directors report 82 Statement of Directors responsibilities 83 Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2013 47
