34 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Sustainability review Our sustainability strategy Supporting sustainable, profitable growth Our sustainability vision is to be a leading sustainable business and In this section of our Report, we summarise how we have put our the leading sustainable support services company.
By working closely sustainability strategy into action in 2013 by continuing to focus on with customers and suppliers, we can deliver sustainable solutions by six positive outcomes in support of sustainable, profitable growth.
contributing to the creation of a low-carbon economy and supporting vibrant communities.
For a more detailed account, please see our 2013 Sustainability Report, which will be published on our website in April 2014.
Our 2020 sustainability strategy and programmes are an integral part of our corporate strategy to deliver sustainable, profitable growth by Making tomorrow a better place enabling us to win and retain contracts, attract and retain the best Sustainability means making tomorrow a better place for our people, people, enhance our reputation and reduce operating costs and risk.
customers, suppliers, local communities and investors.
For us, becoming a more sustainable business goes hand in hand with Building a successful business becoming a more successful business.
We believe that sustainability and profitability go hand in hand and by adopting a responsible approach and creating wider benefits for Positive outcomes society, we can achieve greater commercial success.
This is the essence of becoming a more sustainable business.
Our strong focus on sustainability is a positive factor in winning new work.
In 2013 we secured orders and probable orders worth 4.9 billion.
Examples include the 400 million redevelopment of Londons Battersea Power Station, the 335 million Public Private Partnership project to deliver the Royal Liverpool University Hospital and support services contracts worth some 100 million for customers in the oil sector.
There were important wins too for our businesses outside the UK.
In Oman, we won a 130 million contract to build a new Convention and Exhibition Centre, in Qatar we won a further support services contract for Shell and in Canada we secured highways maintenance contracts worth some 170 million.
At the heart of all our contracts is a commitment to helping the local communities in which we work by creating positive benefits and legacies.
For example, we used our project to build the Library of Birmingham to enable more than 300 unemployed people to gain jobs, 82 young people to undertake apprenticeships and 600 schoolchildren to participate in activity days.
We made good progress on the demanding sustainability targets we set for 2020, particularly in reducing water consumption, increasing Building a successful business the recycling of waste, engaging with suppliers, and supporting local communities.
These areas are outlined in the rest of this section and Objectives a full account of our  progress against all our Through our sector leadership and the contributions to profitability targets can be found in our 2013 Sustainability Report.
made by sustainable efficiencies, value creation and waste elimination, we will increase shareholder value.
Enabling low-carbon economies Objectives Our services will help Carillions customers work towards carbon neutrality, so together we become the lowest carbon producers in our respective sectors.
Supporting sustainable communities Objectives Our leadership in creating employment and skills opportunities, coupled with our understanding of the needs of our communities, will help us to make a net positive contribution everywhere we work.
Leading the way in our sector Objectives We will be the benchmark in sustainability and innovation, in turn driving demand as the service provider of choice for customers.
Protecting the environment Objectives We will work with our customers and suppliers to be best-in-class in reducing waste, managing use of water and raw materials, and protecting biodiversity wherever we operate.
Providing better prospects for our people In 2013, Carillion completed the stunning 157 million New Library of Birmingham, a project we used to provide 82 apprenticeships and jobs Objectives We will maximise the prospects of our people by offering for over 300 unemployed people.
opportunities for learning and development and create safe, healthy places to work.
Overview 01-05 Strategy 06-22 Performance 23-37 Governance 38-72 Financials 73-124 35 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 We also achieved some notable successes in a number of leading Energy efficiency and carbon reduction are also an integral part of performance indices.
the work we are doing to transform the area around Battersea Power Station in London as part of our 400 million contract to deliver the first We achieved our highest ever score in the Carbon Disclosure phase of the areas redevelopment that will incorporate energy-efficient Projects CDP annual FTSE 350 Climate Change Report, technology including a communal heating system.
The project will also which makes Carillion one of the top 10 companies in the UK on leave a positive legacy in the community by generating up to 500 new climate change jobs, with the target of employing the majority of people from the local We achieved a Platinum Big Tick rating the highest possible community including the long-term unemployed.
In Canada, we are level in the Business in the Community BITC Corporate providing more than 1,000 households in aboriginal communities Responsibility Index Award, and met our target to maintain our with much-needed energy-efficiency upgrades.
previous years score of 97 per cent We continue to be included in the FTSE4Good.
Other examples of where we have used our expertise to reduce carbon include Southmead Hospital in Bristol, one of our Public Private There were other notable highlights in 2013.
Partnership projects, where we have achieved a BREEAM Building Research Establishment Environmental Assessment Methodology Our 2012 Annual Sustainability Report won the FTSE 250 rating of Excellent, which is one of the highest ever scores for an acute Sustainability Reporting category at the PwC Building Public hospital in the UK, and solar-powered street lighting in Abu Dhabi, Trust Awards which creates zero emissions.
In the Middle East and North Africa, Carillion won the Arabia CSR Award, the Construction Week Sustainability Award and the Carbon-neutral or low-carbon operations are increasingly important Construction Week CSR Award for our customers and we can contribute to this by using our Our recruitment arm, SkyBlue, won a RoSPA Gold Award 2013 for sustainable design and delivery expertise.
In 2013, we joined other Health and Safety industry leaders and the UK Government to develop the Infrastructure We offered 140 work placements to homeless people through our Carbon Review framework, which aims to cut 24 million tonnes of Business Action on Homelessness programme and have helped carbon from infrastructure projects in the UK by 2050. more than 300 people into work to date.
In our own operations, we are working towards becoming a carbon Our 2020 sustainability strategy is driven by the Carillion plc Board, neutral business in 2015 and developing a complete view of the supported by a Sustainability Advisory Committee.
The Committee direct and indirect carbon emissions from our global operations.
is chaired by our Chief Executive, Richard Howson and comprises From 2014, we will be tracking embodied carbon for certain projects.
our Group Finance Director, a number of senior managers and Our commitment to transparency and improvement contributed two independent advisors, Dame Julia Cleverdon, Vice President to our highest-ever Carbon Disclosure Project CDP score in 2013. of Business in the Community BITC and Special Advisor to the Our ranking in the CDPs FTSE 350 Climate Change Report makes Princes Charities, and Jonathon Porritt, Founder Director of Forum us one of the 10 most progressive companies on climate change for the Future.
in the UK and a leader in our sector.
Supporting the Sustainability Advisory Committee is the Group We summarise our global Greenhouse Gas Emissions for 2013 in Sustainability Forum, which comprises our senior business leaders the Report of the Directors on page 44. and is chaired by our Chief Sustainability Officer CSO, David Picton, who was formerly Carillions Supply Chain Development Director Protecting the environment until his appointment as CSO in 2013.
The Forums remit includes We want to move beyond reducing our impact on the environment to the dissemination of our sustainability strategy and policies to each make a positive contribution to society in the widest sense possible, business unit.
All our businesses have sustainability objectives, but this does not mean relaxing our efforts to improve our own which form an integral part of their annual business plans.
We have a number of ambitious strategic targets and following an independent review by Forum for the Future Enabling low-carbon economies some of these will be revised to ensure that they are realistic and drive By partnering with others, we are well placed to work on the global real positive impacts.
challenge of climate change, to harness the opportunities presented by low-carbon markets and to help communities and customers Protecting the environment is integral to delivering contracts and decarbonise through greater energy efficiency.
During 2013, we met our target of diverting 91 per cent of our waste from landfill through a series of action plans for Reducing fuel poverty in our communities is an important impetus.
each of our business units and we continue to focus on our longer-term Through our work with the UK Department of Energy and Climate goal of sending zero non-hazardous waste to landfill.
We also assess Change, we have helped some 2.3 million households to cut domestic and address biodiversity risk for every contract we undertake.
bills in order to reduce fuel poverty risk.
36 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Sustainability Review continued In the United Arab Emirates we have established the first plasterboard We continue to support the BITC Business Action on Homelessness 3 take back scheme diverting over 5,000m of plasterboard waste campaign, and have now helped more than 300 people find work from landfill and in Oman we have increased our timber recycling rate through the Ready for Work scheme.
by turning our timber waste into compost that has been used in the landscaping of our projects.
Recognising that water scarcity is a In 2013, we formed a new partnership with leading childrens charity pressing concern in the region, we have continued to develop our Barnardos and made an initial donation of 20,000.
Established nearly approach to reducing water consumption and have introduced a Water 150 years ago, the charity now has over 900 services and projects Use Permit on our projects, which has helped to save 1.6 million litres of across the UK and helps 200,000 children and their families each year.
water on one project alone.
We will support Barnardos through sponsorship and fundraising events, volunteering, mentoring and skills training.
We were also one of As a major timber buyer and member of the Global Forest Trade the first 50 companies to sign up to the UK Governments Armed Forces Network, we are committed to sourcing timber responsibly.
We Corporate Covenant, a new voluntary pledge of support from aim to source all forest products including those sourced through businesses to the Armed Forces community.
In Carillion Canada, subcontractors from well-managed forests certified to Forest community engagement has seen a 100 per cent increase in the hours Stewardship Council FSC.
Carillions joinery workshop in Oman is the spent by our employees on voluntary work to help local communities only operator in the country to have FSC chain of custody certification.
We also actively consider how our construction projects may affect In the United Arab Emirates we have become members of ENGAGE local biodiversity.
Assessing the risks and developing Biodiversity Dubai Dubai Chamber of Commerce employee volunteering Action Plans is firmly engrained in our project planning.
Where programme and we have joined the Steering Committee through possible, we also create or enhance habitats to encourage local which we are helping to increase the quality and quantity of employee wildlife to flourish.
volunteering among the UAEs business community.
In Qatar, we developed and delivered our first environmental visual impact training Supporting sustainable communities courses both for internal and external communities, including the Hope Helping the communities in which we operate to thrive, contributes Qatar Centre for Special Needs, raising awareness of sustainability and to the success of our business.
Reflecting this commitment, our Chief contributing to the development of our own people.
Executive was appointed Chair of Business in the Communitys BITCs Community Leadership team, which is aiming to develop pioneering In Canada, where work experience is often a prerequisite for a job, approaches that will facilitate investment by businesses in the most we offer seven weeks of classroom tuition followed by a nine-week vulnerable communities.
We regularly place participants with our support services team at the Brampton Civic Hospital, where two We continue to be the UK construction industrys largest employer of students have become permanent employees.
apprentices with up to 2,000 in training each year in our 14 UK training centres, or some 10 per cent of the apprenticeships in our sector.
It is important for us to quantify and evaluate our contributions to the communities in which we work in order to continue to improve our Through our flagship projects, we are creating significant local engagement with, and the contributions we make, to the communities in employment and commercial opportunities.
In addition to projects which we operate.
Working closely with organisations like Business in like the Library of Birmingham, we have many others where we are the Community and Trading for Good helps us to support and develop providing similar opportunities.
We also seek to support businesses, our contributions to making communities more sustainable and we will especially Small and Medium-sized Enterprises local to our contracts.
say more about this in our first Social value report that we intend to For example, 60 per cent of the suppliers we use for our support publish later this year.
In addition to supporting communities through services contract for Oxfordshire County Council are based locally.
our projects, we continue to contribute annually the equivalent of one per cent of our pre-tax profit in cash and in kind and in 2013 to charities and other good causes.
In 2013, Carillion formed a new partnership with leading childrens Carillion employees in Qatar pictured with some of the children and charity Barnardos with an initial donation of 20,000, which will be young adults at the Hope Qatar Centre for Special Needs for whom they followed by further sponsorship and fundraising events, together with have been providing environmental training.
support through Carillion employees volunteering, mentoring and providing skills training.
Overview 01-05 Strategy 06-22 Performance 23-37 Governance 38-72 Financials 73-124 37 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Providing better prospects for our people Leading the way in our sector Carillion employs more than 40,000 people, and we remain committed Despite the last few years being particularly challenging for our industry, to investing in developing and attracting excellent people in order to we remain committed to developing cutting-edge, sustainable solutions create a vibrant, diverse and flexible workforce.
for our customers and to collaborating with our suppliers to deliver great results and promote transparency throughout the supply chain.
We are working with BITC to support its Opportunity Now, which seeks to improve gender balance, and Race for Opportunity which Collaboration is central to our sustainability efforts and we are working relates to ethnic diversity.
We are committed to helping women to move closely with our suppliers to help them to reduce their environmental into leadership positions and aim to increase the proportion of our and social impacts.
A major example of this is the Supply Chain senior managers who are female from 10.7 per cent to 29 per cent.
Sustainability School, of which Carillion is now a partner.
This is a To support this, we have changed our maternity and paternity policy large-scale, collaborative construction industry initiative to help to include enhanced pay for mothers on maternity leave and we educate our suppliers on how to become more sustainable.
Some are helping mothers returning to work to achieve a good worklife 2,250 professionals are members, representing 1,300 companies.
balance through better flexible working opportunities and supportive The school won both the Corporate Responsibility and the overall internal networks.
award at the 2013 Chartered Institute of Purchasing and Supply CIPS Supply Management Awards.
In 2013, we made significant progress in developing our e-learning capabilities, with our people completing 5,000 e-learning training Our contract with the Barts Health NHS Trust across three London modules, a five-fold increase on 2012. hospital sites illustrates our approach to innovation in partnership.
We provide catering, cleaning and general facilities services and have Through a range of programmes and training, we are working hard to a wider sponsorship agreement with the Trust to encourage healthier achieve our target of zero reportable accidents by making health and living in the London Borough of Tower Hamlets.
We reviewed the safety a key personal performance objective for all our managers.
commercial catering service we provide at the Royal London and Despite this, we deeply regret that one employee tragically lost his life London Chest hospitals, engaging a dietitian to evaluate our 160 on a Carillion highways maintenance work site in Canada in July 2013, recipes and adapting our ingredients and food preparation techniques.
when a vehicle passing the site on a public road lost control and entered Following a hygiene and healthy food assessment audit, we received the site.
a gold Food for Health award from Tower Hamlets Council.
In 2014, a major new campaign focused on employee health, Health Like Safety, is under way.
As part of our wider industry advocacy role, we are committed to the UK Department of Healths Responsibility Deal.
We have also pledged to optimise our procedures for managing those with chronic conditions at work, to use SEQOHS Safety Effective Quality Occupational Health Service accredited occupational health services and to increase physical activity in the workplace.
Additionally, we are supporting the new Construction and Civil Engineering pledge, which focuses on managing the causes of occupational disease and improving employee health and wellbeing.
Carillion provides some 13,000 patient meals a day as part of the Find out more: facilities management services we deliver for NHS hospitals, www.
com sustainability including the Royal London and London Chest Hospitals, where our services received a Gold Food for Health award from Tower Hamlets Borough Council.
38 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Governance In this section 39 Chairmans introduction 40 Board of Directors 42 Report of the Directors 45 Corporate Governance report 50 Report of the Audit Committee 53 Remuneration report 69 S tatement of Directors responsibilities 70 Independent auditors report
