Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 41 Our People We are keen to ensure that all individuals are encouraged to We are a people business and take pride in all our community.
develop and are given opportunities to seek new challenges across We believe that our success as a business depends on the loyalty the business.
We offer a range of development options which and dedication of our people, whether Partners or employees: reflect business priorities and offer employees the opportunity they provide the Group with a sustainable competitive advantage to grow their careers with us.
For example: and the attitude, knowledge and commitment of our people continues to be a strong differentiator.
we have built on our apprenticeship programme launched in 2012, retaining 100% of our initial intake of five and more We aim to attract the best people and help them fulfil their than doubling the size of the intake in 2013 to fourteen: potential.
We secure their commitment by providing them with we are members of the Institute of Customer Service ICS, an interesting and challenging career within a first class working and have a number of employees involved in the scheme both environment, and we seek to reward them competitively taking as candidates and mentors of others: into account the whole package and by encouraging equity we offer a rolling programme of Knowledge Development ownership.
We give credit where credit is due, and work hard Meetings KDMs which are short sessions available to all to recognise individual performance.
employees to develop their knowledge of our business and the external environment in which we operate: Employees we support employees who want to achieve an externally We are committed to maintaining an appropriately skilled and recognised professional qualification: diverse workforce irrespective of age, sex, colour, race, we run management development activities for those with the nationality, ethnicity or disability.
Information about the interest and ability to develop their careers as leaders in our breakdown of employees by gender is shown in the business: and following table.
we offer specific development programmes for the specialist roles within our Field Management Team.
Female Male Board Directors 2 8 In 2013, the competitive nature of our rewards package for Managers and decision-makers 42 262 employees was validated by a detailed review and comparison Total employees 517 519 with the wider financial services market.
It is our policy to ensure that all job applicants and employees Partners being considered for promotion are treated fairly and on merit.
Each year, we consult with Partners on a range of topics and we In particular, we strive to give full and fair consideration to continue to receive a good response rate with 74% of Partners applications from and promotions of disabled people, having responding to our 2013 Partner survey 75% in 2012.
The regard to their particular aptitudes and abilities, and where research provides us with useful feedback on areas where appropriate, we will consider modifications to the working Partners believe we are doing well and also where they believe environment so they can take up opportunities or enhance their improvements can be made.
It was particularly pleasing to see role.
We will similarly make every effort to achieve continuity of Partners giving an average score of 8.6 out of 10 when asked to employment in the event of an employee becoming ill or disabled, rate the SJP proposition, with more than 90% of Partners rating for example, by arranging appropriate training.
By adopting best the proposition as better than 7 out of 10.
However, some of the practice principles we seek to ensure that our responsibilities are feedback did reinforce the importance of focusing on maintaining met as an equal opportunity employer and that everyone can our commitment to our culture.
enjoy an environment that is free from discrimination of any sort.
Our separate research with new Partners, who we consult with We have a calendar of regular communication with employees once they have been with us for six months, continued and this includes an employee satisfaction survey which we throughout the year.
Despite the increase in number of new conduct every other year.
Our most recent survey was in 2012 Partners joining during the year, more than 85% of these new and we received a strong survey response rate of 86% compared recruits rated their initial months with the Partnership as 7 or to 85% in 2010 which provided us with a good understanding of more out of 10.
It is also pleasing that more than 90% indicate a how our employees are feeling on a number of important issues.
willingness to recommend St. Jamess Place to former colleagues.
Our overall engagement score was 86%, which was significantly higher than the financial services benchmark of 73%.
We plan to Following the regulatory changes in 2012, 2013 saw the first continue with the bi-annual process which means our next survey anniversary of renewals of Statement of Professional Standing, will be in 2014. confirming achievement of continuing professional development which was successfully achieved by all of our Partners.
We are pleased to continue providing support for those now pursuing
