42 St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Corporate Social Responsibility Report continued further qualifications, with around half of Partners having plans During 2013, the group was able to recommend enhancements to to progress to Chartered Status.
To support this we have worked existing processes and the development of new ideas to bring with CII to develop a new St. Jamess Place Advanced Module about improvements in the client experience, including: which will enable our Partners to progress towards their further development of our on-line services: Chartered level of professional qualification.
To further the sharing of best practice client service examples with demonstrate our commitment to professional development across Partners: the organisation, we have also formed a partnership with providing Field Management training on the subject of good Loughborough University and designed a Masters Degree client service: and Programme in Wealth Management, which will be launched in the completion of thematic research focused on key areas of 2014 and will be available to all employees as well as members client feedback.
Despite receiving much positive feedback from clients, we never We are continuing to grow the St. Jamess Place Academy, become complacent and in 2014 we will continue striving to providing an opportunity for suitably qualified individuals to improve our support for clients.
receive training and assistance to join the adviser community.
We offer three intake dates per year in London and are looking at Community activities options to extend the Academy to a northern location in 2014.
We are mindful of the role that we play in our local communities We have also launched a Next Generation Academy specifically and providing support to those less fortunate than ourselves was a aimed at bringing sons and daughters of existing Partners into key founding principle for the Company.
This resulted in the their businesses.
This supports growth and helps build succession establishment of the St. Jamess Place Foundation in 1992, a for existing successful businesses.
grant-making charity which receives support from all parts of the St. Jamess Place community: employees, Partners, clients, Health and Safety suppliers and shareholders.
During the year, the SJP community We work hard to create an excellent working environment for raised 2.6 million resulting in a matching grant from the employees and Partners.
We ensure every office complies with Company of 1.9 million.
You can find out more about support Health and Safety regulations and also seek to improve awareness for our Foundation and its activities on pages 48 to 50 or on the through regular training sessions on subjects such as manual website at www.
co. uk handling, fire marshal and first aider training.
An important element of the grants distributed by our Foundation is Each year, we carry out fire evacuation tests and health and safety the focus on charities and community groups which are local to our inspections, fire risk assessments every other year and the offices.
In many cases, these are organisations that are also supported actions identified from these are completed appropriately and by our employees or Partners.
overseen by the Health and Safety working group.
The working group is chaired by the Operations Director and meets at least In 2013 we started a new corporate initiative, seeking to quarterly to review policies, review the progress against targets recognise and support our employees who volunteer.
Starting and agree the action plan for the following year.
with those involved in sport at a grass-roots level, and having been inspired by the Olympics, we invited members of staff who Our Clients give up their time to support a local sports club or association to Putting clients at the centre of everything we do is core to our apply for a small grant of up to 250 to be used for the benefit of culture and business model, as outlined under the section Our the club association.
The initiative was successful and we plan to Business Model and Strategy on page 6.
Our aim is to help clients repeat and extend this initiative in 2014. manage their wealth in a way which reflects their personal circumstances.
We are proud of the generous spirit of our employees and the fact that, according to feedback from our most recent employee In order to ensure that our business continues to be clientsurvey, over 40% of them are actively engaged in volunteering in focused, we have established a Client Steering Group which their local communities.
This is an important part of our culture meets regularly and monitors all areas of the business which can and is an area we are seeking to develop.
Topics discussed cover all stages of the client life-cycle, including the suitability of advice, policy administration, claims experience and, where relevant, client complaints.
03183415 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 43 We are also pleased to be able to support British sport at all levels Financial Education and, in the year of a home Commonwealth Games, we are St. Jamess Place is one of the leading providers of financial advice pleased to be continuing our sponsorship of the Loughborough to individuals and business owners in the UK.
We firmly believe University Swimming programme.
This enables the squad to that financial education should start at a young age and, as part of receive additional coaching, and, since our relationship started in our work with the local community, we are looking to make use 2007, the team have medalled in all major UK and International of our expertise to also help young people learn to manage their events including European, Commonwealth, World finances better.
Our support for the programme will continue at least until the 2016 Olympic Games During the year, we continued our programme of work with in Brazil.
local schools in conjunction with The Money Charity previously Credit Action.
14 members of staff delivered hour long, financial However, the central strand of activity in our local communities education sessions at a number of local schools to more than 500 remains our focus on schools and colleges.
The two key initiatives pupils.
The feedback from pupils and staff was very positive with are: most pupils indicating that they understood more about the support for our local further education establishment, financial demands they will face as a young adult.
Cirencester College: and developing our activity in supporting schools with delivery In 2013, we also started an initiative, working with teachers from of Financial Education.
local schools, to support them in the development of the financial education curriculum in their own schools.
In previous initiatives Cirencester College we have used our resources to provide one-off events: in this Cirencester College has over 1,600 students between the ages of initiative we are seeking to develop a sustainable teaching 16 and 19 and our main involvement is in providing support for resource in each school, which can be used more flexibly by the the Academies Programme, of which there arefour, each schools since it is not reliant on external input.
designed for students who aspire to work in a particular market sector.
These programmes are operated through the Colleges During the course of a number of workshop days, teachers from a affiliation with the charity Career Academies UK CAUK.
We number of local schools developed a set of topics and activities regularly support students with paid summer internships and also which can either be used together to create a day dedicated to the provide extensive personal mentoring and business coaching.
subject stand-still day, or can be spread over the course of a St. Jamess Place sponsors a number of awards and continues to number of weeks if used in individual lessons.
The lesson plans have representation on the various Academy Boardsat College included topics within both the PSHE Personal, Social and and National CAUK level.
We have also been able to offer 19 Health Education and Maths curriculum and are targeted at Academy students jobs following their graduation, as a direct pupils in Year 9 or 10.
In discussion with the teachers, it became result of our relationship with the College.
apparent that, when talking about financial matters, it is beneficial for pupils to be able to hear the experience of people A recent Academy graduate, who completed an Internship with other than just their teachers, and so an important element of the us, spoke of his experience saying: delivery is support provided by volunteers from SJP.
The materials were trialled as a dedicated day in November, with 200Year 10 pupils, which was supported by eight volunteers When I started my Internship, I lacked confidence and wasnt from St. Jamess Place.
The session was very much appreciated by sure what, if anything, I could contribute to a company like both staff and pupils, and there were lots of ideas emerging about St. Jamess Place.
I knew I was good with numbers, but didnt how to improve and further develop the materials.
In 2014, we think I interacted with people particularly well which has plan to work with the same schools to develop the materials always held me back.
However, as a result of my Internship further and trial their use in other schools.
We will also explore experience and the requirement to work in an office developing materials for older, pre-university, pupils.
environment and frequently speak to people on the phone, I have discovered that I am a people person after all and I didnt even know it!
This has really opened my eyes to new opportunities that previously I would have ignored as being beyond me.
It was a real boost to my confidence and I cant rate my Internship experience highly enough.
