Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information C l i e n t s y t i r s a h e C L e o P c a y l a C o o r l m t St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 39 Corporate Social Responsibility Report ur commitment to responsible management was established St. Jamess Place is committed to Oin the founding principles of the Company and is expressed in both the Our Approach document, which is shared with all growing our business in a way that members of our community, and the What it means to be a member brochure, which sets out the expectations for our considers the economic, social and Partners.
We believe responsible management is embedded in our culture and exists in the heart of our organisation.
environmental impacts of what we do.
Reminders and encouragement to live by this philosophy are We understand that responsible provided regularly: for example, through the promotion within our community of the St. Jamess Place Foundation and the management is important to all our charities it supports, through team meetings and by encouraging our Partners and staff to live up to the high standards expected stakeholders shareholders, clients, of them.
Partners, employees, suppliers and the By living up to the expectations established within our culture, we believe we will be able to demonstrate trustworthiness, communities in which we operate.
reliability and a commitment to the common good.
In a world where the reputation of the financial services industry is constantly under pressure, we aspire to create an authentic alternative which clients and suppliers can trust, and which the communities we are part of can appreciate and admire.
We are constantly seeking to improve our delivery, but recent public endorsements include: Various awards relating to our client offering including the City of London Wealth Management Company of the Year, the Personal Finance Awards Best Financial Adviser and the Financial Times Investors Chronicle Wealth Manager of the Year: Endorsement of our business model in the Shares Awards, and by our peers, winning in the insurance sector the Britains Most Admired Companies award: and st. Jamess Place plc approach to CsR Maintaining our inclusion in the FTSE4GOOD Index, which comprises companies that meet globally recognised corporate social responsibility criteria.
