30 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2013 People Reinforcing the importance of conduct within our culture The deep commitment of our people to our brand Our highlights in 2013 promise, Here for good, continues to make our culture a great strength.
Here for good sums up what we stand Refreshed our Group Code of Conduct, raising our for, unifying our people to uphold the highest standards peoples understanding of its requirements, enhancing of conduct and integrity.
Along with our trackrecord of their ability to use good judgment and fostering greater standing by our clients and customers, these deeppersonal accountability rooted values set us apart from many of ourcompetitors.
Reinforced the importance of conduct and behaviours Reinforcing the importance of conduct within our culture was a inthe delivery of objectives, as well as in performance key focus in 2013.
We refreshed our Group Code of Conduct assessments and related reward proposals the Code, making it more relevant to our people and the changing requirements they face every day.
The refreshed Continued to improve operational effectiveness and efficiency, removing unnecessary complexity to enable Code claries our expectations and provides employees with anew tool to help them make effective decisions.
As part of a us to operate as one bank communication cascade, led by our executives and supported Increased training signicantly, delivering our highest by our business and country leadership teams, managers held number of employee learning events for three years, dedicated team discussions to clarify the responsibilities of their while reducing costs through a more effective team members under the Code.
This was reinforced by revised deliverymix guidelines and fact sheets, a new mandatory training module and the introduction of a new annual recommitment process.
Continued to promote the importance of diversity and inclusion, celebrating our first Global Inclusion Day and At the end of 2013, 98 per cent of our employees had launching a Flexibility Charter to encourage better completed the new mandatory training and 97 per cent had work-life balance reconrmed their commitment to the Code.
These results, together with high usage of our dedicated intranet site, demonstrate our peoples commitment to help strengthen Our priorities in 2014 ourcompliance culture.
Embed the new organisation structure, ensuring Alongside a refresh of the Code, we introduced six Fair employees are clear on their new responsibilities and Accountability Principles to guide the way we act and make accountabilities, and treat people fairly where roles are decisions when something goes wrong.
The principles changing or falling away represent a shift to a fairer, more judgment-based approach topotential disciplinary cases, and work to embed them across Continue to raise the bar on conduct, leveraging our the organisation has begun.
We have already incorporated the global people analytics capability to support the principles into our guides on values and behaviours, and identication and management of potential risk and reected them in our refreshed disciplinary and grievance control issues policies.
A country-by-country implementation plan is underway Continue to embed the Groups Fair Accountability to help build understanding and bring about the necessary Principles, providing targeted support to countries change in markets where cultural challenges may exist to this wherecultural challenges exist in moving to a more more judgment-based approach.
judgment-based rather than prescriptive approach We continue to reinforce the importance placed on how Strengthen our focus on line manager capability to conduct and behaviour are reected in the assessment of ensure managers understand and are able to comply objectives and the reward of performance.
For more than with the increasingly complex regulatory environment 10years, the extent to which employees live our values has inwhich we operate been an integral part of our performance management process.
We focus review conversations on how results have been Launch our refreshed approach to employee achieved as well as what has been delivered.
Compliance and engagement, building on the success of our previous risk awareness are essential elements of these conversations.
12 annual Q survey to better reect the different needs anddrivers of our diverse, multi-generational workforce Strategic report Group overview 31 We have invested in technology to make Our brand promise, Here for good, unies better use of our core global HR platforms.
our people to act with conviction and to uphold the highest standards of conduct and integrity.
In 2013, managers received additional guidance to ensure While the Code provides guidance on how to make the right thatperformance and reward decisions reected the conduct judgments, we recognise the need to help managers apply this and behaviour demonstrated by individual employees.
In response, we refreshed our Operational Weintroduced a new Effective Supervision Guide, claried Risk Framework to ensure effective risk management in our expectations for managers on how to create an appropriate critical processes.
We have begun to roll out the refreshed control environment and set out the required responsibilities framework across both businesses and functions, including and accountabilities when things go wrong.
As part of their Finance, Legal & Compliance, HR and Risk.
Initially, the focus performance review conversations, managers must now ensure isto embed the framework in nine countries, the UAE, China, that each employee understands their risk and control role and Hong Kong, Korea, US, UK, India, Singapore and Pakistan.
responsibilities in line with the Code and explain how the Thiswork will be completed in 2014. employees conduct and approach to risk and control matters In 2013, we made good progress in building our risk and has been assessed during the performance year.
compliance capability, delivering our highest number of Within Consumer Banking CB, we began a series of changes employee learning events for three years.
However, we to the way we manage employee sales incentive schemes.
recognise that our learning and development framework will Wehave improved the balance between sales targets and key need a sharper focus on all aspects of the conduct agenda in non-financial measures such as adherence to conduct and 2014.
Work has already begun to ensure that we can support compliance requirements.
leaders who need to set the tone from the top, relentlessly communicating the importance of conduct and helping In addition, more than 600 branch managers have started managers to be vigilant on maintaining our standards.
tomove from quarterly sales plans, which are largely focused on business targets, to an annual discretionary award that will More broadly, we have continued to strengthen our leadership include an assessment of broader leadership objectives and capability, ensuring we develop our leadership cadre, now and behaviours.
These changes will help us to place conduct at the in the future, through a number of initiatives: heart of our incentive arrangements.
Launch of a new market-specic Emerging Leaders programme in China and Africa, aimed at accelerating the Building capability development and readiness of leaders in these key growth In 2013, our programme of learning focused on supporting our markets to assume senior management roles.
The refreshed Code and other regulatory requirements.
In addition programme involves building the capability and capacity of to the development and roll-out of the new mandatory training participants to inuence the local agenda within the context for the Code, we aligned our learning curriculum to ensure its ofthe wider Group requirements are reinforced at every opportunity.
This included our agship Day One Readiness and Wholesale Bank Ready Continuation of our Women in Leadership and Womens induction programmes for 8,500 CB and Wholesale Bank WB Development Programmes across 15 countries, enabling employees: Client Due Diligence training for 2,100 WB Client nearly 400 talented female employees each year to develop Coverage Relationship Managers and staff: and Foreign the skills and knowledge needed to take on more senior Account Tax Compliance Act training for nearly 20,000 CB leadership roles within the Group front-line, support and operations employees across our A focus on developing local talent, through our Future footprint.
US Sanctions training has also been implemented, Leaders Network, which provides junior employees in achieving 99 per cent completion of the Ofce of Foreign Assets markets such as Ghana with the opportunity to build strong Control modules.
work relationships and explore relevant development opportunities.
Similarly, in Hong Kong, we launched a local As part of improvements made to our new joiner process, we began to refresh our global Right Start induction programme, mentoring programme for our women employees, connecting them with senior leaders within the Group to help them raising the importance of culture, conduct and values.
We created a new online version with enhanced conversation develop their careers guides and dedicated in-country points of contact for Work with two local non-government organisations in managers.
Pilots in India and China have shown an improved Chennai, v-shesh and Ability Foundation, to develop a talent understanding of our culture and values, enabling new joiners to pool of people with disabilities in core operations roles.
At the know what it means to be an employee in Standard Chartered end of 2013 we had recruited 106 employees, representing and what it takes to be successful in their role.
1per cent of the almost 10,000 staff employed locally, to provide operational support to a number of Group functions and business teams 32 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2013 People continued We have also developed a more robust and efficient approach We have revised our regional structure so that, globally, the to our succession planning, better aligned to global processes.
Group aligns to the same eight regions and the new business This enables us to make the most of our existing talent and structure announced in January 2014 outlines how we will strengthen our business continuity.
organise ourselves to deliver our strategic aspirations.
We have also taken steps to reduce our approval layers and speed up Creating a strong talent pipeline that meets our future needs our decision making, consultation and collaboration, minimising remains a priority.
In 2013, we hired almost 400 graduates the risk of diffused accountability on decision making.
As part of toour two agship programmes, the International Graduate a review of organisational effectiveness within our businesses Programme and the CB Fast Track Programme.
We continue to and functions, we have revisited accountabilities at regional help graduates take a longer-term view on theircareer and build levels and simplied decision making, adopting the RACI the right foundations to set them up for future success.
In 2014, model dening who is Responsible, Accountable, to be we will look to strengthen our global internshipprogramme and Consulted and Informed as our standard approach.
make it the main path to our full-time graduate programmes.
This work will continue in 2014 as we help the business and 12 For more than a decade, The Gallup Organisations Q functions develop and embed their future organisational models employee engagement survey, conducted annually, has been a in response to the Groups new structure.
In doing so, work to consistent measure of the health of our organisation and an clarify accountabilities at all levels of the organisation will be important way of gathering feedback.
It has helped our leaders completed, we will ensure people fully understand what is and managers understand what is going well and what they can expected of them and, where roles change or fall away, improve upon.
As a result, we have built a highly engaged and supportthem in determining their future career options.
productive global workforce and created a distinctive culture.
We have completed a mapping exercise of more than 200 Building on this sustained success, 2013 was the right time to meetings and committees across the Group to understand begin developing a new approach, more closely aligned to our theirpurpose, core activities and authorities, driving greater future business priorities.
We conducted thorough research on consistency and alignment.
We have introduced consistent best practices and trends, enabling us to raise the bar on how denitions of our committees, meetings and management we manage and measure the links between engagement and groups, reviewed the related delegated authorities and performance.
Our new approach, which will be launched in createda central repository.
2014, will allow us to seek views on a wider variety of topics.
Itwill give us more exibility in gathering feedback, including In 2013, we also completed a number of end-to-end deep dives with targeted groups of employees, and provide globalprocess reviews, including the work to improve our better data that are easier for managers and teams to act upon.
This work will continue in 2014.
In addition, we commenced a systematic review of our global Getting tter and more exible policies, revoking more than 20 as a result and created a The macroeconomic environment remains turbulent and the Google search facility to help employees nd the relevant pace of regulatory change continues to increase.
In order to policies and procedures more easily.
stay agile and continue to deliver performance excellence, as We have continued to improve our internal organisational and well as a compelling experience for our clients, customers and analytics capability and begun an investment programme in employees, we have to adapt and change, sharpen our focus, ourcore global HR platforms.
In 2013, we further enhanced our and operate more as one bank.
In 2013, we continued to focus PeopleSoft Portal, a global HR one-stop shop for the majority on improving the operational effectiveness and efficiency of our ofour workforce across nearly 70 markets.
We have simplied organisation, and on removing unnecessary complexity.
As part the way in which managers input and review performance of this, in collaboration with the businesses, we have looked to management information, and streamlined the look and feel of simplify aspects of our organisation design, committees and the Portal, making it cleaner and more intuitive for employees.
management groups, and policies and processes.
Our approach to recruitment is aligned to our business strategy.
In 2013, we hired over 18,500 people to support our business priorities in Asia, Africa and the Middle East.
Overall our headcount reduced to more than 86,000, reecting the difficult global market conditions and our focus on maximising our existing talent.
We continued to streamline our recruitment processes to support the needs of our CB business, providing amore agile, scalable approach for volume hiring.
We also realigned a number of specialists from our dedicated recruitment team with the geographical and functional prioritiesof our WB business.
Strategic report Group overview 33 We strive to create an inclusive environment Reinforcing the importance of conduct for all our employees, 47 per cent of whom within our culture has been a key focus.
To date, 98 per cent of our employees have completed our new mandatory training and 97 per cent have reconrmed their commitment to the Group Code of Conduct.
Promoting diversity and inclusion Summary We strive to create an inclusive environment for all our In 2013, we reinforced the importance of conduct within our employees, 47 per cent more than 40,000 of whom are culture, gaining significant momentum across the organisation women, and to improve work-life balance for our people, through the successful refresh of the Code and launch of the representing 132 nationalities worldwide.
Our diversity and Fair Accountability Principles.
In doing so, we have helped inclusion philosophy emphasises inclusion, with nationality, employees to understand how they can prove, through their sexual orientation, gender, and disability as the main focus everyday actions and decisions, that we are Here for good.
This approach helps us to attract, retain and develop We have strengthened our performance management thebest talent, both at Board level and across the wider Group, practices, ensuring that employees understand their risk getting the best out of the broadest spectrum of people in order andcontrol roles and responsibilities, and enabled managers to sustain strong business performance.
We have focused on In 2013, we have made strong progress in identifying and developing our current and future leadership capability and agreeing targets to increase our gender diversity for each of improving organisational agility, by removing complexity, our businesses, functions and countries.
This activity supports simplifying structures and enhancing a number of global our Group target of 25 per cent of women on our Board by processes.
This enabled us to deliver sustainable 2017.
At the end of 2013, there are three female Directors of performance, despite the volatile external environment.
Standard Chartered PLC and 48 16 per cent of our senior We do not take our distinctive culture for granted.
This includes a number of female wewill continue to embed the Code and maintain a systematic Country Chief Executive Ofcers CEOs in markets such as approach to reinforcing our culture and values, while ensuring Nigeria, Tanzania and Thailand, and a regional CEO for Africa.
that our people have a safe and transparent means of raising We believe that our inclusive approach enables us to understand issues.
We will align our reward practices further in response the needs of our clients and customers better.
Many of our tocontinued regulatory change.
We will continue to remove products and services are localised and reective of the society unnecessary complexity, simplifying our policies and processes, and customer base that we support.
We work hard to ensure and creating clearer responsibilities and accountabilities as that the differences in others are valued and respected.
We have weembed the new business structure.
We will also continue made strong progress in identifying and agreeing targets to toreview our selection processes for managers and senior increase our gender diversity at specic levels for each of our leaders, and refresh our training to help our employees businesses, functions and countries.
More broadly, in 2013 we understand how all of our policies impact their day-to-day roles.
have undertaken a number of initiatives, including: Our new approach to employee engagement will be more Our first Global Inclusion Day, raising awareness of the reective of the different needs and drivers of our diverse, importance of inclusion to our clients, customers and multi-generational workforce.
As part of our focus on enhancing employees.
This was supported by a guide to Inclusive our analytics capability across the Group, we will improve the Meetings and delivery of inclusion awareness training way we anticipate and manage issues, tune our people strategy tacklingunconscious bias in a number of markets including and demonstrate that our culture remains strong and effective.
Turkey, Colombia, Italy, the US, Ghana and Zambia Disability Listening Groups in countries such as Thailand, Singapore, Malaysia and Oman, making us more able to meetthe needs of employees with disabilities Disability mentoring days in the US, providing opportunities tochallenge existing employees misconceptions about disabilities.
This led to the Group being awarded the NewYork State Education Departments National Disability Award in October The launch of a Flexibility Charter, encouraging leaders to commit to a broad denition of exibility, with the aim of improving the productivity, retention and engagement of localemployees A reafrmation of our commitment to enable employees withdisabilities to participate fully in our business activities, byproviding them with accessible technology solutions.
This includes speech software allowing colleagues with visual impairments to hear what is written in a document, talking ATMs and a range of customised work tools, such as variable computer font size and telephone volume, and adjustable automated system response times
