26 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2013 Business environment Rising East, emerging West 2013 marked a year of resilience for the global economy.
The Federal Reserve has started unwinding its quantitative The European Central Banks supportive actions at the easing QE programme as, on balance, it reckons the US end of 2012 to stem the turmoil in the euro area helped economy has signicantly recovered from the 2008 to 2009 stabilise world growth after two consecutive years of recession.
The unwinding of QE is likely to be gradual because deceleration.
Standard Chartereds biggest markets in ination remains low.
The US recovery and the Feds cautious Asia, Africa and the Middle East once again proved to be stance should support the emerging markets, although those the main engines of global growth, helping to offset a with weak current accounts or facing elections could see some sharp slowdown in the US caused by severe government volatility.
Meanwhile, China has outlined impressive reforms, budget cuts and continued recession in the euro area.
itsexports are likely to benefit from the upswing in the US and Economies in Asia, excluding Japan, expanded by Europe, and its housing sector should remain an important 6.4 per cent, Africa grew by 5.1 per cent and the growth driver.
As a result, global growth accelerated marginally to 2.8 per cent in 2013 from Asia 2.5 per cent in 2012.
The acceleration in US activity and Europes return to growth are welcome changes for Asia, which for the past five years has Emerging markets accounted for over half of global growth last been relying mostly on domestic demand and trade with other year, continuing a pattern seen since the 2008 financial crisis.
emerging markets to power the global recovery.
Economies across Asia, Africa, the Middle East and Latin America have grown much bigger over the past decade, so The US and the European Union are each almost twice the size much so that even slowing growth rates in these economies of China in terms of nominal gross domestic output, making now result in a sizeable expansion of the global economy.
For them vital determinants of global growth despite Chinas emergence as the worlds main growth engine in recent years.
instance, China, the worlds second-largest economy, grew by 7.7 per cent last year, following a 7.7 per cent expansion in 2012.
A recent Standard Chartered research report, which examined the linkages between Asia, China and the US, found that the US While this pace is decidedly slower than growth rates in excess of 10 per cent witnessed in the past decade, at the current rate, featured as one of the top-three export destinations for seven of the 10 Asian economies studied.
Moreover, an estimated 50 per China is creating an economy the size of India the worlds tenth-largest economy every three years.
cent of Chinas imports from the rest of Asia are processed and re-exported to the US and other Western markets.
Another trend has become apparent since the financial crisis:growth in emerging markets is increasingly becoming As a result of these close trade linkages, the recovery in the self-sustaining, though countries are still not immune to the West is expected to boost economic growth in Asia, excluding state of developed economies.
Rising consumerism among Japan, to 6.6 per cent in 2014 from 6.4 per cent in 2013. agrowing middle class is being fuelled by higher incomes, rising China is likely to be one of the biggest beneciaries of the upturn aspirations and increased urbanisation.
As a result, local in the West as the country gets the external support needed to demand, besides increased spending on industrialisation usher in the most ambitious package of reforms since it opened andinfrastructure development, is powering growth in many up to the world in the 1980s.
In fact, reform and rebalancing will ofthese markets.
Emerging economies are also trading more be in focus across Asia in the coming year.
Chinas economic among themselves and investing more in each others rebalancing, with consumption growing in importance relative economies.
These trends have shielded them from the troubled to investment, is likely to move along steadily.
The recently developed world since the onset of the financial crisis.
concluded Third Plenary Session provided the clearest sign that the all-powerful Politburo of the Chinese Communist Party is 2014 outlook leading the ambitious agenda for economic and social reform.
2014 should be a better year for the global economy than 2013.
We expect growth to accelerate to 3.5 per cent from We expect a stronger push for land and state-owned 2.8per cent thanks to marked improvements in the US and enterprisereform, a further opening up of the capital account Europe.
The US economy is likely to expand by 2.6 per cent, and less intervention in the currency markets.
These reforms upfrom 1.9per cent last year, while the euro area should return arenecessary for the sustainability of Chinas growth, but to growth expanding by 1.3 per cent after two years of short-term volatility cannot be ruled out, especially as the contraction.
We forecast that growth in the second half of central bankis likely to continue to restrain credit growth.
2014will be stronger than in the first half, and that ination will Asthereforms take effect, Chinas economy is likely to slow, remain benign.
marginally, to 7.4 per cent in 2014 from 7.7 per cent in 2013.
Chinas growing prominence in the world economy is being However, the way growth plays out will depend largely on policychanges in the US and China, the worlds two largest reected in growing global recognition of its currency, the renminbi RMB.
The RMB should become increasingly economies.
Two key questions come to the fore: will the US Federal Reserve Fed be able to manage a gradual tightening of accepted as a unit for making cross-border payments and settling international trade, as a currency for raising capital, and monetary conditions without hurting the fragile recovery?
Can China execute the boldest set of reforms in three decades to as a store of wealth as it continues its inexorable rise to become one of the worlds leading reserve currencies.
Standard become a more sustainable, consumer-driven economy?
Chartereds Renminbi Globalisation Index, which tracks the Strategic report Group overview 27 The Business environment report has been produced by our GlobalResearch team.
The forecasts for 2014 reect the projections made by the team.
The emerging markets are seeing a rise Chinas growing prominence in the inconsumerism among a growing worldeconomy is being reected in middleclass.
growingglobal recognition of its currency, the renminbi.
Since 2000, growth in the 10-nation Economic growth in key markets ASEAN region has exceeded that in the rest of the world by an Real GDP growth rate in % 2013e 2014f average of 1.5 percentage points.
This outperformance is likely 1.9 US to continue in the coming years.
2.6 0.4 Euro area In South Asia, India faces a key general election in 2014 whose 1.3 1.6 Japan outcome will determine the next stage of economic reforms that 1.5 are vital for returning economic growth to its potential of around 7.7 China 7.4 8 per cent.
A strong mandate for a stable government, even if 1 4.7 India itis a coalition, will be key to pushing through wide-ranging 5.3 2.7 South Korea reforms that have stalled in recent years, affecting growth.
3.8 3.0 Hong Kong India, Indonesia and some other emerging economies 4.0 runningwide current account deficits saw sharp declines in 2.2 Taiwan 3.9 their currencies during mid-2013 following the Feds talk of 4.1 Singapore starting to unwind its QE programme as investors fretted about 4.4 5.8 Indonesia the ability of these economies to fund their deficits.
However, 5.8 with currencies already lower and central banks now better 4.7 Malaysia 5.3 prepared, further volatility as US long-term rates gradually 3.0 Thailand normalise is likely to be limited.
Tighter monetary policies and 3.5 5.4 Vietnam a string of other policy measures used to shore up economic 5.5 defences are likely to keep growth in these economies below 7.2 The Philippines 6.7 trend in 2014, although better than in 2013.
1 6.0 Bangladesh 5.3 6.5 6.8 Sri Lanka The Middle East and Africa 7.0 The resource-rich Gulf Cooperation Council GCC countries in 4.4 The UAE 4.5 the Middle East should see a year of strong growth.
Oil prices 5.0 Qatar are likely to remain at levels that will boost the coffers of GCC 5.5 4.0 Bahrain governments, giving them the scal strength to drive growth 3.7 and diversify their economies away from energy industries.
4.8 Saudi Arabia 4.5 1 Saudi Arabias and the UAEs infrastructure investment is set 2.0 Egypt 3.5 to continue at a fast pace.
We expect infrastructure building 1 3.6 Pakistan in Qatar to pick up by the end of 2014 and early 2015 as the 3.5 6.7 Nigeria country starts preparing for the 2022 FIFA World Cup.
6.9 2.0 South Africa However, job creation is a challenge across large parts of the 2.5 region and especially in the oil-importing economies that face 7.4 Ghana 7.6 slower economic activity, rising scal pressure and increasing 5.6 Kenya youth unemployment.
In the oil-rich GCC region, job creation 6.1 6.8 Tanzania per se is not that big a problem, as its economies are booming, 7.0 but the challenge is to encourage greater participation of the 5.7 Uganda 6.2 local labour force in the private sector, moving away from its 6.0 Zambia over-reliance on the government sector.
Thus, the Middle East 6.5 6.0 Angola remains a tale of two worlds.
7.0 5.5 Botswana Meanwhile, Africa is likely to outperform world growth in 2014, 5.8 as it has for the past decade.
Resource exploration remains 1 Indias financial year starts in April while the financial years of Bangladesh, important and commodity output gains should compensate Pakistan and Egypt start in July forweaker prices to boost growth.
However, domestic demand Standard Chartered estimates for 2013 2013e and forecasts for 2014 2014f remains the fundamental growth driver across the continent.
are based on Standard Chartered Economics Weekly, published on 27 February 2014 The rise of the African middle class spurred by an improved policy environment, stable ination, greater savings and a more open embrace of the private sector is being reinforced by internationalisation of the currency, has risen more than 13-fold large-scale infrastructure and resource investment, as seen since December 2010.
We expect the RMB to displace the most recently in eastern Africa, where governments are keen Japanese yen as the fourth-largest payment currency by 2020. to commercialise new oil and gas discoveries.
Meanwhile, the Meanwhile, economies in Southeast Asia are likely to benefit continent is leveraging the digital revolution to leapfrog other from their growing competitiveness with respect to China as a emerging economies.
The rapid pick-up in the use of mobile manufacturing centre, enabling them to attract increased payments across Africa is a good example of such innovation.
28 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2013 Business environment continued Urbanisation as a growth driver Growth in 2013 remained resilient Urbanisation will be an important theme driving growth not only in Africa but also across Standard Chartereds other markets in Asia and the Middle East over the coming decades.
China India The benets of urbanisation come from the economics of agglomeration.
Urbanisation helps to improve the well-being 7.7% 4.7% ofcitizens by improving access to services, housing and other 2012: 7.7% 2012: 4.5% infrastructure.
This can boost productivity and efficiency as distances are shortened, business costs are lowered, and jobs and labour supply are concentrated rather than dispersed.
The South Korea Indonesia benets are clear a nations economy is typically concentrated in and around its cities.
For example, Jakarta accounts for about 17 per cent of Indonesias GDP but only 0.04 per cent of 2.7% 5.8% its land mass and 4.2 per cent of its population.
2012: 2.0% 2012: 6.2% Urbanisation is also associated with growing wealth.
A recent Standard Chartered study that categorised ASEAN into three Hong Kong Singapore tiers based on the countries level of urbanisation, assuming that Tier 3 economies reach the current Tier 2 urbanisation rate 3.0% 4.1% 50 per cent and Tier 2 economies reach the current Tier 1 rate 75 per cent, found that ASEANs GDP per capita could almost 2012: 1.5% 2012: 1.3% triple to $10,290 from $3,509 in 2011.
Urbanisation may grow slower than the overall economy, but per capita GDP typically The UAE Nigeria rises at an exponential rate as urbanisation increases.
Urbanisation has a long way to go across our markets, as economies in South and Southeast Asia and Africa are largely 4.4% 6.7% rural and will need to play catch-up with their more developed 2012: 4.3% 2012: 6.6% neighbours in Northeast Asia.
According to the World Bank, while the world passed the 50 per cent urbanisation mark in Indias financial year starts in April 2007, six ASEAN countries Cambodia, Laos, Myanmar, the Philippines, Thailand and Vietnam have not yet passed this point as of 2012.
Indonesia just crossed the mid-point, at Overall, we expect economies across Sub-Saharan Africa to 51.4per cent, while Singapore, Malaysia and Brunei are largely expand by 5.5 per cent in 2014, up from 5.1 per cent in 2013. urbanised.
Meanwhile, Chinas urbanisation level stands at Asmany as six of the regions biggest economies Angola, 52per cent, and Indias is still below 30 per cent.
The region as Cote dIvoire, Ghana, Nigeria, Sierra Leone and Tanzania a whole still has enormous catch-up potential to sustain high are forecast to grow by around 7 per cent or faster.
At this economic growth rates.
rate, these economies will double in size in 10 years.
What is even more encouraging is that many of the regions Policy challenges and other risks economies are making significant progress in terms of The Feds unwinding of its QE programme is possibly the sustainable development.
Ghana, Uganda and Nigeria ranked biggest risk facing the global economy in the coming year.
among the Top Ten best performers in the Standard Chartered QEhelped the Fed manage interest-rate expectations.
A central Development Index that measures the change in a broad range bank that is implementing QE is highly unlikely to hike interest of indicators over a period of 12 years to 2012.
As a result, long-term market interest rates economies have shown progress across four key factors remained low, and this helped some parts of the economy, determining sustainable growth GDP per capita, years of particularly the housing market, to recover.
education, life expectancy and environmental health including The Feds most important action under its new chair air pollution and availability of water.
However, the fifth factor, JanetYellen should be to orchestrate a smooth unwinding ecosystem vitality or the long-term sustainability of the ofQEwithout causing a sharp rise in long-term interest rates.
environment, including climate change, remains a challenge Fed policymakers will need to see strong evidence that the for most emerging economies.
economy is accelerating as it proceeds with tapering.
Africa needs to continue expanding at this strong and We expect the US economy to show enough resilience for sustainable pace to overcome its challenges, including the Fed to end QE by the end of 2014. still-widespread poverty, income inequality, a dearth of educational and healthcare facilities and an infrastructure With QE coming to a close, the Fed is likely to rely mostly on forward guidance to inuence market rates, which may not be deficit.
Despite rapid growth in recent years, job creation has fallen behind population growth across the continent.
As a result, market interest rates could move higher in 2014, causing volatility in equities and currency markets.
challenges, in turn, provide enormous opportunities for local and international businesses.
Strategic report Group overview 29 The rise of the African middle class is being Urbanisation will be an important driver reinforced by large-scale infrastructure and ofgrowth across Asia, Africa and the resource investment.
Ination remains benign, with the exception of a few emerging is low, and a legally mandated ceiling on the total markets.
Among the Groups biggest markets, we expect  ratio enforces scal discipline.
policyrates to go up marginally by 25 to 50 basis points In ASEAN, stresses are confined to household credit in inIndonesia, the Philippines, Taiwan, South Korea, Malaysia someeconomies.
Malaysias household leverage is high, and Nigeria, withno change in other key markets.
Commodity asisSingapores on some metrics.
However, both countries prices are stable: and labour markets, both in the US and household sectors have accumulated high liquid assets through Europe, remain substantially slack.
Meanwhile, the Fed is likely mandatory savings.
In Thailand, relatively fast recent credit to raise its policy rate only in the second half of 2015. growth has led to a rise in solvency stress indicators.
However, Chinas rebalancing is the other concern facing the global levels of debt and debt-service indicators do not raise immediate economy.
Policymakers in Beijing will need to deftly steer concern.
The Philippine economy, an outperformer in Asia, has theeconomys drivers away from exports and investments plenty of room to expand its private-sector leverage to boost toconsumption, and at the same time maintain growth on domestic consumption and sustain growth.
Debt levels in Chinas corporate and local While there are pockets of emerging concern, Asias government sectors have expanded rapidly in recent years as fundamentals remain robust.
Strong government and the government has sought to counter the effects of the 2008 household balance sheets, high foreign exchange reserves, financial crisis by boosting credit growth.
The authorities are exible exchange rates, currency swap agreements between aware of the pitfalls of rapid credit growth and, in 2013, the central banks and still-high economic growth across most of central bank moved to tighten short-term funding for banks the region provide sufficient exibility for authorities to counter towean the economy off ultra-loose liquidity.
Tight monetary inevitable bumps as the economic cycle turns.
Learning from policies are likely to continue, at least in the first half of 2014.
Asias financial crisis in 1997-98, governments in the region Theauthorities are coaxing banks and businesses to be more havebeen using macro-prudential policies since before they aware of risks when making borrowing and lending decisions were considered to be best practice.
Hong Kong and and curbing lending to industries facing overcapacity.
In the Singaporeare prime examples of how such measures are event of a significant deterioration in the economy, problem usedto curb property price increases.
There is scope for loans are likely to surface and some banks may have to be severalAsian economies to increase borrowing to maximise recapitalised but, unlike most other major economies today, their growth potential.
China has sufficient financial means to inject capital and restructure its problem lenders.
In light of this assessment, concern over Asias debt levels appears exaggerated.
It does provide a timely opportunity for Rising debt levels across the rest of Asia in recent years are cleaning up stressed balance sheets in parts of the region, but alsocausing concern.
A Standard Chartered study concluded it also sets the stage for the next phase of more durable and that an analysis of this issue needs to be carefully nuanced.
The recovery in the US, combined with Differentiation is vital, as painting all of Asia with the same therevival in Europe and Japan, should be seen as an added brushcould lead to wrong conclusions.
bonus, not a detraction, for emerging markets and the wider global economy.
After years of rapid economic growth, Asias, excluding Japans, overall debt-to-GDP ratio has just reached the world average.
Among other risk factors, elections in India, Indonesia, However, on a more granular scale, the study of debt and Thailandand Brazil are likely to be the focus of emerging-market solvency across the corporate, household and government companies and investors in 2014.
A strong mandate for reforms sectors in Asia found that current leverage levels are broadly is critical for the next stage of growth in these economies.
manageable, with pockets of concern and areas of opportunity The Middle East, the South and East China Sea and North areas where leverage can still rise to generate faster growth.
Korea remain potential ashpoints, although experience in South Koreas high leverage spans the economy and continues recent years suggests that pragmatism should prevail to to be a drag on growth.
However, South Korea has managed prevent these issues from escalating.
There is also a need for to avoid a hard landing since 2003 and has proactively used better global policy co-ordination, especially progress on trade macro-prudential measures to limit overall leverage, particularly liberalisation and clarification on bank regulation.
There is also a longer-term positive story that should help the Conclusion All in all, 2014 should see a marked improvement in the global global economy to rebalance.
Household leverage across most of Asia, particularly in China, India and Indonesia, remains low economy.
The recovery, so far shouldered by the emerging economies, is likely to broaden with the West joining in.
and has the potential for growth.
Indonesias credit expansion has recently accelerated, but it still has a relatively low level of However, the growth gap between the G7 countries and the emerging markets is unlikely to close anytime soon.
Challenges aggregate debt to GDP, giving it room to use leverage to boost growth.
While high debt levels of the government and certain lurk as the Fed tries to manage interest-rate expectations.
Meanwhile, China is about to enter its most decisive phase companies in India are a concern which the authorities are addressing, household debt is relatively low.
Taiwans total of reform as it strives to become a consumer-driven, middle-income economy.
leverage is relatively benign its household debt-service ratio
