34 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2013 Sustainability Our social and economic contribution Sustainability and our business Our highlights in 2013 Sustainability is integrated into how we do business.
Itguides everything we do, from the services we provide $20.6 billion of financing provided to small and to our clients and customers, to the way we run our medium-sized enterprises SMEs across 32 countries bankand support the local communities in which we $271 million of lending provided to microfinance liveand work.
Our approach to sustainability is captured institutions MFIs, benefiting more than 1.9 million people in our brand promise, Here for good.
11 per cent expansion of our Commodity Tradersand Our business strategy focuses on banking the people and Agribusiness portfolio totalling $35.9 billion companies driving investment, trade and the creation of wealth across Asia, Africa and the Middle East.
Our core markets are $20 billion of Islamic financing arranged for our clients continuing to see strong economic growth, with rising incomes and customers and increasing demand for financial services.
This represents A top two trade bank amassive opportunity for our business and, with it, the opportunity to promote sustainable, balanced and inclusive $945 million provided and supported for renewable growth in our markets.
energy and clean technology Updated our Position Statements to align with leading As a major international financial institution, our commitment international environmental and social standards tosociety goes beyond creating value for our shareholders.
Weseek to ensure that the financing we provide is sustainable 22 per cent reduction in customer complaints and supports economic and social development for all 98 per cent of staff completed mandatory training on stakeholders.
Our approach focuses on three key priorities: ourGroup Code of Conduct with 97 per cent contributing to sustainable economic growth, being a recommitting to the Code responsible company and investing in communities.
5 per cent reduction in energy consumption Contributing to sustainable economic growth Over 90,300 employee volunteering days, an increase Through our business of banking, we fuel economic activity of 5 per cent andjob creation in our markets.
Over the past five years, we $6 million raised for Seeing is Believing, with a cumulative have increased lending to clients and customers by nearly total of $63 million raised and 45 million people reached 70 per cent to $382 billion, making a substantial contribution since 2003 toindividual economies.
39,000 girls empowered through Goal, our girls The credit and other financial services we provide help education programme, with more than 86,000 girls businesses to set up, trade and expand, and help people buy reached since 2006 their own homes, save and protect their wealth for the future.
We believe that by providing these services efficiently and responsibly, we can make a real impact on sustainable development in our markets, contributing to economic Our priorities in 2014 growthfor the long term.
Make progress on our commitment to increase financingto SMEs by 45 per cent to $30 billion between Access to financial services 2013 and 2018 Our financing supports households, businesses and economies.
In 2013 alone, we provided $109.2 billion in Advance our Power Africa commitment to finance lendingto individuals, of which $69.8 billion was in mortgages, $2 billion in power projects by 2018 anda further $20.6 billion in lending to SMEs.
Continue to improve the accessibility of our Islamic banking services to customers We allocate capital to key sectors that enable economic growth.
Through trade finance, we promote growth across our markets, Train employees on our refreshed Position Statements and in 2013 were a top two trade bank by SWIFT data.
We also Promote our target to reduce water use intensity by continued to support the agriculture sector as a key provider of 71per cent of 2008 levels by 2019 jobs across our footprint, growing our Commodity Traders Agribusiness portfolio by 11 per cent to $35.9 billion.
Progress our pledge to train 5,000 micro and small businesses by 2018 Reliable infrastructure is a prerequisite for economic growth.
In2013, we joined Power Africa, the US government-led Reach $70 million fundraising mark for Seeing is Believing initiative to promote access to electricity across Sub-Saharan Introduce technology and digital education modules Africa, with a pledge to finance $2 billion in power projects toGoal curriculum by2018.
Wecontinue to promote financing for the clean Develop a refreshed three-year Living with HIV strategy technology and renewable energy sector, providing and supporting financing of more than $945 million in 2013.
Strategic report Group overview 35 Through our business of banking, we Our community investment activities fueleconomic activity and job creation focuson health and education, with inour markets.
We share our expertise to help countries deepen their financial systems and attract investment.
In 2013, we offered more than Our social and economic impact 30 workshops to central banks and ministries of finance on inAfrica topics such as the internationalisation of the renminbi, Islamic finance, debt capital markets and the use of derivatives to manage financial risks.
We also support governments in realising their economic development goals by acting as a sovereign ratings adviser.
In 2013, we contributed to the Philippines achieving its inaugural investment grade rating.
We are committed to extending finance to people who are un-served, or under-served, by financial institutions.
In 2013, weprovided $271 million to MFIs, taking our cumulative MFI lending since 2006 to $1.2 billion and impacting 8.3 million people across 18 countries.
We expanded our Islamic banking operations, under the Standard Chartered Saadiq brand, to Africa and increased our lending globally to $20 billion.
We also provided $20.6 billion in financing to SMEs, and pledged at the Clinton Global Initiative CGI to increase our financing to SMEs Having opened our first branch in Africa 150 years ago, we continue to by 45 per cent to $30 billion by 2018. invest for the long term, supporting the people andbusinesses driving trade, investment and the creation of wealth across the continent.
Sustainable finance We believe that banks, working with governments, regulators and local We recognise that managing and protecting limited natural communities, can and should help to drive real social and economic resources is essential to maintaining economic growth over the development in the markets where we work.
Our Position Statements set out the environmental In 2013 we commissioned an independent study to measure the role and social standards that we expect of ourselves and of Standard Chartered, and banking more broadly, in generating trade, encourage from our Wholesale Banking WB clients and growth and jobs across Africa one of the fastest-growing regions of SMEBanking customers.
In 2013, we refreshed our existing the world and to find out what we can do better.
Position Statements and added new statements covering By measuring ripple effects through the economy, the study shows renewable energy, infrastructure, agribusiness, fisheries and that our operations and financing support 1.2 per cent of GDP and chemicals and manufacturing, bringing our total number of some 1.9 million jobs, or 0.6 per cent of the total workforce, in 13 of statements to20.
While our preference is to engage with clients the15 markets where we operate in Sub-Saharan Africa.
and customers to meet our standards, we will turn down The study also highlights how we help to remove barriers to growth transactions where certain environmental and or social and job creation, by using our footprint as an international bank risksand impacts cannot be successfully mitigated.
focused on Asia, Africa and the Middle East to mobilise offshore capital for crucial infrastructure investment, train local talent, Being a responsible company introduceinnovation and help to develop local financial markets.
Our commitment to sustainability is not just about the economic The study confirms that small and medium-sized enterprises SMEs activity we finance, but also about how we run our business.
We will invest more time in looking at how Our focus is on effective corporate governance, underpinned we can work with our large corporate clients to support more African SMEs through the supply chain.
We will also explore how we can help bystrong processes and the right values and culture.
By create greater inter-linkages between different economic sectors in creating a great place to work for our people, selling our Africa, from farming to manufacturing and distribution, in order to products and services responsibly, tackling financial crime increase our impact on real development.
andmitigating the environmental impact of our operations, The study on Africa, led by Professor Ethan Kapstein, is our webelieve that we can make a greater positive contribution fourthandmost comprehensive impact study to date, following tothe communities in which we operate.
country-specific reports on Ghana, Indonesia and Bangladesh.
Read the full study on www.
com ImpactAfrica Governance Strong governance is the foundation for establishing trust andpromoting engagement between a company and its stakeholders.
The right culture, values and behaviour must beadopted by the Board and actively promoted by the GroupChief Executive and managers at all levels.
The Brandand Values Committee BVC of the Board continues tohaveoversight ofsustainability, including environmental andsocial governance.
More detail on the BVC can be found in Corporate governanceonpages 167 to 171.
36 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2013 Sustainability continued People and values Celebrating 10 years We are focused on building a culture that is based on responsibility and accountability and aligned with our values.
ofSeeingisBelieving Our diverse and collaborative workforce and deep commitment to doing the right thing is what makes our culture stand out.
Ourbrand promise, Here for good, helps our people to act with conviction, nurture relationships with our clients and customers and uphold the highest standards of conduct and integrity.
Formore than 10 ten years, our performance reviews have taken into account the extent to which our employees demonstrate our values through their everyday actions.
As set out in our Human Rights statement, we respect human rights in our operations and adhere to all relevant, international and local, legal obligations in the countries where we operate.
Human rights are taken into account in our procurement decisions, as set out in our Supplier Charter.
We also consider human rights in our nancing decisions, guided by our Position In 2003, we founded Seeing is Believing SiB with a simple Statements, which address the rights of children, workers and mission:tohelppeople see.
10 years later, we have reached more communities in relation to specic industry-sector risks.
An estimated 39 million people across the world are blind, and a Financial crime prevention further 246 million people are visually impaired.
SiB has helped tackle Financial crime impedes economic progress.
We strive to limit this issue by providing quality eye-care forpeople who have little or no the risk of financial crime within our business by having strong access to health services.
These are underpinned by important Set up in response to a call from our employees to help local programmes to continually enhance our systems and controls communities, SiB is a collaboration between StandardChartered, the and to raise awareness of the critical role of employees in International Agency for the Prevention ofBlindness and leading combating financial crime.
In 2013 we refreshed our Group eye-care organisations.
Code of Conduct the Code which sets out the standards we expect of our employees.
Staff participated in team training Making an impact So far, we have raised more than $63 million, with the Group matching sessions and 98 per cent completed mandatory e-learning to all contributions dollar for dollar.
Our employees contribute greatly to understand how the Code applies to their day-to-day activities.
the programme by donating, fundraising and volunteering their time at local eye-care projects.
Responsible selling and marketing Through a total of 84 projects in 25 countries, SiB hashelped fund over Delivering appropriate products and services to our clients 2.91 million cataract operations and surgical interventions, protected andcustomers is fundamental to our business.
In 2013 we 3.9 million people from Vitamin A deficiency and river blindness, continued to assess our WB policies and procedures against distributed 494,000 pairs of spectacles and trained more than the impact of regulatory changes to ensurethat we meet our 100,000 community health workers.
clients needs and adhere to regulatoryguidelines.
In Consumer We are committed to raising $100 million by 2020, through donations Banking, our Customer Charter outlines our commitment to and matching by the Group.
In 2013, we further extended our treat customers fairly, andwe regularly convene Customer supportfor eye health by pledging $20 million to support the work Experience Councils across our markets to identify areas in ofThe Queen Elizabeth Diamond Jubilee Trust in helping to which we can improve.
We reduced the number of customer eliminateavoidable blindness.
complaints wereceived by 22 per cent from 2012 to 2013.
For more information see www.
org Environment We seek to minimise the environmental impact of our operations, and have targets in place to reduce the rate of our Environmental assurance energy, water and paper consumption.
While our energy use PwC is our independent third-party assurance provider for Greenhouse intensity remains at similar levels, in 2013 we reduced our total gas GHG emissions.
In 2013, PwC assured our Scope 1 and Scope 2 energy consumption by 5 per cent through efficiency measures, GHG emissions using data collected from our properties over 10,000 such as the installation of LED lighting across our properties.
These data are gathered through We lowered our water intensity by 20 per cent between 2008 our internal Global Environmental Management System.
We have also reduced our ofce paper use per measured emissions are extrapolated to provide a scaled uptotal which includes properties under 10,000 square feet.
For additional full-time employee FTE from 50 kg per FTE in 2008 to 20.4 kg information, review the Independent Assurance Report at in2013.
Strategic report Group overview 37 We seek to minimise the environmental We are focused on building a culture that is impact of our operations.
based on responsibility and accountability and aligned with our values.
More detail on our Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions can be foundinthe Report of the directors on page 220.
Our performance We maintain regular dialogue with our stakeholders to gather Further details onour methodology can be found at their feedback on our sustainability strategy and performance, on.
and to understand the issues that matter most to the communities where we operate.
Our stakeholders include non-governmental organisations, industry bodies, governments, regulators and Suppliers socially responsible investors.
We support businesses across our footprint through our network of more than 27,000 suppliers.
We continue to embed Our sustainability performance is evaluated by trade publications and ratings agencies specialised in the socially responsible our Supplier Charter, launched in 2012, which sets out the investment market.
standards and values we expect of our suppliers.
In 2013, we refreshed our procurement management policies and practices Dow Jones Sustainability Index to strengthen risk awareness and transparency around our For the fourth consecutive year, we were included in the Dow Jones supplier expenditure globally.
In addition, we created a preferred Sustainability Index DJSI World Index and Europe Index.
We were supplier base across 33 markets, allowing us to drive noted for our strong performance in stakeholder engagement, brand sustainable standards and better manage risk.
management, customer relationship management, environmental risk management and financial inclusion.
Investing in communities FTSE4Good Promoting the social and economic well-being of communities We are listed in the FTSE4Good index, designed to measure the isa critical component of our strategy to support sustainable performance of companies that meet globally recognised corporate development in our markets.
Our community investment responsibility standards.
activities focus on health and education, with youth as a target demographic.
In 2013, we invested $54.1 million, or the Carbon Disclosure Project equivalent of 0.79 per cent of our 2012 operating profit, in We were selected for the FTSE350 Climate Disclosure Leadership communities, including both direct investment and volunteering Index for the second time.
The leadership index recognises our by our employees.
performance among the top 10 per cent of FTSE 350 companies.
Community programmes The economic prosperity of a community is closely linked to thehealth of its population.
Our health programmes address In 2013, we created a global financial education curriculum avoidable blindness and HIV and AIDS.
In 2013 Seeing is foryoung people and piloted the programme in five markets.
Believing, our agship community investment programme, Wealso developed an Education for Entrepreneurs curriculum celebrated its 10th anniversary.
Over the last decade, we raised to provide financial education to small business owners across more than $63 million to help eliminate avoidable blindness, our markets.
The curriculum will be rolled out as part of another reaching more than 45 million people.
Our Living with HIV CGI commitment we announced in 2013 to provide training to programme provides education on HIV and AIDS to our staff 5,000 small businesses between 2013 and 2018. and the communities where we operate.
In 2013, we raised awareness among more than 12,000 people through our Employee volunteering You, Me and HIV e-booklet distributed on World AIDS Day.
We support our local communities by volunteering our time andskills, and seek to maximise our impact by encouraging Education builds skilled and productive communities and skills-based volunteering.
All of our employees are entitled to improves livelihoods.
Our education initiatives focus on three days of paid volunteering leave annually.
In 2013 we developing the financial capability of young people particularly reached a record number of more than 90,300 volunteering adolescent girls and small business owners in order to help days, an increase of 5 per cent on 2012. them make the most of the opportunities offered by economic growth.
Goal, our leading education programme, combines sports training with life skills, financial education and workforce development to empower adolescent girls.
Goal reached more than 39,000 girls in 2013, bringing the cumulative number of girls reached to more than 86,000 since 2006.
In 2013 we made a commitment at the CGI to reach an additional 500,000 girls between 2013 and 2018.
