48 SVG Capital plc Annual Report 2013 Corporate social responsibility Introduction The long-term business success of the SVG Capital group requires effective management of both financial and non-financial performance.
Our business relies in particular on strong relationships with our investment adviser, our investors, and the general partners of the funds in which we invest.
Although we are a major investor in private equity funds, regulations and commercial realities limit the degree to which we can have an active influence on those funds.
We aim to develop open, long-term relationships with the private equity managers with whom we invest.
Nonetheless we do engage with general partners to identify where non-financial issues may have an impact on our reputation and on that of our investors.
We also engage with relevant industry associations and participate in other initiatives tohelpraise awareness and understanding of these issues, both within and outside the sector.
Details of the Companys policy on diversity, human rights issues and environmental impact can be found on page 28.
Overall responsibility for the implementation of the Groups Corporate Social Responsibility CSR Policy rests with the Board.
The Boards strategic priorities with respect to the CSR policy are: Investors Our objective is to ensure that our operations address investors policies relating to environmental, social and governance issues.
Todothis we aim to: maintain a high standard of corporate governance respond to investors environmental, social and governance concerns as they relate to our own operations give full consideration to investors concerns as they relate to our investment activities Funds in which we invest Our objective is to develop strong relationships, balancing the legitimate needs of the general partners of the funds in which we invest with our interests and the expectations of our investors.
We aim to do this by: ensuring the highest levels of integrity in our relationships with general partners developing strong and open working relationships with general partners, so that we can maintain trust without unnecessary restrictions and unrealistic requests undertaking early and constructive engagement on environmental, social and governance issues of legitimate concern to our investors.
Prior to investment, we evaluate how the general partners assess such issues as part of their due diligence on underlying companies and how they report on such issues ensuring our investment adviser is part of a group that is a signatory of the United Nations Principles of Responsible Investing.
Strategic report Corporate information Financial information Company information SVG Capital plc Annual Report 2013 49 Making a difference where we can Communities For the period to 31 May 2013, the Companys objectives were to support employees volunteering and charitable donations through a matched giving scheme and to support communities by providing charitable donations from the Group of up to 350,000 in aggregate per annum.
The implementation of the charitable donations policy which is focused on: creating opportunity providing access to education protecting the environment.
In 2013, the Group agreed to continue to support the School for Social Entrepreneurs, the Venture Partnership Foundation and donated to The Outward Bound Trust.
A total of 141,000 was committed to our chosen charities in 2013.
Additionally, approximately 13,000 was given via thegive as you earn matching programme and other ad hoc donations.
Following the sale of ASVG to Aberdeen Asset Management plc AAM, the Company no longer has any Group employees.
The Company receives investment advice from ASVG, whose staff are employed by AAM and are therefore covered by the AAM corporate social responsibility policies.
The Outward Bound Trust The Outward Bound Trust aims to help young people realise their potential through learning in the wild.
They create a supportive and challenging environment in which young people can learn about themselves and see clearly, perhaps for the first time, what they might truly be capable of achieving in life.
uk School for Social Entrepreneurs The School for Social Entrepreneurs SSE exists to provide training and opportunities to enable people to use their creative and entrepreneurial abilities more fully for social benefit.
SSE also want to recruit more innovative and capable people into voluntary and other organisations.
The SSE runs practical learning programmes aimed at helping develop the individual entrepreneur and their organisation simultaneously.
SSEs approach, and belief, is that social change is people-powered, and that the most valuable assets andresources we have are human ones.
uk Venture Partnership Foundation VPF is a grant-making foundation dedicated to supporting social entrepreneurs and the dynamic charities that they run.
Using a duediligence process, VPF sources small, fast growing and well-run charities with an innovative solution to a deep social need and entrepreneurial and visionary leadership.
VPF provides these charities with financial support 25,000 of unrestricted funding for threetofive years and significant non-financial pro-bono support from its members and volunteers, such as strategy expertise, seniormanagement mentoring and pro-bono legal advice.
uk Engagement with the sector Our objective is to engage in debates on the role and impact of private equity.
We aim to do this by: working with relevant sector associations participation in other relevant initiatives engaging in discussions with stakeholders.
