Business review Governance Financial statements Business review Governance Financial statements 17 17 Corporate responsibility Our Corporate Responsibility CR policy is designed to meet the long-term expectations of our customers and other stakeholders and ensure the sustainable development of our business.
It is clear that protecting the environment and running our business We will be developing our colleagues in 2013 14 in order to ethically makes good commercial sense and, apart from improving underpin our provision of excellent service and our targets for this the environment for both our colleagues and our customers, will are included in the Developing committed people section below.
also help us to enhance shareholder returns.
The Customer and For the financial year 2013 14 our targets are: Corporate Responsibility Committee was created on 1 July 2012 and To achieve 100% post-sales calls in the UK: oversees, amongst other matters, the Groups CR activities.
Martin Harris is the Executive Director responsible for co-ordinating the To improve our mystery shopper scores in the UK: Groups CR activities.
Details of the number of meetings and To introduce fitters identity cards to Northern Ireland and attendance are set out on page 22. the Republic of Ireland: We have continued developing and improving policies to cover To introduce a quality assurance programme to ensure the following: that recommended fitters in the UK continue to meet the required standards: Providing excellent service Our aim is to provide an outstanding customer experience by selling To ensure all recommended fitters in the Netherlands and a comprehensive range of products at the keenest prices, supported Belgium meet or exceed the same standards as those in the by dedicated store teams and, where required, by organising a high UK: and quality estimating and fitting service.
To introduce a fitters Code of Conduct in Belgium and One of the streams in our strategic plan is delivering a step change the Netherlands.
in service delivery as we believe that this can help significantly differentiate us from our competitors.
Developing committed people As at 27 April 2013 we employed 3,280 colleagues in stores, Post-sales calls to customers were introduced in the UK in winter distribution centres and offices throughout the UK and the Rest of 2011 12, allowing immediate feedback thereby ensuring that any Europe.
Our aims are to ensure everyone has the appropriate skills issues can be immediately addressed by the relevant store.
We also and knowledge: to offer our people a good range of benefits: and to introduced this process in the Rest of Europe in March 2013. value and promote the diversity of our workforce.
In the Netherlands we introduced an online customer satisfaction In the UK over 2,500 man-days of training were undertaken, in survey with a response rate of nearly 60% and were very encouraged addition to on-line Health and Safety training.
This training is by the results, with the majority of our customers ranking us good intended to develop our colleagues and enable them to provide or very good in all areas of service and over 97% of the respondents great service to our customers.
saying they would recommend Carpetright.
In Europe, we targeted our training towards our colleagues in stores, In the UK we undertake a mystery shopping programme which focussing on product training to enable them to provide a great assesses the customer service and selling skills of our store service to our customers.
Additionally eLearning training was rolled colleagues.
Part of their overall remuneration is based upon their out.
Furthermore all store managers and assistant managers in the success in achieving high customer service scores.
During 2013 14 Netherlands and Belgium have undergone management skills we will be rolling this out to our estimators.
training appropriate to their position.
We have identified that the estimating service is very important to Our colleagues in the Netherlands participate in a 10 mile run to the overall customer experience.
We are therefore increasing our raise money for a childrens cancer charity which is aiming to build training to improve our estimating service, and this will remain a a hospital in the Utrecht area, and in 2013 members of the Executive focus for the company.
Team will be joining them.
We do not employ our own fitters in the UK but instead have a For the financial year 2013 14 our targets are: commercial arrangement to introduce those fitters in whose skills To deliver a training programme for every estimator and store we have confidence and recommend to our customers.
Our mobile manager in the UK: fitter training pods enable us to offer all our recommended fitters access to the Flooring Industry Trade Association FITA To deliver product knowledge training to every store-based assessment and additional training where required to meet FITAs colleague in the UK on beds, smooth floor coverings and carpets: exacting standards.
As at 27 April 2013 we would recommend 1,284 To provide refresher training on measuring and planning to independent fitters who have been independently assessed by FITA.
every store-based colleague in the UK: We also ensure that fitters carry public liability insurance.
To ensure every new colleague attends a structured induction programme: www.
uk 18 18 Business review continued Corporate responsibility continued To design and deliver eLearning packages on all products We remain committed to eliminating all heavy manual handling for availability via the Companys intranet: from our stores.
Wherever possible, each of our branches has a pedestrian operated boom truck to unload and move carpet and To test the core competencies of all store based colleagues in vinyl deliveries, and where it has not been possible to provide a truck the Netherlands and Belgium through an on-line platform to we have arranged a series of nearby buddy branches to accept prove competency levels and identify any specific training deliveries.
In Europe manual handling training was undertaken requirements: and by all colleagues in the Netherlands and Belgium.
To introduce a management training programme for high The Health and Safety manual used in the UK is being translated potential store managers in the Netherlands and Belgium and revised for use in the Rest of Europe.
as preparation for more senior positions in the future.
For the financial year 2013 14 our targets are: Sourcing great products To deliver the remaining 225 Easylift devices and associated We are committed to buying our products from suppliers who training, thereby ensuring all stores in the UK and RoI that have operate responsibly.
Our aims are to ensure suppliers are subject rollstock have an Easylift device: to vetting for satisfactory ethics and procedures, to insist our product suppliers sign up to the Carpetright Ethical and For our European business, to translate, revise and launch health Environmental Code of Conduct, and to ensure we act in a and safety procedures manual as documented in our UK manual: responsible and ethical manner.
This covers matters such as the To assess an automated roll-on device for easily rolling roll-stock prohibition of the use of child and forced labour, freedom of onto standard European roll-stock stands: and association and the provision of safe and hygienic working conditions.
In respect of the products, the Code of Conduct To implement a programme to replace all non-standard prohibits the use of certain chemicals and includes a timber policy roll-stock stands in the UK with standard stands as they are to ensure all timber floor covering products are manufactured easier to maintain.
Respect for the environment All floor covering and bed suppliers to our businesses both in the We are committed to taking steps to control and minimise any UK and in the Rest of Europe have signed up to compliance with damage our operations may cause to the environment through our Code of Conduct.
manufacturing processes, transport, energy usage and packaging.
Our product suppliers are, principally, based in Europe, which In particular we are aware of the issue of climate change and we means that less fuel is used in transporting the products than if want to understand and minimise our carbon emissions.
we sourced from further afield.
In the UK we make our own cardboard tubes on site, thereby We now sell Luxury Vinyl Tiles which are made from 40% reducing the cost of delivery of what is, essentially, air in the centre recycled materials and which are, themselves, 100% recyclable.
Where possible we re-use cardboard tubes.
Sheet Further, both sisal and sea-grass products are now available in polythene wrapping and cardboard tubes that are not re-used but the majority of our stores.
are delivered within the UK excluding Northern Ireland from our main distribution centre are recycled.
No waste produced from our For the financial year 2013 14 our targets are: store support office, warehouse and distribution centre is sent to To grow our sales of Luxury Vinyl Tiles: landfill: general rubbish being compacted and incinerated to produce energy.
Currently other waste from stores is sent to landfill, To introduce a carpet collection made partly from maize in the although we aim to address this in the forthcoming financial year.
Netherlands and Belgium: and In Belgium and the Netherlands sheet polythene wrapping around To identify and source products from suppliers who use our carpets is also collected and recycled.
techniques that reduce raw materials usage in the carpet manufacturing process.
We continue to consider whether there are opportunities to recycle of end-of-use carpets.
A mattress recycling service is offered to our Creating a safe place to work and shop customers in the Netherlands.
We are committed to achieving high standards of health and safety We were able to reduce our water consumption in the UK in all operational areas.
by approximately a third during the year, and nearly half Quarterly Health and Safety Committee meetings take place in all measured over the last two years, which has been achieved business units.
We are pleased to report that there have not been through improved analysis of consumption data and any fatalities again this year 2012: nil.
There has been an increase identification of any high-use locations.
in the overall level of accidents in the UK to 116 2012: 110.
We are trialling different forms of energy-efficient lighting and, Pleasingly, the number of serious accidents that are reportable to the where a store undergoes a full refurbishment, it is the intention to Health and Safety Executive decreased in the period to 11 2012: 12, install such lighting at that location.
and there were 3 2012: 7 accidents in the Rest of Europe which would have been reportable had they occurred in the UK.
Carpetright plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Carpetright plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Business review Governance Financial statements Business review Governance Financial statements 19 19 Nearly 60% of the eligible property portfolio in the UK now For the financial year 2013 14 our targets are: has Automatic Meter Reading AMR electricity meters, which To explore the potential to introduce movement sensitive lighting provide daily meter reading data and allows us to target any highto our main UK distribution and cutting warehouse: consumption locations, understand why the usage is higher than anticipated and manage our consumption appropriately.
AMR To install a further 108 gas AMR meters in the UK, completing electricity meters were also installed in 92% of stores in the the roll-out to all eligible trading stores: Netherlands where installation is possible, although it is too early To install a further 186 electricity AMR meters in the UK, to assess their success.
completing the roll-out to all eligible trading stores: Approximately 72% of our eligible property portfolio in the UK To divert all waste generated by stores in the UK excluding now has gas AMR meters, enabling us to monitor gas consumption Northern Ireland from landfill to either recycling or incineration in a similar way to electricity consumption.
This has enabled us to to produce electricity: identify stores that were, for example, leaving heating on overnight.
In the Netherlands 80% of stores of the eligible property portfolio To provide a bed recycling service in the UK: and has had AMR meters installed.
To introduce a new, more energy efficient, fleet of lorries.
Our key measures within CR are: Key Initiative Indicator 2013 2012 Progress Providing Great Service Complaints per 1m of sales in 5.8 11.3 We attribute the reduction to the success of 1 the UK post-sales calls to customers and greater focus on customer satisfaction.
Complaints per 1m of sales in the 5.8 3.7 The figure for 2013 includes complaints Rest of Europe submitted via our website.
It is not practicable to restate the prior year.
Developing Committed People Number of man-days training in 2,500 Comparative figures are not available for 2012.
2 the UK Number of man-days training in the 376 Comparative figures are not available for 2012.
Netherlands and Belgium Creating a Safe Place to Work Number of accidents in the UK 116 110 There is no common factor which we can and Shop attribute to the accidents that have occurred.
Number of accidents in the 13 17 The number of accidents has reduced, Rest of Europe with the most significant decline in serious accidents.
Number of reportable accidents 11 12 A reduction in reportable accidents in our in the UK stores, but an increase in the principal warehouse, with no common factor found.
Number of accidents in the Rest of 3 7 The number of serious accidents declined Europe which would have been by over half.
reportable if they occurred in the UK Respect for the Environment Energy efficiency kWh sq m of sales 255 207 The increase is principally due to a cold 3,4 space in the UK winter and spring, necessitating increased heating in stores.
Energy efficiency kWh sq m of sales 168 Comparative figures are not available for 2012.
4,5 space in the Netherlands Energy efficiency km litre 3.45 3.52 Our fleet is ageing and we aim to replace it in 6 of delivery fleet 2013 14 with more fuel-efficient vehicles.
6 Recycling in tonnes 2,402 2,366 There has been an increase in stocked product lines, which allows us to recycle packaging which was not received previously.
Excludes internet sales but includes the Republic of Ireland.
Based on estimated meter readings.
Number of actual man-days is in excess of this number.
Based on calendar year ending 31 December 2012.
Figures are for the UK store estate only.
2012 figure is actual, restated from 6.
Figures are for UK and Republic of Ireland only.
estimated figure published in 2012. www.
