16 16 Business review continued Principal risks and uncertainties continued Risk Description Mitigation Product and service quality: The Carpetright name is a key asset of the business and as the The protection of the Carpetright brand and position in its core largest operator in its markets, expectations of the Group are markets will be sustained by unique and extensive product and high.
Failure to provide high quality products and services service offerings in our stores.
Colleague and fitter training is could lead to a loss of trust and confidence, and damage the delivered continually with fitters being independently assessed.
This could result in a decline in the customer base and affect the ability to recruit good people.
IT systems, supply chain and business continuity: Carpetright is dependent on the reliability and capability of key Business continuity plans have been documented and information systems and technology.
A major incident or arrangements made to mitigate significant risks arising.
The sustained performance problems with regard to store, logistics, systems implemented within the UK and the Republic of Ireland multi-channel or support office systems could constitute a are mirrored in a separate location.
Plans are in place to replicate significant threat to the business, at least in the short term.
this in the remaining European businesses by the end of September 2013.
Compliance: The Group risks incurring penalties or punitive damages The Group has developed clear policies on compliance and it is arising from failure to comply with legislative or regulatory the Groups Legal Directors responsibility to identify prospective requirements across many areas.
changes to laws and regulations and to bring these to the attention of the relevant people.
Finance and Treasury: The Group risks exposure to exchange rate, interest rate, The Group frequently reviews its financial position to ensure liquidity and credit risks having an adverse or unexpected that its funding requirements are being met.
Bank covenant impact on results, funding requirements or purchasing ability.
Rolling cash flow forecasts are produced weekly.
People Engagement There are a number of communication channels in place to help The Group employs over 3,200 people develop their knowledge of, and enhance their involvement with, the Group.
These channels include surveys, conferences, people and is proud of being management briefings, weekly briefings broadcast to stores and regarded as a responsible and offices, and other less formal communications.
Additionally, all annual results and interim management statements are made respected employer.
Directors and senior management regularly visit stores and discuss matters of current interest and Equal opportunities concern with colleagues.
The Board believes in creating throughout the Company a culture that is free from discrimination and harassment, and will not permit Share ownership or tolerate discrimination in any form.
The Group operates a Colleagues have an opportunity to invest in the Companys shares whistleblowing hotline through a third party provider enabling and through two all-employee share schemes, namely an matters of concern to be raised with the Company on a named or All Employee Share Ownership Plan and a Savings Related Share anonymous basis.
The Company gives full and fair consideration to Option Scheme.
Approximately 500 colleagues participate in applications for employment when these are received from disabled these schemes.
Should an individual become disabled while working for the Company, efforts are made to continue their employment and retraining is provided, if necessary.
Training and development Our training and development programmes are focused on giving our people the skills they need to carry out their jobs and in due course to move up to new roles, enabling them to develop their careers and ensuring that there is a pipeline of talent within the Group.
Carpetright plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Carpetright plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Financial Operational Risks Risks
