Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information guiding employees involved in procurement activities, Taxation risk including a requirement to adhere to the highest ethical The risk of financial loss or misstatement as a result of and social standards: and non-compliance with regulations relating to direct, indirect or employee taxation.
The Group employs experienced maintaining appropriate guidelines on gifts, hospitality, qualified staff in key jurisdictions to manage this risk and entertainment and conflicts of interest.
in addition uses professional advisers, as appropriate.
In formulating its policies, the Group has due regard to Pension obligation risk human rights considerations.
The risk that the Group is required, in the short and medium term, to fund a deficit in the Groups defined benefit pension scheme.
Employees Attracting and retaining the best brokers, management, professional and other support staff remains crucial to the CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Companys ongoing success.
Management recognises that the Companys ability to maximise returns to shareholders Governance is dependent on employing and retaining the best staff in Responsibility for social, ethical and environmental matters all the geographies in which it operates.
The Company is rests with the Board, and is included in its Terms of Reference.
committed to developing and motivating its staff and offers The Chief Executive Officer is the Board member responsible for training where appropriate and measures performance to Corporate and Social Responsibility CSR.
The Companys CSR achieve this objective.
Governance Committee was established in 2009 and comprises all members of the Companys Executive Committee.
To assist with employee engagement, the Company This Committee and its members in their executive roles maintains effective internal communications channels at continue to oversee and guide the CSR activities of the both Group and regional levels to ensure staff are informed Company, reflecting the importance the Company places in a timely way about major developments in the business, on this broad and visible area of responsibility.
such as the launch of new products, organisational changes, key hires, and financial and regulatory announcements.
Ethical issues Information is provided to employees regularly through The Board expects the Company to maintain high standards integrated and complementary channels such as internal of governance and of ethical behaviour throughout the emails, the Companys intranet site, print collateral and business, and policies and procedures exist to ensure town hall meetings, as appropriate.
Posters are used for employees at all levels maintain the standards that are internal communications across all the Companys offices.
set and which are expected of them.
Staff welfare remains a serious matter for the Company, The Companys approach to ethical behaviour and corporate especially given the demanding nature of the broking governance is documented in its policies and procedures, environment.
Day to day responsibility for staff welfare for observance by all members of staff, and provides for: and the management of stress rests with business line management assisted by the Human Resources department.
maintaining high standards of compliance and risk This is supplemented by an Employee Assistance Programme management ultimately the responsibility of the Chief which provides counselling and advice to staff and their Executive, and monitored by the Board and Audit Committee: families, and the use of occupational health specialists if fully complying with legal and regulatory requirements required.
The Companys policies on health and safety in each of the jurisdictions in which it operates, including provide a formal framework and inform line management the FCAs Conduct of Business Sourcebook and the Bank in the discharge of their responsibilities in this area.
of Englands Non-Investment Products Code: Equal opportunities prohibiting corrupt practices such as inappropriate Tullett Prebon is committed to attracting, retaining payments to any third party, directly or indirectly: developing and advancing the most qualified persons without regard to their race, ethnicity, religion or fully complying with tax laws in each of the jurisdictions in belief, gender, age, sexual orientation or disability.
which it operates relating to its affairs and the deduction This commitment is underpinned by policies on equal of taxes from staff remuneration: opportunities, harassment and discrimination, to trading fairly, knowing its clients and properly understanding which all employees are required to adhere.
its trades with its clients.
The Company has a policy of not In the event that an employee becomes disabled, the Groups participating in trading activities which it suspects may not policy is to make reasonable adjustments, including be for legitimate trading purposes, or whose sole purpose arranging training, to enable the employee to continue appears to be tax reduction by the counterparty: working for the Group.
19 Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2013 1372-1 TP AR13 front v5.
indd 19 25 03 2014 16:49 Strategic Report continued At 31 December 2013 the Companys Board comprised Donations 1woman and 5 men: the senior managers of the Company The Company has maintained the policy of making no excluding the Board comprised 2 women and 44 men: donations to political parties.
Similarly, charitable donations and the Group employed 531 women and 2,063 men.
These two policies reflect the Boards view that shareholders funds should be retained Key performance indicators for use within the business and that it is for shareholders Records on employment matters are maintained as required to determine what non-business use should be made of in each legal and regulatory jurisdiction.
indicators are as follows: Environment The Company employed 2,603 full time equivalent Tullett Prebon, as an office-based business, is not engaged employees and directors worldwide in 2013 47% in in activities that are generally regarded as having a high Europe, 31% in the Americas and 22% in Asia Pacific environmental impact.
However, the Board has agreed that compared with 2,645 staff in 2012 46% in Europe, 32% in it will seek to adopt policies to safeguard the environment the Americas and 22% in Asia Pacific.
Total remuneration to meet statutory requirements or where such policies are for all staff in 2013 was 483m 2012: 530m : commercially sensible.
The table below sets out the continuing high retention The emission of greenhouse gases as a result of officelevels across the Group: based business activities and from business travel, is 2013 2012 the Companys main impact on the environment and statistics relating to these emissions are set out in the EMEA Directors Report.
5 years service 59% 58% The Strategic Report was approved by the Board and signed 10 years service 38% 35% on its behalf by Americas 5 years service 60% 53% Terry Smith 10 years service 42% 35% Chief Executive 4 March 2014 Asia Pacific 5 years service 40% 40% 10 years service 16% 16% Social and community issues Tax and other social payments The Company continues to maintain a Low Risk rating from HMRC.
The Company has earned this Low Risk rating in each of the last six years since HMRC started to publish the names of those companies achieving this important status.
Tullett Prebon is registered, regulated and publicly listed in the UK and will continue to pay the right amount of tax at the right time.
Tullett Prebon made payments to tax authorities in the UK and the United States the main jurisdictions in which it operates for 2013 of 235m 2012: 275m, comprising corporation tax, premises taxes, employers social security payments, income taxes and social security paid on behalf of employees and VAT sales taxes.
In addition, the Company makes further tax payments to the tax authorities in other tax jurisdictions in which it operates.
20 Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2013 1372-1 TP AR13 front v5.
