Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Performance Measures Shareholder Information Strategic Report At Centrica, how we do business is integral to what we deliver.
A responsible business must Corporate build trust and maintain strong sustainable Responsibility performance over the long term.
Review Our Corporate Responsibility CR work fair prices to our customers.
As an integrated is built around four key themes, which energy company, we also have a responsibility reflect Centricas principal impacts on the to invest in energy supplies for the future.
communities and environments in which We therefore need to make sufficient profits Affordability is a key weoperate: to sustain this investment as well as to pay our taxes and provide fair returns to our treating customers fairly: concern.
safeguarding the environment: The following review summarises our caring for our people and communities: and committed to charging progress against each of our CR themes.
The themes are an essential part of the fair prices to our Previously, our stakeholders focus was work of each individual business, so further principally on the actions we were taking information can be found in the Operating customers.
to safeguard the environment and improve Review on pages 18 to 33. energy efficiency.
In 2013, these issues We place a strong emphasis on setting continued to cause concern but the primary qualitative and quantitative targets for our focus of public debate moved to the CR work.
The Corporate Responsibility affordability of energy.
Committee oversees progress towards the Energy companies were challenged on targets, as well as reviewing strategic and the prices they charge and the margins longer term issues.
A list of the main topics Responsibility metrics they earn.
They also faced protests related it discussed in 2013 is on page 61.
See our corporate responsibility key to onshore exploration for shale gas as More details about Centricas CR work are performance indicators on page 185 the country seeks new energy sources.
available online in our 2013 CR reporting See our corporate responsibility metrics Affordability is, understandably, a key concern.
online in our data centre at centrica.
We strive to keep energy affordable for our MARy FRAnCIS CBE customers.
At the same time, we have to keep in mind the complex environment Chairman of the in which we operate and the multiple and Corporate Responsibility Committee sometimes conflicting interests of our 20 February 2014 stakeholders.
We are committed to charging External assurance Deloitte LLP reviewed selected performance metrics, which are available on pages 185 and 186.
They provided limited assurance, using the International Standard on Assurance Engagements ISAE 3000.
Deloittes full assurance statement and the Basis of Reporting are available online at centrica.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 | 39 Strategic Report Corporate Responsibility Review continued See the online 2013 Corporate Responsibility Performance Review for further information at centrica.
com cr treating customers fairly members of the CFC are independent acceptable levels during the systems Treating customers fairly is of Centrica and British Gas to ensure transition and we accordingly brought that we are externally challenged.
in over 300 additional customer service essential to earn their trust, retain advisers and extra training to address Customers told us they found the way we their loyalty and ensure the longthe short-term problems.
We began transferring also focused on training for customer all British Gas customers to a fixed standing term sustainability of our business.
service agents, with more than 600 charge in line with new regulations plus completing the Achieving Customer Being fair and transparent in our a single rate per unit of energy used Excellence workshops.
according to the selected tariff.
British pricing and communications Gas Business customers are no longer Together with energy pricing, customer Affordability of energy is a key issue, subject to automatic renewals if they service remains an important contributing especially in the UK.
Customers were miss the deadline for switching.
factor to net promoter scores for British concerned when we had to increase Gas and Direct Energy see page 17. our prices in October 2013.
However, the Engaging with our customers increase was necessary for us to remain Caring for our vulnerable customers We engage with customers to improve profitable.
We play a critical role in the UK the products and services we provide.
Supporting vulnerable customers is providing power and heat for homes and The British Gas Customer Board enables becoming increasingly important as businesses.
Earning a reasonable margin us to gain valuable insight from customers more people struggle to pay for essentials.
is essential to enable us to invest in and on key strategic and policy decisions.
In 2013, we helped more than 1.8 million secure long-term sources of gas The Board, made up of nine customer vulnerable households and over 8,000 andelectricity.
representatives and chaired by Ann struggling small businesses in the UK We continue to engage with all policy Robinson, Head of Consumer Policy through contributions to mandatory makers and are working hard to regain at uSwitch.
com, covered items such government programmes and additional the trust of our customers.
We fully as customer service, simplifying the bill support including debt advice, payment support the principles introduced in 2013 and smart meter roll-out.
assistance and energy and household by the UK energy regulator, Ofgem, to grants from the British Gas Energy Trust We strive to provide great service to our make the UK energy market simpler, an independent charity.
Direct Energy customers and in 2013 British Gas began clearer and fairer.
Our Customer Fairness provided $600,000 through the Neighborupgrading IT systems to strengthen our Committee CFC helps us implement to-Neighbor programme to help vulnerable capability to do so.
Unfortunately, standards these standards and ensure fairness in customers in Texas pay electricity bills.
of service to some customers fell below everything we do for customers.
Two Caring for our people and communities Continuously focusing on safety Supporting local communities Strong relationships with our We contributed over 392 million to help across our assets and operations employees and the communities those in need.
Of this, just under 381million Our operations are inherently hazardous is to support vulnerable customers through and safety is a core priority.
In 2013, where we operate are central to mandatory programmes.
Our people we continued to embed a strong safety our ability to perform effectively.
culture, with improved risk management We continued to train people at the British processes and further training on process Creating a great place to work safety in our upstream business and a Gas Green Skills Centre in Wales and to To attract and retain the most talented support businesses through our partner, focus on customer safety and safe people, we need to create a rewarding driving in our downstream business.
We also pledged and fulfilling place to work where our support to Step Up 2 Serve which Safety performance improved across the employees are engaged in the business seeks to get businesses more involved in business for employees and contractors, strategy, motivated to help us achieve providing opportunities for young people.
with a 45% reduction in our lost time injury success and have clear opportunities frequency rate to 0.11 per 100,000 hours Around 0.3% of our employees operate in to develop their own skills and careers.
countries with a high risk to human rights.
worked and a 46% reduction in our Overall engagement levels have continued total recordable injury frequency rate Despite this small footprint, we are to improve across the business, up from to 0.76 per 100,000 hours worked.
steadfast in our commitment to respecting 4.72 in 2012 to 4.81 out of 6 in 2013 There were no significant process human rights as set out in our Business above average for peer companies safety events in2013.
Principles and Human Rights Policy.
40 | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Performance Measures Shareholder Information Responsibility in more detail See the Operating Reviews on pages 18, 26 and 32 for further information See the Corporate Governance Report on page 60 for more information on employee diversity A summary of our engagement with stakeholders is available online at centrica.
com cr Safeguarding the environment emissions against our target of a 20% Reporting greenhouse gas emissions Managing environmental reduction by the end of 2015 from a 2007 We report our greenhouse gas GHG baseline in our core businesses.
impacts is integral to the emissions each year, most extensively in our online data centre.
We have expanded Helping our customers reduce way we run our business.
the detail in this report to reflect new their carbon emissions reporting requirements.
Reducing carbon emissions in Emissions associated with our customers In 2013, our group carbon intensity based ouroperations use of energy remains significantly larger on revenue was 269tCO2e m, down from than our own direct carbon footprint.
Since Most of the emissions we produce 298tCO2e m in 2012.
Our total carbon come from our power stations.
These 2010, the products we installed in UK emissions Scope 1 and 2 emissions customer homes and businesses such emissions will be reduced over time as increased slightly to 7,146,412tCO2e from the UK shifts to lower carbon power as boilers and insulation saved around 7,128,491tCO2e in 2012.
Our Scope 1 9.8mtCO2e equivalent to taking 668,000 generation.
Reducing these emissions emissions were 7,031,658tCO2e in 2013, must be balanced with the need to cars off the road.
In 2013, we installed compared to 7,008,906tCO2e in 2012, energy efficiency measures that will maintain affordable and secure energy covering emissions from power stations, supplies.
We believe gas has a central achieve a total lifetime carbon saving upstream production, offices and fleet.
role to play for a cost-effective transition Scope 2 emissions were 114,753tCO2e in to a low carbon future.
Protecting biodiversity, air, land 2013, compared to 119,585tCO2e in 2012 We monitor the carbon intensity of the including emissions from electricity we and water quality power we generate, which in 2013 was purchase for use.
We have systems in place at site level 200gCO2 kWh 2012: 200gCO2 kWh.
to assess and manage these impacts.
We report on an equity basis with practices Our 2020 target is 260gCO2 kWh.
This In 2013, we contributed to research to combined from WRI WBCSD Greenhouse represents a 40% reduction on intensity help catalogue basking sharks near wind Gas Protocol, IPIECAs Petroleum Industry levels in 2008, whilst reflecting increased farm projects in the Irish Sea Zone.
We Guidelines for Reporting Greenhouse Gas demand for gas generation.
We are on also developed our operating principles Emissions and DEFRAs Environmental course to meet the target.
for onshore natural gas exploration and Reporting Guidelines.
See the Basis of We are most able to control CO2 emissions extraction, providing a framework for Reporting at centrica.
com CRassurance from our property, fleet and travel.
We protecting biodiversity and communities for more details.
have achieved a 19% reduction in these in an open and transparent way.
working with our partners Embracing new technologies and Collaborating with our wider Collaborating closely with partners sources of supply to maintain energy stakeholder groups helps us tackle social and We engage with stakeholders in a variety security for our customers of ways, from daily interactions to formal environmental impacts.
Maintaining secure sources of energy committees.
Our Corporate Responsibility for our customers is a core deliverable Embedding responsible practices in Advisory Group met three times in 2013, for our business and particularly critical advising on our smart grids, shale gas, our supply chain and with our partners in the UK which is increasingly dependent business ethics and community investment on imported gas.
We are collaborating We work with suppliers to understand and activities.
We also held multi-stakeholder with partners to explore new onshore manage social and environmental risks in forums to gain insights on the development sources of gas in the UK and we are our supply chain.
In 2013, we introduced a of our four CR themes and corporate piloting ways to reduce demand on the risk management system to help manage responsibility reporting.
electricity grid through an initiative known social and environmental risks in our supply as the Customer Led Network Revolution British Gas continued its work with strategic chain.
We have assessed over 70 strategic partner Shelter, jointly campaigning to raise CLNR.
For example, we have piloted suppliers in 2013.
Collectively, their risk time-of-use tariffs that offer cheaper standards in the private rented sector.
score was 49 low risk, better than a British Gas Business also continued to run energy at certain times.
Participating multi-industry average of 41 medium risk.
customers used 3% less energy overall their Engagement Panel in 2013 with over We will continue to assess suppliers and 350 enterprise and corporate customers and there was a 10% reduction in energy work with those who need to improve.
We also held supplier forums to foster collaboration and share best practices.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 | 41
