ouR PERFoRmAnCE: ouR CoRPoRATE RESPonSIBILITY REvIEW our corporate responsIbIlIty revIew WE AIm To BE THE BEST AT THE ISSuES THAT mATTER moST To ouR BuSInESS And ouR KEY STAKEHoLdERS.
WE ARE THE LEAdIng uK REIT on A numBER oF KEY SuSTAInABILITY IndICES.
This year we have made good progress, through our strong relationships with our Apprenticeships occupiers, onsite building management teams and development partners.
For example, we have achieved further energy reductions.
We have also worked more closely with our major suppliers, local people and other partners to understand and address local issues, with a particular focus on training and employment initiatives.
We report to the global Reporting Initiative B standard and EPRA Best Practice Recommendations.
We are also a signatory to the un global Compact.
our key performance data is independently assured under the ISAE 3000 standard.
2012 susTAInABILITy IndICes envIRonmenTAL AWARds InCLude CdP Carbon disclosure Leadership Index C IBSE Carbon Champion of the Year 2013. and Performance Leadership Index Property Week Sustainability Achievement Rita Hira, one of 11 apprentices British Land only REIT globally on both.
Award 2013. has co-funded at Meadowhall Shopping management Todays most Admired nAREIT global Recognition Leader in the Centre in Sheffield over the last two years Companies in Britain leading REIT for Light Award 2012. through The Source Skills Academy, a 5.5 Community and Environmental EndS green Business Awards for Energy million retail training centre set up by British Responsibility.
Land and Sheffield City Council in 2003. dow Jones Sustainability Index listed Some 75 apprentices have also been learning member.
BusIness In THe CommunITy AWARds while they earn at our developments with FTSE4good Index listed member.
Arts and Business Award in London 2013. more supported through the supply chain, global Real Estate Sustainability Benchmark Building Stronger Communities Awards for instance in steel manufacturing.
EPRA Sustainability Reporting awarded gold.
Local Impact Award in Hull 2013. performance summary key 2015 TARgeTs 2012 13 PeRFoRmAnCe Together with recent information relating to financial savings and capital investment To achieve 40% less landlord-influenced 38% less landlordinfluenced energy use across our likeforlike portfolio, saving occupiers energy use across our existing portfolio 5.2 million over the last four years and cutting carbon emissions by 39,500 tonnes.
2.2 million investment in energy reductions over the last three years.
To get planning permission for a showcase developed a shortlist of projects for the showcase project, where we can push the sustainable building by 2015. boundaries of sustainable design, responsible construction, ethical procurement and community engagement.
To send zero managed waste to landfill 90% diverted from landfill at our properties 2011 12: 88%.
95% of waste at our developments diverted from landfill 2011 12: 98%.
3.5 million landfill tax savings through recycling and reuse over the last three years.
0.3 million investment in waste management over the last three years.
64% progress on our Community Charter in the first year.
To implement our Community Charter at 20.9 million contributed to communities through the planning process all our major properties and developments 2011 12: 11.6 million.
1.3 million community investment, through cash, time and gifts inkind 2011 12 1.1 million.
To maintain one star accreditation in The one Star accreditation in The Sunday Times Best Companies to Work for sunday Times Best Companies to Work for.
To score 8 out of 10 on customer satisfaction 7.8 out of 10 uK customer satisfaction score 2011: 7.6, outperforming the industry with British Land by 2013. benchmark of 5.1.
60 The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 directors report and business review ovERvIEW undERSTAndIng ouR STRATEgY OUR PERFORMANCE govERnAnCE FInAnCIAL STATEmEnTS And oTHER InFoRmATIon ouR PERFoRmAnCE: ouR CoRPoRATE RESPonSIBILITY REvIEW Corporate responsibility information is integrated throughout this Report.
For more information on: See our strategy P3839 See Risks P4447 See governance P79 See EPRA Sustainability Reporting Index P169 For more detail on our performance and strategy www.
com crreport FoCus on ouR soCIo-eConomIC FoCus on ouR CARBon FooTPRInT influenced energy use and travel to and ConTRIBuTIons We have been measuring our Scope 1 and 2 from our properties.
our challenge now There is much debate about how we might emissions where we have most influence is determining the extent to which we can rebalance the uK economy and ensure that since 2005 and actively managing them since influence reductions in these emissions.
all regions benefit from economic growth.
As a result, we have achieved significant our second review of our economic impacts reductions in absolute emissions and even therefore focused on how our major greater reductions on a normalised basis.
construction projects benefit communities We aim to reduce our likeforlike emissions around the uK, creating local employment Scope 1 and 2 by 40% by 2015, compared and supporting economic growth.
33% our 2011 to 2015 committed development In recent years, we have increasingly focused Like-for-like carbon emission reduction programme will: on our wider Scope 3 emissions where we scope 1 and 2 since 2009 Contribute 1.2 billion to the uK economy have less influence.
We have commissioned gross value added.
several studies exploring embodied carbon Support 32,300 jobs during construction in our developments, publishing this data benefiting communities around the uK.
This year, we also commissioned a review of emissions relating to energy purchased directly by For more detail on our carbon footprint occupiers in our buildings beyond landlord www.
directors report and business review The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 61
