SUSTAINABILITY Our performance The suite of targets we developed for 2013 were our most comprehensive to date, and presented us with some positive challenges.
A refinement of our 2012 targets, they were designed to maintain good levels of momentum across our business functions whilst introducing new aspects that we felt were important to explore and measure.
Our 2013 targets focused across the key business functions, namely corporate, development, asset building management PAUL WILLIAMS and leasing.
This provided greater clarity EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR Achieved 88% and ownership for our teams and enabled Partially achieved 6% easier performance monitoring via our new 2013 has seen us achieve a great deal and sustainability dashboard.
The dashboard Not achieved 3% Iampleased to say that sustainability has been has been developed as a reporting tool for Not applicable 3% drawn even closer to the core of our business.
both our Executive and Sustainability Committees to monitor performance We have continued to challenge ourselves by and intervene where required.
introducing our toughest and most focused set ofperformance targets to date.
Our performance For 2013 94% of our targets either against these hasbeen excellent, clearly were achieved or partially achieved reflecting the level of hard work and commitment 2012: 83%.
2013 performance highlights This strong performance has been reflected externally with a number of awards.
Our Green Star status in the Global Real Estate Sustainability Benchmark GRESB was 7% reconfirmed with top quartile performances in reduction in our GHG emissions nearly allsectors.
For the first time we are now across our like-for-like portfolio listed in the CDP Climate Disclosure Leadership Index and have increased our rating score by 11points from 78 to 89.
The quality of our reporting has also attracted 2% praise with both our 2012 Report and Accounts and Sustainability Report receiving gold awards increase in our recycling rate across in the EPRAReporting Awards a first for our whole managed portfolio theCompany.
Also work has commenced on our latest low carbon development the White Collar Factory at Old Street EC1.
This project willsee us champion 70,000 the next generation ofoffice space that is resource awarded to projects in year one of the efficient, flexible, and adaptable to user needs.
Fitzrovia Community Investment Fund I hope the summary in the following pages gives you a sense of our achievements, and the significant stepswe have taken.
5,474,381 community contributions via planning Outstanding BREEAM rating for rooftop scheme atMorelands Buildings EC1 58 S St tr ra at te eg giic c r repor eport t Sustainability embedded in our business model ACQUIRE CREATE PROPERTIES AND OPTIMISE WELL-DESIGNED UNLOCK THEIR INCOME OFFICE SPACE POTENTIAL MAINTAIN RECYCLE ROBUST AND CAPITAL FLEXIBLE FINANCING JOHN DAVIES HEAD OF SUSTAINABILITY We have made great progress in refreshing our approach to sustainability.
As part of this SUSTAINABILITY process, we have put in place a number of POLICY AND STRATEGY key tools and mechanisms, which will allow us to operate more efficiently and enable us to improve our performance.
Our new approach is encapsulated in our revised policy and strategy, which can befound at www.
These documents set out what sustainability means to our business, what is important to usand our stakeholders and what our strategic priorities are going forward.
Moreover, they willbe used to help us define and focus on stretching performance criteria in areas that aremost relevant to our business performance.
Our Fitzrovia Community Investment Fund, the initiative we launched last year to strengthen our community engagement work, has now Employees Our policy on gender diversity is contained completed its first year with 70,000 awarded The continued success of the business within the Directors report on pages 78 to five local organisations projects.
Some of would not be possible without our and 79and the split of employees and the these projects have already delivered some employees.
We have a team of just over Board by gender at the end of 2013 was major improvements to the local area.
Year two 100 people from different backgrounds and as follows: of the fund was launched at the beginning of cultures who are experts in their chosen 2014 with 70,000 again being made available fields.
We provide an environment with a real Female Male for initiatives in the local area.
sense of teamwork and passion throughout Employees incl.
Directors 47 66 the business with a strong collaborative Senior management, To complement this summary our approach.
As a result we have a low staff other than Directors 3 10 comprehensive annual sustainability turnover of 7%.
Directors 1 12 report, which can be found at www.
com sustainability, To maintain their high level of expertise and This report does not contain information setsout the detail behind our work and to perform in their roles most efficiently, we about any policies of the Company in achievements, together with our datasets provide relevant training via a number of relation to human rights issues since it is not andmeasurement indicators.
internal and external initiatives including considered necessary for an understanding technical knowledge share workshops led of the Groups business activities.
We encourage the Group monitors its supply chain to our employees to get involved in our consider the impact of its activities on community engagement activities and human rights, in particular staff welfare in 2013 we introduced a more formal standards.
For example, we recently volunteering programme.
reviewed pay structures with our operational supply chain to ensure that all full time staff members working in our buildings received at least the London Living Wage.
59 Our refreshed approach Our sustainability map In our 2012 report, we committed to undertake a comprehensive review of our approach to Vision sustainability to redefine our vision and strategy, SUSTAINABILITY POLICY and draw sustainability further into our business.
We have looked at our internal controls, processes and aspirations and combined this with a review of SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY Direction Long-term priorities external best practice.
Furthermore, we analysed our stakeholder needs in detail to form the basis from which to refresh our approach.
Designing Managing Creating Engaging and delivering our assets value in the and developing The revised policy is woven into the business assets responsibly community our employees models five core strands.
responsibly We have developed four strategic priorities, which are fundamental to our business and to the needs of our stakeholders.
Strategic priorities are: Delivery EMBEDDING SUSTAINABILITY mechanism Designing and delivering buildings responsibly: INTO THE BUSINESS providing inherently sustainable spaces, which Sustainability Sustainability Community Appraisal reduce carbon emissions and running costs, framework for framework strategy and training let well, and achieve better long-term values.
developments for assets strategy Managing our assets responsibly: undertaking rigorous management to maximise our asset performance, deliver resource efficiency Enablers Project Post Socio-economic Training savings, and enable our customers to operate sustainability occupancy footprinting needs their spaces efficiently.
assessments evaluations analysis Community Creating value in the community: Sustainable Building investment Personal supporting the communities in which we operate contract sustainability fund development provisions reviews reviews to enable measurable value creation and develop and maintain strong relationships.
Sustainable contract Engaging and developing our employees: provisions creating the right environment for our employees by encouraging opportunities for individuals and teams to realise their full potential, thereby enabling our business to achieve its strategic goals and targets.
Performance MONTHLY QUARTERLY ANNUALLY monitoring Internal management Sustainability committee Full Board report We have created a sustainability map which sets dashboard and executive Board and annual report out a revised delivery framework and provides us reporting with the right mechanisms and enablers to meet the requirements of our policy and strategy.
Further information on our refreshed approach and the latest versions of our sustainability policy and strategy can be found on our website www.
Looking ahead During 2014 we will be working closely with our internal teams and external supply chains to embed our new priorities and roll out our revised approach.
We will be monitoring this approach to ensure it is working effectively and delivering the required outcomes.
We look forward to reporting our progress next year.
60 Our 2014 targets Building on our 2013 performance, we have developed a set of targets for 2014 that we believe will stretch us even further, but will also allow us to develop new initiatives that will have long lasting benefit for our business.
We set out below our targets for 2014.
Designing & delivering buildings responsibly Aspect Target Project sustainability plan All new projects to create and maintain a project sustainability plan BREEAM EcoHomes Achieve a minimum of BREEAM Excellent for all new build projects Code for sustainable homes Achieve a minimum of BREEAM Very Good for all major refurbishment projects Achieve a minimum of EcoHomes Very Good for residential or Code Level 4 Energy & carbon Minimum of a B rating for new build.
Minimum of a C for all major refurbishments 2 All new build and refurbishment projects 5,000m 100% of meters to be AMR capable and installed All new build and major refurbishment projects at RIBA Stage C to undertake an embodied carbon assessment in line with the Derwent London embodied carbon brief for developments 2 3 2 Water All new build and refurbishment projects 5,000m to be designed to achieve mains water usage of better than 0.50m m or less Waste Divert 90% of total construction and demolition waste tonnage from landfill Materials All new build and major refurbishment projects to ensure that a minimum of 15% of the total value of materials used contain recycled and or reused content, measured using the WRAP Net Waste Tool 100% of timber procured to be from FSC or PEFC sources Biodiversity All new build and major refurbishment projects to achieve a net gain in biodiversity as measured through BREEAM or change of ecological value through EcoHomes Managing our assets responsibly Aspect Target Energy & carbon Phase 1 AMR metering programme to be complete by mid 2014.
Phase 2 tenant sub-metering engagement programme to begin mid 2014 and uptake to be monitored and reported Establish a portfolio energy usage baseline during 2014 from which an appropriate reduction target can be set for 2015 onward Each managed property to develop an energy management plan to support the delivery of a portfolio reduction target Carry out a post-occupancy energy performance evaluation on all new build and major refurbishment projects once occupied for more than 12 months Carry out at least two energy performance evaluations on existing multi-let buildings in the managed portfolio Waste Send zero waste to landfill from properties for which Derwent London has waste management control Achieve a 60% recycling rate for managed waste in all properties for which Derwent London has control over waste management 3 2 Water Maintain portfolio mains water consumption below 0.50m m Establish a portfolio usage baseline during 2014 from which appropriate reduction targets can be set for 2015 and beyond Each managed property to develop a water management plan to support the delivery of a portfolio reduction target Biodiversity Implement the recommendations from the biodiversity action plan on five buildings in the managed portfolio Customers Produce at least two editions of the newly proposed tenant sustainability newsletter during 2014 Review the tenant fit-out sign off and alterations process to introduce robust sustainability sign off procedures Develop and deliver one tenant awareness campaign across our managed portfolio Creating value in the community Aspect Target Community strategy Investigate and develop an appropriate company-wide community strategy during 2014 Community engagement Develop and successfully deliver year 2 programme of the Fitzrovia Community Investment fund Skills Provide at least two work experience mentoring placements Socio-economic Carry out a socio-economic assessment on all major projects once occupied for more than 12 months to establish net impact benefit assessment of the development Engaging & developing our employees Aspect Target Staff volunteering 15% increase in the uptake of the employee volunteering programme Staff training Refresh and revamp our annual and mid-year employee performance review process Knowledge Undertake three further technical knowledge share presentations Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2013 61
