Our approach to sustainability Reviewed annually, the Groups sustainability objectives and We recognise that the long-term value targets are designed to address our key sustainability risks and ofour business depends on our ability reect the three stages of our property cycle: investment: asset: and development management.
To ensure that these goals are tomanage environmental, social and incorporated in our day-to-day operations, our annual targets are economic issues.
These are embedded also included within relevant individual employees objectives and targets.
Progress is monitored through our sustainability tracker within our core property activities of at each Royal Institute of British Architects RIBA stage on our development, asset and investment developments, through quarterly reviews by our Health and Safety, Environment and Corporate Responsibility Working Group management, supported by our people.
and annually by our external assurance consultants, Deloitte.
Management systems are also in place to monitor compliance with day-to-day risks.
For more information on our achievement against our 2013 objectives and targets and our 2014 objectives and targets see www.
co. uk responsibility our-approach  Board oversight The Board has responsibility for the approval of policy relating to social, environmental, ethical and health and safety matters and is determined to apply standards to all areas in which the Group operates including the management of the joint venture operations on behalf of the joint venture partners.
The Board approves the Groups sustainability strategy, objectives and targets annually in light of the Groups material sustainability risks.
Annual reports on sustainability and health and safety are With a high level of engagement from all our provided by the Head of Sustainability as part of the Companys teams, weare well placed to continue to adapt to, annual strategy review and regular reports are received during the andoutperform, current and forthcoming course of the year from Neil Thompson, as Portfolio Director and Executive Director responsible for health and safety.
Janine Cole Head of Sustainability Our strategic sustainability objectives Enhance long-term value by considering sustainability risks in Engage our people to support strategic investment cycles and by communicating sustainability priorities.
Workplace Investment management Sustainability strategy Development management Asset management Reduce the risk of obsolescence and Meet changing tenant needs, minimise enhance long-term value by developing voids and manage efficient buildings.
56 Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2013 Business ethics Investment management We aspire to the highest standards of conduct based on honesty We recognise the importance of including sustainability and transparency in everything we do.
Our Ethics policy sets out considerations within our investment decisions.
We have, the Groups approach in its relations with tenants, the local therefore, introduced a sustainability checklist which is now community, investors, employees, suppliers and regulators.
being used by teams conducting our due diligence on property acquisitions.
See our Ethics and Whistleblowing policies at www.
co. uk about-us governance-overview During the year, as part of our objective to review the Energy Performance Certicate ratings of our properties in preparation Property industry representation and for the introduction of minimum energy performance standards, investment in activities to improve and we have produced a watch list of lower rated properties to ensure support central London that we maximise opportunities to improve ratings across our Directors and senior management are encouraged to represent portfolio.
The below chart shows EPC ratings for our properties.
the Groups views and contribute to the development of the Our Energy Performance Certicate ratings property industry.
The Group also supports a number of organisations including the New West End Company, B Westminster Property Association, British Property Federation, C 13 12 13 British Council for Ofces and the Baker Street Quarter in their D work to improve and promote central London.
E 38 Under active F review For more details see our Directors biographies on pages G 46 and 47 and our website at www.
co. uk responsibility 281 Energy communities 153 Certificates 52 Communicating our approach In October 2012, we were highly commended in PwCs Building Public Trust for Excellence in Reporting in the FTSE 250 and in November 2012, we were awarded the ICSA Hermes 2012 In 2018, the Government proposes to introduce minimum energy Transparency in Governance Award for the best FTSE 250 performance standards which will ban the letting of F and G Annual Report.
It is also anticipated that revisions to The Company participates in the Carbon Disclosure Project the Building Regulations may result in current E Ratings falling to annually and in 2012 13 was placed in its Carbon Leadership F or G. Of our E, F and G rated buildings, 31% are currently Index for the second year running.
The Company is also a being redeveloped or will be substantially refurbished by 2018 constituent of the FTSE 4Good Index.
For the first time we took leading to improved Energy Performance Certicate ratings.
part in the Global Real Estate Sustainability Benchmark and were The remaining E, F and G rated properties are being actively awarded a Green Star.
We also received a silver award for our reviewed to ensure that action is taken to improve energy efforts to align our reporting with EPRA guidelines.
efficiency within landlord areas whilst tenants are in occupation and on individual oors, as and when, tenants vacate.
Assurance Deloitte LLP has provided independent assurance in accordance with International Standards on Assurance Engagements 3000 ISAE 3000 over the statements made within the Groups Annual Report and Accounts relating to its sustainability activities.
This related to achievement against 2012 13 Sustainability Objectives and Targets and energy consumption data for the year ended 31 March 2013.
The related assurance statements can be viewed at www.
co. uk responsibility our-approach  Annual Report 2013 Great Portland Estates 57 Our approach to sustainability Asset management In preparation for the introduction of mandatory reporting of greenhouse gas emissions required from 1 October 2013, a summary of our greenhouse gas emissions can be found below: 1 Carbon emissions for the year ended 31 March 2013 % increase 2012 13 2011 12 decrease 2 Direct carbon emissions tonnes CO e 2,495 1,757 42 2 3 Indirect carbon emissions tonnes CO2e 6,833 7,018 3 Total Carbon Emissions tonnes CO2e 9,328 8,775 6 2 4 Carbon Emissions Intensity Measure tonnes CO2e per m 0.0518 0.0530 2 5 Like-for-like total carbon emissions tonnes CO2e 5,433 5,138 6 2 6 Like-for-like Carbon Emissions Intensity Measure tonnes CO2e per m 0.0577 0.0545 6 1.
This information has been prepared using the financial control approach based on guidance issued by DEFRA and the Greenhouse Gas Protocol.
Direct carbon emissions from the combustion of gas and oil at our managed properties i. e. from boilers.
Indirect carbon emissions from the purchase of electricity used within common areas and within landlord controlled plant.
This gure also includes usage of electricity at our head ofce.
Carbon intensity ratio per total square metres oor area of our managed property portfolio.
Total carbon emissions from properties which have been in continuous management for the years 2011 12 and 2012 13.
Carbon intensity ratio per total square metres oor area of our like-for-like managed property portfolio.
Our indirect carbon emissions have decreased during the year following a number of initiatives undertaken to improve the efficiency of air conditioning systems.
However, total carbon emissions for the year ended March 2013 increased by 6% due to an increase in gas usage, largely caused by the extended heating season due to the longer winter.
As a result of the analysis of gas consumption data, we have identied a number of opportunities to improve the efficiency of our heating systems to reduce gas consumption during the year ending March 2014.
Reducing energy consumption at our properties We recognise the importance of reducing energy consumption at our properties.
For the year ending March 2014, we have set a target to reduce the energy consumption of our properties by 2.5% across 75% of our like-for-like managed properties.
In order to achieve this target we have implemented the following: incentivised our contractors and Building Managers to bring potential energy efficiencies to our attention: extended our programme of energy case studies to a further ten buildings: and increased tenant engagement by committing to introducing Environmental Working Groups at all properties over 100,000 sq ft.
In 2012, we introduced our first Environmental Working Groups at 200 Grays Inn Road, WC1.
58 Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2013 This year, we have increased tenant engagement on sustainability Sourcing materials responsibly with energy consumption data routinely provided at tenant Many of the materials used within our developments have meetings.
At 200 Grays Inn Road, our most energy intensive complex supply chains.
We want to know that the developments property, we have introduced an Environmental Working Group we are creating are being built with responsibly sourced materials.
for tenants, which has been well received and our Engineering For this reason we require all major developments to achieve Manager based at the property is now working with our tenants Forest Stewardship Council Project Certication and are on a number of energy saving initiatives.
For the year ending increasingly selecting other materials such as concrete and steel March 2014, we plan to introduce Environmental Working Groups based on their environmental credentials.
at all our properties over 100,000 sq ft.
The energy and carbon dioxide used to manufacture and transport construction materials can make up a significant Development management proportion of the total greenhouse gas emissions associated with In order to ensure the longevity and exibility of our developments, a building.
Working with our architects, services consultants and four key areas we consider to be fundamental to our approach are: principal contractors, we have set a longer-term target to anticipating market needs: undertake lifecycle analysis of the structure, cladding and services of three of our new development projects over the next two years outperforming environmental standards: in order to understand the total carbon emissions associated with sourcing materials responsibly: and the production of the materials used to construct our buildings reducing waste.
and to help inform our selection processes.
Anticipating market needs Reducing waste Through talking to our tenants and our involvement with the By taking a leading role in the use of Building Information British Council for Ofces, we are seeing an increasing number Modelling we have found that the system provides considerable of occupiers looking to occupy their buildings at greater densities 2 scope for reducing waste on-site through improved construction than the current market norm of 1:10 one person to ten m. sequencing, offsite manufacture and designing out waste This often results in tenants having to undertake significant produced during the construction process.
This helps decrease modications to plant and equipment resulting in increased costs unnecessary packaging, deliveries and waste collections, to them and unnecessary waste.
To maximise the appeal of our in addition to reducing construction costs.
buildings, reduce costs to tenants and eliminate avoidable waste we are designing all our speculative new build developments for an occupancy of at least 1:8.
Improving efficiency Outperforming environmental standards on our developments In order to reduce obsolescence and to ensure that our new developments are attractive to the widest possible market, we believe it is essential to outperform current environmental standards.
As a matter of routine we look to develop buildings with energy efficiency at least 25% above Part L Building Regulations 2010.
Where BREEAM requirements are updated, we carry out a gap analysis on current projects to review how our developments can be adapted to achieve new requirements.
This process was undertaken at our 95 Wigmore Street project where the project was originally designed to achieve BREEAM Excellent based on 2008 requirements and was then updated to reect 2011 requirements.
Similarly, despite the original design BIM models for 12 14 New Fetter Lane, EC4 being undertaken in 2005, our 240 Blackfriars Road Building Information Modelling is used on all our major development will now achieve BREEAM Excellent under development sites to improve collaboration between the 2011 requirements.
design team and the contractors to: In order to monitor achievement against our corporate targets, identify and solve design issues in a virtual environment our Sustainable Development Brief and Tracker, launched in May before starting on site: 2012, are applied to all projects, with the Tracker reviewed at reduce waste on site by improved sequencing and each RIBA stage to ensure that key targets and benchmarks are increased offsite manufacture: and met.
The Tracker, bespoke to each project, is updated at least improve the energy efficiency of the building through annually to ensure that it reects our corporate targets, current enhanced energy modelling.
legislative requirements and known future requirements and anticipates revisions to industry standards such as BREEAM As a signatory to the WRAP Halving Waste to Landll Campaign, and LEED.
we have also set stretching targets for the management of demolition and construction waste, requiring that 95% of non-hazardous demolition waste and 90% of non-hazardous construction waste be diverted from landll.
Annual Report 2013 Great Portland Estates 59 Our approach to sustainability Delivering truly sustainable buildings At 240 Blackfriars Road, we have ensured a pragmatic approach to sustainability from design principles through to operation Despite the original design being undertaken in 2005, following changes in BREEAM requirements, we have undertaken a gap analysis to ensure the design of our 240 Blackfriars Road development has been updated to achieve BREEAM Excellent under 2011 requirements.
240 Blackfriars Road, SE1 BREEAM 2011 Excellent EPC rating: B with a score of 37 Occupancy at 1:8 FSC Project certication design Through the building design we will: Through the use of innovative exceed Building Regulations energy efficiency requirements Part L 2010 by 28%.
tools and construction reduce energy consumption by 19% through introducing techniques we have ensured energy efficient systems such as: that from design to operation High efficiency solar control glazing: wewill deliver a highly LED lighting in ofce areas: Mechanical heat recovery: efficientbuilding.
High efficiency chillers: Martin Quinn Project Manager PhotoVoltaic cells: exceed water saving baseline gures by 50% through: The use of highly efficient sanitary ttings: Our teams Using an innovative approach to commissioning and testing of the water services to reduce the quantity of water used from an estimated Development management 1,460,000 to 146,000 litres: and Asset management enhance biodiversity by introducing ground landscaping.
60 Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2013 construction operation During construction we are: Once the building is operational we will: ensuring that concrete and cement products have been optimise the building management systems performance responsibly sourced from manufacturers who hold a current through seasonal commissioning of all systems: BES 6001 certicate: complete a post occupancy evaluation one year after diverting an average of 95% of non-hazardous construction building occupation: waste from landll: ensure that building staff are fully trained on the ecological and designing out waste during procurement and construction, energy efficiency features of the property: 2 with a reduction of 6.5 tonnes per 100m of gross internal area ensure that tenants are fully informed of the sustainable and against industry standards: energy efficient features of the property through the tenant t registered with the Considerate Constructors scheme and have out guide and tenant guide: achieved a score of 36 out of 40 on our most recent audit: monitor energy and water usage on a monthly basis in both providing local employment and training through the provision tenant and landlord spaces in order to assess building operation of NVQ courses and Jobstart schemes: and against projected standards: and ensuring our dedicated Neighbourhood liaison manager has ensure energy and water usage is provided to occupiers through regular interaction with local schools and colleges.
Annual Report 2013 Great Portland Estates 61 Our approach to sustainability Investment management Opportunity Risk Stakeholder Objective By adapting in advance of Adverse regulatory risk.
Tenants Enhance long-term value by regulatory changes we reduce Investors considering sustainability risks obsolescence and increase the in investment cycles and exibility of our assets.
communicating our approach to investors.
Employees Investors By participating in appropriate Communication with Investors indices we ensure that our shareholders.
sustainability reporting is accessible to potential investors and analysts.
Asset management Opportunity Risk Stakeholder Objective Engagement with tenants Adverse regulatory risk.
Tenants To meet changing tenant needs, improves performance on minimise voids and manage sustainability and reduces costs buildings efficiently.
By maintaining positive relationships with our tenants it Failure to maximise income from enables us to manage our void investment properties through rate in accordance with our wider low tenant retention.
62 Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2013 Target Achieved Assess the potential impact on An assessment was carried out with a watch list produced of EPC E, F and G our business strategy of the rated properties.
100% proposed ban from 2018 on the We recognise the potential risk of the proposed letting of EPC F and G rated buildings by March 2013. introduction of the minimum energy performance standards on the letting strategies of our lower rated 2014 Target buildings.
Our Asset Managers are already working 2013 target extended to include with both our Building Services Manager and Building E rated properties and buildings wholly managed by tenants.
Surveyors to ensure that where tenants vacate, we take the opportunity to improve EPC ratings.
Hugh Morgan, Head of Investment Management Review and enhance the Our new sustainability checklist was used for our recent purchases of integration of sustainability into Minerva House, SE1 and Orchard Court, W1.
Participate in the Global Real Great Portland Estates plc was awarded Estate Sustainability Benchmark a Green Star in the 2012 GRESB Index.
Target Achieved Increase the quantity of waste 87% of waste generated by the Group at our recycled at all managed 100% properties from a baseline managed buildings is recycled.
This has saved our of 43% in 2010 to 60% by March 2013. tenants over 41,750 in landll tax.
2014 Target Target increased to 90% Introduce an Environmental Our Environmental Working Group now meets quarterly.
Working Group for tenants 100% To be effective, it is essential that tenants and landlords at 200 Grays Inn Road, WC1.
The Environmental 2014 Target Working Group at 200 Grays Inn Road has been To introduce Environmental successful in introducing a number of measures from Working Groups at all properties energy efficient lighting in landlord areas to improving over 100,000 sq ft waste management and recycling facilities.
Keith Cass, Director of Technology, ITN Achieve a tenant retention rate of Tenant retention rate of 87% excluding developments.
70% or over i. e. tenant renews 100% at lease expiry or does not After a number of difficult landlords, Great Portland exercise the break option at our Estates plc has been a revelation for us as tenants.
investment properties for the GPEhave made extending our lease as straightforward period April 2012 to March 2013 where in compliance with the as possible andIhope that when it does become time asset strategy.
forus to move to alternative premises, GPE will find another suitable property from their estate for us tooccupy.
Tom McLaughlin, Director, JLA To enhance the tenant guide The tenant guide has been updated for best practice and our experience of what for all managed properties by works well.
This revised guide is being rolled out to all properties as tenants sign 100% March 2013. new leases.
Annual Report 2013 Great Portland Estates 63 Our approach to sustainability Development management Opportunity Risk Stakeholder Objective By diverting waste from landll Poor development returns Suppliers To reduce the risk of we reduce the impact on the relating to the quality and obsolescence and enhance environment and reduce costs benchmark of the completed long-term value by developing associated with landll tax.
By using reputable suppliers who Poor development returns Suppliers source materials from sustainable relating to the quality and sources we develop properties benchmark of the completed with good sustainability building.
credentials, enhancing their appeal to the widest variety of potential occupiers.
By engaging with the Reputational risk.
Community communities in which we develop we minimise the risk of planning objections and delays.
Workplace Opportunity Risk Stakeholder Objective By developing our people we Failure to develop, motivate and Our people To ensure employee personal seek to improve their personal job retain our people.
development through relevant satisfaction whilst enhancing the training.
To build on our reputation as a Loss or injury to employees, Tenants and the community, To provide a safe and healthy company that people want to tenants, the public and suppliers and employees working environment for all work with.
contractors and resultant employees and contractors reputational damage.
working on premises, visiting members of the public and all others affected by the activities of the Company.
64 Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2013 658 588 408 58 44 40 Target Achieved Divert 90% of non-hazardous 99% of our construction waste was diverted construction and t out waste fromlandfill.
100% from landll for projects starting James Pellatt, Head of Projects after 1 April 2012.
2014 Target Target retained All projects currently on site are on track to achieve this target, with our completed Achieve FSC project certication development at 33 Margaret Street, awaiting conrmation of project certication.
for every completed new 100% development.
Where project certication is not appropriate to the size of the project, achieve a rate of 90% certied timber.
As an SME we have found the Great Portland Estates requirement toachieve FSC Project certification challenging, and this has resulted 2014 Target Target retained inuschanging our processes and procedures in order to achieve full chain of custody.
Tony Groves, Managing Director, Faithdean Working with our construction A number of initiatives have been undertaken by our construction partners, varying partners, identify and support from apprenticeships, school visits and tours by Westminster University.
100% relevant community initiatives on We have enjoyed close liaison with Great Portland all projects with construction FORWARD costs above 10,000,000.
Estates plc on their 95 Wigmore Street scheme, which THINKING has included building tours, presentations and work 2014 Target placements whichhas informed our students Target retained coursework in a very positive way.
We are grateful to the GPE teams who have supported us and very much hope that we can continue anddevelop this in the future.
Jane Wright, Head of Department of Property and Construction, Westminster University Target Achieved Provide an average of at least 2.9 days training provided per employee 1.5 days training per employee 100% Total number of training hours per annum.
100% Number of reportable injuries 0 1 2 Achieve zero reportable incidents.
First aid injuries 5 2 6 0% Work related fatalities 0 0 0 Achieve zero prohibition notices or fines.
Number of Enforcement Agency 100% prosecutions or fines 0 0 0 2014 Target Number of prohibition notices 0 0 0 Target retained Employee accidents and incidents 0 0 2 Number of employee days off work 0 0 0 Annual Report 2013 Great Portland Estates 65 Environmental Governance and Estate Finance Health & IT human resources Management Safety development Section 3 Financials In this section we present our financial statements for the year, prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards.
68 Group income statement 68 Group statement of comprehensive income 69 Group balance sheet 70 Group statement of cash ows 71 Group statement of changes in equity 72 Notes forming part of the Group financial statements 93 Independent auditors report 94 Company balance sheet UK GAAP 95 Notes forming part of the Company financial statements 97 Company independent auditors report 66 Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2013 Annual Report 2013 Great Portland Estates 67
