Our people How we operate Our team brings together specialist Our culture is entrepreneurial and pragmatic, with a high level skillsused to manage our portfolio of involvement from senior and executive management and onanasset byasset basis to deliver our an emphasis on cross discipline teamwork.
We recognise the benets of such a positive culture and work hard to maintain strategicpriorities.
it through: a at management structure: regular and effective communication with an open door policy: a formal induction process for new joiners: regular meetings held weekly, monthly and quarterly across the various teams on different aspects of the business: encouraging our people to be innovative, to think outside the box and have a can do attitude: a disciplined approach providing clear policies and procedures and instilling a strong sense of responsibility for active risk management: a collegiate style, with recognition of a projects success being based upon the contribution and smooth interaction of every member of the team: recruiting high quality individuals with a constructive mindset Our company culture lies at the heart of and valuable experience: ourability to achieve our strategic priorities.
matching the right people to the right roles and taking action Itdrivesour operational success and helps where there are gaps: usattract, develop, motivate and retain an effective performance management system: ourtalented employees.
providing well constructed and fair reward systems designed Toby Courtauld Chief Executive to incentivise superior performance and align employees and shareholders interests: ensuring continual improvement of the skills and competency Operational measures of our employees at all levels and across all disciplines through appropriate training and development courses: and 2013 2012 fostering a friendly environment which engenders a strong Employee retention 94% 87% camaraderie.
Days training provided per employee 2.9 2.3 Our team Employees participating in Our team brings together specialist skills used to manage our Share Incentive Plan 73% 78% portfolio on an asset by asset basis to ensure the achievement of our strategic priorities across the lifecycle of our buildings.
For more on what our teams have done during the year see: Investment management page 30 Development management page 32 Asset management page 34 Financial management page 36 48 Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2013 46 37 20 6 8 3 1 Gender diversity Senior Middle Junior management level management level management level Diversity Our culture is grounded in mutual respect and non-discrimination irrespective of age, disability, gender, race, religion, sexual orientation or educational background.
Whilst our policy remains that selection should be based on the best person for the role, we recognise the benets of gender My induction process was diversity and will continue to ensure that this is taken into account extremely informative and gave when considering any particular appointment.
me an excellent overview of Where possible, we support part-time working and exible hours how GPE operates.
with 14% of employees enjoying some form of exible working practices.
Bashir Elswahli Service Charge Accountant Retention, training and development Employee profile number of employees as at 31 March 2013 Our ability to attract and retain talented and committed individuals is based on three key building blocks: Executive Directors an effective performance management system: Asset Management 3 Investment Management a well-constructed and fair reward system designed to Development Management 26 incentivise superior performance and align employees Financial Management and shareholders interests: and 31 83 continual improvement of the skills and competency of our Employees employees at all levels and across all disciplines through appropriate training and development courses.
17 6 Joining us All new employees receive a bespoke induction to the Group, including formal meetings with different teams, property tours Employee profile age and training in the GPE way, to help them understand our 19-30 culture from the very start.
31-40 7 11 New joiners also complete a questionnaire in their first year to: 41-50 50 identify any ways in which their experience with the Company differed from their expectations: 83 determine any processes or practices in operation at their Employees 34 previous place of work that we could usefully introduce 31 to the Group: review their understanding of their role and our expectations of them: and ascertain their aspirations for their own personal development.
Feedback from our questionnaire this year was generally very Employee profile gender diversity positive.
However, key areas raised that we are looking to address are: 50 40 increasing communication between teams to share best practice ideas and ensuring all individuals working on individual 30 assets are fully informed of activities being undertaken across 20 the teams: 10 improving our offsite IT facilities: and 3 tailoring our induction process in certain areas.
0 Women Men Annual Report 2013 Great Portland Estates 49 Our people Remuneration plays an important role in retaining and motivating Employees appraisal, remuneration, development our people.
Annual bonuses reward all employees for achieving and communication through the year and exceeding corporate and personal objectives.
A number of Appraisal process Senior Managers also participate in our three year long-term incentive plans, where the vesting of awards is based on the Month Actions fundamental measures that demonstrate our performance.
February Pre-performance review meeting held between These are: Chief Executive, Company Secretary and Line Managers.
growth in absolute Net Asset Value per share: February Year-end performance review held between Line relative Total Shareholder Return: and March Managers and employees.
Employees and Line Managers discuss and set In addition, all employees have the opportunity to join our two personal objectives and targets for the forthcoming for one Share Incentive Plan with over 73% of our employees year.
Review of training undertaken in the previous year, development needs and proposed training.
Training and development Recommendations made by Line Managers to the Month Actions Executive Committee as to the achievement of February Review of development needs, training undertaken performance targets.
March in the previous year and proposed training for the coming year.
September Half year pre-performance review meeting held between Chief Executive, Company Secretary and April Sustainability update seminar for the Investment Line Managers.
May management, Property management and Development teams to highlight changes in the Six monthly performance review held between Line Groups sustainability objectives.
Managers and employees of: September Review of training undertaken by individuals with progress against personal objective and targets: Line Managers.
and Review of training undertaken by all employees training undertaken.
At the start of each year, employees agree with their Line We encourage our people to develop their careers with us, and Managers their personal objectives, designed to help the provide both funding and study leave to enable them to access Company meet its strategic goals.
Through a formal six monthly professional development opportunities, including: appraisal process, Line Managers meet with employees to review their progress against these objectives, the outcome of which, at formal training for professional qualications: the year end, helps form the basis for reward under the personal external degrees: and objectives element of the Groups bonus plan.
We formally consider the training needs of all employees every Remuneration six months.
Month Actions During the year, 53,676 was invested in formal employee and January Market review and benchmarking of employee Non-Executive Director training providing 1,796 hours of training, February salaries.
Training programmes included March Executive Committee review salary levels vs. market business related topics, sustainability actions, personal skills and review, performance against personal objectives and facilities management qualications.
This year, all of our Head of targets, proposed discretionary bonuses and Departments attended a two day course on Leading and proposed LTIP awards.
Managing people to help them develop individuals within their Remuneration Committee review of remuneration teams.
All Line Managers also attended a one day refresher levels proposed for all employees and approve course on how to maximise the benefit from the Groups Senior Manager and Executive Director salary levels, appraisal process and members of the asset management team discretionary bonuses and LTIP awards.
attended a series of updates on areas including: asbestos safety, April Formal feedback to employees of salary reviews and legionella management and contractor management.
May Payment of corporate bonuses, where targets met.
June LTIP awards vest where targets met.
50 Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2013 Total number of training hours Ongoing communication 658 700 Regular and effective communication lies at the heart of our 588 600 employee engagement strategy.
499 466 500 408 Our approach is based on: 400 313 283 an open door policy: 300 226 187 182 150 weekly meetings held across and within departments: 200 11 0 11 3 65 62 58 44 100 40 weekly meetings with non-ofce based employees to ensure their involvement and to encourage the sharing of best practice: 0 2011 2012 2013 Governance and human resources development Environmental weekly presentations from key people from the Finance, Asset, Estates Management Finance Health & Safety IT Investment and Development management teams to the Executive Committee.
Areas covered include credit control, Employee engagement and communication marketing to tenants, investment transactions and opportunities, Month Actions and Development Appraisals as well as updates on how the relevant risks are being managed.
From time to time, Senior February Following input from employees, the Environmental Managers are also asked to present to the Board and Audit Policy Committee nalise the Groups corporate sustainability objectives and targets for the Committee on a variety of topics: forthcoming year and communicate to all employees.
employees at all levels being involved in developing our operating policies: and Employees are informed of the year-end performance review process and the focus of quarterly presentations to all our people from the Executive objectives and targets for the forthcoming year.
Directors on our results and progress and plans for the coming year, together with presentations from Senior Managers on March Quarterly Review formal presentation to all employees by the Chief Executive followed specic projects.
These presentations ensure that our people by a question and answer session.
are fully engaged in our plans and activities, and also act as a forum for the Executive Directors to answer any questions.
April Feedback from the performance review process In the year ended 31 March 2013, we held two presentations from Line Managers to the Executive Committee off site, one on practical completion of our development and proposed actions.
at 33 Margaret Street, W1 and the second following a May Achievement of the Groups sustainability objectives refurbishment of two oors and the common parts at Pollen and targets for the previous year is communicated House, 10 12 Cork Street, W1.
In November 2012, we undertook a detailed review of all roles Quarterly Review formal presentation to all and responsibilities resulting in a number of changes being employees on the Groups results by the Executive implemented to: Directors followed by a question and answer session.
ensure, given our growing portfolio, that each asset continues September Quarterly Review formal presentation to all to receive the attention it needs so that we can maximise employees by the Chief Executive followed by returns: and a question and answer session.
help clarify the interrelationship of some areas of the business October Feedback from the half year performance review across the Asset, Investment, Development and Financial process from Line Managers to the Executive management teams.
Committee and review of action plan.
Following this review, roundtable discussions across the teams November Quarterly Review formal presentation to all were held with employees to go through the revised roles and employees by the Chief Executive followed responsibilities to obtain their input on how these could be by a question and answer session.
developed further, and where appropriate, to maximise communication and effectiveness of interrelationships, Employees informed of roles and responsibilities being updated to reect changing responsibilities both within and across the teams.
and asked to ensure that they make sure they understand how changes to their role interrelate with others across the teams.
February Roundtable discussions held with employees to go through newly updated roles and responsibilities.
Annual Report 2013 Great Portland Estates 51
