PEOPLE 1 3 2 AMBITION Hammerson Future MAXIMISING THE To implement our vision of being the best owner, manager and developer of retail property in Europe, we have launched CONTRIBUTION the Hammerson Future programme.
Through Hammerson Future, we have established crossOF OUR PEOPLE functional teams to drive improvements across our business, focusing on four key areas: People, Product, Customer and Performance.
Creating value through our people is one of the core components of our By working collaboratively we are sharing best practices and developing improvements that can benefit the whole of business model and is fundamental to the Hammerson.
These improvements cover our multi-channel achievement of our strategic objectives.
approach, shopping centre design, operational and financial performance, organisational culture, retailer relationships and management capability.
RESPONSIBILITY Organisation Through greater alignment of our organisational structure, we have sought to bring increased coordination and collaboration to our teams.
In particular, the increasing importance of multi-channel retail has led to the creation of a Group-wide marketing function, combining our UK and French teams.
This important change enables a more cost-effective and coordinated approach to delivering our multi-channel strategy, as well as coordinating local and central marketing activities.
Opportunities for progression and increased responsibility for some of our talented asset managers were also implemented during the year following a management restructure in our French business.
Performance management Throughout 2013 I have had the opportunity to work on a We have amended our performance management process wide range of assets and developments, to take on more to specifically reflect on assessment against values and responsibility and to start to manage a small team.
management capability, in addition to the achievement of personal objectives.
Vincent Sad Portfolio Manager Investment Manager It continues to be important that we deliver operational and financial results but also that we do this in a way that is aligned CULTURE AND VALUES to our new values.
During 2013 we focused on culture and values within COLLABORATION Hammerson as a way of engaging, aligning and maximising the contribution of our people, in order to support our Community engagement strategic objective of creating successful retail destinations.
This year over 200 people participated in Hammersons fifth annual Community Day.
We organised activities in 15 locations A highly-inclusive approach was adopted, inviting every one and worked with 12 different charities.
Activities ranged from of our employees to participate in workshops to create the providing business skills workshops through to weeding, values for our business: ambition, responsibility, collaboration entirely based on what each charity would find most helpful.
Community Day provides an opportunity for staff from Embedding our values has been coordinated both through different areas of the business to meet and work together on managers and culture champions, who have acted as something out of the ordinary.
This provides valuable team advocates for the values across the business.
Various activities and relationship building opportunities both internally and have been implemented, including values-based 360-degree within our local communities.
feedback, staff events, job shadowing to build collaboration across teams and interactive workshops to build local action plans.
24 Hammerson plc Annual Report 2013 AT A GLANCE Hammerson currently employs 300 people in the UK and 109 in France As at 31 December 2013, 204 employees owned RESPECT GENDER shares or participated in Diversity and equality DIVERSITY the Groups share plans Our approach to equal opportunities is based on a belief that % having an inclusive culture and diverse workforce is good for 56% 54% 55% Hammerson is formally our business.
Our policy reflects our commitment to objectively assess, recruit and reward based on merit.
accredited as an Investor in People We have created a number of new roles and brought new skills into the business to reflect the dynamic retail environment.
Hammerson reports on a We have been successful in recruiting senior female talent to 46% 45% 44% number of performance Hammerson into roles including Head of Multi-Channel, Head of Shopping Centre Management, and Head of Sustainability.
indicators relating to During 2014 we will refine and implement a clear diversity and employees as part of the inclusion action plan focused on increasing diversity within key Global Reporting Initiative areas of the business.
2011 12 13 The remuneration of the All Employees Directors is set out on Being a Culture Champion has enabled me to engage pages 72 to 99 17% 11% 11% with others across different parts of the business.
Together we focus on bringing our values to life through fun and 89% 89% 83% informative projects including workshops and job shadowing: we have lots of ideas in the pipeline too!
Katie Pattison B2B Marketing Manager 2011 12 13 Group Executive Committee 11% 20% 18% 89% 82% 80% 2011 12 13 Board Members Female Male www.
