25 Corporate and Social Responsibility Hansteen is committed to being and the principles of the Universal central to our business success.
Our socially and environmentally Declaration of Human Rights.
employment policies and practices responsible.
It is Hansteens policy We are committed to creating to comply with environmental made solely on the basis of individual and maintaining a positive and legislation and relevant codes of capability and potential in relation to professional work environment that practice.
Hansteen seeks to reduce the needs of the business.
We recognise the value of a diverse possible.
Details of our Greenhouse workforce in helping us understand Gas emissions are detailed in the stakeholders are free to express the needs of our large and diverse Directors Report on page 85. their independent beliefs.
Our tenant base and that this can Hansteen supports local and national employment policies and practices help ensure we tailor our services charities and regular events are held made solely on the basis of individual and tenant retention.
We operate capability and potential in relation to in increasingly diverse communities who voluntarily gave up their time the needs of the business.
both in the UK and in the other to teach children from local schools territories: our diversity is evident Equality and diversity Hansteen is a company where every a work experience programme has suppliers and other stakeholders.
been established with a local school The Board is keen to ensure that candidate has the opportunity to in London.
quality Board comprising individuals Human rights people treat each other with dignity with an appropriate balance of skills Hansteen respects human rights and and respect.
In our increasingly and experience.
We are proud to be a aims to provide assurance to internal competitive business environment diverse business at all levels.
and external stakeholders that we we understand that the performance are committed to human rights and engagement of our employees is Male Female Directors Group including Non-Executive Directors 8 - Senior managers and Company Secretary excluding Directors 4 2 Board statement necessary to assess the business and provides the information ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013
