40 Strategic report Our employees are fundamental to Business model and strategy the success ofour business and to Our people thedelivery of a high quality service forour occupiers and customers Our values Creative We look at the familiar and we see something different: weare insightful and imaginative, but not for their ownsake, forwe never lose sight of what is important andrelevant Bold We act confidently and decisively, always knowingly, perhaps at times controversially, but never rashly or without consideration Our people We are committed to providing a working environment which is stimulating and Genuine challenging, giving employees opportunities to reach both personal and professional We are true to ourselves, act fairly and goals whilst delivering business targets.
communicate clearly: we say what we mean and we mean what we say.
Everyone who works at Intu is passionate about the work carried out and We recognise our obligations to our proudof our reputation as the market leader ofthe UK shopping centre industry.
stakeholders and the wider society, Providing afirst-class service to allofour customers, whether they are shoppers, and commit to put our utmost into retailers orcolleagues, iscentral to our work ethic.
In our employee surveys well over everything we do 80 per cent say we put the customer atthe heart of everything we do.
Our teams are grouped into six core strands to underpin the business model.
Asset Management drive the success of the centres by delivering sustainable asset growth through innovation and sound investment and commercial decision-making, including proactive leasing of retail units, dealing with rent reviews and lease renewals, and managing smaller active asset management projects involving the amalgamation orextension of stores.
Commercial, Operations and Digital add value to assets through excellence and innovation in the disciplines of Marketing, Customer Experience, Operations and Digital Technology.
Marketing ensure that our centres are at the forefront of the minds of bothcustomers and retailers and are portrayed in the best possible light.
The Experiences team inspires customers to come more often, stay longer anddevelop a deeper relationship with their local shopping centre, each of which is led by a dedicated General Manager.
The Digital team is responsible for information and communications technology operations and project delivery across the spectrum of digital activity, including our transactional website, intu.
Intu Properties plc Annual Report 2013 intugroup.
co. uk Strategic report Governance Accounts Other information 41 Strategic report Business model and strategy Development and Construction is responsible for the planning, management and Intu Retail Services delivery of new build, refurbishment and extension projects across the portfolio from In July 2013 we consolidated the inception through to completion.
in-sourced approach to support services principally customer service, Finance provide commercial support to the business, develop management security, cleaning and technical information and KPIs, facilitate forecasting and budgeting, provide statutory and services at intu Trafford Centre management reporting, andmanage essential transactional processes.
and the out-sourced model at our Governance and Support encompasses Legal, Secretariat, Human Resources, other managed centres to create Corporate Responsibility and Communications and Public Relations.
a single vehicle for total facilities management, IntuRetail Services, Intu Retail Services is a new venture with Europa providing total facilities anew venture with Europa.
management to support the operation of our centres, ensuring the building is properly maintained and that there is a welcoming, clean, safe and secure environment for By the year end Intu Retail Services retailers and customers.
2013 in review There is a dedicated Human Resources and Training team with administrative During the past year Intu has continued its employee proposition that both support and expert services being complements the corporate strategy andstands us out as an employer of choice, supplied bythe parent companies, Intu builtaround five keythemes.
During 2014 the focus will be on restructuring and harmonising processes so that all managed centres Talent are operating within aconsistent development framework to offer an exceptional standard of customer service.
This is backed up by an ongoing programme of staff development for which accreditation will be sought from both Employee Reward and life-cycle recognition the Institute ofCustomer Service and Investors in People.
HR Strategy Performance Employee management engagement formerly Learning &Development and Succession Planning Intu Properties plc Annual Report 2013 intugroup.
co. uk 42 Strategic report Business model and strategy Our people continued Employee numbers Training days Major activities during the year included: Recruitment In addition to the large scale transfer in of staff from our service providers see 2,027 2,826 section about Intu Retail Services, we have recruited 303 new people into theGroup 2012: 645 2012: 1,149 during 2013.
Significant new roles include a Customer Experience Director an industry-leading appointment, Head of Sales for the Promotions team and Group Gender profile Gender profile Treasurer, while our Digital and Technology teams have been strengthened and for senior managers seven shopping centres have new General Managers a mixture of internal and Male Male external appointments.
63% 73% 1,277 19 Employee engagement 2012: 53% 2012: 67% Female Female Building on the output of our annual employee survey and the announcement of the 37% 27 % intu brand in January, we embarked upon a series of engagement workshops in the 750 7 first quarter involving all staff throughout the organisation including those employed 2012: 47% 2012: 33% at the time by our service partners.
Managers were provided with a structured toolkit to run tailored programmes concentrating on understanding Intus values, Service profile Age profile the challenges we face and helping every member of staff make a positive difference Under 1 year Under 30 toour customer service.
15% 18% Activity has continued throughout the year based around ourten principles 2012: 13% 2012: 21% forinternal engagement: 110 years 3050 Optimise communication channels 64% 48% 2012: 64% 2012: 51% Talk to staff first 1020 years Over 50 Improve the two-way flow 17% 34% 2012: 21% 2012: 28% Strongly signal listening and action Over 20 years Fast and fide-layered 4% 2012: 2% Simplify explanation of the strategy Build a family Approachable, familiar people Make every communication count Do things differently, do different things Learning and development A major focus for the year has been ensuring employees throughout the organisation have been trained to deliver World Class Service WCS, whether they are front of house in shopping centres or in supporting functions, sometimes with internal customers.
More details of the programme are set out in the case study on page 64.
A total of 2,826 man days were devoted to training in 2013 2012: 1,149, covering technical and people skills and achieving professional qualifications as well as the WCS programme.
Thereis a strong focus on continuing professional development, particularly for the significant number of our staff who hold professional qualifications Senior managers comprise the Executive in a number of disciplines, and training needs are routinely assessed for every Committee, the Operations Director and individual as part of the performance appraisal process.
co. uk Strategic report Governance Accounts Other information 43 Strategic report Business model and strategy Reward and recognition Providing a competitive remuneration structure helps us retain and motivate the best people.
As well as base salaries that are benchmarked against our peers in the industry, many employees are eligible for an annual bonus based on corporate measures that reflect the executive remuneration policy described more fullyin the Directors remuneration report on pages 82 to 99 and related to individual performance.
A proportion of the annual bonus is awarded in deferred shares to encourage focus on the Companys growth.
Managers may also be rewarded with longer-term share options and many staff can join a Share Incentive Plan subject to aqualification period.
Having introduced awards for service last year, in 2013 28employees completed 10years service and two passed the 20-year mark.
This does not include Intu Retail Services staff who will be evaluated separately.
Looking ahead We continually seek to build on the core strengths of our employees by developing their skills and experience and ensuring they are fully engaged with the business objectives andour values.
Whether an individuals role is strategic, operational or in a support function, their contribution to the business is valued.
Everyone works as part of a team: everyone is expected to make a valid contribution to the success of the organisation.
A series of projects will continue to improve the employee proposition within the scope of the defined HR strategies.
Employee life-cycle Introduce an employee referral incentive scheme Continue the integration of Intu Retail Services: greater harmonisation between shopping centres and consistent processes and policies where appropriate Adopt a tone and presentation style for employee documentation consistent with the intu brand Audit employee data in line with enhanced data protection governance and in preparation for a review of HR data systems due in 2015 Further develop our onboarding processes as we continue tosource new staff for a greater variety of disciplines Learn from the experience of staff who leave us Intu Properties plc Annual Report 2013 intugroup.
co. uk 44 Strategic report Business model and strategy Our people continued Talent development Employee surveys in 2013 Identify high potential individuals for executive and senior management succession We conducted two all-employee surveys in 2013 as well as some Continue with implementation of tailored personal development plans for targeted gathering of feedback on identified individuals, including cross-functional project experience, coaching particular issues.
At the end of June mentoring and a planned approach to external high level programmes we ran a Pulse survey to gauge initial Ensure all potential successors have appropriate leadership, finance, presentation reaction to the launch of intu and its and impact skills values.
Then, in November, the annual employee survey was conducted over Review flexible working options to enable increased gender parity, particularly a two-week period with 1,687 out of atsenior levels 2,002 eligible employees responding Encourage work experience in other disciplines and at other locations within the 84per cent.
organisation to enhance understanding of the widerpicture Both these surveys were open to Develop next stage of World Class Service training, including non-front line staff all employees of the nowenlarged and build into the process for inducting new employees throughout the Group Intu group.
Data from surveys in previous years collected by our former Reward and recognition service partners Europa andInviron is Senior Managers and Executive Directors to review salaries of their teams against available for benchmarking purposes.
agreed parameters and market position and propose individual bonus levels based on performance against objectives during 2013 In the Pulse survey more than 70per cent of employees agreed Remuneration Committee to review proposals and approve Senior Manager and or strongly agreed with 8 of the 10 Executive Director salary levels and bonusawards propositions put to them.
In the full Awards are communicated to employees by March and awardspaid in March survey in November, an improved and April score was achieved in 23of the questions which had been measured Consolidate local recognition schemes to culminate in Group-wide recognition in previous surveys and over half ofexcellence awards the questions resulted in more Undertake a market review of pensions and insurance-related benefit schemes than 70per cent of respondents agreeing or strongly agreeing with Consider share ownership opportunities for Intu Retail Services staff to the proposition.
An independent body enhance engagement produces an overall engagement score from the results of the survey.
This has increased year-on-year and now stands at 732 2012 717 with favourable movement in all five domains that make up theengagement index: work environment, reward, development, operating culture and line of sight.
88% Of all staff agree Intu puts customers at the heart of everything we do 81% Of all staff are proud to work for Intu Intu Properties plc Annual Report 2013 intugroup.
co. uk Strategic report Governance Accounts Other information 45 Strategic report Business model and strategy Employee engagement Improve internal communications media, content and processes, ensuring adequate feedback mechanisms Produce structured action plans to manage the output ofthe 2013 employee survey Continue focus groups, engagement workshops and local communication forums at each shopping centre Facilitate regional and national networks to enable effectivetwo-way communication for employees throughout the Group Human rights Expand our intranet mint and make content accessible toallstaff, including Intu At Intu we respect the dignity, liberty Retail Services employees who donot have direct daily access to the Intu network and equality of everyone we work Strengthen our policy for whistleblowing and introduce anew policy for use of with.
Our policies and procedures social media are consistent with the United Nations universal declaration of Enable staff to participate in the Companys corporate responsibility, community human rights, which sets a common support and sustainability programmes at all levels and introduce a volunteering standard of achievement for all policyfor charitable activity peoples and all nations.
We are Performance management committed to implementing the UN At the end of the year we introduced PerformanceHub, an online system for Guiding Principles onBusiness and appraisal and setting objectives was introduced in the year.
This allows closer Human Rights.
alignment of personal objectives with corporate strategy through a cascade We only work with people who choose process, greater visibility and regular progress tracking.
The process can be further to work freely and we respect their developed in 2014 to include 360 degree appraisal ofkey staff rights to equal opportunities and Employment policies regularly reviewed to ensure they remain up-to-date and in freedom of association.
We work line with bestpractice.
In 2014 we will ensure synergy with policies throughout the with all our suppliers, retailers and Group, including Intu Retail Services where appropriate associated companies to ensure they meet acceptable standards of human Job descriptions to be overhauled in the light of internal restructuring of a dignity in their own sourcing policies.
numberof teams and the range of new functions now in the business We will continue to evaluate the pay and conditions of all our employees, in particular new staff on or near to minimum wage, to bring them into line with the rest of our staff in terms of wages and benefits and ensure fair working conditions.
Fair treatment of people who work for Intu or our suppliers is a key focus of our Corporate Responsibility approach.
As appropriate our Board CR Committee andCRManagement Committee consider the potential humanrights risks faced by Intu and assess approaches tomitigate those risks.
co. uk 46 Strategic report Financial review Digitally connected A year ago we announced our strategy to offer a digitally connected shopping centre experience.
Today we have high quality Wi-Fi available free to shoppers at nine of our centres and further launchesimminent.
With almost two million customer connections to date, and well over half of registrants opting in to receive marketing information, feedback on the quality of the service has beenstrong.
intu Trafford Centre is the UKs most digitally-connected centre, the first in the country to offer 4G which is now being rolled out to eight more intucentres.
Our websites attract visits from an annual nine million unique devices, of which around two thirds are now mobile compared to barely none two yearsago.
We chose to invest in an owned rather than out-sourced fibre-optic backbone and Wi-Fi network infrastructure, seeing it as the heart of our digital strategy.
This means we manage the entire digital customer journey and the data which results from it.
We also benefit from operating synergies as elements of building management, lighting and security systems migrate onto our robust and scalable platform.
And with brands including Sky already contracting to use it, we anticipate many opportunities to increase revenue by offering services to commercial partners.
co. uk ar2013 Intu Properties plc Annual Report 2013 intugroup.
co. uk Strategic report Governance Accounts Other information 47 Strategic report Financial review Financial review Overview 48 Results for the year ended 31December 2013 48 Financial position at 31December 2013 52 Intu Properties plc Annual Report 2013 intugroup.
