Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability Cobhams approach to Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability is designed to engender trust with its key stakeholders and ensure that the Company thrives over the long term.
Approach Objectives and performance Cobham believes that acting responsibly and sustainably aligns Business ethics and compliance with its business strategy and creates value for all key stakeholders.
Strengthen the Groups ethics and compliance processes The Groups strategy is to make Corporate Responsibility and to ensure that employees have clear guidance to support Sustainability CR&S part of everything it does by: them in making ethical decisions 1.
Pursuing the highest ethical standards in all aspects of its business: Business ethics 2.
Building a culture in which talented employees can KPI: succeed and are rewarded: 3.
Managing the environmental impacts of the Groups 100% products, services and operations.
of employees have completed the Code of Business Conduct training CR&S covers issues identified by internal and external stakeholders 2012: 99% shareholders, business partners, regulators, industry bodies, employees and communities that support or limit the Groups ability to execute its strategy and protect its reputation.
Non-compliance with governmental regulations is recognised as one of Cobhams principal risks.
For more detail on how The CEO has overall responsibility for the Groups approach.
He is this risk is being managed, see risk eight on page 31. supported by the CR&S Committee, which he chairs, in ensuring that appropriate policies, monitoring and operational systems are in place Cobham pursues the highest ethical standards in all aspects of its to achieve the Groups objectives.
The CEO updates the Board on CR&S business through its ethics and compliance programme, overseen matters.
The Board in turn assesses the significance of environmental, by the Business Ethics and Compliance Committee.
This creates the social and corporate governance risks and opportunities to the Groups knowledge, structures and processes to drive a culture of integrity Strategic Plan.
There is strong alignment between the Groups CR&S focus and The ethics and compliance programme is supported by mandatory its strategic priorities.
Refer to page 12 for more details on these.
annual training for all employees.
CR&S Strategic priorities The Code of Business Conduct the Code is the cornerstone of 1234567 Cobhams approach to ethics and compliance and is made available Business ethics and compliance to all employees in the Groups key languages.
A number of other Sustainable supply chain policies support the Code in driving a culture of safety, ethics and Talent management integrity to help Cobham face the risks posed by the markets in Diversity and inclusion which it operates, both sector and geographic.
Health and safety Environmental sustainability The Code sets out the Groups expectations and advice on ethical behaviour and how to deal with possible breaches.
Cobham fosters an open reporting culture reinforced by an independent third party Each of the focus areas are discussed in more detail below.
Key supporting policies include the Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption ABAC Policy.
This sets out the policy of zero tolerance towards bribery and corruption with further direction on gifts, hospitality and the use of sales intermediaries.
32 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic Report Sustainable supply chain increased awareness of the Cobham employer brand Innovators with Develop a responsible and sustainable supply chain that Insight in the recruitment marketplace.
prioritises and mitigates material ethical, environmental and community risks The Groups strategic high potential talent development programmes range from entry level apprentices and graduates to senior and The Group has a number of controls and processes to mitigate issues functional experts aimed at developing a robust internal talent including human rights that may arise in regard to the supply chain, pipeline.
The programmes all include rigorous assessments to ensure most notably in connection with principal risk seven.
Refer to page 31 Cobham accesses the brightest and best individuals.
Apprentice and for more details.
graduate schemes commence with placement based roles to blend on-the-job training and project activity with formal learning.
Many of The Group outsources an increasingly significant proportion of Cobhams UK apprentices achieve recognition through national award component manufacture to suppliers, and then assembles and tests programmes.
The graduate programme aims to attract high potential finished products in-house.
Recognising the various issues that may individuals from targeted universities within priority disciplines.
arise, Cobhams strategy is for its supply chain to be responsible and sustainable, which also includes having regard to human rights Cobham has invested in the development of an online Learning and considerations.
To achieve this, Cobham has developed, in support Development Centre LDC.
The centre provides blended learning of the Code, a Responsible Supply Chain Management Policy RSCM, activities that are linked to Cobhams defined competencies.
During setting out its expectations for suppliers to have effective ethical, 2013, a total of 1,473 hours of learning was completed by 366 employees environmental and community risk management systems appropriate within the first three months of the LDC launch.
A certified management for the nature and scale of their business.
This addresses those risks programme was developed and piloted through the LDC in 2013.
This most likely to impact suppliers ability to meet Cobhams needs.
will produce a consistent standard and approach to line management across the Group.
Cobham has rolled out the RSCM policy and approach to its principal locations and is providing training and support on prioritising risks Cobham is implementing a strategic workforce planning process for key spend categories.
that will allow the business to better plan its resourcing requirements.
During 2013, the Group developed a global view of its workforce Specifically, Cobham has developed a process to report on conflict by functional area and by location.
minerals present in its products to those customers required to disclose under US legislation and in anticipation of similar EU legislation, which Moving forward, Cobham is planning to further expand its graduate is likely to impact Cobham directly.
development programme into Denmark and South Africa, utilise the strategic workforce planning data to assess its workforce Moving forward, Cobham will continue to implement its responsible requirements against business activity over the next five years, supply chain management policy through training and assessment and launch its certified management programme globally.
Talent management Continue to ensure the Group has the right people with the right skills to execute its strategy Talent management KPI: High performing apprentices 6.9% Cobham has once again been successful in the Brathay Apprentice voluntary staff turnover Challenge, reaching the 2013 finals.
Cobhams apprentices regularly 2012: 8.7% receive a variety of external awards for both team and individual achievements: in 2013, 27% of the apprentice population received such recognition, improving on the 8% in 2012.
Employee retention and development are recognised as one of the Groups principal risks.
For more details on how we are managing this, see risk four on page 30.
As a high-tech engineering and service group, Cobham continues to require the highest calibre functional expertise and future leadership to deliver its business strategy.
Attracting and retaining the very best is an increasing challenge as the number of science and engineering graduates is declining.
A dedicated Cobham resourcing team has www.
com Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 33 Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability continued Diversity and inclusion Health and safety Benchmark the Groups diversity and inclusion against Continue to embed health and safety into the Groups publicly available data for its comparator group core business processes The Group is committed to equal opportunities for all its employees and aims to ensure the workplace is free from discrimination.
Recruitment, Health and safety selection and career development are based on competence and job KPI: requirements, irrespective of race, sex, sexual preference, religion or disability.
With regard to employees who become disabled, the policy is to take all reasonable steps, including retraining, to ensure that they 326 can remain in employment wherever practicable.
major accident incidence rate 2012: 666 A lack of diversity and an inability to attract and retain the best talent Per 100,000 employees are risks to the Group: refer to principal risk four on page 30.
Cobham has been monitoring its gender, age and ethnic diversity since Cobham is committed to providing its employees with a safe working 2008.
In 2013, it reviewed its diversity and benchmarked itself against environment and considers it key to talent retention and recruitment.
industry peers using publicly available data.
The results showed that Cobham addresses workplace safety, health and environment SHE Cobham generally equals or exceeds them.
Overall, the Group trend together through the Code and SHE policy.
The Group is committed over the past five years has been that the percentage of women in the to creating a culture in which all employees take responsibility for total workforce and in management positions has marginally declined, themselves, their fellow workers, contractors, visitors and the although recent graduate recruitment includes an increasing intake general public.
The policy is implemented through a standardised management approach.
All business units are required to achieve at least a basic Diversity and inclusion level of performance and follow a programme of continuous KPI: improvement.
Assurance is obtained through independent peer reviews and external audits.
13% 9% Progress is monitored through an Executive-led steering committee, female senior managers female senior managers which reports to the Group Executive and Board Audit Committee.
2012: 11% 2012: 7% SHE considerations are integrated into the annual strategic planning and standardised business integration processes.
11% 27% A review of the way in which the Group resources SHE was undertaken women on the Board female employees in 2013 and, as a result of this review, actions will be taken to strength 2012: 11% in the Group the SHE function over the coming years.
2012: 27% Legal definition Directors of legal entities Cobhams definition Vice Presidents and above SHP-IOSH awards finalist Cobham Antenna Systems in Marlow, UK was a finalist in the prestigious Institute of Occupational Safety and Health Awards for Safety in Manufacturing following the success of a zero harm initiative that has improved the sites SHE culture.
34 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic Report Environmental sustainability As Aviation Services successfully grows, by operating more aircraft or Reduce the Groups environmental impacts and mitigate achieving higher utilisation of the existing fleet, energy consumption the environments impact on the Group will also increase.
Management of the Groups aviation and non-aviation emissions are therefore separated.
Aviation fuel use intensity fuel burn per operational flying hour for all aircraft is now reported in addition Greenhouse gas emissions to facility energy use intensity.
Details of the Groups greenhouse gas KPI: emissions data are included on page 66 of the Directors Report.
Moving forward, Cobham will continue to target reduced impacts 51 tonnes from its products, facilities and supply chain on the environment Total Scope 1 carbon dioxide equivalent per m turnover and to manage the impact of the environment on the Group.
2012: 54 tCO e m 2 27 tonnes Total Scope 2 carbon dioxide equivalent per m turnover 2012: 30 tCO e m 2 228 tonnes Total Scope 3 carbon dioxide equivalent per m turnover 2012: 214 tCO e m 2 Scope one, two and three are further explained within the Directors Report, page 66.
Facility resilience award The Group has a number of mitigating actions in place to reduce the Cobham and its insurers, FM Global, have won an Insurance risks associated with environmental sustainability.
See principal risk Partnership of the Year award from Continuity, Insurance and seven on page 31.
Cobhams SHE policy sets out its commitment to environmental Over the past eight years, Cobham and FM Global have been sustainability through product stewardship from resource extraction working together to ensure the Groups principal locations reach to end-of-life, resource efficiency and climate change initiatives.
With and maintain the coveted Highly Protected Risk status through respect to the environment, Cobhams aim is to continuously improve compliance with FM Global standards.
its resource efficiency raw materials, energy and natural resources and reduce its use of hazardous substances wherever possible.
This level of business continuity management enables our principal locations to mitigate the risks associated with adverse Cobham often designs products which are smaller, lighter and less weather events such as flooding.
power consumptive than competitors products.
In doing so, it has an opportunity to generate significant benefits for its customers and the environment.
This objective is being built into the principal locations standardised design review processes.
Hazardous Materials legislation is having an increasing impact on industry by phasing out certain materials at a pace quicker than viable alternatives can be identified, tested and certified for use.
Cobham is actively monitoring the impacts of this legislation and engaging regulators to develop suitable solutions through its industry association memberships.
Climate change is affecting the Groups regulatory regime and operations to varying degrees based on geography and market.
The principal impacts relate to product, facility and supply chain resilience.
The majority 84% of Cobhams direct Scope 1 and 95% of Cobhams indirect scope 3 greenhouse gas emissions come from aviation fuel consumption in the Aviation Services business.
Further detail on Cobhams CR&S approach, objectives and performance is available at www.
Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 35
