CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY corporate responsiBility strateGy While ther While there is no simple link between sustainability e is no simple link between sustainability and shar and share price, we ar e price, we are convinced that taking a e convinced that taking a long-term appr long-term approach to business helps us to cr oach to business helps us to create eate and pr and protect value.
stakeHolDers strateGy reportinG operations By acting responsibly, we are able to deliver stronGer communities Better environments sustainaBle Business We aim to create and We want to be a good We work hard to ensure protect value by being neighbour who invests our sites are safe, the company people locally and helps waste is minimised prefer to work with to create job and natural resources and for.
P51 P52 P53 48 Land Securities Annual Report 2013 ESSENTIAL READ DIRECTORS REPORT GOVERNANCE fINANCIAL STATEmENTS INVESTOR RESOuRCE CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY of the key groups below.
Of course, many corporate people interact with us in more than one way.
For example, someone might be a regular responsiBility visitor to one of our shopping centres, work for a local authority partner and live near one report of our developments.
Some of our employees are also investors.
Investors Our investors expect us to use their capital responsibly so that we can provide them with sustaininG our success sustainable returns.
They want to know that While there is no simple link between we are a well-governed organisation that sustainability and share price, we are convinced considers both the immediate and the that taking a long-term approach to business long-term issues and opportunities facing helps us to create and protect value.
We believe the Company, our customers and our thinking that looks beyond the short term industry.
We commission an independent provides us with a portfolio of properties that investor survey every two years, which helps can respond to changing customer needs, us to understand our investors views and public expectations and regulation.
We provide a wide range of Mutual advantage is central to our approach.
communications to shareholders, including a We look to create benefits for all of the comprehensive area on our website and a range stakeholders affected by our activities.
To turn of reports, including this Annual Report.
that aspiration into action, we have a set of standards that apply across the Company.
Employees Certain areas, such as energy, are coordinated We aim to attract, retain and develop the at Group level.
Others such as supporting brightest and best people in our industry.
community groups, charities and schools are We want them to make the most of their handled locally, with our teams on the ground talents, and aspire to be the best at what they using their knowledge and relationships to do.
We recognise and reward those who make a difference.
We try to respond to the create and protect value for the Company.
particular needs of each area, rather than We continue to develop peoples leadership Creating a better shopping environment at St Davids, Cardiff impose initiatives from afar.
And we aim to skills at all levels of the business and aim to make a significant and lasting contribution scheme to encourage charitable donations identify future leaders early in their careers.
whatever we do, wherever we work.
We compare our employee development and We report on our approach under the banner culture with high performance companies of corporate responsibility CR.
As with other Customers in general, rather than others in our industry.
areas of our activity, we are working to a clear In Retail, we work closely with retailers to We encourage close co-operation between plan on CR.
You can read more about our help them respond to a demanding and our teams across the business, and promote progress in our Corporate Responsibility fast-changing market.
We develop new and knowledge and resource sharing.
com better ways for them to minimise costs and We are committed to equal opportunities responsibility.
We look to maximise value and to providing a diverse and inclusive for money for service charge payers, and we workplace in which everyone is treated with enable occupiers to discuss proposed charges respect.
As part of this, we work to ensure all with us during the budgeting process.
We also employees, including those with disabilities, provide a breakdown of service charges at all receive the same opportunities for training, of our shopping centres and retail parks, so career development and promotion.
We occupiers can see how their charge compares adhere to the UN Declaration of Human to those elsewhere.
Rights, and this underpins all our policies, In London, our West End team and City systems and actions.
We encourage people and Mid-town team include individuals to speak up and listen to others.
Our annual from financial management and property employee engagement survey enables management.
This means occupiers receive management to identify what is working well a seamless service rather than having to from the employees perspective, and what work with different Land Securities teams needs to be improved.
We also have an to address different requirements.
Our open Exchange Forum in which employee door policy means occupiers can come in at representatives discuss key issues with any time to discuss issues or make suggestions.
members of the Senior Management Board.
The Forum was relaunched this year to ensure To ensure we respond to our occupiers it continues to be relevant.
We believe it plays needs, all of our tenants have their own a vital role in helping us to achieve success.
Land Securities contact, we conduct customer Working with students from Pimlico Academy satisfaction surveys and we hold occupier Many of our employees donate or raise review meetings.
See page 38 for our top ten our stakeHolDers money for charities, or volunteer their time.
retail occupiers and page 44 for our top ten Our activities bring us into contact with a We support the efforts of our volunteers, office occupiers.
We describe some award bursaries and run a Give As You Earn Land Securities Annual Report 2013 49 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY London First, the UK Green Building Council and the European Public Real Estate Association.
And we meet with a number of non-governmental organisations relevant to our work.
Consumers We want the shoppers who visit our assets to enjoy spending time in them and to value the services they find there.
Leisure is an increasingly important part of the retail mix, and we are doing more than ever before to provide great restaurants, cafs, bars and entertainment venues.
We try to speak to as many members of the public as possible through the customer service desks in our shopping centres, by communicating through regular shopper surveys, and providing feedback facilities on our websites.
We run bespoke training for our customer service staff so they can help visitors gain the best experience from their shopping trip.
Governance The local community supports the launch of Trinity Leeds Our Stakeholder Panel meets once a year and Suppliers and service partners voluntary groups to create employment, includes customers and individuals from academia The most significant activities carried out education and enterprise opportunities.
Together, they by our suppliers and contractors include We work with supply chain partners to help provide a range of valuable opinions on our targets, construction, construction-related trades and groups such as ex-offenders, young people performance and reporting.
architectural services, cleaning, security, with no experience and the long-term Our Corporate Responsibility Committee meets six mechanical electrical services, engineering, unemployed.
And we also link up with times a year and is made up of people from across the waste management and concierge services.
national and local charities, so our buildings business.
The individuals that sit on the Committee can help to connect people with causes they Our aim is to procure the best value goods include experts on property development and care about.
and services from suppliers that meet our portfolio management, health and safety, and standards.
To this end, all of our suppliers With development schemes or asset environment.
The Committees remit is to define our are registered on our new central Supplier management initiatives, we consult with corporate responsibility strategy, make sure our Information Management System.
This all interested parties early in the process.
activities remain relevant to our business objectives captures essential information provided by We want our buildings to be part of local and monitor our performance.
We use this information to carry out life, not an island in the community.
ultimately reviewed by the Executive Directors, as are a full and thorough evaluation of their the Groups CR targets.
Chaired by the Group Tax suitability as a supplier.
Local authorities and Treasury Director, Martin Wood, the Committee A productive relationship with local reports to our Chief Executive.
We also work in partnership with our supply authorities is essential if we are to secure chain to ensure their staff are well trained.
We also have a network of corporate responsibility planning for developments and make the We require their employees to act responsibly advisers located throughout the business.
This team greatest possible contribution to each area.
at all times and to deliver the services that provides information and guidance on CR initiatives No two communities are the same, so we our customers demand.
We expect all of our to colleagues.
It meets six times per year and a build partnerships with decision makers, service partners and suppliers to comply member of the CR Committee attends as an observer.
economic development teams and planning with all appropriate legislation.
They must departments to help us understand local also conform to high ethical, social and priorities.
This enables our teams to focus environmental standards, including the investment and activity in the right way on highest standards for safety and health.
We have a robust tendering and sourcing process for goods and services to ensure Central government, regulators, trade that we get best value from our relationships.
bodies and NGOs We also monitor the performance of each We aim to be a trusted adviser to government, supplier using key contract performance and to be seen in our industry as a company indicators, and we work together to achieve that sets high standards and addresses the big mutual advantage.
We engage with legislators, including members of both Houses of Parliament, and Communities the trade organisations that influence them.
Wherever we work, we spend time in We participate in industry bodies such as the understanding how we can best support British Property Federation, British Council the local community.
We work closely with for Offices, British Council for Shopping local authorities, community agencies and Centres, Better Buildings Partnership, 50 Land Securities Annual Report 2013 ESSENTIAL READ DIRECTORS REPORT GOVERNANCE fINANCIAL STATEmENTS INVESTOR RESOuRCE CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY By making the public realm around our office learninG anD talkinG sustainaBle buildings attractive and vibrant, we make our assets more appealing to our customers and Business their staff.
And by being alive to the potential effects of climate change on policy and public opinion, we ensure our new buildings can respond to the needs of tomorrows occupiers and tomorrows legislation.
From addressing opportunities to managing risk, smart thinking is helping to make us a sustainable business with a bright future.
We work to sustain our Volunteering success by ensuring that We introduced a new approach to volunteering this year.
Volunteers our business plans take now get two days holiday for personal volunteering time, and an additional account of the way the world two days out of the office for professional volunteering that enables is changing.
This is about them to develop their skills while supporting one of our local smart thinking that helps communities.
us to prepare for tomorrow Investor relations As a leader in our industry, we believe while competing today.
we should set high standards when communicating about sustainability.
Our approach often requires us to create benefits For example, this year we invited a for ourselves by investing for the benefit of others.
group of Socially Responsible Investors For example, by supporting social and economic to our Environment Conference, and development in the local community, we enhance we met with mainstream investors the long-term success of a shopping centre.
to discuss how we see risks and opportunities from a sustainability perspective.
responDinG to a cHanGinG worlD Employee surveys We used to run an Employee Given the importance of sustainability issues likely to affect our business Engagement Survey each year.
to our business, our Board of Directors were then explored further, including This year we have moved to a new requested additional input from potential restrictions on development, approach in which we carry out a full management this year to ensure they increasingly stringent environmental survey every other year and a lighter have a full understanding of critical legislation, environmental threats to touch Pulse survey in the alternate issues.
Presentations highlighted the property and transparency.
This was a Pulse year, and the changing context for our business, has strengthened the Boards ability to overall findings included the following: including macro issues such as identify and address the short, medium economic pressures, climate change, and long-term issues that may affect resource scarcity, localism and our business.
The scale of the issues transparency, together with changes involved underlines that sustainability within society, business culture, is about much more than simply being technology and mobility.
95% of respondents said Overall, I am satisfied with working for Land Securities creatinG a Better victoria 94% Once a rather outdated part of central schemes, charities, hostels and of respondents said I am proud to work London, we are helping to transform homeless shelters.
We are also part for Land Securities the Victoria, SW1, area into one of the of the Business Improvement District.
The scale of this work is made possible Along with reshaping Victorias built by the close partnerships we have environment, we are making formed with Westminster City Council substantial investments in the social and organisations such as Jobcentre 90% and economic success of the area.
Our Plus, The Princes Trust, Londons of respondents would Recommend Land Securities as a good place to work coordinated programme of investment Probation Service and a number of our and action includes everything from suppliers.
By working together in a education projects in local schools to joined-up way we are able to have a Detailed performance on key support for young peoples centres, lasting impact on life in SW1.
Sustainable Business targets can employment and apprenticeship be found on page 56.
Land Securities Annual Report 2013 51 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY So wherever we have a significant asset, we invest supportinG communities stronGer in and work with the people who live nearby, and with local organisations.
Whether its through communities charitable giving, creating employment or providing educational opportunities, our aim is to earn peoples trust and to help the area thrive.
More and more, we look to develop long-term partnerships that address the most pressing local needs.
In some locations that might mean we focus on employment projects.
In others it might be Charity partner education that receives priority.
During 2012 we partnered with the Ultimately, the people who MS Society in all of our retail centres, live where our properties enabling them to raise both awareness and funds of more than are located determine 100,000.
The relationship will continue through 2013 as we help whether we succeed or not.
the charity to attract new volunteers during its 60th anniversary year.
They affect everything Made in Marylebone In February, 50 of our employees from our ability to secure gave up a day of their time to help planning permission to the Marylebone Project, a charity that supports homeless women on the success of our shops the path back to independent living.
Our team used their skills to transform and the quality of life for part of the charitys HQ into a revenue-generating space.
ran workshops for residents, and made and sold products from a market stall to raise funds.
workinG toGetHer in lonDon London Benchmarking Group The construction industry requires Devised and led by us, the London We are part of a group of organisations 29,000 new recruits each year to 2017 Employment Strategy is a framework that have committed to report the to cope with planned developments designed to maximise the effectiveness volume and value of community and and an ageing workforce.
As the of property related work, training and charitable endeavours they make each capitals largest commercial property apprenticeship initiatives in the capital.
Every year we will report how developer, this shortfall represents a Land Securities fully funds four weeks much time and money we have risk lack of skilled people may delay of pre-employment training for each spent supporting local groups.
But it also represents an candidate.
We then work with our voluntary, self-assessed entry can opportunity, providing job openings partners to ensure those candidates can be compared with those from other for those who live in and around our access qualifications, work experience companies including our peers in schemes, many of whom are furthest and employment opportunities.
Participating from the employment market.
year, 94 candidates have secured jobs.
in the group will enable us to both benchmark our efforts and see how our support is changing over time.
Donations from our Charities Committee are focused on education, supportinG tHrouGH reportinG employability, enterprise and the environment.
Contributions made From employment and training to centres impact a year after opening.
more locally respond directly to the spending with local suppliers, we know Such comprehensive reporting takes varied needs of the different that property development and asset some time to complete, but we hope to communities in which we operate.
initiatives can have substantial social be sharing our findings with more local We make no political donations.
But those authorities as we move through the effects have yet to be measured or year and into 2014.
Key figures from this year include: analysed accurately, and lack of 3.5m equivalent value of the space, data is restricting the ability of local time, promotion and cash investment authorities to assess prospective made in community activity.
To address this, we are working on a new reporting 9,255 hours spent by our employees programme that will capture socioon skills-based, team building and economic benefits and impacts of what personal volunteering activities.
Our first report has covered Detailed performance on key development at Trinity Leeds.
This will Community targets can be found be followed up with analysis of the on page 56.
52 Land Securities Annual Report 2013 ESSENTIAL READ DIRECTORS REPORT GOVERNANCE fINANCIAL STATEmENTS INVESTOR RESOuRCE CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Part of the challenge is to make investments for enHancinG tHe environment Better the long term without making our properties more expensive for occupiers today, or less profitable environments for us.
Our work in this area covers everything from new forms of energy for buildings to the recycling of waste, support for local ecosystems and initiatives that encourage people to use our buildings in the most intelligent way.
But we think bigger than that.
If we can design and build more efficient and more flexible buildings and create even better places for people to live, work and Commercial property Influencing change enjoy everyone wins: occupiers get better value, This year we set a target to introduce fewer resources are required, enduring benefits generates around 18% of a behavioural change programme are created for the community and we have assets to raise environmental awareness that are more attractive and more valuable.
carbon emissions in the and reduce energy use at two of our managed office buildings.
95% of the UK, so it has a significant occupants in the buildings have signed up to this pilot scheme, which will look role to play in carbon at activities such as water and energy use, recycling, travel and procurement.
reduction and overall Waste management environmental protection.
We set challenging waste management targets for centres within our portfolio.
When we acquire new buildings, they Evolving legislation and regulation represent often need to be moved from a low a risk to any property company.
Along with benchmark to bring them into line informing debate, policy and industry best with our existing assets.
We are practice, our approach is to develop an ever pleased to see the rapid improvement better portfolio of buildings well matched to we can generate when we apply our the standards required in coming years.
expertise, like in Nottingham at The Cornerhouse, where landfill diversion rates have improved dramatically eFFiciency By DesiGn in ten months.
At 20 Fenchurch Street, EC3, we and a green wall will support Biodiversity are creating one of the most efficient biodiversity.
However, the most A central team helps colleagues in office properties yet seen in the important element is the overall design London and Retail to assess whether capital.
The building will feature a of the building.
Its large floorplates, a particular asset or scheme has the range of innovations and best practice efficient air-conditioning and double potential to enhance biodiversity.
elements to ensure it exceeds energy decker lifts mean occupiers can From green walls to ponds and gardens, and environmental regulations.
For accommodate more employees in less there are often simple ways in which example, solar shading will reduce space.
That space can also be adapted we can support plant, animal and heat while solar panels are in place to easily to suit changing requirements insect life.
For example, to help generate electricity.
A low carbon, over time, so the building should have encourage bee numbers, our team natural gas fuel cell the first to be used a long economic life.
in Exeter has installed new beehives in the City will help to cool, heat and in the city and plans to sell the honey power the building.
And the Sky Garden produced at our Princesshay shopping centre.
Our Westwood Cross team has also helped by building a Bee Hotel a large wooden structure that provides a great habitat for wild bees.
takinG control Given the scale of our property implementing a Company-wide system the way we design new schemes, our portfolio, we take energy efficiency that will centralise the way we collect next generation of assets will be 1 00% very seriously.
Finding new and better energy data, bill occupiers, and think meeting regulations and exceeding of London waste diverted from landfill ways to monitor and manage our about energy when we design new expectations for years to come.
energy use has a direct impact on costs schemes.
Greater control will enable for occupiers and for us.
It also helps us us to reduce inefficiency.
We are now And by applying our new knowledge in 90.9% of Retail waste diverted from landfill Detailed performance on key Environmental targets can be found on page 56.
Land Securities Annual Report 2013 53 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY epra sustainaBility reportinG We collect environmental data to help us improve efficiency and ensure we meet regulation.
We also share information with our shareholders and other stakeholders so they can get a clear picture of how we use energy and other resources.
We report using European Public Real notes on perFormance substantially increase the efficiency of those Estate Association EPRA Best Practice The figures shown do not reflect construction poorly performing assets over time.
Also, the Recommendations for Sustainability activity, nor do they cover every property in our performance of an individual asset may have Reporting.
This common reporting standard altered significantly if, for example, the use portfolio.
We only report on buildings where we enables us to compare our impacts and use of the building had changed or we have run the building and control the management of resources with those of our peers.
introduced new measures to improve of energy what we call our managed portfolio.
Or we may have had a high In the London offices managed portfolio, we We first published an EPRA-based reporting number of assets that were unoccupied one report on the landlord-controlled common dashboard in last years Annual Report.
This year but occupied the next.
parts but also the space occupied by our tenants.
year we have made improvements to how we In the Retail managed portfolio, we usually display and discuss data to make our reporting A closer look at this years figures do not have access to tenants metering as transparent as possible.
For example, we demonstrates the complexity of information as they tend to work directly with now publish conversion factors.
We expect to environmental reporting.
We have seen a energy suppliers.
enhance our reporting each year, but believe 9.5% overall increase in total energy used we are already in good shape to meet when set against our 2010 11 baseline.
Overall, our absolute environmental Mandatory Carbon Reporting when it is However, when we normalise these figures performance over the 12 months was broadly 2 introduced in 2014. per m, we have seen a small decrease in total consistent with last years figures.
Part of this reduction in energy year-to-year absolute comparison is currently 2 carBon: aBsolute cHart 29 used per m is due to energy efficiency best practice in our industry, it can only provide measures.
Part is also due to a fall in oil Year-on-year performance tCO e a basic overview.
Our normalised like-for-like 2 consumption as we replace oil-reliant sites figures provide more meaningful insights into 2012 13 Renewable energy112,850 133,550 with gas heating systems.
Some of the what has changed from year to year.
reduction is due to occupier behaviour: With both absolute and like-for-like buildings being emptied as part of our 2011 12 130,938 measures, the dynamic nature of a property development pipeline activity: or the portfolio has to be taken into account before conversion factor for electricity moving in 2010 11 134,252 conclusions are drawn about performance.
our favour due to the decarbonisation of the For example, if we were to acquire a set of grid.
In short, it is very difficult to isolate one 80,000 90,000 100,000 110,000 120,000 130,000 140,000 environmentally inefficient buildings this factor as the ultimate cause of any movement t CO2e may impact our performance during the year, in performance.
but it would also provide opportunities to performance against baseline Ahead or equal Behind aBsolute: 2012 13 FiGures taBle 30 taBle 31 Total energy usage Electricity Gas Oil Water 3 Total kWh tCO e Electricity kWh tCO e Gas kWh tCO e Oil kWh tCO e Water m 2 2 2 2 2010 11: Baseline year 287,131,915 134,252 193,319,012 114,768 87,473,505 17,630 6,339,398 1,854 949,942 2012 13 285,267,433 133,550 194,399,641 114,661 87,443,766 17,869 3,424,026 1,020 920,663 Difference 1,864,482 702 1,080,629 107 29,739 239 2,915,372 834 29,279 % Change 0.6 0.6 0.0 46.0 3.1 54 Land Securities Annual Report 2013 ESSENTIAL READ DIRECTORS REPORT GOVERNANCE fINANCIAL STATEmENTS INVESTOR RESOuRCE CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY epra sustainaBility reportinG conversion taBle 32 carBon: like-For-like cHart 34 2 Year-on-year performance per m 2010 11 2012 13 kg CO kWh kg CO kWh 2 2 Electricity 0.59367 0.58982 2012 13 Renewable energy0.0376 0.0439 Natural gas 0.20155 0.20435 Burning oil 0.29245 0.29795 2011 12 0.0436 2010 11 0.0445 carBon Disclosure project taBle 33 sustainaBility reportinG 0.025 0.030 0.035 0.0400.045 2 per m 2011 2012 Disclosure 60 92 We set a ten-year carbon reduction target from a 2010 11 baseline.
Therefore, unlike conventional financial reporting, we have not restated data to reflect Score D B changes to our like-for-like portfolio.
In particular, wet waste Retail 68.2 22.7 9.1 for example, organic waste from restaurants plays a bigger role in Retail than London and is harder to recycle.
Geography affects figures too, with energyLondon from-waste facilities easier to reach in South East England.
More retailers are 70 30 choosing to recycle some of their more valuable waste, while leaving us to 020406080100 handle the rest.
This makes it harder for us to reach our targets, but it does give us plenty of opportunities to improve waste management overall.
Recycled % Waste to energy % Landfill % Land Securities Annual Report 2013 55 DIRECTORS REPORT key tarGets KEY TARGETS Targets Overall target 2012 13 target 2012 13 performance Sustainable business: Professional Maintain or increase 60% employees Establish accurate recording data Achieved.
volunteering volunteering rate for half day or more per across the business and aim for 17% New policy established and subsequent year but increase the proportion of those who of benchmark of volunteers to be reporting mechanism introduced to provide skilled or professional advice or providing skilled or professional capture breakdown of data.
35% of mentoring to 25% of the 60% by March 2014. advice or mentoring.
volunteering activity captured is classified as professional.
Customer service Maintain overall satisfaction rates N A Achieved.
in both London and Retail Portfolio Retail: Overall satisfaction with customer surveys of 4 or over.
shopping centre management team 4.28 of 5.
London: Overall satisfaction with estate management team 8.1 of 10, equivalent 4.05 of 5.
Investor engagement 90% of our surveyed investor and analyst Target top ten SRI analysts and host at least Partially achieved.
audience and 90% of our surveyed SRI one specific event to address SRI issues.
Invited top SRI analysts to Land Securities specialists to believe our CR strategy is clear Seek feedback on the Land Securities 2012 Environment Conference.
CR and perceived to be embedded in the way investment case and include in all corporate strategy included in some, but not all, we do business by March 2014. reporting as business as usual.
Stronger communities: Reporting to Report annually against social, economic London: roll out City of London Partially achieved.
local authorities and environmental metrics to all regional Reporting Pack, having taken feedback, Met with, and reported to, all major local authorities and London Boroughs to Westminster City Council.
Still to roll out where we have significant shopping centre out reporting to 10 local authorities and standard reporting template.
or development presence by March 2014. all developments.
Obtain feedback to assess what content is most useful and important to the local authorities.
London Employment Deliver the London Portfolio employment Deliver the pre-employment routeway Achieved.
Strategy and skills programme across three into construction across three sites Delivered routeway across three sites: development sites 20 Fenchurch Street, 20 Fenchurch Street, 1 & 2 New Ludgate 20 Fenchurch Street, Kings Gate & The Park House and 123 Victoria Street by and Kingsgate House.
Zig Zag Building and Nova Victoria.
Education Establish working relationships with an Further develop relationships with current Achieved.
increasing number of schools and colleges four London schools and seek feedback Five schools and one college engaged year on year: four in London, at least one from the schools on how to make the in London.
Every shopping centre at each appropriate Retail development relationship more productive.
Actively is engaged in a local educational site and at least one educational initiative promote opportunities to schools or initiative.
adopted in each centre by March 2014. colleges within retail development catchment areas.
Each shopping centre to engage with local authority, agree and trial at least one appropriate educational initiative.
Better environments: Energy Reduce average CO emissions from the N A Saw a 1.4% reduction in 2012 13 against 2 like-for-like managed portfolio by 16% by an interim reduction target of 5% by 2020 21 compared to 2010 11.
Water Reduce average water consumption across Achieve a 5% reduction by 2014.
the London managed office estate and the Saw a reduction in the London office Retail like-for-like portfolio by 10% from portfolio of 8.9% and 10.2% in the a 2010 11 benchmark by March 2018.
Waste Increase to 90% the amount of waste Portfolio average to show an improvement Achieved.
diverted from landfill and recycle at least on the March 2012 landfill avoidance 90.9% of shopping centre waste 70% by weight as an average across all figure, with at least 68% reused or diverted from landfill, with 68.2% shopping centres by March 2015. recycled.
Environmental Record zero environmental incidents N A Achieved.
incidents defined as prosecutions for breaches None recorded in this reporting of legislation or pollution incidents that period.
Health and safety Remain below industry benchmarks for N A Achieved.
reportable incidents for health and safety We have remained well below all purposes on development sites and within available industry benchmarks for our managed property portfolio.
56 Land Securities Annual Report 2013 ESSENTIAL READ DIRECTORS REPORT GOVERNANCE fINANCIAL STATEmENTS INVESTOR RESOuRCE GOVERNANCE essential read governance ifc More information print and online 12 Land Securities in brief 13 Our portfolio in detail 14 Our performance at a glance 15 Strategy and key performance indicators 16 Our year of progress 18 Our top properties Leadership A profile of the Non-executive directors report and Executive Directors who lead 22 Chairmans message the Company.
24 Chief Executives statement 26 Financial review p 58 32 Our principal risks and how we manage them 36 Retail Portfolio review of the year 42 London Portfolio review of the year Good governance 48 Corporate Responsibility Report The steps we take to ensure the Company has clear leadership and is well managed.
governance p 60 58 Board of Directors 60 Corporate Governance Report 64 Nominations Committee Report Remuneration 68 Audit Committee Report 74 D irectors Remuneration Report How we align what management 92 Report of the Directors is paid with our performance and the interests of shareholders.
p 74 Financial statements 94 Statement of Directors Responsibilities 95 Independent auditors Report 96 Income statement 96 Statement of comprehensive income 97 Balance sheets 98 Statement of changes in equity 100 Statements of cash flows 101 Notes to the financial statements investor resource 148 Business analysis 152 Combined portfolio analysis 154 Lease lengths 155 Development pipeline financial summary 156 Five year summary 158 Retail asset disclosures 160 London asset disclosures 162 Investor information 164 Glossary ibc Forward-looking statements Contact details Land Securities Annual Report 2013 57
