Performance review Governance Financial statements Overview Sustainability report Andrew Jones Chief Executive We are committed to establishing best practice targets and improving our performance measurements, including setting out sustainability KPIs.
We will aim to implement clear and transparent targets for the benefit and accountability to all our stakeholders our investors, customers, employees, suppliers and communities we operate in.
Committed to sustainable business practices askeyelements of our operations and  The formation of LondonMetric brings together a range ofproperty types, challenges and opportunities from an environmental and sustainability perspective.
As part of our commitment to improving our processes and enhancing the reporting for the Group, WSP Environmental were appointed toundertake an environmental appraisal.
Business case for sustainability There are strong alignments between sustainable business Bringing together practices and our aim to deliver attractive returns to our shareholders.
Committing to responsible business practices, London& Stamford both socially and which respect the environments of the communities we operate in, allows us to work in partnership andMetric Property has with all stakeholders.
Aligning our principles to those of our occupiers, employees, partners and local communities given us theopportunity to enhance the occupier appeal of our properties, and in turn oureconomic success, by contributing to both the income rebase our environmental andcapital growth returns across our portfolio and creating sustainable shareholder value.
and social policies and Addressing the key issues drawout best practices Key issues include health and safety: a commitment topeople be it our occupiers, employees, partners from both organisations orthecommunities we serve: land contamination andclimatechange.
Annual report and accounts 2013 LondonMetric Property Plc 29 Performance review Sustainability report continued Health and safety Our partners We recognise the importance of health and safety and look Our joint venture partners have strong sustainability credentials.
topromote a level of awareness allowing health and safety Both Universities Superannuation Scheme USS and Public matters to be addressed through all our business activities, Sector Pension PSP Investments are members and signatories fromdesign and construction, ongoing management in various leading institutional organisations focused on ofourproperties and at our head office.
Strong supplier relationships are paramount to our ability to Our occupiers deliver our business model as we have a small corporate head Our occupier-led approach is at the centre of our strategy office and outsource a significant portion of our property andmeeting their needs so that they choose to lease, stay management.
We manage our relationships with our suppliers andrecommend us to others is paramount.
This places us in a fair, consistent and transparent manner.
We manage our inastronger position to improve the rental values across our property portfolio through managing agents.
This is both portfolio and improve occupancy levels, all maximising rental cost-efficient and effective, enabling us to adapt the level income and improving property values.
We continue to be ofmanagement provided, as appropriate, to respond quickly committed to addressing issues identied by our occupiers.
tothe purchase and sale of properties.
We work closely with our managing agents to deliver consistently high performance.
Our staff Our portfolio is managed by Savills Advisory Services Limited, Employing staff who are engaged, motivated and add value Osborne King CBRE Limited and Montagu Evans.
across the business underpins our success.
We employ the best candidates available in every position, regardless of gender, Our communities ethnic group or background.
Training is provided to all We have sponsored the Kirkstall Festival at our development employees to help them develop their skills and reach inLeeds and the Mayor of Milford Haven Christmas charity fund theirpotential.
in support of the community around our investment at Havens Head Retail Park in Milford Haven.
Our charitable donations include the Wheelpower Charity, Animal Lifeline and the Jewish Care Business breakfast.
Land contamination Environmental audits are carried out prior to the acquisition ofnew properties to identify any potential contamination and ifpresent, agree any measures required to control or reduce.
30 LondonMetric Property Plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Performance review Governance Financial statements Overview Addressing climate change Meeting our commitment for enhanced disclosure We believe a significant impact can be made to address We are already engaged in undertaking an environmental climate change by working towards improving the energy audit across the former London & Stamford and Metric efficiency of existing buildings as the annual replacement rates portfolios to harmonise the environmental reporting procedures across the UK are very low.
We have made the improvement of in order to comply with all relevant local, national and existing building energy efficiency and sustainability alongside international legislation and regulation and where possible the short-term redevelopment of browneld sites a priority in seek to implement environmental best practices and achieve our portfolio.
Better use of existing building stock rather than enhanced environmental reporting.
replacement provides greater reduction in construction waste Whilst it is early days and we recognise it will take time to and use of natural resources and we aim to engage down this achieve our ambitions, we aim to establish systems for real time route where possible.
data collection for reporting and benchmarking the entire portfolio.
We will evaluate the use of an energy use Integrating sustainable decision-making into dashboard split into sub-sectors to properly understand ourredevelopment programme andbe able to report on the Groups position.
Sustainable decision-making is core to the regeneration and We are committed to completing the annual Global Real refurbishment of existing building stock whereby we identify Estate Sustainability Benchmark GRESB Survey and intend outmoded and well located older properties and refurbish toidentify a corporate environmental policy and set where appropriate or redevelop browneld sites, see case benchmarking and performance targets once we have study on Bishop Auckland Shopping Park on pages 32 and 33. completed our audit and harmonised portfolio reporting.
We have adopted industry-recognised assessment methods Andrew Jones, Chief Executive, is the Board Director such as BREEAM to evaluate and promote environmental responsiblefor sustainability.
The Board reviews the awareness across our delivery teams, occupiers and end users sustainabilitypolicy annually as part of its continuing where appropriate.
We will continue to work closely with all our corporategovernance procedures.
stakeholders to take a proactive approach and promote environmental awareness on an ongoing basis, including waste and recycling initiatives and encouraging and promoting the use of public transport.
Annual report and accounts 2013 LondonMetric Property Plc 31 Performance review Sustainability report continued Environmental and social successes Case study: Bishop Auckland Phase I Before... and after... 32 LondonMetric Property Plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Performance review Governance Financial statements Overview Improving sustainability and social aspects were key Highlights considerations in the design and development of the property, t BREEAM Very Good rating which included: t Requirement for a minimum 10% reduction in carbon CO2 t Targets for energy, water and environmental materials, emissions or provide onsite renewable energy sources achieving a score of 57.11% against BREEAM Retail 2008 Issue toaminimum 10% of the total energy demand from 4.0 SD 5056, achieving a BREEAM rating of Very Good thedevelopment t All timber was from suppliers certied to Forest Stewardship 14% reduction in CO2 emissions achieved from low Council FSC and Programme for the Endorsement of orzerocarbon LZC energy technology ForestCertication PEFC standards 5% reduction in CO2 emissions achieved from installation t The sub base layer of aggregate material used for load ofmost up to date M&E systems bearing for external hard landscaping was made up of atleast 80% recycled materials generated from the existing t EPC rating of A exceeding rating of C for equivalent stock buildings and hard landscaping which was crushed and t 7,500 sq m of re-used existing building materials re-used onsite t Highly efficient external light ttings controlled by t The use of highly efficient sensor-controlled light ttings daylightsensors reduces operation during daylight hours and signicantly reduces both replacement and maintenance costs t All timber sourced from recognised sustainable suppliers t Pulsed-output water meters were installed in all tenanted t Inclusion of sustainable travel planning areas, common areas and service areas and connected t Improved amenities for local residents tothe Building Management System to encourage reductions in water consumption t Added 120 local jobs t Contractor signatory to Considerate Contractors Scheme Bishop Auckland Shopping Park is located to the south-west of complying with best practice in construction and site Bishop Auckland town centre, County Durham.
LondonMetric management including Waste & Resource Action conditionally acquired the browneld site in June 2011 which Programme WRAP Good Practice originally was a single, large retail warehouse built in the 1970s and formerly occupied by Focus DIY but stood vacant and t Tenants are obliged to comply with the requirements of became unsightly and a problem for the local community, Green Building User Guide through the terms of their lease, having been vandalised numerous times.
with the guide providing recommendations on how to minimise the environmental impacts of the buildings use On successfully achieving a revised planning consent for andhow the tenant should t out its unit OpenA1 retail use in December 2011, LondonMetric acquired the site in March 2012 when construction commenced for t The development is pedestrian and cycle friendly through ave-unit retail terrace of 49,225 sq ft and associated car the provision of amenities including cycle lanes, safe crossing parking for Phase I. points, direct routes and cycle storage has been provided for atleast 10% of staff: the shopping park is in good proximity topublic transport networks and local amenities t Wider economic benets include the creation of 120 full-time equivalent jobs, increased economic expenditure and enhanced retail choice for the catchment area Annual report and accounts 2013 LondonMetric Property Plc 33
