Corporate governance Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2013 Corporate governance 53 is passed, or at the conclusion of the AGM to be held in 2015, Employee policies and involvement whichever is the sooner.
The Group places particular importance on the involvement of its The limited power granted to the Directors at last years AGM to allot employees, keeping them regularly informed through informal bulletins equity shares for cash other than pro rata to existing Shareholders and other in-house publications, meetings and the Companys internal expires no later than 6 May 2015.
Subject to the terms of the section websites, on matters affecting them as employees and on the issues 551 authority, the Directors recommend that this authority should be affecting their performance.
Since 1996 those Group businesses renewed.
If granted, this authority will give the Directors the ability until in the European Economic Area EEA have been represented on the AGM to be held in 2015 to issue ordinary shares for cash, other the Compass European Council CEC which provides a forum for than pro rata to existing Shareholders, in connection with a rights issue exchanging information and engaging in consultation on the Groups or up to a limit of 5% of the issued ordinary share capital calculated at performance and plans, and relevant transnational issues.
The the latest practicable date prior to the publication of the Notice of AGM.
Groups CEC Agreement terminated in December 2012.
The In line with best practice, the Company has not issued more than 7.5% Company is in the process of negotiating a new CEC Agreement of its issued ordinary share capital on a non prorated basis over the last through a Special Negotiating Body, comprising employee three years.
The Directors have no present intention to issue ordinary representatives from each of the countries in which the Group shares, other than pursuant to the Companys employee share operates within the EEA.
schemes, and this authority will maintain the Companys flexibility in Permanent UK employees are usually invited to join the Companys relation to future share issues, including any issues to finance business defined contribution scheme, Compass Retirement Income Savings opportunities, should appropriate circumstances arise.
Plan CRISP, or the Companys stakeholder pension arrangement.
Details of issues of new shares made during the year, together with CRISP has a corporate trustee.
The Chairman, Tony Allen, is details of options granted over unissued capital, are set out in note 24 independent but will retire on 30 November 2013 and will be to the consolidated financial statements on pages 119 and 120. succeeded by Nigel Palmer, a current employee of the Group.
The other four Trustee Directors are UK-based employees of the Substantial shareholdings Group, one of whom has been nominated by CRISP members.
As at the date of this Report, two further member-nominated The following major shareholdings have been notified to the Company positions are vacant.
as at 30 September 2013 and the date of this Report.
% of Those UK employees who transfer from the public sector under the % of Compass issued Group PLCs Transfer of Undertakings Protection of Employment Regulations 1 capital voting rights 2006 are eligible to join the Compass Group Pension Plan the Plan, a defined benefit pension arrangement which is otherwise closed to Blackrock, Inc. 9.99 9.99 new entrants.
The Plan also has a corporate Trustee.
The Chairman, Massachusetts Financial Services Company 5.00 5.00 Peter Morriss to 11 October 2013 and Phillip Whittome from 11 October 2013, is independent.
There are a further five Trustee 1 At the date of disclosure.
Directors who are either UK-based employees or former employees of the Group, three of whom have been nominated by Plan members.
Since the disclosure date, the Shareholders interest in the Company may have changed.
The Company became subject to the automatic enrolment regulations for its workforce in the UK on 1 November 2012, but deferred its The number of shares held by the Directors as at 30 September 2013 staging date for automatic enrolment of eligible employees to 2 can be found on page 69 of the Directors Remuneration Report.
January 2013 as permitted by the regulations.
Both the Plan and CRISP are compliant arrangements under these regulations and have Employee share trusts been registered as such.
Employees who were not already in one The Compass Group Employee Share Trust ESOP and The Compass of these registered compliant arrangements were automatically Group Employee Trust Number 2 CGET were established on enrolled into the National Employment Savings Trust NEST.
28,510 13 January 1992 and 12 April 2001 respectively in connection with employees were automatically enrolled on 2 January 2013.
Part the Companys share option plans.
The Compass Group Long Term of the UK business had a staging date of 1 April 2013 and automatic Incentive Plan Trust LTIPT was established on 5 April 2001 in enrolment was deferred until 10 June 2013 when a further 1,149 connection with the Companys long term incentive plans.
Details employees, who were not already enrolled, were automatically of all incentive plans are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report enrolled in NEST.
Permanent employees outside of the UK are usually on pages 55 to 70.
The Trustees of the ESOP, LTIPT and CGET hold offered membership of local pension arrangements if and where they 144,413 2012: 180,266, 17,209 2012: 17,209 and nil 2012: nil ordinary exist or limited global arrangements where it is appropriate to have shares of the Company respectively.
The Compass Group Executive Option Share Trust and the Compass Employees are offered a range of benefits, such as private medical Group Executive Share Trust were established on 15 and 22 February cover, depending on the local environment.
Priority is given to the 2010 respectively in relation to the operation of share incentive plans training of employees and the development of their skills is of prime in Australia.
No ordinary shares are held by these Trusts as at importance.
Employment of disabled people is considered on merit 30 September 2013 2012: nil.
with regard only to the ability of any applicant to carry out the role.
Arrangements to enable disabled people to carry out the duties Awards under employee share schemes required will be made if it is reasonable to do so.
An employee Details of awards made during the year and held by Executive Directors becoming disabled would, where appropriate, be offered retraining.
as at 30 September 2013 are set out in the Directors Remuneration The Group continues to operate on a decentralised basis.
This Report on pages 55 to 70. provides the maximum encouragement for the development of entrepreneurial flair, balanced by a rigorous control framework Details of employee share schemes and grants made during the year ended 30 September 2013 to, and extant awards held by, employees exercised by a small head office team.
Local management teams are responsible for maintaining high standards of health and safety are disclosed in note 24 to the consolidated financial statements on pages 119 and 120. and for ensuring that there is appropriate employee involvement in decision making.
