54 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2013 Corporate governance Governance and Directors Report Since 2004, Shareholders have passed an annual resolution, on a Employee diversity and human rights precautionary basis, to approve donations to EU political organisations Our Code of Ethics was developed in consultation with the CEC and to incur EU political expenditure as such terms were defined under and the Institute of Business Ethics and sets out clear standards of the then relevant legislation not exceeding 125,000 per annum.
The behaviour that we expect all of our people to demonstrate and adhere Board has consistently confirmed that it operates a policy of not giving to.
The Code of Ethics, which is part of our Code of Business Conduct, any cash contribution to any political party in the ordinary meaning of underpins our social, ethical and environmental commitments and those words and that it has no intention of changing that policy.
sends a clear message to our stakeholders of our commitment to responsible business practice.
The ten principles of the United Nations No material amount of corporate funds or paid employee time has been UN Global Compact, to which we are a signatory, underpin our own utilised during the year for political activities and, in accordance with the Code of Ethics.
This UN initiative encourages companies to make Companys Code of Business Conduct, Compass Group employees human rights, labour standards, environmental responsibility and must not engage in any form of lobbying or have contact with political anti-corruption part of their business agenda.
representatives, government employees or public interest groups unless they are doing so legitimately and adhering to internal control For the year ended 30 September 2013 there were 506,699 people processes.
Further information regarding the Code of Business employed by the Group average number of employees including Conduct can be found on page 50 of this Annual Report and on the Directors and part-time employees of whom 280,971 were female Companys website at www.
A breakdown of employee diversity, as required by the CA 2006, showing the number of persons who were The Directors propose to renew the authority granted at the AGM Directors of the Company and senior managers at the end of the year in 2013 for the Group to make political donations and incur political ended 30 September 2013 can be viewed on page 21 of the Corporate expenditure as such terms are defined in sections 362 to 365 of the Responsibility section of the Strategic Report and forms part of the CA 2006 until the Companys next AGM, which they might otherwise Directors Report disclosures.
be prohibited from making or incurring under the terms of the CA 2006 and which would not amount to donations in the ordinary sense of the Our people are instrumental to our success: we respect and value word.
It is proposed to reduce the limit of such authority from 125,000 the individuality and diversity that every employee brings to the Group.
We base our relationship with our employees on respect for the dignity of the individual and fair treatment for all.
Our employee policies are CREST set locally to comply with local law within an overall Group framework The Companys ordinary shares and Sterling Eurobonds are in CREST, and we monitor our employee satisfaction and engagement through a the settlement system for stocks and shares.
number of Key Performance Indicators, details of which can be found on pages 22 to 25.
Shareholder services We also consider the concerns of wider communities where we Details of services provided to Shareholders can be found in the operate, including national and local interests, utilising our relevant Shareholder Information section on pages 139 to 141 and on the expertise to help contribute to the wellbeing of communities which Companys website.
are appropriate to our business objectives.
Furthermore, the Group supports the rights of all people as set out in the UN Universal AGM Declaration of human Rights and carefully considers before doing The Notice of Meeting setting out the Resolutions to be proposed at any business in countries that do not adhere to the UN Declaration.
the AGM to be held on 6 February 2014, together with explanatory notes, is set out on pages 142 to 147 of this Annual Report and is also Greenhouse gas emissions reporting available on the Companys website at www.
The Company is required to state the annual quantity of emissions in The Directors consider that each of the Resolutions is in the best tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent from activities for which the Group interests of the Company and the Shareholders as a whole and is responsible, including the combustion of fuel and the operation of any recommend that Shareholders vote in favour of all of the Resolutions.
Details of our emissions during the year ended 30 September On behalf of the Board 2013 and the actions which the Group is taking to reduce them are set out within the Corporate Responsibility section of the Strategic Report on pages 20 to 25 and form part of the Directors Report disclosures.
Further details can also be found in our online Corporate Responsibility Report at www.
Donations and political expenditure The Groups charitable donations in 2013 totalled 6.7 million Mark J White 2012: 6.2 million.
Charitable objectives support the Companys General Counsel and Company Secretary corporate responsibility strategy and have primarily focused 27 November 2013 on improving the environment, education, health and wellbeing, community engagement and responsible business practice.
Compass Group PLC Donations have included employee involvement through fundraising Registered in England and Wales No.
