Corporate Sustainable Development report Integral to our commitment, we strive to Our Commitment incorporate the UNGC and its principles into our strategy, culture and day-to-day For Computacenter in 2013, the year has operations.
We do this through the been about building a strong platform for the development, communication and Group to enjoy sustained success.
However, implementation of relevant policies to we recognise that the people that carry manage and monitor our progress towards out business on our behalf, the people we these principles.
Since our commitment do business with and the societies and to the core principles, we have adopted environment in which we operate are vital and revised a number of policies and contributors to delivering value and achieving procedures across the Group, and will our strategic objectives.
Whilst we pride continue to do so on an ongoing basis.
ourselves on the provision of technologicallyMike Norris, Chief Executive Officer advanced information solutions, we We are communicating our sustainability recognise that our business occurs within efforts and achievements with all our a wider community including employees, shareholders in our Annual Report and contractors, shareholders, customers, Accounts, as well as on our Company suppliers and business partners.
We continue to believe that what is not measured is not effectively managed and Since 2007, the Group has been committed in line with this, following the implementation to the 10 core principles of the United of our Group ERP system across our main Nations Global Compact UNGC, aimed operating geographies, we are endeavouring at demonstrating ethical, environmental to identify at least one standard indicator and social responsibility towards our own SI, as recognised by the Global Reporting workforce and in our business interaction Initiative GRI, per core principle.
within each community and country in Much work remains to be done over which we operate.
In 2009, the Group the coming years, in relation to the published its first Communication on measurement indicators we elect to Progress CoP on the UNGC website, and demonstrate our progress.
we have been doing so on an annual basis ever since that time.
We believe that the We actively seek to collaborate with and UNGC provides us with an appropriate encourage our suppliers, contractors and framework through which to measure our customers to operate in a similar socially development and progress in this area.
responsible manner, as guided by the UNGC Additionally, the Group retains its 10 core principles.
We have already secured membership of the FTSE4Good support from the majority of our suppliers Index Series.
and contractors, but we acknowledge that this remains an ongoing task.
The Groups Corporate Sustainable Development CSD Policy is annually reviewed by the Computacenter plc Board of Directors, and is implemented and monitored through the Groups Corporate Sustainable Development Committee, constituted out of Mike Norris representatives from across the Chief Executive Officer Group as a whole.
10 March 2014 Computacenter plc Annual Report and 34 Enabling IT Users Accounts 2013 2014 objectives Our Progress in 2013 Maintain the AIR at below 2.5 and the AFR at below 1.0 across all of our main operating geographies.
Human rights Continued stress prevention training for managers 1 a.
Support and respect the internationally proclaimed in German business.
human rights Human Rights In France, continued training of increased numbers 2013 objectives and achievements SI not formalised of employees in fire risk.
Maintain human rights awareness through the Companys AIR Number of accidents per 1,000 employees Principles of Employee Behaviour.
AFR Number of accidents per 100,000 working hours Our human rights related policies across the Group have been reviewed and continue to be made available to new starters 2.
Ensure that the Group is not complicit in human through an employee handbook, new employment contracts rights abuses and or the Group intranet.
Training in this area remains available to our employees.
2013 objective and achievements SI not formalised Enhance focus through a Sustainable Development principles Continue to maintain key and new vendor assessments week in April 2013, in France.
through the vendor conformance questionnaire and monitor More than 180 members of staff were trained on Sustainable the returns.
Development principles during an Integration Day and New supplier questionnaire, developed but not yet implemented Sustainable Development Principles week, held by our in Germany.
In France, the questionnaire developed in 2012 continued to Further extend the LEO  be circulated to vendors, and responses are being monitored  programme in Germany, with a appropriately.
roll-out of a Healthy Leadership module.
Four Sustainable Development audits of suppliers carried out This has been successfully extended during 2013 in Germany by French business.
the module was conducted three times, and over 45 Supplier Assessment questionnaires returned continue to be managers within the German business attended it.
reviewed in respect of Anti-Bribery and Corruption exposure, and this information is shared between the various companies 2014 objectives in the Group.
Across the Group, continue to maintain human rights awareness through the Companys Principles of 2014 objectives Employee Behaviour.
Continue to maintain key and new vendor assessments In France, enhance focus through a further Integration Day through the vendor conformance questionnaire and the and Sustainable Development Principles Week to be held monitoring of returns.
by our French business in April 2014, and ensure increased In France, to carry out a further four Sustainable Development numbers of employees participate against the level achieved audits of suppliers.
In Germany, the implementation and circulation of the updated In Germany, the continuing provision of leadership guidance supplier questionnaire.
workshops which, amongst other things, focus on the human rights of the Groups employees.
Labour standards Completion of updated compliance training in Business Ethics 3.
Uphold employees freedom of association and Anti-corruption and fair competition to be completed by employees in German business.
2013 objective and achievements SI not formalised Maintain current status and reassess vendor conformance, 1 b.
Support and respect the internationally proclaimed through the review of questionnaire responses and maintain human rights Health and Safety positive interaction with all Works Councils.
2013 objectives and achievements SIs AIR and AFR Positive interaction with the Works Councils in Germany and Maintain the Accident Incident Rate AIR at below 2.5 France has been achieved on a significant number of business and the Accident Frequency Rate AFR below 1.0. issues during the year in France and Germany.
In the UK, the average AIR increased to 0.82 2012: 0.79 19 meetings of the Works Committee Council in France and the average AFR increased to 0.46 2012: 0.44. have taken place.
In Germany, the average AIR increased to 1.48 2012: 0.99 The Works Council has continued its work throughout 2013 and the average AFR increased to 0.85 2012: 0.55. in Germany.
In France, the average AIR reduced to 0.93 2012: 1.41 Review of vendor conformance has continued within France and the average AFR reduced to 0.51 2012: 0.76. and Germany.
In France, four Sustainable Development audits 89 employees trained in fire risk on the French site at Roissy.
have been carried out on suppliers.
Establish an e-learning platform in Germany to facilitate the 2014 objectives availability to all of a variety of health and safety presentation Continuation of positive interaction with French and German awareness modules.
Works Councils within new Group operating structure.
The e-learning platform has been launched with additional Maintain current status and reassess vendor conformance, training on safety at work for all employees.
through the review of questionnaire responses.
In Germany, intensive training sessions around Handling of stress in leadership situations and the rollout of stress prevention webinars have been conducted for an additional 100 members of staff.
Successful health and safety management audit completed in Germany.
Computacenter plc Annual Report and 35 Enabling IT Users Accounts 2013 Financial statements Governance Strategic report Corporate Sustainable Development report continued 4.
Eliminate all forms of forced and compulsory labour 2014 objectives Continued provision of online training relating to the 2013 objective and achievements SI not formalised General Equal Treatment Act for German employees.
Maintain current status and reassess vendor conformance, Continuation of the Family Service offering to employees through the review of questionnaire responses.
and the development of the project Women at Work.
In France, the questionnaire developed in 2012 continued In France, to continue awareness through the Sustainable to be circulated to vendors, and responses monitored Development Principles Week held in April 2014. appropriately, and four supplier audits have taken place on Sustainable Development issues.
Environment The new supplier questionnaire is not yet implemented 7.
Apply precaution to activities which can impair in Germany.
the environment 2014 objective Maintain current status and reassess vendor conformance, 2013 objectives and achievements SI not formalised through the review of questionnaire responses.
Continue to monitor the energy consumption levels at the Group Head Office and the CO emissions of the UK and 2 Germany vehicles, with the aim of improving further.
Abolish all forms of child labour An estimated 29,725 mwh of Green Climate Change Exempt 2013 objective and achievements SI not formalised electricity was purchased for all the UK locations, including Continue to develop young careers and seek assurance from its datacenters.
all key vendors that no child labour is deployed, on behalf of The average CO emitted per UK fleet vehicle reduced 2 the Group, in non-European geographies.
from 168 g km in 2009, to 146 g km in 2010, to 129 g km In Germany, the Exploras programme, which regulates in 2011 to 124 g km in 2012 and finally to 121 g km in 2013 conditions for working students at Computacenter Germany the average CO emitted per Germany fleet vehicle reduced 2 was continued.
from 139 g km in 2011 to 129 g km in 2012 and to 117 g km The Handelsblatt fund Junge Carrieres seal of a Fair in 2013, following ongoing expansion of our Green Fleet Company was retained by Computacenter Germany.
Computacenter France continued its support for the Achieve certification to ISO 14001 level 3 of the 1, 2, 3 Non-governmental organisation Aide et Action.
Relevant audit to be completed in 2014 objectives April 2014.
Continue to develop young careers and seek assurance from In France, full audit of waste management suppliers used all key vendors that no child labour is deployed, on behalf of by the business carried out.
the Group, in non-European geographies.
In France, aim to increase the level of charitable fundraising 2014 objectives and fulfil the terms of the agreement signed with Aide Continue to monitor the energy consumption levels at the et Action.
Group Head Office and the CO emissions of Computacenter 2 UK and Germany vehicles, with the aim of improving further.
In Germany, successful completion of audit of quality and 6.
Support equality in respect of employment and environmental management system ISO: 9001:2000 and occupation and eliminate all discrimination ISO 14001:2005 2013 objectives and achievements SI not formalised In France, reinforce awareness during the Sustainable 8.
Undertake initiatives to promote greater involvement Development Principles Week and conclude a negotiation in the community on gender equality.
Both of these targets were achieved by the French business 2013 objectives and achievements in 2013.
Aim to improve the current level of charity fundraising and Continue the Family Service offering in Germany.
This was continued, and through the Family Service offering, Employees in the UK raised nearly 130,000 Computacenter supports its employees in almost all aspects 2012: 73,612 during 2013, for the Groups chosen charity of life support ranges from child care and a back-up partners.
Support for the Hertfordshire Fire and Rescue dogs kindergarten, through to a consulting service in the event of continued, as well as support as a founding member of conflicts at work and also the provision of a 24-hour hotline for Herts 100. individuals to discuss any personal or professional issue that The UK business supports Kidsafe, a schools initiative to teach they wish.
children about road safety, the danger of drugs and bullying.
A project entitled Women at Work for womens promotion, Computacenter in France continued its support to Nonequality and the reconciliation of family and working life Government Organisation Aide et Action.
In Germany, several blood donation campaigns were organised There was continued provision of anti-discrimination training to take place within working hours, in association with the in Germany for employees, based on the requirements of the Red Cross.
German General Equal Treatment Act.
Continue to track and monitor charity fundraising activities.
Complete pension auto-enrolment in the UK for all eligible Our French business has maintained its partnership with employees, in line with new legislation.
Aide et Action to support schooling for children worldwide Process successfully implemented during the course of who are forced to work due to their circumstances.
Computacenter plc Annual Report and 36 Enabling IT Users Accounts 2013 2014 objectives Continue to track and monitor, and increase the level of, Our CSD approach for 2014 charity fundraising activities.
Maintain partnership with Aide et Action in France to As outlined within our Strategic Report, during the reporting support schooling for children forced to work due to period, Computacenter has completed the implementation their circumstances.
of its Group ERP system within its UK, German and French business subsidiaries.
We look forward to using this 9.
Encourage the development of environmentally standardised tool to measure progress in the area of CSD friendly technologies consistently across the Group.
In alignment with our move 2013 objectives and achievements SI Proportion of towards a Group operating structure, this will also be the customer contract wins where Green IT was part of the case for our approach on CSD, where new initiatives will be contract scope launched in 2014 to replicate the best progress being made Continue to track customer demand for Green IT offerings.
in-country across the Group, and to discuss innovative In 2013, 13.4 per cent 2012: 12.53 per cent of new contract ideas in this area more closely.
Through a drive towards wins included a Green IT brief.
the efficiencies gained by working together more closely, Computacenter France will expand on its Green IT Advisory we will continue to improve our CSD standards alongside Services for customers, with the addition of audit and the Groups growth in revenue and profitability.
committed to ensuring that we do business in the right way, The Green Initiative of our French business has been and additionally to giving something back to the community extended with a specific offering developed to assist which continues to allow our business to flourish.
The UNGC customers in reducing their packaging waste.
is a wholly appropriate tool and framework to guide us towards achieving these aspirations and, as such, we will 2014 objective remain wholly committed to it during 2014.
Continue to track customer demand for Green IT offerings.
Impede corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery 2013 objective and achievements SI not formalised Simon Pereira Invite an external review concerning the adequacy of the Company Secretary Groups Anti-bribery policy and procedures and implement 10 March 2014 plans following the reviews findings.
A full external review of the adequacy of the Groups Anti-bribery policy and procedures was carried out by the Good Corporation in August 2013, and a full analysis of the results has been carried out by the Groups management.
A plan has now been put in place to address any recommendations made, and it is expected that these will be implemented during 2014.
2014 objective To complete the implementation of recommendations arising from the external audit of the Groups Anti-bribery policy and procedures.
Computacenter plc Annual Report and 37 Enabling IT Users Accounts 2013 Financial statements Governance Strategic report
