OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FURTHER INFORMATION 47 HEALTH AND SAFETY COMPLIANCE WITH EPRA SUSTAINABILITY BEST In 2013, we further developed our health and safety PRACTICE RECOMMENDATIONS strategy and completed the recommendations from the internal audit we undertook in 2012.
This included the SEGRO is a member of the EPRA Sustainability Reporting launch of the revised Group health and safety policy Committee and has worked with the European publiclywhich clearly describes the expectations, management listed real estate sector to lay out a set of recommendations and commitments made by SEGRO to its employees and for standardised reporting on key environmental impacts allthose that may be affected by its work activities.
To build on our revised approach to health and safety, We continue to report against the EPRA Best Practice acommunications campaign was launched to improve the Recommendations.
For the first time, our sustainability quality, level of detail and relevance to specic employee report in 2012 achieved an EPRA Gold Award, primarily roles.
For example, this ensured that more technical due to the quality of our data disclosure around health and safety information is provided to project and operational energy, water and waste performance.
development teams, whereas general workplace health This was an improvement on the Bronze award we and safety information is issued to employees in more received in 2011 and recognises the progress we have ofce-based roles.
Alongside this success, we also received improved scores in our submissions to the Global In 2013, work continued on improving the co-ordination and communication between employees on all health and Real Estate Sustainability Benchmark and the Carbon Disclosure Project, both of which are key metrics used for safety-related activities.
This focused on ensuring that each local SEGRO team was kept up to date on the progress measuring a companys sustainability performance.
and priorities as laid out in our health and safety strategy.
It has also provided an opportunity for face-to-face training and for information to be shared between the different country teams.
This process will continue to be deployed throughout 2014 to ensure that health and safety is understood as a responsibility for all employees, suppliers and consultants.
SEGRO continues to be extremely proud of its excellent health and safety record.
In 2013, our Accident Frequency Rate for SEGRO employees was zero 2012 zero.
There were no health and safety prosecutions, enforcement actions or fatalities in 2013 and therefore weachieved our targets in this respect.
