42 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY COMMUNITIES We have recently committed to another Foundation Partner Project whereby, through pro bono work, Supporting communities in which we operate remains an manpower and donations of 40,000 a year for three integral part of our operations.
In 2013, SEGRO invested years, we are extending the Slough YMCA Hostel at atotal of 1.7 million in good causes through money, time, Britwell, which is located close to the Slough Trading land and business space.
The existing facility accommodates eight single person units and, when completed, the extension will We work closely with a range of stakeholders in the provide accommodation for afurther five young people.
communities where we have a presence.
This way we ensure that the local communities understand why we SEGRO employees, along with our industry peers, have are undertaking or supporting a particular project and enthusiastically supported other LandAid fundraising the benets that it will bring to their neighbourhood.
initiatives raising just over 19,000 for the organisation.
We equally listen to what they have to say about our plans This included taking part in the summer run in Regents and we seek to address any concerns they may have.
Park, London, and the LandAid Fundraising Day in In the UK, we now have active community engagement October, with a golf day, cake bakes, a sailing day andthe plans in place in Hounslow, Ealing, Hillingdon, Slough, Industrial Agents Cycle Challenge.
In Continental Europe, we have supported Na Ratunek, As well as our employees giving their time and energy which is an organisation in Wroclaw, Poland supporting tocharitable causes, we are proud to provide assistance children who require a bone marrow transplant and we inkind to a number of organisations in the UK in the have continued to support the Gajusz Foundation in formofeither reduced rent or free accommodation.
Lodz, Poland which cares for children with chronic or incurable conditions.
In Belgium, we continued to support Organisations we have supported in this way in youth football via Diegem Sport.
In France, we supported 2013 include: Caf Associative des Tilleuls at Blanc Mesnil in Paris which t SkillForce Development a charity that works in is a volunteer-run community regeneration project.
partnership with schools, drawing upon the skills of predominantly ex-Forces personnel, to inspire young people to succeed.
t Berkshire East and South Bucks Womens Aid this is a Queens Award Slough-based charity which supports all victims of domestic abuse including children and young people.
t Ealing Mencap this local branch of Mencap represents the interests of people with learning disabilities and their carers within the London Borough of Ealing.
In 2013, we signicantly increased our support to and ties with LandAid, the charity of the UK property industry which works to improve the lives of children and young people who experience disadvantage due to their economic or social circumstances.
SEGRO is a long-time supporter and a Foundation Partner.
In 2013, our Chief Operating officer, Andy Gulliford, joined the LandAid Fundraising Committee to help promote their work and increase support from amongst others in the industry.
SUMMER RUN SEGRO Annual Report and Accounts 2013 | www.
com OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FURTHER INFORMATION 43 SLOUGH ASPIRE Slough Aspire is one of the countrys most innovative training and development projects, and which opened on the Slough Trading Estate in October 2013.
It has been designed to be the first port of call for training and development needs for businesses and the local community.
Developed by SEGRO, Slough Aspire has been delivered in partnership with a number of locally-based businesses and organisations including Mars, Lonza, the Federation of Small Businesses, East Berkshire College and Slough Borough Council.
The project aims to help members of the local community develop the confidence and skills to take advantage of a rapidly-changing employment market and ensure that employers have access to a talented and productive local workforce.
The centre is open to companies, schools and local residents and it plays a vital role in enhancing and strengthening links between the community and local businesses.
Slough Aspire offers a range of training programmes, events and career advice services which helps employers address their training and recruitment needs by connecting them with the local community and training providers.
SEGRO YOUNG ARTISTS The SEGRO Young Artists programme is a series of partnerships betweenSEGRO, professional artists and selected schools to inspire youngpeople, develop talent and celebrate art.
The end-of-programme exhibition at the Royal Society of Arts is theculmination of afour-month programme of activity and celebrates the work and the achievements of the schools taking part.
The World of Work has been the consistent theme since 2008 and has provided the project with some very interesting pieces.
For the first time, in2013, SEGRO fund-matched sales of work made at the exhibition so that the students received a 500 bursary towards art college fees or for arts materials.
The 2013 programme involved 117 students, 11 art teachers and sixvisual artists.
Students told us that they now feel more empowered in understanding the world of work, what this entails and how to work in a more creative way.
