44 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY STAKEHOLDERS resulted in a reduced base of 2,760 active suppliers from a starting point of 6,800 in 2012.
The 60 per cent reduction to the supply base has enabled us to ensure that we OUR CUSTOMERS work in partnership with companies which are following We take great pride in the strength of our customer good industry practices and are compliant with relevant relationships.
At SEGRO, our aim is to put our customers regulations and local country legislation.
It is vital to the continued success of our business that Training has been provided to all teams on legislative we ensure our customers are consistently satisfied with requirements including anti-bribery and corruption.
the product and service levels they receive from us, and it SEGRO terms and conditions for contracts have been is our ambition to exceed their expectations.
We see our updated to incorporate our policy objectives and all customers as partners and we value the relationship we suppliers have been requested to provide a copy of their have with them by regularly monitoring this through our anti-bribery policy or sign up to SEGROs code of practice.
own annual Customer Satisfaction Survey to measure how we are performing.
Across the Company in 2013 we introduced a new purchase to pay system known as Basware.
This has We were very pleased with the results from the 2013 enabled us to have a consistent system and payment Customer Satisfaction Survey.
Overall satisfaction as an processes in place for paying our suppliers.
In 2013, in occupier was 76 per cent, up from 72 per cent in 2012. the UK, for invoices processed in-house using Basware, 84 per cent of customers surveyed said they were likely suppliers were paid, on average, 32 days upon receipt to recommend SEGRO, up five per cent from 2012. oftheir invoice.
77 per cent of customers surveyed were satisfied with the performance of the property management team, an OUR INVESTORS increase of just over two per cent compared to 2012.
Feedback shows that customers value the premier SEGRO places frequent and open communication with the locations of our properties and the high quality of our investment community among the highest of its priorities.
They also place value on the high standard of During 2013, we met with approximately 350 existing and services they receive, which at 77 per cent in 2013 was up potential institutional investors through a combination of six per cent compared to 2012.
This continues the upward one-to-one meetings, conferences, roadshows and asset trend of recent years.
tours in locations including the UK, US, The Netherlands, France, Germany and Poland.
In 2013, and as a result of feedback, we have changed the way in which we communicate with our customers.
We have increased the number of times we visit them at their premises and we issue regular updates by email, which includes keeping them up to date with news from SEGRO and details of where further available warehouse DAVID SLEATH space exists across our portfolio.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER OUR SUPPLIERS SEGRO spends approximately 330 million per annum We take great pride in the strength on the purchase of products, services and works.
The way in which we manage our supply chain is extremely ofour customer relationships.
important to us in terms of our reputation, alignment with our social responsibility objectives and ensuring that we are receiving best value.
During 2013, considerable effort was given to procurement activities across the Group including categorisation of suppliers and application of country specic environmental, health and safety and commercial criteria for assessment.
This process has SEGRO Annual Report and Accounts 2013 | www.
com OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FURTHER INFORMATION 45 We ensure that the Chairman and Senior Independent There were, however, some areas where improvements Director are available to our shareholders, should they needed to be made.
In particular, some employees told have any concerns and where contact through our usual us that they didnt always feel appropriately involved and channels has failed to resolve or is otherwise inappropriate.
consulted in change that personally affected them, nor did All Directors are available for meetings with shareholders.
they always feel recognised for the work they did.
To help understand these issues in more depth, workshops were The Companys website, www.
com, provides held across the business with teams, led by our functional all shareholders with comprehensive information on heads, to get more in-depth views on what and how we all the Groups recent business activities and financial needed to change.
As a result, all of our senior leaders developments.
Shareholders can access this information made a number of personal commitments to do things through webcasts, press releases and video-recorded differently, which we published in a special edition of our interviews with the Chief Executive.
internal newsletter, In the Know.
Some of these included involving individuals more in the decision-making process OUR EMPLOYEES on major projects, reducing our email trafc, and giving Building on our foundations more thought to simply saying well done more often.
2012 was the beginning of a period of intense change for our employees as we started work to restructure our portfolio.
To support our employees with this change, we launched an internal communications programme known as One SEGRO to ensure that everyone understood our strategic aims and ambitions.
During 2013, this pattern of LIZ REILLY change continued but due to the work we had done in GROUP HR DIRECTOR laying the foundations for One SEGRO, employees had a far greater understanding of the changes that were taking place and what was expected of them.
Throughout the business, we are At the end of 2012, we commissioned an external actively encouraging our employees all-employee survey to give us the objective feedback we to look at development opportunities.
needed to assess whether our efforts in communicating the strategy had been successful.
The results of this survey exceeded our expectations and demonstrated that we had In addition to the activity generated from the employee managed the change well our employees understood survey, we continued with our programme of internal the strategy and were committed to the future of SEGRO.
communications to keep employees informed and The survey told us that: updated about what was happening across the business.
This included quarterly all-employee webinars to coincide t 96 per cent understood the aims and objectives with our external financial reporting cycle.
These are an of SEGRO: interactive way in which all employees can hear from t 91 per cent cared about the future of SEGRO: members of the Executive Team about our financial performance.
At a Business Unit level, Business Unit t 92 per cent understood how the work they did helped Directors host monthly briengs to provide an update on SEGRO to achieve its objectives: performance and there is a mix of news at both a local t 93 per cent had the knowledge and skills to do their job: and Group level.
The all-employee newsletter, In the and Know, which was introduced in 2012, continued to be published.
This contains business and social news as well t 92 per cent were clear about what they were expected as showcasing individual and team successes.
46 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY We ended 2013 with our all-employee conference.
Human Rights The rstone in 2012 was such a success that we repeated We are committed to doing things the right way and the format for 2013.
Learning from the feedback from the this is reected in our values and our Code of Conduct.
all employee survey, we took the opportunity to recognise A respect for human rights is implicit in our employment even more people at the awards ceremony and said a big practices and the high standards we expect from thank you for the significant contribution individuals and our suppliers.
teams had made to SEGRO during 2013 through a range Valuing Diversity of awards including Best Cross Functional Team Working, Best Customer Service Initiative and Best Community We are committed to offering equal opportunities to Engagement Award.
people with disabilities and, if an employee becomes disabled while in our employment, we will offer Growing Nurturing our Talent appropriate support, retraining, equipment and facilities During 2013, the Senior Leadership Team has become toenable them to continue in their role with SEGRO.
more responsible for communicating and driving change We recognise the benets of diversity and the value this throughout the business.
This team is formed of 18 senior brings to the organisation in terms of skills, knowledge managers, including the Executive Committee, who meet and experience.
We have a good record of promoting and four times a year on a formal basis.
These meetings, led by appointing women to senior roles.
Women hold four out the CEO and Group HR Director, provide an opportunity of the 18 positions on our Senior Leadership Team.
for discussions about a wide range of business issues.
In between these meetings, the team is encouraged to network and communicate amongst themselves as SPLIT ON much as possible.
We have invested in developing their PLC BOARD 9 1 skills, as well as giving them stretching and challenging opportunities.
We are confident that as our business grows, this group will successfully lead our employees MALE FEMALE through further change.
During 2013, we continued to prioritise internal promotions from within the organisation, reinforcing SENIOR ourbelief in the quality of our talent pipeline.
In a couple LEADERSHIP 14 4 of key areas, we took the opportunity to bring in new TEAM external hires.
At the end of 2013, we appointed Harry Stokes previously Head of European Real Estate Equity MALE FEMALE Research at UBS as Head of Investor Relations & Research and Nick Hughes previously Global Head of Marketing and Communications at Knight Frank as Director of Marketing and Communications.
Both are members of SPLIT OF MALE FEMALE theSenior Leadership Team.
130 105 WORKFORCE Throughout the business, we are actively encouraging our employees to look at development opportunities.
MALE FEMALE These include formal classroom events through to one to one coaching and cross border buddying amongst our property teams to share best practice andcustomer intelligence.
In total in 2013, we invested more than 2,102 hours in training.
SEGRO Annual Report and Accounts 2013 | www.
