Corporate responsibility 43 Our approach to corporate responsibility reflects how we operate, our impact on the environment and how we engage with our stakeholders.
Whilst the Board has ultimate responsibility for sustainability, its ethos is embedded in the day-to-day operations of our business.
Our remuneration policy is closely aligned with our corporate responsibility strategy and Group corporate responsibility objectives are reflected in executive remuneration.
We have set the following overall environmental and corporate IMpLEMENtINg OUR pOLIcy responsibility priorities: Refurbishment projects Operate in an environmentally sustainable manner and minimise the We seek to refurbish buildings in a sympathetic manner, re-using environmental impact of our operations, including climate change: existing timber and original building fixtures and fittings, where possible.
When installing new fixtures and plant, consideration is given Wherever practical, extend the economic useful lives of our buildings to environmental performance as well as building regulations.
For the through changes of use and reconfiguration: small amount of timber that is purchased, the aim is to use sustainably Comply with all legal and regulatory requirements, and, where sourced products, particularly those certified by the Forestry Stewardship feasible, exceed minimum compliance: Commission or Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certification schemes.
Establish annual targets and encourage continual improvement inenvironmental performance: We require contractors to dispose of waste appropriately, segregating and recycling where possible and collating information on waste Engage with advisors, suppliers, tenants and stakeholders to quantities produced.
disseminate the Groups corporate responsibility policies and requirements: Day-to-day management Invest in our local community: In the day-to-day management of our portfolio, energy consumption and waste management are the key environmental issues.
Conduct our business with integrity and in an open and ethicalmanner: and We manage the waste on behalf of our tenants at Carnaby, Seven Dials and St Martins Courtyard.
The emphasis is on encouraging recycling Invest in the welfare and development of our employees.
with increased proportions being recycled this year.
All non-recycled SUStaINabILIty IN OUR pORtFOLIO waste was diverted from landfill to energy from waste.
In other parts ofthe portfolio, space limitations restrict the opportunity to offer waste The focus of our sustainability strategy is to extend the useful life management facilities.
However, we work with the local authorities to ofourbuildings and, in doing so, preserve and enhance the heritage optimise the waste collection process in these areas.
An essential aspect is to create economically sustainable environments through our holistic approach to managing Our energy consumption arises principally in the common parts of our our assets.
portfolio where we have direct responsibility for stairwell lights and shared facilities and the environmental impact is small.
Tenants are Our portfolio comprises buildings mostly within conservation areas, responsible for reporting their own activities and emissions.
We andsome 20% are listed as being of special architectural interest.
We encourage our tenants to be aware of their environmental responsibilities.
estimate the average age of our buildings is over 150 years.
Through Greenhouse gas emissions for which we are responsible are contained reconfiguring and refurbishing buildings, within the constraints of in the Directors Report on page 82. current regulations protecting listed buildings and conservation areas, we preserve properties and improve their environmental and economic performance, creating value over the long-term.
Our corporate responsibility policies, updated annually, are available on our website.
The full report on our corporate responsibility performance for the year ended 30 September 2013 is also available on our website together with our action plan for 2014. acHIEVEMENtS LBG CONTRIBUTION OF 1.8% OF EPRA PRE-TAX PROFIT 100% GREEN TARIFF ELECTRICITY IN HEAD OFFICE, CARNABY, SEVEN DIALS, CHINATOWN AND SOHO NO REPORTABLE HEALTH AND SAFETY INCIDENTS HONEY FROM OUR OWN BEES IN ST MARTINS COURTYARD.
63% CERTIFIED SUSTAINABLY SOURCED TIMBER USED PLANTING ADAPTED IN CARNABY TO FEED BEES 95% OF SCHEMES ACHIEVED AN ABOVE SATISFACTORY SCORE FOR CONSIDERATE CONSTRUCTORS SCHEME EXtERNaL REcOgNItION NO WASTE TO LANDFILL IN CARNABY, SEVEN DIALS AND STMARTINS COURTYARD Shaftesbury annual report 2013 strategic report 44 Corporate responsibility continued EMpLOyEES Working with local authorities We work closely with Westminster City Council and the London Borough We have 23 employees including executive directors.
Employees long of Camden, within whose jurisdictions our properties are located, to experience in our local market is important and their contribution to improve the public realm in and around our villages through the business plays a key part in the delivery of our strategy.
Employee contributions to street improvements, pedestrianisation and street turnover has been minimal in recent years.
Employee training and development are essential in the running of our Scholarships business.
Professionally qualified employees are encouraged to meet the Fashion and catering are important aspects of the West End training requirements of their governing bodies.
We have established bursary schemes with the London also encouraged to undertake training so that their skills are up-to-date.
College of Fashion for tailoring students and with Westminster All employees have an annual personal development review.
Kingsway College for trainees in catering and hospitality.
Our policy on gender diversity is included in the Nomination We apply the London Benchmarking Group methodology for measuring Committee Report on page 60. our community contributions.
For the year ended 30 September 2013 The Group considers the impact of its activities on human rights our contribution totalled 531,000 2012: 404,000 as set out below: throughout its supply chain.
LONDON BENCHMARK GROUP CONTRIBUTIONS HEaLtH aND SaFEty The Board has overall responsibility for health and safety.
In our Actual contribution refurbishment schemes, responsibility for health and safety is clearly Percentage of EPRA pre-tax profit identified within all pre-tender documentation and is monitored by site and project managers.
Our managing agents oversee day-to-day health and safety matters throughout the portfolio.
There have been no reportable health and safety incidents during the year.
531,000 cOMMUNIty ENgagEMENt Our long-term prosperity depends on the success of Londons West End 404,000 as a destination for domestic and overseas visitors as well as businesses and residents.
We focus our community investment on the areas in which our villages are situated.
We work closely with organisations based in the West End in community, leisure or arts fields and, in some 1.8% cases, help them to be located in the areas in which they operate but would otherwise be unable to afford at market rents.
1.3% We have focused on the following this year: Sustainable Restaurant association We have continued to work to promote this not-for-profit membership association which provides restaurants with advice and support to 2013 2012 help them manage sustainability.
Working with the arts, theatre and leisure The promotion of the arts, theatre and leisure within the West End isimportant to our continuing business.
We are working with the EnglishNational Opera and sponsoring their community choir.
We provide accommodation on flexible terms to organisations including Stage One, which supports the development of theatre producers.
Support for charitable, community and educational purposes We provide space in vacant units for periods of time to enable charitable, community and educational events to take place.
We work with The Connection at , House of St Barnabas, South Westminster Drug and Alcohol Service and other local community and educational groups, all of which work to address social challenges in the local community.
We are now piloting a scheme, supported by Westminster City Council and other West End landlords, to encourage employment of Westminster residents in our tenants businesses by providing a free recruitment service.
Shaftesbury annual report 2013 strategic report Corporate responsibility continued 45 kEy taRgEtS aND pROgRESS IN tHE yEaR ENDED 30 SEptEMbER 2013 aND ObJEctIVES FOR tHE yEaR aHEaD Set out below is an extract from our report on progress against the key targets this year and the objectives for the year to 30 September 2014.
We are independently assessed by RPS Group plc.
OBJECTIVES ACHIEVED IN 2013 TARGETS FOR 2014 STAkEHoLDER AND CoMMUNiTY ENGAGEMENT Continue to support local community Membership of the London Benchmarking Continue membership of London Benchmarking Group groups and be proactive in identifying and Group and adoption of their methodology and further develop benchmarking measurements for working with charitable and other for reporting community involvement has reporting organisations continued for this year On-going financial support to key charities and community support for 2014 ENViRoNMENTAL RESPoNSiBiLiTY Invest in brownfield sites only 100% regeneration of central London sites Continue to achieve 100% use and regeneration of brownfield sites as our portfolio expands Operate in an environmentally sustainable For 20 out of 22 refurbishment schemes Maintain BREEAM criteria for re-use of structure and manner throughout our activities a minimum of 90% of facade and a facade in 100% of refurbishment schemes ie a minimum of 80% of the primary structure minimum of 50% of the facade and 80% of the primary was retained structure re-used Aim for BREEAM Very Good for all new commercial developments 23 energy performance certificates were assessed against an initial baseline and Extend the useful life of buildings and improve their three did not achieve target sustainability by raising the energy performance certificate rating of properties being refurbished according to predetermined targets Timber to be sourced, where possible, Re-use of timber maximised throughout Continue to maximise the proportion of timber that from well-managed sources, certified by all schemes is re-used third party certification bodies 63% of timber has been confirmed as Source a minimum of 55% of all timber from certified sustainably sourced with full chain of sources and ensure all timber is purchased from legal custody and 45% using Forestry sources Stewardship Commission timber Monitor and, where possible, reduce Green tariff electricity usage: Purchase green electricity where costs are within 5% energy consumption.
Investigate 100% of head office, Chinatown, Soho, of brown electricity opportunities for the use of renewable Seven Dials and Carnaby energy Manage construction waste to ensure 18 contracts achieved target of a Aim to re-use or recycle 80% non-hazardous demolition legal compliance and maximise re-use minimum of 80% recycled construction and construction waste and or recycling of non-hazardous waste and demolition waste Portfolio waste - recycle a minimum of In Carnaby and Seven Dials, 37% of Maintain the proportion of tenant-generated waste 30% in Carnaby and Seven Dials and tenants waste was recycled and, of the recycled and divert 90% of tenant-generated waste at divert 80% from landfill remaining waste, 100% was diverted from Carnaby, Seven Dials and St Martins Courtyard 70% landfill to energy from waste of the portfolio from landfill In St Martins Courtyard, 21% of tenants Recycle a minimum of 10% of tenants waste was recycled and the remaining waste in St Martins Courtyard and divert waste diverted from landfill to energy 80% from landfill from waste SoCiAL RESPoNSiBiLiTY Ensure there are no reportable health and No reportable health and safety accidents Aim for no reportable accident and incidents throughout safety accidents incidents throughout the recorded in a refurbishment project or in the the Groups activities portfolio day-to-day management of the portfolio Ensure all refurbishment schemes above 95% of eligible schemes were registered Continue to achieve 30 out of 50 above a satisfactory a specified capital value are registered score 95% of schemes achieved the target score with the Considerate Constructors on the first visit.
The overall average for Scheme and continue to achieve 26 out of the sites visited was 31.6 out of 40 and 40 above a satisfactory score 34.6 out of 50 under new scoring arrangements Shaftesbury annual report 2013 strategic report 46 Shaftesbury annual report 2013 strategic report 47 Shaftesbury annual report 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT
