Review of operations 01-26 Governance 27-61 Financial statements 62-95 Shareholder information 96-100 Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 13 Corporate soCial A wider responsibility understanding.
OUR APPROAcH cUSTOMERS We achieved an average customer experience score Launch pr ogramme to reduce energy in partnership customer satisfaction and loyalty are key to the of 82% exceeding our target of 80%.
with customers at flagship sites.
Jamie hopKins sustainability of our business.
R eview sustainability questions in annual chiEF ExEcutivE OFFicEr We help our customers to connect with local customer survey.
communities by participating in our community We have long understood the value that a focused Cr eate a customer focused sustainability programmes and working with them to improve corporate Social responsibility cSr programme can marketing factsheet for three assets.
the environmental performance of our centres.
create for Workspace, delivering operational efficiencies in the process and contributing to our reputation as a responsible business.
We believe our cSr activities SUPPLiERS AND PARTNERS We received a Bronze certificate in the Mayors Green C ontinue to achieve a Bronze certificate benefit financial performance by driving occupancy We aim to build long-term relationships with our Procurement Code the third year we have achieved in the Mayors Green Procurement Code.
rates, delivering cost savings and creating a more suppliers by being a responsible purchaser of this award.
R equire suppliers to demonstrate that a attractive business environment for our customers.
We are now an approved signatory of the Prompt minimum of 80% of timber is procured from a We also work closely with our partners to integrate Payment Code.
certified sustainable source FSC or equivalent.
the primary role of our business is to meet the space sustainability into the design, construction and 2 and environment needs of new and growing companies R egister all developments over 2,000m with redevelopment of Workspace centres.
We foster entrepreneurial activity and the Considerate Constructors Scheme.
create vibrant working communities that in turn support local businesses by boosting employment and economic growth.
We believe that by adhering to our fundamental cOMMUNiTiES We invested in community initiatives.
principles of helping businesses to grow and being a We aim to make the communities in which we E3 r eceived the Business in the Community E valuate the socio-economic impact of a completed good community member, we can be a force for good operate better places to live and do business in.
CommunityMark in recognition of our Workspace development by March 2015. benefiting both our customers and wider society.
Our flagship E3 community investment strategy commitment to delivering tangible Develop a strategy for charitable donations.
provides education, employment and entrepreneurial benefits for our business and communities.
Not only do we work within the regulatory environment opportunities for young people.
for real estate providers, adhering to the uK Energy act, carbon reduction commitment and landfill tax regime, but we go beyond our legal obligations.
this approach has generated opportunities to reduce operating costs, EMPLOyEES On-going training and development for all employees W ith the Governments pension auto-enrolment by sending zero waste to landfill and installing more We provide a safe and rewarding work environment which helps to develop the right skills to support our changes effective for the Company from April 2014, efficient boilers in our centres, for example.
to ensure we attract and retain talented and growth plans.
we will ensure that we can meet the legislative ambitious individuals.
Over the last 12 months we have embedded a new a selection of the years performance highlights against Our commitment to diversity encourages innovation appraisal process to further enhance employee C ontinue to focus on training and development.
stakeholder goals can be seen in the table opposite.
and ensures our workforce reflects the diversity of understanding of how their objectives will assist We are particularly pleased that our E3 community C ontinue with Director led staff briefings designed our customers and communities.
investment strategy was recognised by Business in the to keep employees well informed of the performance community, one of the uKs leading cSr organisations, We continued to drive engagement through our and objectives of the Group.
who awarded us their prestigious communitymark.
We communications channels to ensure employees T he Group remains committed to an equal were amongst four businesses that have achieved this understand our strategy and the part they play.
opportunities policy from recruitment and selection accolade in 2013.
Similarly, we are proud to once again be We recognise how important it is that our employees through to training and development.
included in the FtSE4Good index which helps us assess feel engaged in what we are doing, so this year we our achievements against a transparent and evolving launched a Share Incentive Plan to help them benefit global corporate responsibility standard.
from the future success of the Company.
Participation in the Sharesave Scheme continues to Our goal is to ensure that we fully consider the impact be popular with employees.
In total, 55% of employees that we and our stakeholders have and that we address participate in the Sharesave Scheme.
these impacts positively and transparently.
We want to ensure that our customers and employees flourish, our communities and environment stay vibrant and that our ENViRONMENT Total energy consumption from electricity was 24,360,097 Set portf olio energy kWh reduction target.
shareholders are rewarded for their support.
the Board, 1 Our buildings are our biggest environmental impact kWh.
Total energy consumption from fuels was 21,124,428 A chieve an average recycling rate of 55% for all the management team and i remain focused on these 2 and we are committed to making the most of kWh.
Although energy from electricity decreased by 2% assets where Workspace manages the waste.
opportunities to reduce carbon emissions and compared to 2011 12 adjusted for occupancy, our overall Send z ero waste to landfill for all assets where energy use, benefiting the environment and energy consumption electricity and fuels increased by more detail on our cSr activities in 2012 13, including Workspace manages the waste.
our performance against EPra sustainability indicators, Div ert at least 75% by weight of non-hazardous 3 We strive to reduce other environmental impacts Total direct GHG emissions were 3,878 tonnes CO2e.
construction waste away from landfill for all 4 and costs such as waste.
Total indirect GHG emissions were 13,179 tonnes CO2e.
This meant our total GHG emissions direct and indirect Div ert at least 90% by weight of non-hazardous increased by 5% compared to 2011 12 driven by higher gas demolition waste away from landfill for all consumption primarily due to the unusually cold winter.
We are particularly proud to once again be included Our centres generated 10.48 tonnes of waste of which in the FtSE4Good index which helps us assess our W e will record water consumption at all properties.
48% 6,612 kg was recycled and 52% 3,873 kg was 5 achievements against a transparent and evolving converted to energy.
A chieve BREEAM Very Good for all developments global corporate responsibility standard.
14 Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013
