Corporate Social Responsibility Cranswick takes its ethical responsibilities to employees, customers, shareholders, suppliers, producers and the environment very seriously.
The Company recognises that a balanced and committed approach to all aspects of Corporate Social Responsibility CSR will bring benefits to each of the Company stakeholders and will strengthen its business position and credentials to facilitate future sustainable growth and development.
The Company continues to look at CSR across the business to facilitate the recognition of best practice and shared learning leading to the development of a Group Corporate Responsibility Policy which clearly defines its core values and aspirations.
recording of data and training needs.
People Advancing and nurturing Cranswicks A succession programme is in place to Cranswick is committed to introducing, cultural values are key commitments identify and nurture talent throughout the developing and maintaining the key the Group has made to its employees.
Nominated employees undergo a systems and processes required to The Company aims to provide a working development plan to enhance their current underpin the effective delivery of environment that is consistent and fair, competencies and develop new skills to its employment strategy across the which aids the development and skills of its assist in continuing Cranswicks success.
This enhances their job satisfaction A graduate recruitment programme is and ensures they have the skills to carry structured such that candidates are taken The Company seeks to integrate the out their role safely and efficiently.
A Group through a rigorous assessment and site benefits of people management into its Handbook has been introduced which visit to ensure they have the right qualities culture and the Group Human Resources delivers the same policies and procedures before being recruited.
The programme HR Manager ensures that these are to all employees across the business involves graduates spending a year within consistently applied across all the sites.
regardless of geographical location, the production environment to develop a employment status or ethnicity.
comprehensive knowledge of the Groups Through representation on the Equality operations before joining their targeted and Human Rights Commission taskforce, Cranswick understands the value in function within the business.
Cranswick takes the lead in ensuring ethical training and educating its employees in business practices are developed at the order to support employee engagement highest level.
All of the Companys ethical and retention.
A structured training processes are regularly audited internally programme is being undertaken to ensure and externally by third parties.
Cranswick that all new recruits within the business has been at the forefront of best practice undergo an informative, comprehensive in conducting annual ethical audits both and developmental induction programme at its own sites and those of its labour when first joining Cranswick.
Performance is judged against their knowledge of business practices and the Gangmasters Licensing Act 2004, integrate them into the Groups friendly the Ethical Trading Initiative and retailer and innovative cultural environment.
staff survey has also been rolled out across the sites to help identify key strengths and Encouraging the principles of equality and diversity are key to the successful and inclusive culture that lies at the heart of Cranswick.
Regular training is provided for all employees, reiterating the importance Staff Numbers Male Female Total of equal opportunities and best practice Average Full Time Number % Number % Number behaviours.
This year, the site HR managers Equivalents have been trained in Equality and Diversity Employees 4,402 2,931 66.6% 1,471 33.4% principles to roll these out to all middle and senior management teams.
Agency Workers 2,839 1,926 67.8% 913 32.2% Total 7,241 4,857 67.1% 2,384 32.9% All employment decisions, including recruitment and internal promotions, are based on merit, qualification and Gender and abilities and will not be influenced or 4000 Employee affected by an employees race, colour, 3500 Information nationality, religion, sex, marital status, 3000 family status, sexual orientation, disability or age.
2500 Males 2000 The business uses one employment law Females 1500 provider which provides the opportunity for 67% HR teams and managers to refer to a single 1000 68% point of contact without any concerns 500 33% relating to cost or legitimacy of information 0 32% provided.
This ensures consistent advice Employees is given across the Group and centralises Agency Workers 20 | Cranswick plc Report & Accounts 2013 Corporate Responsibility Financial Statements Shareholder Information Business Review Governance Health & Safety Cranswick plc accident statistics Cranswicks commitment to achieving 20.0% high standards of Health & Safety continues with the commitment of the Board through the efforts of a dedicated 15.0% and coordinated team.
RIDDOR Reportable The site commitment to Health & Safety Accidents 10.0% has been further enhanced this year by a director from each site achieving the Recorded Accidents Safety for Senior Executives qualification 5.0% from the Institute of Occupational Safety & Health.
Performance is reported monthly and discussed quarterly at Board level.
0.0% 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 The factory based Health & Safety Coordinators all hold the appropriate National All sites within the Group have achieved Six of the sites had inspection visits Examination Board in Occupational Safety British Standard 18001, the Occupational from a Health and Safety Executive and Health NEBOSH qualification to help Health & Safety Management Systems.
HSE Inspector following the HSEs deliver the appropriate standards at site Systems at new sites acquired during introduction of Fee for Intervention level.
Consistency across the Group is the year are being aligned with Group Scheme without incurring any charges centrally directed and coordinated.
With standards and will follow the same path.
for failings of material breach of the law.
the increasing complexity of equipment Monthly accident statistics are monitored, and the legislation surrounding its design using an industry leading web based The Company is committed to excellent and use, the team has been strengthened accident recording system, which allows Health & Safety training of both its own by the addition of a Group Machinery management to analyse each accident, employees and agency workers.
As well as assessing the establish root cause, and introduce control a full Health & Safety induction course safety compliance of all new and current measures, where required, to prevent including fire safety, manual handling, task machinery within the business the role re-occurrence.
and machinery training in their working involves delivering the appropriate training environment in order to operate in a safe to the site based engineering staff.
Any new machinery introduced to Compared to the prior year: the business will not be used unless compliance with the latest Certificate of The total number of RIDDOR reportable accidents to the HSE reduced by 6 per cent Conformity CEE regulations has been The RIDDOR Accident Incident Ratio reduced by 15 per cent checked.
The engine room which drives technical In recent months meat related food scares Responsible procurement compliance across the Group is the exacting have undermined consumer confidence internal technical audit programme which in the meat industry.
Like many other The Group operates from some of the best saw over 600 separate audits carried out in food companies, Cranswick has revisited invested food production sites in the UK the last 12 months.
The programme is not its supplier approval and traceability including the most modern pig abattoir there just to identify non-compliance but is monitoring systems and modified them in the country.
These undergo exacting also a means for highlighting best practice where appropriate.
The Group is also external and internal audits carried out by and shared learning across the Group.
looking at the wider challenges associated independent auditing bodies, customers, with preventing DNA cross contamination government authorities, and by the Groups Cranswick is committed to ensuring during the manufacture of single species technical compliance team.
In the current the integrity and traceability of the raw products in multi-species factories and has year the business has hosted 225 separate materials meat, ingredients and packaging been proactive in supporting the BMPA and external compliance audits, many of which used in its products.
The approval of raw the Food Standards Agency FSA in their are unannounced.
material suppliers and their products and work with industry stakeholders.
raw material specifications are controlled Cranswick also recently celebrated its centrally by the Group Technical Service It is pleasing to be able to report that 69th consecutive Grade A rating against Team which collectively has responsibility Cranswick has screened for the presence the British Retail Consortium BRC for 576 active suppliers and over 1600 raw of horse meat DNA in 85 finished Global Standard for Food Safety, a track materials.
Suppliers are approved by either product raw material samples and all record that is believed to be industry independent third party audit, such as the reported negative.
leading within the sector, resulting in the BRC Global Standard for Food Safety, or Company being a nominated finalist for by Cranswicks approval audit carried out Whilst none of the Groups raw material Food Company of the Year at the 2012 by the Groups technical team.
Cranswicks or finished products have been found to Society of Food Hygiene & Technology expectations of its suppliers are clearly laid contain horsemeat, Cranswick remains Awards.
out within Technical Conditions of Supply.
vigilant and in the year under review it spent 1.4 million on laboratory screening of In addition to BRC compliance of sites Cranswick has a team of talented and products and raw materials for compliance and systems of manufacture, many of industry proven technical personnel who to specification.
the Companys pork products are in full are responsible for this long standing track compliance with the Red Tractor Assurance record of compliance.
However to more At a time when the food industry is Scheme Red Tractor, and the British Meat effectively manage the increasing number of frequently held to account by the media Processors Association BMPA pork and manufacturing sites, customers and audits this level of audit, commitment to resource, pork product standards.
This provides the taking place within the Group the technical clear informative labelling, and the resulting consumer with confidence that these are structure has been changed during the year high level of compliance should be a reproduced within an assured supply chain, to by establishing a higher tier of Divisional assurance to customers, investors and specified standards, that is traceable all the Technical Controllers, who collectively report consumers that the Group is equipped to way back to the farm, the integrity of which into the Group Technical Director, this deal with these and future challenges.
is challenged by third party announced and has resulted in clearer areas of technical unannounced audits.
Cranswick also produces responsibility as well as creating a structure organic products that are subject to a mass for long term succession planning.
balance exercise carried out by independent auditors working for The Soil Association.
Cranswick plc Report & Accounts 2013 | 21 Percentage to no.
of sta Suppliers & Producers Distance of pigs from processing sites Pork meat is the single most important raw material supplied to the Group.
Preston, Near Hull The Cranswick sites at Preston, near Hull, 40% within 25 miles and Norfolk collectively process in excess of 60% within 40 miles 37,000 pigs per week and are a key supplier 75% within 50 miles to the Groups further processing sites 80% within 60 miles and others outside the Group.
Both sites are strategically well placed within two of the largest pig breeding and rearing areas Norfolk within the country.
This close proximity with the supply chain ensures that travel 50% within 25 miles times from farm to abattoir are minimised 80% within 40 miles with resulting animal welfare and food mile 90% within 50 miles benefits the map opposite provides a 95% within 60 miles summary of distances from the processing site.
Many of the pigs supplied to Cranswick are reared to higher welfare standards associated with Outdoor Bred or Outdoor operating to these standards since 2003 and is an active member of the Reared standards.
Approximately 50 per but elsewhere within the EU the picture working group which is looking into the cent of those processed by Preston, and 70 is less clear.
Cranswicks EU suppliers are development of free farrowing systems per cent by Norfolk being to the exacting required to provide written declarations and the development of sustainable requirements of the RSPCA Freedom that pork meat supplied to the Group is farming initiatives.
Foods welfare standard, the balance of sourced from pigs reared on compliant those processed are reared indoors in full farms and the business is currently carrying In the year under review Red Tractor compliance with the Red Tractor British out compliance audits in France, Germany has reviewed and developed its welfare Quality Assured Pork BQAP welfare and other parts of Europe.
The Group also standard so that this is now more focused standards.
monitors compliance within its supply chain on outcome measures which put pig by a programme of traceability audits back welfare at the centre of the audit process.
New European Union EU Welfare to the farm.
Cranswick participated in this working regulations came into force on the 1 group and fully supports the changes.
January 2013 which significantly limit the Cranswick is also working with several use of stalls for sows and gilts during retailer specific pig producer groups gestation in Europe.
The UK has been Cranswick to be their key supplier or Regulations by the December 2014 Customers and consumers category champion and a preferred partner deadline which will see the most on key technical initiative projects.
significant change to food labelling in the Cranswicks commitment to the last 10 years.
production of safe, legal, wholesome Cranswick is committed to working with its foods that are in full compliance with the retail customers to ensure clear informative Customer focus on the environment specification agreed with its customers labelling of the products it manufactures and sustainability has grown and the are at the heart of everything it does.
so that consumers can make an informed Groups environmental aspirations are purchase choice based on clearly stated being realigned to meet the common Cranswick supplies finished products to the origin, authenticity, provenance, nutrition shared goals.
The environmental section major UK retailers, restaurant groups, and and allergen declarations.
Greenthinking of the Group website www.
food service customers as well as supplying cranswick.
co. uk will be updated to reflect raw material to other manufacturers.
The Group is well placed to meet the and report on these targets.
Many of the Groups customers consider requirements of the Food Information Customers and consumers Absolute and Relative Carbon Footprint Cranswicks commitment to the production of safe, legal, wholesome foods that are in full compliance with the 100,000 0.400 specification agreed with its customers 90,000 are at the heart of everything it does.
0.350 80,000 Relative Carbon Cranswick supplies finished products to the 0.300 70,000 Footprint tonnes of major UK retailers, restaurant groups, and CO e by tonne of 2 0.250 food service customers as well as supplying 60,000 product raw material to other manufacturers.
50,000 0.200 Many of the Groups customers consider Cranswick to be their key supplier or Absolute Carbon 40,000 0.150 category champion and a preferred partner Footprint tonnes of on key technical initiative projects.
30,000 CO e 2 0.100 20,000 Cranswick is committed to working with its 0.050 retail customers to ensure clear informative 10,000 labelling of the products it manufactures 0 0.000 so that consumers can make an informed 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 purchase choice based on clearly stated origin, authenticity, provenance, nutrition and allergen declarations.
22 | Cranswick plc Report & Accounts 2013 Absolute Carbon Footprint Relative Carbon Footprint Corporate Responsibility Financial Statements Shareholder Information Business Review Governance Waste disposal Waste To Landfill Better segregation and classification of the waste streams at site level coupled with enhanced separation capabilities at 7000 the recycling centres have reduced the tonnage of waste to landfill by 47 per cent, 6000 over 2,500 tonnes.
The Groups approach to waste disposal underwent significant 5000 change in 2012, resulting in a renegotiated Group contract to realise the benefits from 4000 the more progressive approach to waste management.
Roll out across all sites will be 3000 completed in the calendar year 2013, and the changes to existing disposal routes only 2000 affected the latter part of the calendar year.
Much of the diverted waste goes to waste 1000 to energy, in part due to the contamination from meat which limits recycling options.
0 Food waste going to anaerobic digestion 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 has increased by 20 per cent, and cardboard and plastic recycling by 6.5 per cent.
The Group is targeting zero waste to landfill within the next two years.
Opportunities to generate revenue from the conversion of waste fats to biodiesel or use within the Groups own fleet are being investigated.
Water use per tonne of product Water Water usage around the Group has 3.50 gone up significantly this year, in part due to changing practices in the 3.00 washing of livestock vehicles on site and additional export hygiene requirements.
2.50 Coupled with the increasing concern over water availability, this has led to 2.00 closer investigation of options to reduce consumption or reuse water where 1.50 conditions and technologies allow.
By their nature, these tend to be significant projects 1.00 which take both time and capital to deliver the longer term benefits.
Nevertheless, 0.50 the Group is still tracking well on its commitment to a 20 per cent reduction in 0.00 process water usage by 2020 under the 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Federation House Commitment.
Cranswicks commitment to have all The environmental and community impact its existing sites accredited to the Community of any site development or redevelopment Environmental Management Standard is always important to the Company and ISO14001 has been achieved, and the Supporting local communities is over the years many initiatives have been important to the Group newly acquired sites will follow as part of progressed including the planting of over their integration into the Group.
4,000 trees at the Preston site.
Over 80 per cent of Cranswicks work force lives within 10 miles of their place of work.
Energy The Group recognises its responsibilities, as Summary a member of the communities in which it Energy usage per tonne of production has operates and encourages the businesses to Cranswick will continue to review and increased slightly, influenced by product engage with their local communities.
monitor the performance of its target mix, up 2 per cent year on year.
The rising areas set out in this report and through cost of energy around 10 per cent in cost Charitable Giving this process the Groups stakeholders will per tonne of production will influence have a clearer picture of what corporate decisions on investment in energy efficient At site level - charitable fund raising responsibility means to the Company and equipment and buildings.
Solar panels, activities continue, including an annual that it is an integral part of its development.
induction lighting and heat recovery are all golf day which raised over 30,000 for being employed on site extensions and new the KIDS Charity.
By order of the Board builds.
At a Group level - involvement with Help for Heroes through the Red Lion Climate Change Agreements are now being Brand helps that business contribute established for the two existing sites in all of its post-tax profits to Forces the Group which missed out on the first charities.
scheme, together with the two new sites Other charitable donations made by acquired during the year.
As a consequence, the business during the year totalled Malcolm Windeatt the Groups involvement with the Carbon 40,000.
Company Secretary Reduction Commitment CRC will be phased out in the next CRC reporting year.
20 May 2013 Cranswick plc Report & Accounts 2013 | 23 Cubic Metres Per Tonne Tonnes
