STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Chairmans Statement Chief Executives Statement Who We Are & What We Do How We Operate Where We Operate Our Market Place Our Business Model Our Strategy Our Executive Team How We Performed What Are Our Risks Our Sustainability Agenda See SR Diversity & Inclusion Community Education & Involvement Embrace and empower all individuals Support the communities in which we operate, with a primary focus on Diversity & Inclusion is not just about complying with policy, it is about creating a culture of mutual respect for mutual benefit.
It is therefore encouraging young people to work within not something we do because we are required to, but because it is science and technology good for our people and good for our business.
We focus on supporting, valuing and respecting diversity in our workforce, and Our social licence to operate is based on the relationships we ensuring that all employees feel empowered and included.
have with the communities local to our operations.
These relationships also have an impact on the people who work for and with us, and on their families and wider communities.
As a science knowledge based company, we recognise that we can bring value: not just by providing employment and buying goods and services, but also by actively improving skills, knowledge and lives through our community education and involvement programmes.
2013 Performance We have a comprehensive diversity policy in place and are committed to 2013 Performance ensuring that all of our policies remain consistent with the spirit and intent of the ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work.
In 2013, we: We have a duty and a passion to encourage and enthuse young people about the benefits of a scientific education, which we deliver alongside a sur veyed our European workforce to obtain detailed insights into the variety of community initiatives by our people getting involved.
perceptions around gender and equality within our business: launched a talent review process, which saw the skills and performance Community Education of 1,353 employees discussed in a fair and objective way, with 160 All the regions in which we operate understand the importance of science, managers from around the world being involved in the process: technology, engineering and maths STEM and make valuable contributions to raising awareness of these subjects.
In 2013, 15 out of our continued to work towards our target of ever y employee having a formal 19 operations with Research & Development Centres or a significant appraisal by the end of 2015: and engineering team implemented education programmes and our UK STEM worked hard to prepare for the first global employee engagement sur vey Team reached 1,428 students in 59 schools.
Community Involvement 2013 Gender Diversity We respond both proactively and reactively to local needs to deliver real benefits.
We do this by encouraging open dialogue between our 8 9 84 1 20 operations and the communities in which they operate: in 2013 this led to 402 reported meetings with local community and stakeholder groups.
We also run a highly successful employee volunteer programme called 1% Club, with 4,387 volunteering hours recorded during 2013 by over 20% of our global workforce.
2,393 1,152 male female Executive and Non-Executive Directors Executive Committee Members Regional Board Members and Senior Functional Heads Gender diversity is a key element of our diversity strategy, and as a direct result of our 2013 gender survey, we will now be running a pilot programme Signed on behalf of the Board who approved the Strategic of unconscious bias training with a selection of our middle and senior Report on 5 March 2014. managers to help avoid stereotyping and unfounded perceptions impacting Steve Foots on the effectiveness of our people management processes.
Group Chief Executive In February 2014, Dr Helena Ganczakowski was appointed as a Non-Executive Director Croda Annual Report & Accounts 2013 33
