CSR in review Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information For the 52-week financial period ended 27 December 2013, CSR is This information provides a baseline against which it will be possible required to disclose details of Global Greenhouse Gas GHG to assess the extent of any reductions in emissions, whether through emissions in our annual report and financial statements pursuant to the installation of equipment, consumption management systems or the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Report operational changes to reduce energy usage.
The government has a stated intention through the CRC EES, and the Regulations, that by We remain committed to continuous improvement in the recycling tracking and reporting quantities of GHGs that they produce, of spent materials in the uK.
The total amount of all waste types companies will also become more aware of their carbon footprint.
recycled within our uK operations for the 12-month period ended The Regulations are also intended to encourage companies to December 2013 was 124,596 kg, which is equivalent to 69.5% of identify areas where reductions in emissions can be made and all the waste produced in the year waste types recycled during the explore opportunities to implement money-saving energy efficiency 11-month period January to November 2012 was 115,092 kgs which measures, which in turn will be better for the environment.
is equivalent to 70.5% of all waste produced in that period.
Staff are actively encouraged to support such initiatives.
Waste bins are The classes of emissions on which CSR is required to report are segregated into categories of recyclable materials and suitable waste identified in the Greenhouse Protocol, A Corporate Accounting bins have been located in communal areas.
In addition, part of the and Reporting Standard Revised Edition, 2004 reflecting Defra selection criteria for waste removal contractors considers their Environmental Reporting Guidelines, Revised October, 2013. environmental credentials.
In 2014, it is our objective to eliminate These comprise: waste going to landfill, through the use of alternative waste disposal methods of Mechanical Biological Treatment and incineration power Scope 1: Direct GHG emissions to plant national grid.
We are working with third party providers in Direct GHG emissions occur from sources that are owned or support of this objective.
where CSR has operational control, for example, emissions from combustion in owned or operationally controlled boilers, furnaces CSR has long been committed to optimising the use of greener and vehicles: or emissions from chemical production in owned or materials in our end-products.
We continue to work with customers operationally controlled process equipment.
and suppliers as well as our own in-house teams in developing and supplying products which meet the highest standards as regards Scope 2: Electricity indirect GHG emissions minimising the use of hazardous substances.
Scope 2 accounts for GHG emissions from the generation of purchased electricity consumed by the company.
Purchased electricity CSRs products are manufactured and packaged in a variety of is defined as electricity that is purchased or otherwise brought into the forms.
All new products released by CSR in recent years are organisational boundary of the user.
Scope 2 emissions physically occur manufactured according to CSRs own green standards.
at the facility where electricity is generated.
The green standards have been developed by CSR as part of continual engagement with leading global companies who are CSRs GHG reporting regime covers Scope 1 emissions fuel customers of CSR and also with the support of our suppliers.
combustion and the operation of CSRs facilities and Scope 2 CSRs green standards therefore reflect not only internationally emissions from purchased electricity, heat, steam or cooling.
recognised guidelines but also the feedback of our customers, whose For the first disclosure under the Regulations, CSR has recorded requirements frequently exceed the minimum conditions information about emissions for the 12 months from 1 October 2012 set by governments and regulators.
We have followed the Greenhouse Gas Protocol revised edition 2004 and the operational control We have dedicated staff who assist in the development of all new consolidation approach to determine what is included and excluded.
products and the review of existing product lines targeting the use Therefore all entities and facilities either owned or under the of greener materials.
Part of their role is to monitor established and operational control of the Company worldwide have been included.
pending legislation and standards published by national and Lease-based properties under operational control were also supranational governments and agencies and to ensure that we included.
The data has been sourced from utility bills and company are proactive in going beyond the minimum requirements in our car log books.
As permitted under the Regulations, air travel and compliance with the types and quantities of materials used.
other emission sources not under our control have been excluded for the first reporting period.
In this respect we work closely with both customers and suppliers in developing products to reduce the use of hazardous materials, By following the operational control consolidation approach, and through testing and certification, ensuring ongoing compliance.
disclosures include leased assets that are not included in the Our standard integrated circuits are fully compliant with all existing consolidated financial statements.
The intensity ratios for indicating European legislation, including Restrictions of the use of Certain performance for emissions are to express carbon output in terms Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment of an appropriate metric for the organisation concerned.
For an Regulations RoHS and Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and essentially office-based business such as CSR, we have determined Registration of Chemicals regulations REACH, as well as in other that floor space based on a measure assessed as the gross internal territories where equivalent legislation has been introduced.
area correlates more closely with the greenhouse gas emissions of the Company, as for CRC reporting.
In addition to procedures that establish and monitor compliance, we have processes in place to make sure that customers are supported with up-to-date materials, information and laboratory Scope 1 Scope 2 tonnes of CO e tonnes of CO e Total 2 2 analysis to validate the environmental compliance of our products.
Totals 1,308 8,732 10,040 Emissions 17 138 155 intensity tonnes 1 2 of CO e per m 2 1 Total office floor area is 63,363.2 square metres reflecting our gross internal area across all properties occupied by the Group worldwide www.
