Corporate Social Responsibility Each year, employees in many of our offices are invited to nominate Social Responsibility their Charity of the Year through an office-wide voting process.
We recognise the importance of social, environmental and ethical Other office locations regularly provide help to charities through the SEE matters and during 2013 continued our work on complying more direct involvement of our employees.
We seek to match the with the ABI disclosure guidelines on social responsibility SR. SEE funds raised by our employees where possible, and will consider all matters are integral to the philosophy of the Group.
The Board and applications including those outside the engineering science remit.
its committees from time to time receive reports on aspects of SEE.
In 2013, CSR was awarded the Payroll Giving Silver Award We consider that our work is part of a continuous process to develop 2013, the Charities Aid Foundation quality mark for commitment standards and working practices designed to deliver tangible to encouraging employees to donate to charity.
This award improvements in how we do business and to contribute to the wider recognises the level of support within workforces to giving out of community and stakeholders.
We seek to achieve this through their regular salary to charitable causes.
During 2013, our initiatives supported by our various offices around the world and the charitable giving totaled $157,568, of which $19,626 was given efforts of individual employees as ambassadors for CSR.
At the wider by employees direct from their salaries.
Group level this includes impact assessments of our operations on the environment, on the safety and well-being of our employees and Employee involvement end-users of our products.
Furthermore, we assess those involved in The following pages present a series of short reports of examples the development and manufacture of our products through our of our social responsibility initiatives across Europe, the uSA suppliers, distributors and customers.
Activities in these areas are and Asia-Pacific.
Further information is available from the Social discussed in more detail on pages 43 and 44.
Responsibility area of our website under About us, which is not incorporated into this annual report.
In the following section, we summarise some of the activities which have been undertaken by our offices and employees.
We are proud CSR UK: supporting emergency services to be able to share details which demonstrate the dedication shown by our staff, their families and friends.
The initiatives for these activities come either directly from individual employees or the social responsibility committee associated with a particular company office.
CSR has over 20 offices across the uS, Europe and Asia-Pacific.
The Company supports approved individual and team proposals by granting time out of the working week one day per annum in the case of uK-based employees to enable certain social responsibility activities and through a matched funding scheme, encourage the participants in their endeavours.
We are keen to give back to the community in a variety of ways including using our own expertise to help others especially schoolchildren to learn about science, technology, engineering and mathematics.
In Haifa, Israel, we continue to participate in Think Positive, which is a tutoring programme matching volunteers to improve maths capabilities of junior high school students.
Weekly one to one lessons take place at the CSR Haifa office.
In addition to these lessons we also give presentations on our technology, demonstrating how the ideas the students are learning about have real world application.
The programme is led and driven by the Haifa Coalition for Social Responsibility partnered with CSR Haifa, Intel, During 2013, our uK headquarters office made several ad-hoc IBM, Phillips, Taro, Qualcomm and the regional Ministry of Haifa.
donations to help fund the first responders to emergencies based Think Positive has shown proven success in improving students near Cambridge and much further afield.
These cash donations maths grades and more than half of the students have chosen to included another significant contribution to the East Anglian Air pursue studies in technology.
Ambulance to make life-saving, helicopter night-flight operations possible through the purchase of a mobile fuel bowser.
Also, for the CSR has since its creation in 2010, provided sponsorship and the second year, our Cambridge employees chose to support support of its employees to the uK Electronics Skills Foundation MapAction, a uK charity which delivers vital information in mapped uKESF.
Seeking to inspire young people to pursue careers in the form from data gathered at disaster scenes around the world.
One electronics industry, uKESF has partnered with the Engineering such major disaster area, was the Philippines.
CSR responded to Development Trust EDT to create an electronics-based project the humanitarian crisis which followed the effects of Typhoon Haiyan called Go4SET.
The EDTs Go4SET programme brings schools and by making a special donation of $20,000 from its social technology companies together to run workshops across a school responsibility emergency fund to the British Red Cross Disaster term for school children aged 12-14, setting and providing guidance Fund to assist the recovery efforts in the Philippines.
on solving problems which combine the sciences and mathematics with an element of fun.
One of CSRs employees is a member of the uKESF Strategic Advisory Board which oversees the utilisation of funds for a number of programmes, including industry scholarships, summer schools and the latest Go4SET initiative, which are run in different parts of the uK, including Cambridge.
A number of CSR employees contribute to the design and implementation of the Go4SET workshops and support the industry scholars during their placement.
As part of the industry scholarship programme, since 2010, CSR has supported six students who have graduated and we are providing ongoing placements in the current year for under-graduates.
38 CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 z 655547 CSR BOOK.
indb 38 11 03 2014 21:17 CSR in review Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information CSR UK: supporting medical research computer equipment loaded with educational software.
After a warm welcome from the school principal, some of the young students gave brief accounts of their lives and explained how the school had helped them and their families.
This memorable day concluded with a friendly basketball match between the students and the CSR team.
CSRs Kusum Toppo reflected on the day-long event: It was an honour to spend time with the bright and wonderful children of Shishu Mandir and a memory to cherish.
CSR Israel: helping women in crisis CSR uKs social responsibility committee offers match-funding support for worthy causes by matching pound-for-pound up to 1,000.
Race for Life, one of the beneficiaries of this match-funding scheme, is the uKs biggest fund-raiser for the fight against cancer.
It is also the largest women-only event in the uK.
In July 2013, an enthusiastic team from CSR donned pink and ran, walked, crawled, and danced through the event, enjoying a fun-packed morning in support of this worthy cause.
Employees at our Haifa office are always keen to get involved with CSR China: respecting the natural environment social responsibility projects and 2013 has seen them busy organising various community activities.
In March 2013, over 40 employees volunteered to take part in the national Good Deeds Day and contribute to the community.
One of these activities was the renovation and decoration of eight apartments in a local hostel for people with learning difficulties.
Staff from our Haifa office continued to support the work of the Haifa Womens Crisis Center by providing various social activities for women and children of all faiths who fall victim to domestic violence.
These activities form a small part of the CSR Israel social responsibility projects.
CSR Germany: caring for sick children Every year, employees based at our Shanghai office back a number of social responsibility projects which enjoy strong employee support.
In May 2013, our staff volunteered for the annual clean-up of Jinshan Beach.
Their efforts helped clean up an area of natural beauty, as well as serving to safeguard seabirds and marine animals.
This voluntary community project also seeks to provide training to local people, raising awareness of the importance of preserving marine life and the environment.
CSR volunteers devoted seven hours of their leisure time to clearing the five miles of coastline.
Yije Zhao commented My wife and little son joined the beach clean-up.
I believe everyone in the world should be responsible for environment protection.
They say that laughter is the best medicine, so staff at CSRs Ingolstadt office quite literally helped to send in the clowns.
CSR India: helping transform lives through education Their social responsibility committee donated to a colourful voluntary organisation: KlinikClowns, a troupe of volunteers that includes professional medics that regularly clown up and entertain the young patients in the childrens wards of German hospitals, including the local hospital unit for sick children in Ingolstadt.
These fun-packed visits bring some much-appreciated smiles to the faces of these young patients.
Nelson Mandela said: Education is the most powerful weapon which you can use to change the world.
CSR takes this to heart through positive initiatives.
Based in the KR Puram area of Bangalore, Shishu Mandir is a school for children around 70% girls and 30% boys from challenging family backgrounds.
These children come from the many nearby villages.
Shishu means children, Mandir means temple.
In May 2013, a banner appeared over the entrance of Shishu Mandir, which read CSR a social welfare initiative.
A small delegation of staff from CSRs Bangalore office, accompanied by CEO Joep van Beurden, visited the school as part of a social responsibility project.
Their mission was to bring practical gifts for every pupil in the form of much-needed stationery, exercise books, satchels, and for the school, sports and personal www.
