Corporate Social Responsibility continued The ongoing management of EMS is overseen by a team Health, safety and environmental management incorporating managers responsible for Facilities, Business CSR expects the highest of ethical standards of all its employees Management Systems and Quality Assurance.
and its policies and procedures support its stated aim of acting with integrity in all aspects of its operations.
The team establishes a programme of action for each year and monitors progress against targets.
Progress in carrying out the The Board director responsible for health and safety matters is action plans is monitored by the Companys internal Quality Will Gardiner, Chief Financial Officer.
During 2013, Mr. Gardiner met Assurance department, which reports regularly to the Internal with those who manage the Companys health and safety issues Auditor and to the Audit Committee.
including the Senior Manager for Health, Safety, and Environmental HSE.
Reports are presented to the Board twice each year covering In 2013, the Company underwent a certificate renewal assessment health and safety matters, which includes statistics on accidents and for both ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 which was completed by incidents and progress in fulfilling targets linked to continuous Lloyds Register Quality Assurance Limited, an internationally improvement and promoting wider awareness of HSE matters.
The visits confirmed that the Companys Management System continued to satisfy the In the uK, we have an HSE Committee which meets regularly and requirements of ISO 14001:2004 and BS OHSAS 18001:2007, and is chaired by the Senior Manager, HSE.
Our Health, Safety, and continued certification to these standards was awarded.
Environmental policies are available to all employees on our intranet site as are the minutes of the HSE Committee and current HSE Environment initiatives.
Examples of such initiatives are explained below.
Our environmental policy includes commitments to: employee consultation and training: During 2013, work continued in promulgating HSE best practices assessment of our activities and product-related environmental across the CSR group, deploying measures developed in Cambridge impacts to identify targets for continuous improvement: and as a baseline for globally applicable and acceptable policies, legal compliance and due consideration of other stakeholder procedures and guidance.
Country leaders and their deputies act environmental requirements.
as champions at their office locations to support various training programmes and initiatives to raise awareness about health and We believe that we are taking appropriate steps to contribute to safety.
In February 2013 and July 2013, the Audit Committee sound environmental practices, covering not only the manufacture received reports on progress against the targets for such matters and supply of our products but also positive measures to establish as part of its routine business at its meetings.
and build on good working practices within our various office locations.
We are developing a global five-year environmental As an important part of implementing global HSE policies, we have improvement programme, the initial phase of which will commence developed a health and safety training programme for our offices.
during the second quarter of 2014.
The programme will encourage Through this programme, we expect to have a representative in each employees, who will act as local area champions, to promote our region who is qualified to National Examination Board in Occupational environmental responsibilities within their own offices and which will Safety and Health standards in the united Kingdom.
We expect to target issues such as efficiencies and reductions in energy and implement the programme during the first half of 2014. water consumption, and waste management.
We are also in the process of deploying an online health, safety and We are registered with the Environment Agency pursuant to the environmental compliance tool globally which is designed to give our requirements of the Climate Change Act 2008, which forms a key employees direct access to information and guidance on meeting the component of the commitment by the uK government and local legislation that is relevant to their operations.
This online resource businesses in response to the Kyoto Protocol on climate change.
is a key part of the ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 requirements.
In January 2014, we commenced running a health, safety and CSR has implemented procedures in order to be able to record environmental awareness and training programme for all our staff and report on energy consumption for our uK premises.
The uK worldwide covering topics such as display screen equipment DSE, government introduced the first phase of payments in respect of Control of Substances Hazardous to Health COSHH, serious and carbon usage in 2012.
CSR submitted its return in July 2013, in imminent danger and manual handling.
The aim is to help support, connection with which, we were subsequently required to encourage and empower staff locally with health, safety and purchase an allowance for the equivalent of 4,032 tonnes of environmental compliance and help develop best practices: it will also carbon, at a cost of 48,396.
The reporting qualification for the provide an effective overview of the effectiveness of the HSE second round of the Carbon Reduction Commitment Energy management system.
Efficiency Scheme or CRC EES registration applies to entities which are expected to use more than 6,000 MW hours of The executive director with responsibility for the Groups electricity settled in the Half Hourly Market in the uK, at sites Environmental Management System EMS throughout 2013 was where the entities meet these energy costs directly rather than Mr. Chris Ladas, Operations Director.
Since CSR is a fabless having them provided as part of landlord supply.
As CSR expects semiconductor company and therefore does not have its own to exceed this threshold of use, we have registered for CRC manufacturing facilities, our EMS, which has the support of the Phase 2.
This will be reported during the second quarter of 2014.
Board, has been developed reflecting that all our employees work We currently anticipate that the payment under CRC Phase 2 will in office based environments which results in a low eco-footprint.
be approximately 60,000, which we will be expected to pay in We do however seek to establish and maintain high environmental the third quarter of 2014. management standards across all aspects of our operations, consistent with the environmental standard ISO 14001.
Certification requires that we have an EMS which defines the environmental policy of the Group and sets objectives intended to drive continuous improvements in environmental awareness and practices.
42 CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 z 655547 CSR BOOK.
