CSR in review Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Through all our subcontractors, we work to ensure that the Group is able to maintain sufficient capacity to support the demand for our products.
The ability to supply our customers can be affected in the event of a loss of capacity at a supplier due to events affecting their business, such as natural disaster, interruption of their own supply chain or increased demand from our competitors, which may mean we are unable to secure the volumes of products we require to meet customer demand.
This is discussed in more detail on pages 45 to 51 in the section that explains the risk factors which we face.
Raw materials CSR sources both the manufacture and testing of its silicon wafers and the packaging of its integrated circuits from a small number of subcontractors, including those named above, who have facilities spread across multiple locations, primarily in Taiwan, but also in South Korea, China, the uS and Singapore.
CSR also purchases memory and certain other passive components from other commodity suppliers.
These are standard components capable of being obtained through alternative sources, subject to the conduct of a product qualification process prior to adoption into manufacturing.
The prices of our principal raw materials may be volatile.
For example, precious metals such as copper and gold, that are used in our products, are subject to variation in price due to general supply and demand market dynamics, which can be affected by global economic issues, and potential shortages or delays in extraction and processing.
Seasonality CSR has historically experienced increased net revenue in its second and third quarters compared with the fourth and first quarters primarily due to seasonal demand related to the holiday season and end of calendar year spending patterns in corporate budgets.
However, in 2013, there was a positive impact on revenues in the first half of the year due to the demand for mono headsets in China arising from the enforcement of hands-free driving legislation, which benefited our Voice & Music segment.
Due to continued economic uncertainty and other factors, past historical patterns should not be considered a reliable indicator of our future net revenue or financial performance as historical seasonal patterns may not recur.
Governmental regulation For a discussion of the possible material effects of governmental regulations on CSRs business, please refer to the Risk Factors and to the discussion of risks relating to political, economic and regulatory conditions in the countries in which we and our customers operate on pages 45 to 51.
Intellectual property Our success and ability to compete depends to a significant degree upon the protection of our proprietary technology.
As of 27 December 2013, we had approximately 1,650 patents granted worldwide with expiration dates ranging from 2013 to 2033 and approximately 850 pending patent applications.
We intend to continue to assess appropriate occasions for seeking patent protection for those aspects of our technology that we believe provides significant competitive advantage.
Although we file patents to protect our inventions, our revenue is not dependent on any particular patent.
We do not believe that the expiration or loss of a particular patent would materially harm our business.
CSR plc Churchill House Cambridge Business Park Cowley Road Cambridge CB4 0WZ Registered in England and Wales 4187346 www.
com Advisers Auditors Deloitte LLP Corporate brokers JPMorgan Cazenove Limited Solicitors Slaughter and May Bank Lloyds Bank plc Share Information at 10 March 2014 Shares outstanding including shares underlying the ADSs 166,675,330 Trading Symbol Ordinary Shares CSR.
L Country of Registration England Market London Stock Exchange SEDOL 3414738 Registrar Equiniti, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex, BN99 6DA ADSs evidenced by American Depositary Receipts, each ADS representing four ordinary shares of CSR Trading Symbol ADSs CSRE Market NASDAQ Global Select Market Depositary JPMorgan Chase Bank N. A. PO Box 64504, St. Paul, MN 55164-0504 www.
