CSR in review Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Employee Benefit Trust The CSR Employee Benefit Trust the Trust was established in 2007 to provide a mechanism for employee share incentives to be satisfied using shares purchased by the Trust in the open market.
During 2013, 541,894 ordinary shares in CSR plc were acquired by the Trust at a price per share of 5.4575.
As at 27 December 2013, the Trust held a total of 2,775,989 ordinary shares in CSR plc representing 1.67% of the issued share capital excluding treasury shares at the date of this report.
As at 28 December 2012, the Trust held 2,234,095 ordinary shares.
As participants in the employee share incentive plans, the executive directors of the Company are potential beneficiaries of the shares held by the Trust and are therefore regarded for the purposes of the Companies Act as being interested in ordinary shares held by the Trust.
Employee share incentive plans For information on the Companys share incentive plans please see note 29 to the consolidated financial statements.
Directors Details of the directors who served during the year are contained on page 55 of the Directors Report Governance.
Biographies of the directors in office at 27 December 2013, other than Andrew Allner who retired on 31 December 2013, are on pages 52 and 53.
The Companys Articles of Association state that directors shall retire from office and may offer themselves for re-appointment when they have been appointed since the last Annual General Meeting, held office in the preceding two Annual General Meetings and did not retire at either of them or have been in office for a continuous period of nine years or more at the date of the meeting.
The uK Corporate Governance Code requires all directors of FTSE 350 companies to be subject to annual election by shareholders.
Accordingly, all the directors will be retiring at the Annual General Meeting and offering themselves for re-election or election.
This is further explained in the notice of meeting which is a separate document issued to shareholders.
The interests of the executive directors in the options of the Company are detailed in the Remuneration Report on page 81.
Conflicts of interests The Company has procedures in place to deal with conflicts of interests and believes that procedures are operated efficiently.
Directors responsibility statement Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
under that law the directors are required to prepare the group financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European union and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and have also chosen to prepare the parent company financial statements under IFRSs as adopted by the European union.
The Group financial statements are also prepared in accordance with the IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board.
under company law the directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss of the Company for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, International Accounting Standard 1 requires that directors: properly select and apply accounting policies: present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance: and make an assessment of the companys ability to continue as a going concern.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the united Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: 1. so far as we are aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: 2. we have taken all reasonable steps to ascertain any relevant audit information and ensure the Companys auditors are aware of such infomation: 3. the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of CSR and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: 4. the Strategic Report and the Directors Report include a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face: and 5. the annual report and financial statements, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable and provide the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
