R Re ep po or rt t of of t th he e D Dire irec ct to or rs s Corporate responsibility We aim to: Minimise the effects of our activities on the environment and meet the climate change challenge Provide a healthy and safe workplace Contribute positively to our local communities Conduct all of our business activities fairly Be a first-class employer The Afren approach P64 Environment and climate change P68 Health and Safety P70 Communities P71 Business conduct P72 People P73 A Af fre ren n pl plc c 62 62 A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 13 3 Report of the Directors A Af fre ren n pl plc c A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 13 3 63 63 R Re ep po or rt t of of t th he e D Dire irec ct to or rs s T he Afren approach to corporate responsibility Our overall approach to corporate One of the five strategic priorities that responsibility is governed by the IPIECA guidelines, the relevant legal and regulatory we have identified to achieve our vision frameworks and materiality.
For each of the five focus areas we have: is ensuring that our corporate responsibility Designed policies that reference the performance achieves the highest standards.
appropriate international accords: Put in place management systems that In 2013 we altered how we describe our are in line with industry best practice and the appropriate international standards: corporate responsibility areas of focus.
We Developed KPIs key performance have adapted the IPIECA industry guidelines indicators and regularly monitored our performance by comparing these so that they are aligned with the information measures to targets and industry benchmarks: and requirements of our key stakeholders.
We Communicated and entered into now refer to environment and climate change, dialogue with our stakeholders about this important aspect of our business.
health and safety, people, communities and We have then applied this feedback to enhance our policies, systems business conduct as our key areas of focus.
Governing frameworks and principles Governing frameworks and principles IPIECA guidelines Materiality Legal and regulatory requirements Develop a corporate responsibility strategy 1 and link this with the Companys vision Identify five key areas of focus 2 1.
Environment and Health Communities Business conduct People climate change and safety For each key area of focus Set policies Develop management Monitor and Communicate and systems measure performance report to stakeholders 3 Apply stakeholder feedback to enhance strategy, policies, 4 systems, performance, reporting and communications Afren plc 64 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Report of the Directors C orporate responsibility is clearly Figure 2.
Our areas of focus an aspect of our business that is Diversity and equality of opportunity Greenhouse gas and other atmospheric emissions of considerable interest to many Training and development Biodiversity of our shareholders and other Regular dialogue and communication Water use Spills stakeholders.
It presents us with Discharges to water significant challenges and also Reuse, recycling and waste management opportunities to demonstrate Environmental management the quality of our management, our understanding of local issues, our management of risk and our Environment growth potential in the medium People and climate change and long term.
A nti-bribery and corruption Health and Safety culture Prohibition of forced and Accident prevention Business Health child labour Product stewardship conduct andSafety Customer and supplier Process safety relations Occupational health Focus on local content Workforce participation Host government Communities transactions Human rights S takeholder engagement and dialogue Social investment Respect for the rights of indigenous people Prohibition of involuntary resettlement Pro-active conduct of community affairs Shahid Ullah Chief Operating Officer Afren plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 65 R Re ep po or rt t of of t th he e D Dire irec ct to or rs s T he Afren approach to corporate responsibility continued Framework for 2014 EHSS targets Issue 2013 target 2013 performance 2014 target Environment and climate change Greenhouse gas Record and report all fuel use and other sources of GHG emissions.
This was achieved to support the new UK Develop and disclose a comprehensive climate GHG emissions reporting requirements.
Energy use Record and report total energy use in GWh.
Ongoing as part of the exercise required toconduct Improve the Companys data collection.
Flaring Record and report the quantities of flared gas.
Completed as part of the exercise required Review and confirm accuracy of reported GHG toconduct GHG reporting.
emissions in particular for flaring and set flaring reduction targets for 2015.
Biodiversity Conduct environmental impact assessments before all project activity.
Conduct environmental social impact assessments before all project activity.
Spills to the environment Record and report spills greater than 1 bbl of oil.
Isolated spills during 2013 resulted inthe loss Achieve a target of fewer than three spills oil or Fewer than five spills in total.
chemicals of over 1 bbl to the environment:.
Run an oil spill response exercise at all operated assets.
Discharges to water Record and report the PPM and total tonnage of oil in In progress.
Discharges to be within limits and fewer than three produced water.
Record and report tonnages of cuttings excursions over the limits during the year.
Monitor and and muds discharged.
report total oil discharges to the environment from produced water for operated assets.
Waste Record and report tonnages of hazardous and non hazardous wastes.
Record and report tonnages of hazardous and non Record and report tonnages of wastes that are recycled.
Record and report tonnages of wastes that are recycled.
Audits and management systems Establish a programme of environmental audits.
Environmental audits conducted Develop and implement a consistent framework for inNigeria and Kurdistan against the ISO14001 environmental management across operated assets, standard.
consistent with the requirements of ISO14001.
Health and Safety Occupational injury LTIF 1.11 TRIR 3.04 LTIF 1.05 TRIR 2.52 Drive down the LTIF and TRIR values.
Achieve an LTIF Record, investigate and report all motor vehicle accidents.
There was a single motor vehicle accident in 2013 that ofbelow 0.92 and a TRIR below 2.77. involved a crew bus in Kurdistan, no-one was injured.
Process safety and Record, investigate and report all breaches of process integrity.
Fewer than five process integrity breaches Loss of asset integrity acorporate Operations Integrity Maintenance System OIMS and establish Primary Containment resulting in release of agate process for the design of new facilities.
N A Conduct British Safety Council 5 Star audits in management systems Nigeria and Kurdistan.
Operations senior managers to have at least one EHSS objective in their annual performance targets.
Incident notification Roll out the new incident notification system to all business units.
Incident notification system rolled out to allbusiness Promote the reporting and investigation of near misses.
Review the corporate incident reporting and investigation procedure.
Security Ensure security risk assessments are conducted for all operations.
Ensure security risk assessments are conducted for all Establish a system for quality assurance of security measures.
Establish a system for quality assurance of Conduct security reviews for all new facility designs.
Conduct security reviews for all new facility designs.
People Contractor management Incorporate Company environmental, health and safety and security Completed.
Network meetings Establish a programme of regular network meetings on environmental, In progress.
N A health and safety and security matters.
Communities Local community impact Conduct social impact assessments before conducting Completed.
Implement a consistent framework for engagement project activity.
with local communities across all operations.
Have no community disruptions causing shut down or lost productivity to operated assets.
Social investment Record and report social investment spend.
Incorporated in the local community impact effectiveness of investment projects over $150k.
Business conduct Anti-bribery and corruption Provide Company-wide refresher on Code of Business In progress.
Update and re-issue the Code of Business and Conduct and Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy and procedures.
Monitor Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy and procedures and compliance with the gifts register on a quarterly basis.
Record, investigate retrain all personnel.
Have no successful prosecutions and report all cases of whistleblowing.
orother legal actions brought against Afren for bribery or corruption.
Become a corporate supporter of the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative EITI.
Crisis management Revise and issue the corporate crisis management plan.
Review and re-issue the corporate Crisis Management Provide training on the plan.
Plan and hold an exercise.
Afren plc 66 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Report of the Directors Framework for 2014 EHSS targets 2013 highlights Transparency and reporting Health and Safety Issue 2013 target 2013 performance 2014 target During 2013 we undertook a number The Companys health and safety systems Environment and climate change of activities to improve the levels of were improved in 2013 following the rollout Greenhouse gas Record and report all fuel use and other sources of GHG emissions.
This was achieved to support the new UK Develop and disclose a comprehensive climate clarity, transparency and quality of our of a new incident notification system to GHG emissions reporting requirements.
The purpose of these included changing the way we describe improvements was so that we could make Energy use Record and report total energy use in GWh.
our approach to CR and adapting the absolutely sure that events are being industry IPIECA guidelines concerning reported promptly and accurately to the Flaring Record and report the quantities of flared gas.
emissions in particular for flaring and set flaring our areas of focus to achieve greater appropriate levels of management.
We have reduction targets for 2015. clarity for a wide group of stakeholders.
also implemented an Operations Integrity Biodiversity Conduct environmental impact assessments before all project activity.
Conduct environmental social impact assessments This new approach is recorded on pages Maintenance System to improve our process before all project activity.
64 and 65 of this Annual Report.
We met the new requirements concerning People Run an oil spill response exercise at all operated assets.
the reporting of greenhouse gas emissions We continued our process to achieve auniform Discharges to water Record and report the PPM and total tonnage of oil in In progress.
Discharges to be within limits and fewer than three by conducting a review exercise of our approach towards employees and contractors produced water.
Monitor and measurement and data collection systems by incorporating our environmental, health and and muds discharged.
report total oil discharges to the environment from and ensuring that they met the new safety and security requirements into all of our produced water for operated assets.
This process also involved contractor contracts.
Record and report tonnages of hazardous and non an examination of the classification of our Record and report tonnages of wastes that are recycled.
Record and report tonnages of Communities wastes that are recycled.
emissions taking into account their origin, Our teams in the countries where we operate our level of responsibility for them and other Audits and management systems Establish a programme of environmental audits.
Environmental audits conducted Develop and implement a consistent framework for developed a number of projects that are inNigeria and Kurdistan against the ISO14001 environmental management across operated assets, related matters.
focused on our key areas of education, skills, We intend to continue this process in 2014 employability and health.
A list of current Health and Safety by, in particular, producing our first online examples, conducted in partnership with local Occupational injury LTIF 1.11 TRIR 3.04 LTIF 1.05 TRIR 2.52 Drive down the LTIF and TRIR values.
There was a single motor vehicle accident in 2013 that ofbelow 0.92 and a TRIR below 2.77. corporate responsibility report in line with and international NGOs, our business Partners involved a crew bus in Kurdistan, no-one was injured.
the Global Reporting Initiative and IPIECA and the local authorities, are recorded within Fatalities Zero fatalities.
We are also placing the corporate responsibility section on our greater emphasis on reporting this aspect website.
Of particular note is the work we Process safety and Record, investigate and report all breaches of process integrity.
Fewer than five process integrity breaches Loss of of our activities to our current and aredoing with the education sector in Nigeria asset integrity acorporate Operations Integrity Maintenance System OIMS and establish Primary Containment resulting in release of potential shareholders.
to improve the employability skills within agate process for the design of new facilities.
Environment and climate change Audits and N A.
Operations senior managers In 2013 the Company aimed to improve the Business conduct to have at least one EHSS objective in their annual monitoring of its environmental performance Our anti-bribery and corruption processes are performance targets.
by designing and commencing a programme the subject of regular management review.
This was performed During 2013 we monitored compliance Review the corporate incident reporting and investigation procedure.
with the support of an experienced third through the operation of the Anti-Bribery Security Ensure security risk assessments are conducted for all operations.
Ensure security risk assessments are conducted for all party service provider.
A periodic programme and Corruption Register.
This lists transactions Establish a system for quality assurance of security measures.
Conduct security reviews for all new has been set up to assess all the Companys such as gifts and entertaining and separately facility designs.
sites against ISO14001 standards, policies identifies those involving government officials.
The Code of Business Conduct is due to be Contractor management Incorporate Company environmental, health and safety and security Completed.
Progress was also made with establishing requirements into all contracts.
systems that will assist the Company with Network meetings Establish a programme of regular network meetings on environmental, In progress.
N A monitoring and recording quantities of oil health and safety and security matters.
in produced water and tonnages of cuttings Communities and muds discharged and hazardous and Local community impact Conduct social impact assessments before conducting Completed.
Implement a consistent framework for engagement non-hazardous waste that is produced.
Afren plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 67 R Re ep po or rt t of of t th he e D Dire irec ct to or rs s Environment and climate change Key objective Developing the Companys We will minimise the effects of our activities climate change strategy on the environment and meet the climate Tackling climate change means addressing the greenhouse gas GHG change challenge.
emissions associated with our operations.
These arise primarily from energy use i. e. generation of electricity from the burning of hydrocarbons either Policy highlights inour own facilities or in power stations and from venting or flaring ofexcessgas.
We will comply with the relevant local and national regulations, frameworks, guidelines Energy use will tend to grow as our business develops, however we take and best practice at all times.
steps to ensure that we utilise energy as efficiently as possible, thereby minimising the associated GHG emissions.
W e will conserve resources and protect the environment where we operate and Our current focus however is the flaring of excess gas in our production minimise any adverse impacts resulting operations.
In the absence of any local infrastructure to get gas to market from our operations.
we have limited options for dealing with gas within our facilities.
In the first instance maximum use is made of gas for power generation to avoid the use W e will apply re-use and re-cycling methods of diesel or other fuels.
We also use gas to assist with the production of oil wherever possible throughout our operations.
Beyond this, the options for gas are limited We will endeavour to meet the challenges toflaring or re-injection underground.
We have been developing a number of technical solutions for reducing our We will minimise waste generation level of flaring.
This led in 2013 to the conduct of our first flaring reduction and dispose of waste responsibly.
programme at the Ebok field in Nigeria where we have commenced re-injecting gas back into the ground as part of the production process.
We will conserve and protect local Weare also assessing the feasibility of dedicated gas disposal wells at Ebok biodiversity in the areas where we operate.
and extending flaring reduction to our other operations.
We will minimise our use of water and We have been reporting on GHG emissions for the past two years in our carefully control our discharges to water.
Annual Reports and as part of our 2013 commitments we have taken a more detailed look at our emission sources and the way in which we are System highlights monitoring and reporting emissions.
We commissioned PwCs sustainability team to conduct an independent review of our GHG emissions at A ll our exploration and production projects Ebokwitha view to confirming the accuracy of reporting and making are the subject of a detailed environmental recommendations on how to better manage the data in order to meet the impact assessment process before new UK reporting requirements.
By understanding the measurement and theyproceed.
reporting of emissions we also hope to be able to better manage our efforts We have a detailed environmental on emissions reduction.
management system that applies to all The recommendations made by PwC include more frequent monitoring ofouroperations.
andmeasurement and suggestions about improving emissions accuracy We engage a third party specialist to conduct inparticular relating to flaring.
The teams advice also covered the scope periodic environmental audits against ofAfrens reporting of emissions for instance what to include and exclude, ISO14001 standards, policies and procedures.
classification Scope 1, 2 or 3 and defining boundaries that reflect the nature of the Companys operations and structure.
The projects outcomes are We have weekly for senior operations reflected in our reporting of this information within this Annual Report and management, monthly for senior operations will be applied in our reporting of this information going forward on our management and Executive Directors website and within other disclosures for example our annual submission and quarterly reporting for the Board of ofinformation to CDP.
Directors mechanisms for our environmental performance.
Incident reports are completed In the course of conducting this work we have also reviewed our historical immediately and distributed to senior emissions and present the amended data, together with the data for 2014, operations management and the in the graph below.
The Company has comprehensive assessment Intensity ratio procedures concerning all of its suppliers and Tonnes CO e 1000 tonnes of hydrocarbon produced contractors that are conducted as part of the 2 600 contract and procurement process.
Tonnes CO2e US$m 500 400 301.50 300 200 100 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Afren plc 68 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Report of the Directors Emissions by location 2013 We then calculate carbon dioxide equivalent Greenhouse gas Percentage of total 707,296.63 tonnes CO e based on the relative global warming 2 ofCO eequivalent emissions reporting 2 potential of each gas: for example methane In previous years we have voluntarily reported is 21 times more effective as a greenhouse Nigeria 82.25% on greenhouse gas emissions.
Under the new gas than carbon dioxide and has a global Cte dIvoire 13.16% Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and warming potential of 21.
In this way the East Africa 1.02% Directors Report Regulations 2013 there carbon footprint for the business can be Kurdistan 3.51% is now a statutory requirement to disclose Corporate offices 0.07% expressed as a single number.
emissions information in a prescribed format.
The other greenhouse gases, hydrofluorocarbons HFCs, perfluorocarbons Baseline and reportingyear PFCs and sulphur hexafluoride, are not Emissions by activity 2013 We have been collecting data on our greenhouse Percentage of total 707,296.63 tonnes closely associated with oil and gas exploration gas emissions since 2009 seegraph on page 68. of CO e equivalent 2 and production.
The total emissions of these Consequently we have chosen this year as the gases are therefore expected to be small and baseline year for our emissionsreporting.
Offices 0.09% have not been calculated.
Production 21.42% Our reporting period for our emissions Flaring 67.43% Offshore emission factors for greenhouse data continues to be consistent with the Drilling 10.13% gas calculations were derived from the UK Companys financial reporting period, being Seismic 0.93% Department of Energy and Climate Change the calendar year ending 31 December 2013.
DECC Environmental Emissions Monitoring System EEMS calculation tools used by the UK Organisation and offshore industry to report on greenhouse gases.
operating boundaries Onshore emissions were calculated using In line with the guidance issued with the emission factors derived from the American new UK legal reporting requirement, we Petroleum Industry Compendium of report all of the emissions from the assets Greenhouse Gas Emissions Methodologies where we are the operator and therefore forthe Oil and Natural Gas Industry 2009. have operational control.
We do not report emissions from our joint venture operations This methodology has been used to derive where one of our Partners is the operator emissions data from 2009 to 2013. as in these instances we do not have Intensity ratio operationalcontrol.
The nature of oil and gas exploration and In terms of our operating boundaries we have production is such that there is no clear continued to report emissions associated with intensity metric that covers all situations.
all field activities, whether they be related Inparticular, using oil production or revenue to production, drilling or seismic activities, as the intensity ratio does not take into transportation or logistics: this includes all account the fact that exploration activities contracted services associated with the may not be successful in delivering increases running of the field.
Despite this limitation We have captured data on both Scope 1, direct wehave opted to report an intensity ratio emissions and Scope 2, indirect emissions.
oftonnes of CO e against 1000 tonnes 2 Scope 2 emissions are currently limited to those .
associated with electricity use in our offices and As a measure of the efficiency of our make up less than 0.1% of our emissions.
production operations we have also decided to investigate the value of reporting Methodology production emissions from energy, processing Our direct emissions are generally calculated and any flaring against the volume of from fuel use data, either gas used to power fluids being produced.
This metric is much turbines and other equipment, gas flared more closely associated with the efficiency or diesel used in generators.
Calculations of individual production operations and are made for carbon dioxide, methane may provide a means for comparing our and nitrous oxide being the main gases differentfacilities.
produced through the combustion process.
Data on intensity ratios is shown in the graphopposite.
Afren plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 69 R Re ep po or rt t of of t th he e D Dire irec ct to or rs s Health and Safety Key objective Use of HAZIDS and HAZOPS We will provide a healthy and safe workplace A feature of our health and safety management process is our use of risk at all times and at every location.
management techniques across all of our activities.
These range from job risk assessments to particular risk assessment tools such as HAZIDS Hazard Identification Study and HAZOPS Hazard and Operability Study.
HAZOPS Policy highlights involve the prior examination of a process, usually by a team of experienced We will comply with all relevant local and people, before it is constructed in order to identify and evaluate potential national regulations, frameworks, guidelines problems that may present risks to personnel or equipment or prevent and best practice at all times.
HAZIDS involve the conduct of prior assessment procedures such as health and safety impact studies as part of the design We will establish and apply health and of projects and processes to ensure that potential risks have been safety standards across all of our businesses identified, assessed and mitigated.
according to industry best practice and ensure that they are communicated Many of our activities are performed by external contractors.
We have toallofour employees and contractors.
close relationships with them to ensure that our procedures are aligned and that knowledge is shared.
Our contractors are required to adopt the same We will encourage and promote knowledge standards of health and safety as Afren.
sharing around the business and within our peer group to ensure that the causes of incidents are fully understood and health and safety risks are minimised.
We will ensure that all of our employees and contractors have the necessary health and safety skills and expertise by applying regular training and education methods inline with industry best practice.
System highlights Total Recordable Incident Rate TRIR A ll our exploration and production projects and Lost Time Injury Frequency LTIF are the subject of a detailed health and safety Incidents per million man hours worked assessment process before they proceed.
2.52 TRIR 1.05 LTIF We have a detailed health and safety TRIR LTIF management system that applies to all ofouroperations.
All staff receive regular training on health andsafety matters.
0.52 1.05 Our health and safety policies and systems extend to our contractors as well as ouremployees.
2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 We have weekly for senior operations management, monthly for senior operations management and Executive Directors and quarterly for the Board of Directors reporting mechanisms for our health and safety performance.
Incident reports are completed immediately and distributed tosenior operations management and the ExecutiveDirectors.
Afren plc 70 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 2.45 9.33 1.96 1.47 2.52 1.63 2.41 0.22 0.53 1.05 Report of the Directors Communities K Ke ey y o ob bjje ec cti tiv five e Education in Nigeria W We w e wiilll c l co on nt tr rib ibu ut te p e po osi sit tiiv five elly t y to o o ou ur r We aim to ensure that our local community investment provides llo oc ca all c co om mmu muni nit tiie es s.. sustainable benefits in partnership with local authorities and leaders.
In Nigeria we do this by developing education programmes that build skill levels and develop employment for young people.
Since 2009 we P Po oli lic cy y h hiig gh hli lig gh ht ts s have, in conjunction with our business Partners, supported the creation W We w e wiilll c l co om mp plly w y wiit th t h th he r e re elle ev va an nt l t lo oc ca al a l an nd d of education opportunities for people in the host communities at Effiat n nat atiio on na all r re eg gul ulat atiio on ns s, fr fra am me ew wo or rk ks s, g gui uid fide elliin ne es s and Eastern Obolo.
a an nd b d be es st p t pr ra ac ct tiic ce a e at a t alll t l tiim me es s..
Scholarships W We s e su up pp po or rt t t th he p e pr riin nc cip iplle es c s co on nt ta aiin ne ed w d wiit th hiin n Our projects include the award of scholarships to existing, tertiary, t th he U e UN U N Un niiv five er rs sa al D l fide ec clla ar ra at tiio on o n of H f Hu um ma an n secondary and post-graduate students to support a variety of learning R Riig gh ht ts s. W. We e e en nd fide ea av vo ou ur t r to e o en ns su ur re t e th ha at t t th hiis s and skill acquisition activities.
c co omm mmiit tm me en nt e t ex xt te en nd ds t s to o o ou ur s r su up pp plly c y ch ha aiin n The grants provide an allowance per annum and last for the period of a an nd d o ou ur r c co ont ntr ra ac cto tor rs s.. the course being undertaken.
By the end of 2013 there were over 400 local W We s e su up pp po or rt t t th he p e pr riin nc cip iplle es c s co on nt ta aiin ne ed d participating students.
An awards ceremony was held in October that was w wiit th hiin t n th he U e UN D N fide ec clla ar ra at tiio on o n on t n th he R e Riig gh ht ts s attended by community leaders, representatives of the State Ministry of o of I f In nd diig ge en no ou us P s Pe eo op plle es s iin p n pa ar rt tiic cu ulla ar t r th ho os se e Environment and Petroleum Resources, beneficiaries and their families and r re ella at tiing ng t to o e edu duc ca at tiio on n, h he eal alt th h, l lan angu gua ag ge e, a representative of the Commissioner for Education in Akwa-Ibom State.
id iden enti tit ty y, c cu ullt tu ur re e a an nd d em emp pllo oy ym men ent t..
Developing science education W We a e aiim t m to e o en ns su ur re t e th ha at t t th he w e wiid fide es st p t po os ssib siblle e We have worked with the local authorities to support the construction lle ev five el o l of l f lo oc ca al a l ag gr re ee em me en nt a t an nd s d su up pp po or rt i t is s of nine science laboratories in three secondary schools in Eastern Obolo.
r re ec ce eiiv five ed d th thr rou oug gh hou out t th the e d du ur ra ati tio on n o of f We also supported the transfer of nine science teachers to these schools ou our r p pr roj oje ec ct ts s.. by the State Ministry of Education and the local education board.
Our contribution included supporting the payment of special allowances to the staff to encourage them to move to and stay in the area.
This activity S Sy ys st te em m hi hig ghl hliig gh ht ts s was carried out to increase the numbers of local students studying A Af fr re en h n ha as d s fide ed diic ca at te ed c d co omm mmu un niit ty i y in nv five es st tm me en nt t scientific subjects physics, biology and chemistry.
t te ea ams i ms in N n Niig ge er riia a, E, Ea as st A t Af fr riic ca a a an nd K d Ku ur rd diis st ta an n a an nd a c d a co or rp po or ra at te l e le ev five el t l te ea am i m in H n Ho ou us st to on n..
Vocational skills development and local business start-up support Our activities also support local education for people who are unable W We c e co on nd du uc ct a s t a so oc ciia al i l im mp pa ac ct a t as ss se es ss sm me en nt t tobenefit from the Scholarship Scheme or who do not have access p pr ro oc ce es ss p s pr riio or t r to t o th he c e co omm mme en nc ce em me en nt o t of e f ea ac ch h toother educational facilities.
For example, we have supported a C Co om mp pa an ny p y pr ro ojje ec ct. t. Technical Skill Acquisition Program TSAP in collaboration with seven W We t e ta ak ke a s e a sy ys st te em ma at tiic a c ap pp pr ro oa ac ch t h to o o ou ur r local skills acquisition centres.
This allows 120 students each year to c co om mm mu un niit ty y p pr roj oje ec ct ts s b by y id iden entif tify yiin ng g l lo oc ca all acquire avarietyof vocational abilities including welding and fabrication, s st ta ak ke eh ho old lder ers, s, as ass se es ss siin ng g a an nd d m me eas asu ur riin ng g , instrumentation and maintenance, and hospitality.
s so oc ciia al r l riisk a sk an nd d d fide ev five ello op piin ng p g pr ro ojje ec ct p t plla an ns s.. At the end of a year of intensive training, the students move to the D Du ur riin ng t g th he l e liif fe et tiim me o e of o f ou ur p r pr ro ojje ec ct ts w s we e University of Uyo and acquire business skills.
Upon graduation they r re eg gu ula lar rlly y m mo oni nit to or r o ou ur r c co om mmu muni nit ty y r re ela lat tiio on ns shi hip ps s aresupplied with a financial grant and equipment to support small a an nd c d co on nd du uc ct p t pe er riio od diic a c au ud diit ts a s an nd a d as ss se es ss sm me en nt ts s business start-ups.
t to e o en ns su ur re t e th ha at o t ou ur a r aiims a ms ar re b e be eiin ng a g ac ch hiie ev five ed d.. R R e egu gullar ar di dial alo ogu gue e an and d c co om mm mu un niic ca at tiio on ns s w wiit th l h lo oc ca al s l st ta ak ke eh ho olld fide er rs a s ar re k e ke ey f y fe ea at tu ur re es s of ofo ou ur ra ap pp pro roa ac ch h.. Afren plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 71 R Re ep po or rt t of of t th he e D Dire irec ct to or rs s Business conduct Key objective Anti-Bribery and Corruption ABC register We will conduct all of our business Our operations include activities in several countries that have a score activities fairly.
of below 40 in Transparency Internationals Corruption Perceptions Index.
We recognise that our stakeholders perceive that there is a significant potential of business conduct issues affecting our activities unless Policy highlights wehaveput in place robust systems and controls to prevent such We prohibit political donations and aneventoccurring.
willnot directly or indirectly participate One important element of our management systems is the ABC Register.
This facility ensures that there is a permanent record of all Company gifts, We are resolutely opposed to bribery hospitality, entertainment and charitable donations except for very small and corruption and prohibit the use expenditure items.
The Register is maintained on the Company intranet.
All staff members are required to record these types of transactions whenthey are made.
Compliance with this procedure is supported by Company purchases of goods and services examination of Company expenses claims.
Other features of the Register are made solely on the basis of price, are the inclusion of mandatory authorisation procedures larger quality, value and benefit to the Company.
transactions require Executive Director approval, for example and We will ensure that our relationships with afacility that highlights where events involve government officials.
our customers and suppliers are conducted The Register is reviewed every three months by an internal Anti-Bribery in a fair and proper manner at all times.
and Corruption Committee comprising senior staff members from our legal and finance departments.
A report is prepared following the conduct System highlights of this review.
This is examined as a regular part of the Companys Audit All our new employees receive training on Committee meeting process.
the Companys Code of Conduct requirements and related matters such as the UK Bribery Act as part of their induction.
Refresher updates are performed from time to time and there is a section of the Companys intranet that is dedicated to this area.
We have an independently run whistleblowing process that is managed by Safecall, a well-known specialist in this area.
Safecalls call handlers have considerable investigative experience and the facility is available at all times of the day to the Companys employees.
We regularly monitor our bribery and corruption levels of risk as part of day-to day operations at all levels of the business.
Our anti-bribery and corruption policies extend to our supplier contracts.
We have an experienced and knowledgeable investor relations team that ensures that we conduct regular dialogue and communications with our current and potential shareholders.
Afren plc 72 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Report of the Directors People Training and development Key objective We recognise that our success is clearly linked to the knowledge, skills, We will be a first-class employer experience and motivation of our team and their ability to develop often innovative and creative solutions to our many opportunities and Policy highlights challenges.
Consequently, we are committed to the delivery of continuous learning and development for all our employees and We will comply with the relevant local and weencourage them to take responsibility for their career development.
national regulations, frameworks, guidelines and best practice at all times.
The aim of the Companys training and development programme is to provide the business with a team of highly competent employees by: We support the four fundamental principles assisting new employees to achieve maximum effectiveness and contained in the International Labour competency in the shortest possible time: Organisation Declaration.
We will not discriminate on the basis of gender, colour, improving the performance of employees in their present role: ethnicity, religion, sexual orientation or ensuring that the best use is made of the natural abilities of employees disability.
We will ensure that employment by developing their knowledge and capabilities for the benefit of the with us is freely chosen.
We prohibit the organisation and their future career: use of forced and child labour throughout identifying aspirations and potential: and our operations and supply chain.
providing input to manpower and succession plans.
We will promote diversity and equality ofopportunity throughout our business.
Training needs vary according to each individual and their role.
We therefore supply a range of activities to address these We will ensure that our people policies are forexample: adopted and adhered to by our contractors.
on-the-job coaching: short courses and further education programmes: System highlights external seminars and conferences: and We have an experienced and knowledgeable in-house courses and online learning programmes.
human resources team to manage our people and contractor relationships.
As well as training services that are tailored to individual needs, we have supplied initiatives that are available to our staff at all of our locations.
We monitor and measure a variety of diversity Our annual budget for training and development in 2013 was in excess measures across the business.
Our training and development processes Examples of our training and development initiatives are extend to our contractors as well as described below.
Harvard ManageMentor HMM We maintain and are developing a This programme is delivered in association with Harvard Business School.
Company-wide intranet system to facilitate It is a generalist e-learning facility that gives all staff access to a state-of-the communication around the business.
art, online learning and collaboration tool from one of the worlds most respected voices in business.
The on-demand learning programme contains We have an Employee Assistance Programme 42 topic areas containing both soft skills and management EAP.
This is a confidential and impartial training modules each lasting approximately two to three hours.
service that has been set up to provide Participants are tested during and at the end of each module.
advice and support, whenever and wherever itisneeded.
 Skills Development PSD This is a collection of 22 tutor-led classroom courses offering a broad range of professional skills training specifically aimed at staff within the oil & gas industry.
The courses cover a wide range of subjects including communication skills, report writing, leadership, team-building and project management.
The courses range from one to five days in duration and are categorised as being at foundation, leadership, or senior leadership level.
Nautilus-Geoscience Training Alliance GTA Over 200 technical training programmes are available, comprising a mix ofclassroom and field courses.
The classroom courses are held at venues innorthern Europe and Houston, whilst field courses are run internationally.
All are categorised by their competency level and are classified as either awareness, basic or skilled application level.
In addition, field courses are graded in terms of their physical demands.
IHRDC Petroleum Online This is a comprehensive series of technical e-learning modules that provide an in-depth overview of each sector of the international oil & gas industry.
The modules are accessible online and are designed to make learning both challenging and enjoyable.
Each one contains approximately two hours of learning and includes review questions and challenging assessments totest comprehension.
Afren plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 73 Corporate governance Corporate governance Chairmans overview 76 Afrens Board of Directors 78 Directors report 80 Corporate governance statement 82 Nomination Committee 88 Audit and Risk Committee 89 Directors remuneration report 94 A Af fre ren n pl plc c 74 74 A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 13 3 Corporate governance A Af fre ren n pl plc c A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 13 3 75 75
