100 80 52% 8% 60 2010 2013 40 20 Waste sent to landfill 0 70 Report of the Directors 60 Business review continued 50 40 Over the last three years we have doubled has come on the back of attaining 98% and 30 Corporate Responsibility our efforts to make sure that sustainability is a PlaBonus tinum Big Tick the highest ranking Pension 20 fully integrated into the way we do business possible in their annual CR Index and Benefits and in 2012 we were confident enough to demonstrates our commitment to put our Aligning corporate responsibility 10 Base salary launch 40 public corporate responsibility words into action.
Since 2007 our 0 pledges which we could be measured and Of course, we know that our journey M Allen A Murray M Wilks Our future success depends judged against.
An update on progress towards being a sustainable carbon equivalent business will on our ability to meet a range against our 40 pledges can be found in our not be easy.
We know we will face difficult emissions are down online Corporate Responsibility report.
But we also know of pressing environmental and We were especially proud that this we are heading in the right direction and social needs that is why year Dairy Crest was one of only five that our approach to corporate responsibility 22.4% thinking and acting sustainably companies shortlisted for the Business in will ultimately benefit our business, the is so important and why we the Community BITC Responsible Business environment and society.
The nomination treat corporate responsibility as We are on target mainstream to our business.
to achieve 30% At Dairy Crest we want our by 2020 corporate responsibility 98 94 commitments to benefit our 87 business.
This drives better behaviour and means we dont just make promises which 57 sound good or are in fashion.
In short, corporate responsibility matters because it is good for 2008 2011 2012 2013 Dairy Crest.
Since 2007 More information can be found in our online Corporate Responsibility report.
we have reduced our 100 water usage by 80 Environment 52% 8% 60 Since 2007 Reducing emissions systems in our trucks we continue to 15.7% 2010 2013 40 our carbon We know we have an operate a fleet of over 900 electric vehicles At Dairy Crest we are and we also train our drivers to be more 20 important role to play when We are on Waste sent to landfill equivalent committed to reducing our energy efficient.
it comes to tackling climate 0 target to carbon footprint by constantly Other factors that have helped reduce emissions are 70 change, reducing waste and achieve 20% our on-site carbon footprint include looking at how we can make 60 down looking after Britains natural changing the lighting used in many of our by 2015 best use of the energy we use 50 sites and warehouses to LED alternatives resources.
in our manufacturing, storage and ensuring we use chilling systems 40 and transport processes based on ammonia and glycol which are 22.4% 30 more environmentally friendly rather than and by taking advantage of Bonus HCFCs - we have plans in place to replace 20 Pension more  Benefits the few smaller remaining systems that run 10 technology.
Since 2007 our 0 Our award winning carbon toolkit M Allen A Murray M Wilks Given this commitment we are pleased created in partnership with our independent carbon equivalent to report that we have continued to make farmer representative body and fully good progress against our pledge of accredited by the Carbon Trust continues emissions are down reducing our carbon emissions by 30% to help dairy farmers measure accurately by 2020 against 2007 levels and by March and compare their greenhouse gas 22.4% 2013 we had achieved a carbon equivalent emissions against others, it shows them reduction of 22.4% with much of this where they can reduce their energy coming from two biomass boilers at our consumption and it enables them to identify Davidstow creamery.
In 2012 13 Davidstow and prioritise the improvements they need We are on target reduced its carbon emissions by 13,900 to make to reduce their on farm emissions.
to achieve 30% tonnes in comparison to its emissions in Following its successful trial the toolkit has by 2020 2007 8. been adopted by three leading retailers.
98 As well as investing in new, greener 94 vehicles and making use of telematics 87 26 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2013 57 2008 2011 2012 2013 Since 2007 we have reduced our water usage by Since 2007 15.7% our carbon We are on equivalent target to emissions are achieve 20% down by 2015 22.4% 100 80 52% 8% 60 2010 2013 40 20 Waste sent to landfill 0 70 60 Report of the Directors 50 40 30 Bonus 20 Pension Reducing waste service we continue to sell milk in glass right between milk production and helping Benefits bottles which are, on average, reused wildlife is a challenge.
We have in place Our aim is to adopt a 10 Base salary 20 times.
several initiatives with some of the UKs Since 2007 our comprehensive approach to 0 Milk is valuable and precious dairy leading retailers.
Working with Waitrose and M Allen A Murray M Wilks waste to ensure the farmers work extremely hard to produce it AB Sustain, Dcarbon airy Crest he equivalent lped set up and and although some milk loss is inevitable fund an extensive biodiversity programme environmental impact we make emissions are down during processing we have continued to whereby dairy farmers are paid to leave at through our manufacturing and make good progress with a 7% reduction least 10% of their land free for wildlife to distribution processes is kept to in losses in comparison to 2007. flourish.
As of 2012 the average amount of 22.4% a minimum.
We also know that In early 2013 we publicly committed land given over to wildlife is about 25% - ourselves to the third phase of WRAPs the equivalent of 18 times Londons Hyde we have a role to play in the Courtauld Commitment which includes a Park.
Farmers involved in the scheme homes of our consumers where We are on target commitment to helping consumers reduce leave hedgerows to grow, blossom and there is a growing desire to the amount of food they waste at home fruit and maintain wide field margins where to achieve 30% reduce packing and food waste.
by extending where possible the shelf life wild flowers provide food and egg-laying by 2020 of the products we make, offering them a areas for butterflies.
Other initiatives include 98 Our overall aim is zero waste to landfill by greater range of portion sizes and giving the introduction of ponds, ditches, beetle 94 2015 except where it is not environmentally them advice on what they can do with their banks, skylark scrapes, barn own boxes, 87 beneficial to do so.
As a manufacturing sites avoided sending 92% result of the programme it was found that of waste to landfill, up from 88% in 2011 12.
Reducing water usage wildlife has increased by 19% and sightings 57 This was achieved through working with of birdlife considered to be in decline were Over the course of 2012 13 we our waste broker, 707, and staff who up 47%.
have continued to focus on our identified alternative ways in which we can levels of water efficiency at our recycle waste.
In 2012 13 we completed the manufacturing sites and are 2008 2011 2012 2013 introduction of new spreads tubs across confident we will achieve our all of our brands.
The new tubs make target of reducing water usage more efficient use of materials and allow Since 2007 by 20% by 2015 against 2007 for more efficient transportation.
This year we also put on-pack recycling information we have levels.
At present we have on our branded products.
We have also reduced it by 15.7%.
reduced our continued to roll out an innovative new plastic milk bottle, designed in partnership With an increasing focus on water as a water usage by with Nampak.
It uses about 15 per cent limited resource, in the autumn of 2011, less plastic than its standard equivalent and we launched WaterWell, an innovative Since 2007 is made with up to 15% recycled plastic.
water auditing programme for farmers 15.7% Our goal remains to increase the our which carbon enables them to share best practice amount of recycled plastic used in our and to benchmark their results against We are on equivalent polybottles from the current 15% to 30% sector wide data.
target to by 2015, and despite the current lack Our farmer suppliers also play a vital emissions are of recycled material available within the role in conserving the countryside and achieve 20% UK, we are working with WRAP to find a many of their activities have a positive down by 2015 solution.
Through our doorstep delivery impact on biodiversity.
Getting the balance 22.4% Marketplace the amount of saturated fat in their diet.
40 million and has grown by 21% since last To help them achieve this, and without year and Clover Lighter which is now worth We are committed to compromising on taste, we have created over 18 million, up 9% compared to 2011 12. creating healthy, tasty lower fat variants of our main brands, Coupled with the investment in our enjoyable products, making namely Cathedral City, Clover, Country Life lower fat variants we have introduced it easier for consumers to Spreadable and in 2013 we launched Utterly Clover Seedburst, the UKs first spread with Butterly Lightly to join the Utterly Butterly added seeds and whole grains.
Blended choose healthier foods and family.
We also supply 1% fat milk to many with Clover Lighter, the product provides to play our part in helping to of our customers.
consumers with a natural source of vitamin tackle obesity.
The investments in our lighter range, E and beneficial oils.
through both advertising and promotions, Aware that portion control is a key way have resulted in impressive growth rates.
of helping consumers maintain or reduce Although dairy products are an excellent Today annual retail sales of these products their weight we launched Cathedral City source of protein, vitamins and minerals, total 68 million and have grown over the Selections which are individually wrapped, especially calcium which is essential for past year by over 10%.
The two biggest calorie controlled portions of cheddar that healthy bones and teeth, we also recognise drivers behind this are Cathedral City Lighter make it easier for consumers to have a little that many consumers want to reduce which now has a retail sales value of nearly of what they want, when they want it.
In Dairy Crest Annual Report 2013 27 72236 Glasshouse p26-p33.
indd 27 05 06 2013 06:24 Business review Report of the Directors Business review | Corporate Responsibility continued year we are pleased to report that we have not had to make any product recalls.
As the largest UK-owned dairy company, Dairy Crest is committed to supporting and working closely with our 1,250 dairy farmers.
That means paying a fair, marketrelated price for milk, which recognises the tough conditions our farmers continue to face and committing ourselves to only buying fresh milk from British farms.
During the year we were the first milk processor to adopt the Governments voluntary code of practice on milk contracts and have recently offered a ground-breaking contract which allows some supplying farmers to opt for a formulaic milk price mechanism that just 30 weeks since launch, Cathedral City early 2013 when we became the first dairy provides greater transparency and reduces Selections have achieved over company to sign up to the Department of volatility.
More information can be found in 2 million of sales.
This range of adult Healths Responsibility Deal which includes a the milk procurement section page 24. snacking complements our childrens commitment on calorie reduction.
Dairy Crest also works collaboratively cheese brand Chedds, which is made from We recognise that food safety is nonwith non-farmer suppliers to ensure 100% pure mild cheddar cheese and is negotiable and the quality of our products compliance with our supplier corporate packed in child size portions.
We have to ensure responsibility policy.
Introduced in 2011, Since purchasing the Frylight brand in the food we produce is safe to eat and the policy sets out the minimum standards 2011, the one calorie cooking oil spray has drink and we have well-proven quality expected from our suppliers and this year gone from strength-to-strength and in 2013 management procedures in place to we enhanced it to cover a global zero we initiated the brands first ever advertising manage and control the safety and quality tolerance on bribery and corruption.
of our products throughout the supply chain Our overall commitment to leading the including the traceability of the ingredients lower fat dairy agenda was highlighted in we purchase.
Over the course of the last Workplace good fun and resulted in many entries from to offering staff free health checks we also Safety at work all areas of the business it had the important ran health awareness campaigns during effect of increasing awareness of a very the year that focused on key health issues.
The safety and well-being important issue, safety.
These have included diabetes, hypertension of people connected with Understanding why accidents happen is and alcohol misuse.
Together this approach Dairy Crest could not be vital to reducing them.
To ensure we are well resulted in over 2,000 employees about placed to do this we actively encourage staff 40% of our staff having a health check.
We aim to report near misses without fear of reprisal.
As well as health hubs at each of our to have no accidents in This open and honest approach has resulted manufacturing sites the occupational health the workplace and consider in 9,349 near misses being reported last team also run a bespoke health website that one accident to be one year an increase of 271 on the previous year.
staff can access both at home and at work.
As part of our drive to help staff live These actions have helped us keep absence too many.
healthier lives we introduced free health rates below 3%.
checks which are carried out by our team The work we have done to increase staff Our safety at work objective is simple: we of occupational health advisers.
These health and awareness and the work we have want everyone who works for us, and with checkups allow staff to get tailored advice done to reduce accidents in the workplace us, to go home to his or her family at the end on how they can improve their lifestyles and has helped result in fewer days lost from of their working day without any injury or they include a cholesterol check, a BMI test accident or ill health from 1,998 days in occupational ill health.
To achieve this objective we have in place a number of training, employee engagement and behavioural safety programmes all of which have helped further reduce the number of accidents across our 2,000 sites and, although our target is always to have no accidents in the workplace, the employees, about 40% number fell from 76 last year to 56 this year.
of staff, have received a One of the highlights of the year was a childrens poster competition themed around health check through our the subject My mummy daddy works safely.
Although the poster competition was healthier lives drive 28 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2013 Community Dairy Crests Director of Agriculture and Over the course of the last year we We know that the actions Farming Communications.
played a leading role in the IGDs Feeding Britains Future programme which saw we take can have a Healthy living Dairy Crest, alongside other retailers and significant influence on the In tandem with our strategy of increasing food manufacturers, open their doors to communities where we are sales of healthier variants of our products, unemployed youngsters to help them get our aim is to use our community programme a job and to showcase the huge variety of based, and as the main to encourage staff and consumers to live roles in the food sector.
Dairy Crests focus employer in many areas we healthier lifestyles.
To help achieve this we was very much centred on helping rural believe we have a unique have been working in partnership with the communities and included a visit to the opportunity to play a positive British Heart Foundation, the UKs leading Duchy College Farm in Cornwall and days heart charity, to promote awareness of the at our Davidstow creamery and Nuneaton role in supporting projects at charitys activities to our doorstep customers distribution centre.
We will again be playing a a local and national level.
We have also made use of the leading role in the initiative in 2013.
British Heart Foundations resources and We also encourage young people to experience to support our staff wellbeing consider a career in food manufacturing To ensure the work we do in our local campaign.
Over the course of the two year and engineering through our sponsorship communities adds real value to society we partnership, staff have raised over 390,000 of the University Food Science Summer focus on supporting issues and projects that for the charity.
School courses at Nottingham and Reading make best use of our expertise and In 2012 Dairy Crest also became a key Universities and events such as the Festival knowledge, provide a legacy and fit with our supporter of BBC2s Hairy Bikers Meals of Manufacturing and Engineering held in vision and business strategy.
For this reason on Wheels campaign, with staff taking Stonehouse, Gloucestershire.
our community programme is based around advantage of our volunteering policy to supporting the countryside, the environment, deliver healthy, homemade meals to people Engaging with local communities education and health.
Our aim for the coming Our local community committees make years is to not just support more Meals on up the fourth strand of our community Countryside and environment Wheels programmes but to also play our programme and, in keeping with the overall The rural economy is hugely important to the part in getting more people and companies strategy, they support: UK, turning over 300 billion and employing to support the programme.
Local good causes that make a positive 5.5 million people.
We want it to remain and direct contribution to the communities that way, so as well as supporting our dairy Education where our workplaces are based.
suppliers we also want to support struggling In the UK food industry and dairy sector as Good causes that improve health, smaller farmers some of whom may not be a whole there is a severe shortage of food education, the environment or countryside.
scientists, engineers and young people Over the course of the year staff have To help us achieve this Mark Allen, our starting a career in agriculture.
For these supported over a hundred good causes Chief Executive, is Chairman of the Princes reasons education is an important part of though volunteering, donations of products Rural Action Programme and is a Trustee our community programme.
of the Countryside Fund and Lyndsay Chapman our Director of Agriculture and Farming Communications is Chairman of the Princes Dairy Initiative.
We are also a major supporter of Pub is the Hub, a charity that helps isolated, rural pubs diversify to the benefit of the entire local community.
Helping Britains most vulnerable dairy farms Case study In 2011, working alongside Business in the Community and other dairy businesses, we helped set up the Princes Dairy Initiative, a programme designed to help small dairy farms that dont have contracts with processors.
Initially involving 74 economically vulnerable dairy farms in five regions across the UK, we found that by offering them a range of financial tools and by helping them create a networking forum, we were able to boost their confidence and increase the efficiency of their farms.
On the back of this successful pilot programme our aim is to roll out the initiative to another 300 dairy farmers over the next three years.
The programme will continue to be led by Lyndsay Chapman, Dairy Crest Annual Report 2013 29 Business review
