Report of the Directors Our people We value our people and are stronger together Helping staff reach their potential We organised workshops for unemployed youngsters at two Attracting and retaining a talented workforce is vital to our future of our sites, outlining the types of careers available in the dairy success.
To achieve this we offer staff a wide range of training and industry, alongside some practice and coaching on how to development opportunities that reach out to all levels and teams.
perform best at selection interviews.
Highlights in 2012 included the introduction of an engineering It has, however, also been a challenging year for many apprenticeship scheme which complements our food technologist Dairy Crest staff.
Over the course of the last 12 months we have apprenticeship programme and the formal processing and restructured our business to ensure we are better placed to manufacturing qualification delivered by Reaseheath College.
In drive growth and create a more integrated, efficient supply chain.
addition, we developed an online assessment tool to enhance the Where these changes have resulted in the reduction of roles or development of our depot managers, which allowed us to target the closure of factories, we have supported staff with a range of our development in the right areas.
tools and services which have helped them find alternative roles With so many staff not office or factory based and often inside and outside of Dairy Crest.
working different shift patterns, online development plays a key part in our learning offerings.
Our online learning facility, my Diversity e-learning, gives everyone within Dairy Crest access to over We are committed to providing an inclusive working environment 100 training courses at any time of the day.
Through this portal where everyone feels valued and respected.
We recognise that employees can access subjects such as customer care, health people from different backgrounds, experiences and abilities & safety, Microsoft Office, pre-retirement and finance.
To date, the can bring fresh ideas and innovations to improve our working courses have been accessed by 2,017 people.
practices and business, delivering commercial benefit and ultimately, shareholder value.
We believe that for people to be the most productive they need to achieve an appropriate work-life balance and we believe any employee, regardless of their position, location, role or length of service should feel that they are treated flexibly in their ways 2,017 of working.
Our aim is to have a fully diverse workforce that reflects the employees have accessed the new communities where we operate.
Employees are encouraged to reach their full potential regardless of their age, gender, marital e-learning portal status including civil partnerships, disability, nationality, colour, Personal development plans are in place throughout the ethnic origin, sexual orientation or religious affiliation.
Dairy Crest Company, and since 2011 the vast majority of staff benefit from does not tolerate discrimination or harassment on any of these being part of a bonus scheme that is linked to their performance, grounds.
As a major food business we believe that having a our values and the results of the business.
diverse workforce is advantageous as it ensures we are well We continue to invest in succession planning and through placed to understand the diverse group of people that consume our talent management processes we have identified employees our products, and grow a more talented workforce.
who have the potential to do bigger or different jobs.
We have To help us achieve these aims we have in place maternity, established an internal mentoring programme to support our paternity and adoption leave policies and benefits that are above high potential population and maintain an on-going focus on their the statutory norm: we actively promote our flexible working career plans.
In addition, we have created career maps for the policy and we give staff the opportunity of taking sabbaticals, business to help people with their career choices.
secondments and to participate in community volunteering.
To As well as investing in our employees, we also played a central ensure that our employees are kept up to date with our Diversity role in delivering the IGDs Feeding Britains Future programme, work, we have pages dedicated to this on our employee intranet, the objective of which was to provide skills training to young which includes monthly updates on our employee statistics on people so as to enhance their prospects of gaining employment gender, age and working patterns.
and to promote the benefits of a career in the food industry.
8 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2013 Listening to staff Through our employee survey we gather the views of our staff on a range of areas including: strategy and leadership: values and corporate responsibility: customers and quality: learning, development and teamwork: wellbeing and recognition: and workplace environment.
The latest employee survey carried out in January 2012 resulted in a 2% increase in employee engagement with 88% of staff participating in the survey.
The results of the survey Dairy Crest Group plc Claygate House Littleworth Road have been used to create action plans that have been rolled out Esher Surrey KT10 9PN Company No: 3162897 www.
co. uk across the business.
The next staff survey will take place in September 2013.
We are committed to ensuring that staff dont just know Reward and recognition what is happening across our business but that they are the first We believe an engaged staff is directly linked to being a to know what is happening across our business.
For this reason, we are To achieve this, we have in place tailored staff briefings called delighted to report that through our reward and recognition Team Talk that regularly take place at each of our places of work.
scheme, last year 595 members of staff were nominated by their We publish a weekly Comms Round Up, a quarterly business colleagues for a recognition award and that 26% of employees briefing which highlights our financial performance and we chose to participate in our latest Sharesave Scheme.
continue to develop and expand our staff website, The Gardens, which is accessible at work either through employees computers or in the case of our factories, via a free internet cafe.
Staff can also access The Gardens from home through their private internet connection.
CEO Mark Allen regularly visits manufacturing 595 sites and depots, hosting employee Q&A sessions and all staff are able to email Mark via a specially set up email address.
staff nominated by colleagues for a Road shows 2012 recognition award The key messages that came out of the staff survey we carried out in 2012 were that employees wanted to know more about During 2012 we successfully re-launched our voluntary benefits what our business strategy is, how Dairy Crest is performing program, MyRewards with our partners, the Personal Group.
in the challenging economic environment and the role that Supported by a dedicated and Dairy Crest branded website, staff have in achieving that strategy.
To ensure we successfully over a third of our employees regularly use the site and have answered these questions, our most senior business managers saved themselves over 12,000 on purchases, ranging from their carried out 263 road shows which every member of staff was weekly shop to a foreign holiday.
The re-launch also includes invited to attend.
The results of the road shows were very access to an innovative and leading edge second opinion positive with the vast majority of staff taking up the invitation welfare benefit with Best Doctors.
and almost two thirds of attendees saying that they would work 2012 13 has seen some major changes in the provision differently as a result of them.
Overall satisfaction rates were high of pension benefits with the introduction of auto-enrolment.
with 73% rating the sessions as either excellent or very good.
Dairy Crest has been working collaboratively with its Pensions Communication and Consultation Forum PCCF to comply Whistle blowing hotline with the new responsibilities under Workplace Pension AutoWe have a confidential whistleblower hotline, which provides a enrolment legislation and, as a consequence, over half our mechanism for the reporting of illegal activity or the misuse of employees have been entered into a new section of our Dairy Crest assets, while protecting the staff that make such Stakeholder scheme to meet the statutory obligations and to reports from retaliation.
help them build for their future.
Dairy Crest Annual Report 2013 9 Feeding Britains Future Feeding Britains Future Dairy Crest is proud to support skills for work week Ov Ove er rvi vie ew w
