Innovating for the future Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Corporate responsibility Our approach to corporate Ethical framework We recognise that good responsibility Code of Business Principles corporate responsibility practices We take seriously our responsibility to All employees are required to follow are key to our business success.
manage the business in an ethical and the Code of Business Principles CBP sustainable way for the benefit of the approved by the Board when performing We work within a robust ethical business and all our stakeholders.
Employees and framework and strive to ensure business partners worldwide must follow We have: the health and safety of our this CBP when they are representing employees, minimise our impact Maintained our membership of the the Group.
FTSE4Good Index which identifies on the environment and play a Areas covered by the CBP, which is companies that meet recognised available on our website, are shown in positive role in the communities standards of corporate responsibility the ethical framework diagram on page 32. in which we operate.
Supported the Institute of Business Ethics The CBP is a key part of the new employee IBE which was founded to encourage induction process worldwide and refresher high standards in ethical behaviour and is training was given at a number of internal supported by donations from companies conferences and departmental meetings and individuals.
Through our donation we during 2012 13.
This will be extended help to promote ethical business practice during 2013 14 to ensure that the and add to the work of the IBE through messages are being delivered consistently the sharing of good practice and their across the business.
Ethics champions experience of ethical issues will also be appointed across the Group to provide a point of contact and focus Continued to report our greenhouse in the sites.
gas emissions to the Carbon Disclosure Project Whistleblowing The Groups whistleblowing procedures We are always keen to improve our enable employees who have concerns practices and during the year an about the application of the CBP or independent third party was commissioned business practices within the Group to raise to conduct a corporate responsibility audit them internally or anonymously through an to review how we compare to current independently run telephone helpline, the best practice.
We will be using the results fide La Rue CodeLine.
The Board and Audit as a gap analysis to inform our corporate Committee receive details about any issue responsibility focus during 2013 14: our raised and how it has been followed up.
initial focus will be on improving internal Each year the Audit Committee reviews and external communication of our wide the policy and procedures.
range of corporate responsibility activities to improve awareness and understanding Third party partners and promote employee engagement.
The Group third party partner TPP team continues to develop and refine Accountability and management the processes and procedures for the processes appointment and reappointment of The Board is ultimately responsible distributors, sales agents and consultants.
for assessing the impact of corporate These processes are subject to audit and responsibility issues on the Groups business external verification.
All applications for and for setting appropriate policies.
During appointment, reappointment and renewal the year a new Ethics Committee was of TPPs are managed by this central formed made up entirely of Non-executive team which reports directly to the General Directors.
This Committee is responsible Counsel and Company Secretary.
for advising the Board on the development of strategy and policy on ethical matters.
All TPPs: Further details about the Ethics Committee Are subject to an appropriate level can be found on page 45. of due diligence Celebrating 300 years of papermaking The Chief Executive is the Board member Receive training on the CBP and the As part of our celebrations of 300 years of with designated responsibility for corporate standards of ethical behaviour expected papermaking a Design a banknote competition responsibility supported by: by fide La Rue was held in schools local to our Overton mill site see winning entry pictured above.
The winners The Executive Committee Receive training covering anti bribery visited our design team and were presented with The Risk Committee, which discusses and corruption, competition law and TPP a professionally produced version of their design.
corporate responsibility at its meetings policy.
More than 75 per cent of partners Other activities to mark the tercentenary included in the context of monitoring the receive this training online, with the a customer seminar covering a wide range of banknote related topics and employee events.
effectiveness of internal control systems remainder receiving one to one training The Health, Safety and Environment Relevant employees also participate Committee, whose responsibilities in online training which covers working include making recommendations on with TPPs.
health, safety and environmental strategy and identifying areas for improvement fide La Rue Annual Report 2013 31 Corporate responsibility Continued fide La Rues ethical framework Code of Business Principles nine topics Bribery & Conflicts Gifts & Health, safety Employment Records Personal Insider trading Competition corruption of interest hospitality & environment principles & reports information & anti trust Backed up by policies Anti bribery Conflicts Gifts & Health Equal Group finance Data Share dealing, Competition & corruption of interest entertainment & safety opportunities manual protection market abuse & anti trust & insider Gifts & Gifts & Expenses Environmental Anti trading entertainment entertainment harassment Anti bribery Fire safety Charitable & corruption giving Conflicts of interest Supported by processes Third party Gifts register Gifts register Monthly Grievance Compliance Data Procedure Legal partners reporting procedure declarations protection for controlling department Expenses officer inside guidelines Gifts register vetting Global HSE Disciplinary External information standards process monitoring Annual data Expenses protection Dealing vetting ISO Separation returns approvals management of duties systems Underpinned by oversight, controls and communication CodeLine Employee External Ethics Internal Specialist Benchmarking Training Intranet Risk reviews survey audit Committee audits audits induction Health and safety fide La Rue works with its main suppliers We have a responsibility to safeguard and contractors to ensure their health the health and safety of all stakeholders and safety processes are robust.
This affected by our operations and keeping year, in response to the many changes employees safe and secure when they and upgrades at our sites, including the are at work and travelling on business relocation of holographic and security is a priority.
Clearly defined responsibilities, printing operations and the installation of good communication and training, many new machines, we have continued hazard spotting, risk assessments and to put a strong focus on our machinery implementing appropriate controls at safety standards and on managing our all facilities help us to achieve this.
We have continued to improve Liverpool Football Club Community our fire risk management controls with Coaching Team visit Malta All of our supply chain manufacturing several sites upgrading sprinkler systems.
In April 2012 the Liverpool Football Club sites have maintained OHSAS18001:2007 Community Coaching Team visited Malta certification for their health and safety Our health and safety KPIs are shown to deliver a variety of community activities.
management systems, which is externally opposite.
Disappointingly, the number A fide La Rue Malta employee helped to facilitate audited by accredited providers.
of lost time accidents and the total days the visit and the site supported this initiative lost due to accidental injuries have both by providing footballs and all the equipment During the year no fide La Rue operation increased slightly this year with lost days required to hold a training session for children has been prosecuted for infringing any with additional needs.
We also supported exceeding our target by 17 per cent and health and safety laws or regulations.
school visits in Rabat and Birzebbu ga which injuries by 12 per cent.
These results are included disability awareness sessions and The Executive Committee and the Board attributable in large part to structural and Truth for Youth assemblies, promoting hard receive confirmation that the business units organisational changes in our business.
All children participating and functions comply with Group policy and With more organisational changes in the in these events were presented with gifts to applicable laws through external and internal short term, we expect that the coming year commemorate the event, funded by fide La Rue.
audits on their management systems, will be challenging as we drive to retain reports and measurement against action our strong safety culture, excellent internal plans.
These reports are used to develop reporting processes and engage employees effective improvement programmes.
We will continue to set robust health and safety targets.
fide La Rue Annual Report 2013 32 Innovating for the future Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Other objectives for 2012 13 related to In our non manufacturing operations Total days lost due to accidental injuries legal compliance audits and occupational we have initiated a programme to develop health provision.
Our health, safety and leadership capability.
Starting with the environment legal compliance audit Executive Committee, the programme programme was completed earlier than will be cascaded through the senior planned and we continued to raise the management team during 2013 14.
This 530 standards of occupational health provision will provide a useful tool for performance at our main sites.
development and support our talent review succession programme.
Our health and safety objectives for 2013 14 are: Communication As well as regular briefings for employees To align our HSE internal audit based at our supply chain sites, the programme with the new combined 281 Solutions business unit runs all hands 263 assurance audits for security and quality calls every two or three months and 218 195 To maintain a reportable injury rate per Solutions and Currency produce 100,000 employees of 325 or lower newsletters to keep colleagues informed of business developments.
These activities To ensure that all new machinery installed are supplemented by internal conferences meets the latest EU safety standards and team briefings across the business.
2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 To maintain our OSHAS18001 certification The Chief Executive hosts regular at all supply chain manufacturing sites conference calls in which all employees Total lost time accidents have the opportunity to participate and Employees ask questions.
Employee survey With the recent organisational changes Improving communication at our it has been important to focus on staff manufacturing sites was identified as engagement and an employee survey an area requiring focus following feedback 48 was launched in June 2012.
All employees from the 2012 employee survey.
Initiatives were invited to participate, responding to successfully implemented include questions designed to test opinions and questions being raised and answered engagement across the organisation in through question boxes and meetings four key areas: with site management teams so employees 32 32 can ask questions about, and comment Do employees understand the direction 27 on, the business in an informal setting.
25 and objectives of the organisation?
fide La Rue communicates regularly with Do they believe in it?
the unions representing its employees Are they able to contribute to it?
and its UK and European Works Councils.
The UK National Employee Forum Do those around them contribute to it?
and European Employee Forum are 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 The results were encouraging, with both composed of elected employees, 70 per cent of all employees across the management representatives and organisation responding to the survey.
employee nominated full time trade union Annualised reportable injury rate officers.
The Unite Union branch official per 100,000 employees Training and development with national responsibility for fide La Rue UK manufacturing industry average Aligned to the feedback from the employee serves as a permanent member of the UK survey, training has been focused on the 2012 figure restated due to a delay in the reporting and European Works Councils.
A General of absence details areas of leadership capability, involving Workers Union official from Malta is also people in the business and improving a permanent member of the European our listening and communication skills, Works Council.
improving the interfaces between the businesses and aligning vision, behaviours A joint UK and European Forum and objectives across the Group.
meeting was held during the year.
The meeting received a detailed briefing on Across our manufacturing operations 526 the Improvement Plan from the Chief a structured line management training Executive and included information on programme was launched.
The how we are developing our front line 392 378 programmes initial focus includes 349 managers.
In addition to the joint meeting, coaching, team performance and quality steering group meetings for both forums training.
Individual units of the programme 231 are held throughout the year and can are aligned to the National Occupational be called for any special requirements.
Standards for Leadership and Both forums receive formal updates on 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Management.
With over 100 managers strategic business performance from worldwide participating in the programme, senior managers and Executive Committee the aim is to raise leadership capability, members.
Open discussion and questions engage employees in our process are encouraged.
improvement initiatives and embed and maintain a high performance culture.
fide La Rue Annual Report 2013 33 Corporate responsibility Continued Equality and diversity This, combined with a change in fuel Greenhouse gas emissions fide La Rues policy is to treat all employees mix affecting scope 1 and 2 emissions, Tonnes of CO2e x 1000 2012 13 fairly and equally, regardless of their sex, resulted in an increase in calculated Scope 1 transgender status, sexual orientation, greenhouse gas emissions of 2.3 per cent.
Gas consumption 34,599 religion or belief, marital status, civil The emissions intensity, which is now partnership status, age or perceived age, reported relative to Group revenue, Other fuels 1,305 race, colour, nationality, national origins, therefore increased by 11.7 per cent.
Process emissions 551 ethnic origin, disability, trade union However, energy consumption across membership or affiliation.
the Group was unchanged from 2011 12.
Fugitive emissions ODS 93 Equal opportunity is about good Water used per gross tonne of banknote Owned road transport employment practices and efficient use paper produced is dependent on volume Total scope 1 36,548 of our most valuable asset, our employees.
Water usage Every manager and employee has personal increased by 4.3 per cent compared with Scope 2 responsibility for the implementation of our the prior year reflecting lower production Electricity purchased 53,065 equal opportunity policy.
volumes, which impacted efficiency, and changes in the mix of paper manufactured.
Total scope 2 53,065 fide La Rue provides training to employees and newly appointed line managers Supply chain manufacturing sites continued Significant scope 3 in equal opportunities and associated the War on Waste initiative to improve Non owned road transport 477 policies and procedures, such as resource efficiency and reduced the total stress management, grievance and anti amount of solid waste by 3.3 per cent while Rail 7 harassment.
Through these policies and continuing to evaluate alternative waste Air transport 3,281 our CBP, fide La Rue encourages a culture management options.
The percentage of of openness whereby concerns related to solid waste recycled or recovered dropped Total significant scope 3 3,765 equal opportunities can be raised in a non slightly to 71 per cent primarily due to Total gross emissions 93,378 threatening and supportive environment.
product mix and anti counterfeiting features which reduced the amount of waste that Carbon offsets To the extent permitted by relevant local could be composted.
laws, the Group collects certain data on Green tariff 18 staff diversity.
Examples of environmental achievements Total exported to grid from over the past year include: For information about Board diversity, self owned renewables see page 43.
Successful trials of a new effluent Total exported to grid treatment process in Gateshead Gender diversity from non renewables 670 fide La Rue currently has two female Process improvements enabling the Total annual net emissions 92,690 Non-executive Directors 25 per cent permanent closure of a thermal oxidizer of the Board, and one female Executive used for the abatement of solvent from Emissions intensity tonnes Committee member 12 per cent.
printing activities, reducing both energy of net CO2 per m revenue 191.6 Approximately 26 per cent of the workforce consumption and scope 1 greenhouse and 22 per cent of managerial grade gas emissions Geographic breakdown for 2012 13 employees are female.
Introduction of an energy management Tonnes of CO2e x 1000 Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 Environment programme to reduce energy Europe 35,876 47,047 3,211 The Group endeavours to operate in a consumption and costs across North America 44 1,381 359 manner that minimises the environmental the Group, and promote ongoing impact of our activities, products and improvements in operating efficiencies South America 17 4 services.
None of the Groups operations Environmental objectives for 2013 14 Asia, Middle East has been prosecuted for infringing any are to: and Australasia 177 1,864 92 environmental laws or regulations during 2012 13.
Maintain ISO14001 certification for Africa 451 2,756 99 all supply chain manufacturing sites The organisation has a mature Total global 36,548 53,065 3,765 environmental management system and Reduce waste sent to landfill by all of our supply chain manufacturing sites 3 per cent each year during the three Note: Prior year data is not available due to adoption of new reporting standards.
year period ending in 2013 14 The Group continues to measure Reduce energy consumption related greenhouse gas emissions and has now to Group revenue by 3 per cent each adopted methods contained in DEFRA year during the three year period ending guidance in advance of mandatory in 2013 14.
In absolute terms energy reporting.
This year the organisation has consumption across the Group has included all six main greenhouse gases decreased by 6.0 per cent to date, covered by the Kyoto Protocol and and energy intensity has decreased improved the way in which significant by 9.9 per cent over the past two years scope 3 emissions are calculated.
fide La Rue Annual Report 2013 34 Innovating for the future Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Community and charitable donations In November 2012 the Solutions Water used per gross tonne fide La Rue supports a variety of charitable business unit opened a new training of banknote paper 3 m causes.
In 2012 13 Group donations centre at our Dublin facility.
As well as for charitable and community purposes being a key investment for our employees amounted to 66,000 2011 12: 93,000 development it also offers new operator and donations from the fide La Rue training products to help customers in their 360 345 Charitable Trust totalled 66,000 drive for productivity and efficiency.
Regional conferences and user group 287 283 The fide La Rue Charitable Trust aims meetings are held on a regular basis to direct funds to appropriate causes and we run an annual Advanced worldwide emphasising educational Banknote Manager course which is projects promoting relevant skills, self help available to our central bank and state initiatives or relieving suffering.
The Trust print work customers.
also matches funds raised by employees Suppliers for charitable causes.
In the past year fide La Rue continues to apply a consistent over 90 employees in the UK took part set of procurement policies and processes in sponsored activities and received to deliver accountability, sustainable value donations for their chosen charity from for money and continuous improvement the Charitable Trust.
2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 while enabling the Group to fulfil its legal Our employees, facilities and factories and financial obligations and effectively Note: Total water used abstraction plus recycled continue to engage widely with local manage risk.
In particular, fide La Rue per production tonne of banknote paper produced communities.
Examples of activities during expects its suppliers to share the Groups at Overton.
Production tonne definition here means 2012 13 include making donations of commitment to best practice standards in production tonnes at standard weight including spoil less any paper trials.
warm clothing and sleeping bags to a local health and safety, environmental protection, homeless centre, a relay run in the UK from quality, product security and business our Debden site to our head office and continuity management.
Recycled and recovered solid waste providing footballs and training equipment as a percentage of solid waste Suppliers are obliged to abide by the CBP for an initiative run in Malta by Liverpool Percentage and the United Nations Convention on the Football Club Community Coaching for Rights of the Child and International Labour children with additional needs see case Organisation Conventions 138 and 182. study on page 32.
73 72 72 72 71 During 2012 13 on a sample of key As part of our 200 year celebrations suppliers of cotton comber, we carried all sites are being encouraged to support out audits to ensure that labour and local community and charitable causes.
working conditions are suitable and comply These initiatives will be reported in the with the Groups policies relating to child 2014 annual report.
As part of our ongoing procurement The Group operates a Give As You programme we will continue to monitor our Earn scheme in the UK which enables key cotton comber and linter suppliers.
employees to make regular donations to charity from their pre tax monthly salary.
Donations are matched by fide La Rue up to 500 per employee per annum and are included in the donation figure given above.
2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Customers Customer focus is a key commitment of our Improvement Plan.
During the year Currency and Cash Processing Solutions conducted a survey of their central bank and state print work customers.
Preliminary results of the survey show an increase in customer satisfaction, with the majority of customers who responded being very likely to recommend fide La Rue to a colleague or associate with similar needs.
We were recognised as being particularly strong in our customer service and responsiveness.
The final results of our analysis will be used to inform detailed action plans to improve our offering.
fide La Rue Annual Report 2013 35
