46 Debenhams plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Risk review continued Whistleblowing All Debenhams employees are required to adhere to the code of business conduct and the anti-bribery and corruption policy, with senior employees required to confirm their compliance in writing.
These policies set out the ethical standards expected by the Group and include details of how matters can be raised in strict confidence.
Two main routes are available to employees at all levels within the Group to raise concerns over malpractice.
The first, Employees guidelines to problem solving, encourages employees to talk to their line manager, their managers line manager or, if still concerned, to call HR Connect the central human resources team directly.
The second route is a confidential reporting line through which employees can speak to the Group anti-fraud team.
If an employee feels that the matter is so serious that it cannot be discussed in any of these ways, s he can contact the Company Secretary or the Director of Internal Audit and Risk Management.
The Groups policy on whistleblowing and these methods of raising issues of concern are published on the Debenhams intranet and emphasised on posters.
The policy is reviewed annually by the Audit Committee.
All serious matters identified are raised with the chairman of the Audit Committee.
Business continuity planning The business continuity committee comprises the Chief Financial Officer, Retail Director, HR Director and Director of Internal Audit and Risk Management.
Other executives are invited to attend meetings as and when appropriate.
The objectives of this committee are to ensure that potential threats to the Group and the impacts that those threats might cause have been identified, that a framework that builds organisational resilience to known threats is in place and that the framework is capable of providing an effective response to safeguard the Group.
The committee uses a framework based on ISO 22301:2012 Business Continuity Management Systems and undertakes a number of key activities.
These are to review and agree: the business continuity management policy and how it will be managed and communicated: the risks and threats facing the Group and prioritise them based on the evaluation of their severity and likelihood: the business continuity management strategy: the business continuity management response and its implementation: the process for exercising, maintaining and reviewing business continuity management arrangements: and the mechanisms to embed business continuity management in the Groups culture.
Principal risks and uncertainties The risks detailed on pages 47 to 51 and in the notes to the financial statements are the principal risks and uncertainties that may impact the Groups ability to achieve its strategic and operational goals.
Both external factors and internal factors are included in the risks and uncertainties that could substantially impact performance and therefore delivery of one or more of the four pillars of the strategy to build a leading international, multi-channel brand focusing on UK retail, delivering a compelling customer proposition, increasing availability and choice through multi-channel and expanding the brand internationally.
Relevant mitigation for each risk is also outlined.
These risks are presented in no particular order but have been grouped by type of risk.
It should be noted that any system of risk management and internal control is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
