84 Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2013 Our Governance Corporate Responsibility, Social, Ethical and Environmental Responsibilities A responsible approach to our stakeholders and the wider community is considered by the Board to be fundamental to the business.
The conduct of the business towards social, environmental, ethical and health and safety issues is recognised to have an impact on our reputation and therefore the implementation and improvement of policies and systems is ongoing.
The Board takes ultimate responsibility for Corporate Social Responsibility CSR and continues to be committed to developing and implementing appropriate policies that create and maintain long term value for all stakeholders.
Sound business ethics help to minimise risk, ensure legal compliance and enhance Company efficiency.
The Sustainability Committee the Committee was set up in October 2009.
It has terms of reference which were approved by the Board in July 2010, copies of which can be obtained from the Company Secretary or via the Companys website at www.
The Committee is chaired by Ed Torr, the nominated Director responsible for environmental policy.
The Company Secretary is secretary to the Committee.
The Committee is responsible for establishing and maintaining the Groups social, ethical and environmental policy.
The following report details how we have applied the main principles of this policy, a full copy of which can be obtained from the Company Secretary or via the Company website.
Social Responsibilities The Board recognises that the Group has a responsibility to its stakeholders and therefore encourages the business units to contribute to the social and economic welfare of the local communities in which they operate.
It recognises that by taking voluntary action in this area it is helping to protect and develop its own business.
As reported in the 2011 Annual Report the Committee established a Group Donations Policy, which became effective 1 July 2011.
From this date, the Group will donate up to 10,000 a year to be split between an animal welfare charity, an environmental charity and an employee nominated charity.
All employees within the Group are entitled to nominate a charity or a non-commercial organisation.
During 2012 the chosen charities were: Environmental Charity Staffordshire Wildlife Trust: As in previous years Dechra has maintained its investment in the Corporate Membership Scheme for the Staffordshire Wildlife Trust the Trust.
The continued support provided by the Company has assisted the Trust to continue with their education, conservation and community projects throughout Staffordshire.
Employee Charity An employee at DVP EU took part in the Vatternrundan, an organised cycle race in Sweden which has been held over the last 48 years.
This year there were over 23,000 cyclists who started the 300km circuit around Lake Vattern.
The employee raised 2,500 which was matched by the Company, and the funds donated to Cancer Research UK.
In addition to the annual Group donation each business unit has discretion to allocate funds to local community groups, employee nominated charities and or animal welfare charities.
Below is a selection of what has taken place during the 2012 2013 financial year.
Animal Welfare As in previous years, many of our businesses have donated obsolete and or short dated stock, damaged products and consumables to various charities, ensuring that such stock is not provided to charities where the donation-in-kind could be sold to third parties.
DVP UK continued to provide assistance to a charity called Help the Street Cats of Morocco which it has been involved with since 2006 providing supplies of Atipam, Canaural, Cleanaural, Fucithalmic and Sedator.
NVS donated dog food to City Dogs Home.
Environment DVP EU has continued to donate DKK0.02 for every kilowatt per hour used for the period 2011 to 2015 to Energreen ApS for the construction of new green energy production facilities within Denmark.
Other Each year DVP EU nominates a Danish charity.
This year they donated DKK2,000 to the Danish Cancer Foundation.
Furthermore as reported in the previous Annual Report, DVP EU has continued its sponsorship of three children through SOS Childrens Villages.
Dechra Laboratory Services has maintained its links with local schools by offering a number of work experience placements to six children from local schools and four veterinary students.
22581-04 22 08 2013 Proof 3 Strategic Report Our Business Our Performance Our Governance Our Financials Shareholder Information 85 www.
com Stock code: DPH Business Ethics The Board expects all of the Groups business activities to be conducted in accordance with the highest standards of ethical conduct and in full compliance with all applicable national and international legislation: in doing so we aim to maintain a reputation for acting responsibly and with integrity.
The Board has formalised its expectations in respect of business conduct into a policy known as The Code of Business Conduct the Code.
The Code aims to set a standard of conduct which applies throughout the Group and ensures, amongst other things, that: all third parties are treated fairly, openly and honestly: our employees do not accept or offer bribes, facilitation payments or other inducements: and employees must avoid direct and indirect conflicts of interest and where this is not possible, the employee must follow the procedure set out in the Code in order to ensure that the employee is removed from the position of conflict as soon as possible.
A whistle-blowing policy is also in place whereby employees report, in confidence, any suspected wrongdoings within the business which they feel unable to discuss directly with local management.
Details of the whistle-bowing policy are detailed on the Company website at www.
The Dechra Values were launched in June 2011 across the business.
Further information can be found on pages 88 to 89 and via the Companys website at www.
The Board fully endorses these Values and believes that they encapsulate Dechras business ethics and set standards that all employees should strive to achieve and ultimately exceed.
Environmental Policy The Group recognises the importance of good environmental controls.
It is the Groups policy to comply with environmental legislation currently in place, adopt responsible environmental practices and give consideration to minimising the impact of its operations on the environment.
Dechra has commenced collating the data to comply with the forthcoming Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Report Regulations 2013, which requires all UK quoted companies to report on their greenhouse gas emissions as part of their annual Directors Report.
This will be included in the 2014 Annual Report and Accounts.
In terms of fuel, travel and waste we can report for the 2012 2013 financial year the following changes: Fuel With respect to the 2012 2013 financial year, Dechra, as reported in the 2012 Report, has undertaken a review of the Company Car provision with the view of standardising the offering and reducing CO emission.
The two lower car bands, which account for 2 over 55% of the Company Car fleet, have been amalgamated and the choice of car has been reduced to two models from the same manufacturer which are generating between 108 and 116 CO g per km.
In addition band three has been capped at 160 2 CO km, which account for a further 22% of the car fleet.
The light commercial fleet of over 130 delivery vans now integrate an 2 alternative range of vehicles including small VW Caddy vans returning over 46 mpg, as opposed to the previously standard vehicle that delivered only 32 mpg.
The HGV fleet has been limited to 53mph and the Gloucester and Tiverton trunking routes have been amalgamated allowing the release of one HGV tractor unit and trailer which has resulted in a saving of least 200 miles per day.
The average miles per gallon as at the end of June 2013 and June 2012 were as follows: 2013 2012 HGV Fleet 10.71 9.92 Transit 32.34 32.64 The HGV fleet complies with the Euro 5 standard, a European regulation which sets emission limits for each category of pollutant emissions, such as carbon monoxide, nitrogen oxides and combined emissions of hydrocarbons and nitrogen oxides.
Following the disposal of the Services Segment in August 2013, Dechra will have a reduced car fleet and no commercial vehicles in the UK.
22581-04 22 08 2013 Proof 3 86 Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2013 Our Governance Corporate Responsibility, Social, Ethical and Environmental Responsibilities continued Travel In respect of travel, use of the video conference facilities is recommended as priority over travel.
Video conference facilities are installed at PLC, DVP UK, DVP US, Skipton, Bladel, Netherlands and Uldum, Denmark.
Whilst the Company appreciates that face to face meetings are beneficial the use of video conference facilities substantially reduces the amount of travel by car and aeroplanes.
Waste In respect of waste, the Group is a registered member of the Waste Packaging Obligations Regulations compliance scheme.
The general waste is then sorted for collection by third party waste management companies.
Dechra Manufacturing Skipton also actively monitors its recycling rates.
This facility continues to comply with, and exceed, effluent discharge standards into local water supplies, which is subject to random monitoring by Yorkshire Water Authority.
Standard operating procedures are in place to ensure that all contaminated waste is disposed of under strict controls.
Furthermore, all exhaust air is fully filtered from the manufacturing unit before discharge into the environment.
DVP EU is legally obliged to submit an environmental impact report to the Danish Ministry of Environment on an annual basis.
The Group continues to review its environmental controls and encourage its own staff, suppliers and customers to achieve similar standards.
Health and Safety Policy The Group attaches great importance to the health and safety of its employees and the public.
The management are responsible and committed to the maintenance, monitoring and promotion of a policy of health and safety at work to ensure the care and well-being of its employees and on-site visitors.
Each unit within the Group has an active Health and Safety Committee comprising representatives from both management and employees.
The workforce nominates employee representatives.
These committees meet on a regular basis to carry out a review of risk assessments and standard operating procedures as well as investigating any concerns raised by individual employees.
Each site has the requisite number of employees trained in health and safety legislation.
For a number of years the Group has reported Lost Time Accident Frequency Rates LTAFR as a non-financial key performance indicator see pages 38 to 39.
The LTAFR is a calculation of all injuries that would be statutorily reportable under the Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous Occurrences Regulations RIDDOR, normalised per 100,000 hours worked.
This measure provides information to help monitor and control accidents and injuries to the workforce and is widely used as a key performance indicator throughout industry.
The Company reports LTAFR on the same basis as in previous years, that is over-three day incidents.
Over the course of the last 12 months the number of accidents has decreased from 10 to 5, none of which resulted in a workrelated fatality or disability.
It is hoped to reduce this further during the 2013 2014 financial year.
Any material health and safety issues or incidents which occur are discussed in detail at both the monthly business unit board meetings and the PLC Board meetings.
The discussions include details of the incident that took place and also details of any remedial action which has been taken in order to mitigate or prevent a recurrence of the incident.
Twice a year a comprehensive health and safety report is presented at each of the business unit board meetings and subsequently reported to the PLC Board meeting the following month for discussion and review by the Directors.
22581-04 22 08 2013 Proof 3 Strategic Report Our Business Our Performance Our Governance Our Financials Shareholder Information 87 www.
com Stock code: DPH The Transport Risk Committee assesses risks relating to the Group fleet and establishes control procedures, including regular licence checks of all individuals who are able to drive company vehicles, investigations into all accidents and a disciplinary procedure for speeding offences.
During the year an online driver risk assessment was undertaken by all new Company car and commercial vehicle drivers as part of their induction.
The results of the assessment enables the Company to identify any drivers at risk and to provide further training to those drivers.
It is intended that all drivers will be reassessed every three years.
The investment so far in respect of the online driver assessments has had a positive impact on the number of insurance claims with both the frequency and severity of accidents having been reduced.
Due to the disposal of the Services Segment this committee has met once during the year and its terms of reference will be reassessed in light of this disposal.
All issues raised by this committee are reviewed by the Board as part of the bi-annual health and safety review.
Employees We recognise that the success of the Group is dependent on our ability to attract, develop, motivate and retain skilled employees.
For a number of years the Group has reported labour turnover as a non-financial KPI using a standard formula as follows: Total number of leavers over a period x 100 Average total number employed over period The Group has established a target of no more than 15% Moving Annual Turnover: during the 2012 2013 financial year we achieved 14.84% 2012: 16.10%.
Dechra Pharmaceuticals Manufacturing Skipton is registered with Investors in People and has continued in its commitment to people development through a number of apprentices embarking on the Modern Apprenticeship Scheme.
Such employees are assisted in achieving National Vocational Qualifications NVQ as part of their apprenticeship, usually work-based but also involving literacy and numeracy modules.
It is the Companys policy to provide equal recruitment and other opportunities for all employees, regardless of age, sex, sexual orientation, religion, race or disability.
The Group gives full consideration to applications from disabled people, where they adequately fulfil the requirements of the role.
Where existing employees become disabled, it is the Groups policy whenever practicable to provide continuing employment under the Companys terms and conditions and to provide training and career development whenever appropriate.
The Group continues to encourage employees to share in the growth of the Company through eligibility to participate in the SAYE Scheme.
The SAYE Scheme is currently offered to UK employees only: the take-up for the December 2012 grant was 21.59% December 2011: 15.34%.
The graph below shows the percentage of employees who have taken up the SAYE Scheme over the last five years.
Percentage Take-up 25.00% 20.00% 15.00% 10.00% 5.00% 0.00% 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 22581-04 22 08 2013 Proof 3 88 Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2013 Our Governance Dechra Values An effective values system aims to provide The discussions of the steering group led the Dechra Group with many benefits, from to the creation of the six Dechra Values: Values play a vital role committed and happy employees to the Dedication, Enjoyment, Courage, Honesty, in enabling all employees best possible relationships with suppliers Relationships and Ambition conveniently to be aware of what is and customers.
The Values play a vital role spelling Dechra, which were launched Group expected of them in bringing consistency to all the businesses wide in July 2011.
Within a year of the launch across the Group, enabling all employees to all employees across Dechra had received a be aware of what is expected of them and Standards Guide along with training on the how they can achieve that.
Values, explaining what each Value meant for them individually and how it should be applied The initiative to define and communicate the alongside examples of behaviour that i did Dechra Values began over two years ago.
not meet the standard, ii met the standard, At the time, 75% of FTSE 100 companies and iii exceeded the standard.
had published sets of values, and Dechra recognised that there were many benefits to The Values have rolled out across all territories be drawn from creating and disseminating within which we have a legal entity, being their own values across the Group.
A initially translated into Danish, Spanish and steering group was formed in 2011 with HR French, and subsequently being integrated and senior management involvement from into newly acquired companies.
Dutch and each business within the Group.
One of the German translations will soon follow to aims of this group being to define a set of allow for the Values to be rolled out to the values which reflected the best aspects of more recently acquired Eurovet business.
personality and behaviour in Dechra, whilst To demonstrate the ongoing commitment also providing standards that could be to these ideals, they have also become part used as a tool in managing and measuring of the recruitment and induction process, employee performance.
ensuring new recruits reflect and embrace the Values at every level of the business.
Over the last 12 months, work has been ongoing to solidify the use of the Values across the Group with a number of developments in progress, most notably a pilot programme for the Performance and Development Review PDR process.
This pilot, which came to an end in June 2013, trialled Dechras first universal appraisal scheme to 100 people, and met with very positive feedback from those involved.
The PDR process involves three elements, with employees being measured against i their own role or Accountabilities, ii personal objectives created uniquely for each employee and iii the Dechra Values.
Following the success of the pilot, it is intended that the PDR process will be spread further throughout the Group, demonstrating the integral part that the Values will play in career development at Dechra.
22581-04 22 08 2013 Proof 3 Strategic Report Our Business Our Performance Our Governance Our Financials Shareholder Information 89 www.
com Stock code: DPH The PDR process is just one of a number of There is also the ambition for a recognition ways in which we can focus on making the scheme to reward exceptional employees By improving Values live.
A branded marketing campaign is in future, reflecting the positive effects that performance at an about to launch with the aim of increasing the the Values initiative has had on individuals individual and team visibility of the Values, and all employees will and on the business as a whole.
Whilst not level, the financial and be made aware of the progress of the initiative measurable at its current stage, by improving to date.
performance at an individual and team level, operating performance the financial and operating performance can can only benefit from the Other future activity will see the Values become only benefit from the Group wide investment Group wide investment more prominent in everyday team briefings, in the Values that has taken place so far and in the Values that has workshops held to delve deeper and increase that will continue to increase.
understanding of the Values, a growing taken place so far and presence on the intranet, and general activities that will continue to to keep team members engaged with the increase Values in their day-to-day working life.
