In this section: Water and the environment 33 Water 36 Carbon Making our brands relies on natural 38 Waste resources such as water.
To protect our 40 Sustainable packaging 41 The wider environment environment we have set targets to further safeguard precious water resources, halve our carbon footprint, eliminate waste to landfill and create more sustainable packaging.
About our business Approach and performance Impacts: Water and the environment About this report Our approach and performance Alongside these long-standing commitments, Water and the From the fields from which we source our we are increasingly looking at impacts from our environment ingredients to the consumers who enjoy our supply chain.
For example, we are assessing the brands, our value chain encompasses farmers, way our ingredients are grown in terms of the vineyards, suppliers, distilleries and breweries, implications for water use, and we are aiming Were proud of our brands, and transport networks, retailers, shoppers and to make our packaging more sustainable alongside that pride comes a more.
We recognise that there are impacts on through partnerships with suppliers.
We are recognition that making them the environment at every link in that chain, and also exploring ways to reduce our scope 3 that protecting resources and minimising the emissions the carbon footprint of our value has an environmental impact impacts is both a requirement as a responsible chain beyond the emissions resulting directly on the rivers which give us water, company, and imperative for the success of from our operations scope 1, or indirectly ourbusiness.
Ultimately our aspiration is to be from the energy that we buy scope 2. the ecosystems in which our abusiness which does not materially deplete Where we can, we aim to extend our ingredients are grown, and the natural resources, does not contribute to work across the full length of the value chain people with whom we share climate change, causes no lasting damage through initiatives with customers and tospecies, habitats, or biodiversity and consumers such as our glass recycling these natural resources.
We owe wherever possible, improves the environment campaign, which encourages consumers in itto them, and to the future of we operate in.
Brazil and Colombia to recycle bottles at sites We are analysing and addressing the run by our partner customers.
ourbusiness, to ensure that we impacts of our operations throughout the As our business expands, both organically safeguard the environment in value chain, adding new areas of activity and through acquisitions, we have both an everything we do.
asour understanding of them grows and opportunity to learn from the experience of our capability develops.
Our strategy is new colleagues, and a requirement to address underpinned by a commitment to address the additional challenges presented by those areas of our operations where we see increased production and a wider operational the greatest impacts and where we are most footprint in new geographies.
In 2008, we set ourselves a series of This year has also seen a number of challenging targets to achieve by 2015 in the investments and initiatives which we expect areas of water, carbon emissions, and waste toyield significant results in 2014 and beyond.
mostly absolute targets which acknowledged We have invested in applied research at that our existing impacts should be reduced universities in Ireland and the United Kingdom in real terms, regardless of the future size of the which is exploring novel approaches to business.
In 2009, we added commitments achieving carbon-neutral operations and covering our packaging.
newuses for manufacturing by-products, We are making good progress towards andwe have committed to further water halving carbon emissions and eliminating conservation projects at our operations in waste to landfill from our operations by 2015, Kenya.
We anticipate that the bio-energy and the packaging of our brands is becoming projects commissioned in 2013 in Scotland, more sustainable.
and our investment in bio-energy at our Tusker Water is one of our most critical brewery in Kenya, will reduce emissions from environmental impacts, with its implications next year.
for local economies, communities, and Our strategic approach has been ecosystems and we have made continued further strengthened by the appointment progress against targets to improve as external advisor to our environmental water efficiency and reduce pollution.
executive working group of Professor Gordon Since 2008 we have focused particularly on L Clark DSc Oxon FBA, Director of the Smith reducing our impact in areas defined as School of Enterprise and the Environment, 1 water-stressed and our water strategy has Oxford University.
continued to evolve to reflect our growing In 2013, for the first time all our operational understanding of water management within environmental metrics carbon emissions, water, wastewater discharge and waste to watersheds.
This year, our operations in Africa exceeded our 30% improvement target for landfill were independently assured.
In the water efficiency two years ahead of our previous two years, only carbon emissions and 2015 target.
Diageo defines water-stressed sites as those locations that pose a higher risk for water insecurity now and or into the future: the definition is based on an evaluation of physical or economic water scarcity as well as regulatory and social risk.
Performance against targets Achieved Off track On track Not achieved Impacts: Water and the environment 31 2013 performance Performance against targets for water and the environment We have made significant progress towards Progress against operational targets our targets this year while the business has Cumulative both increased production organically, and 2013 performance performance 20072013 grown through acquisitions.
New businesses in Target by 2015 % % Achievement Turkey, Ethiopia, and other markets have added Reduce carbon emissions by 50% 8% to our greenhouse gas GHG emissions 4.1 26.3 and 6% to water use, but we have nonetheless Improve water efficiency by 30% achieved overall reductions, in line with our 1.5 19.5 ambition to grow our business while reducing 1 Reduce water wasted at water-stressed sites 7.0 21.0 our environmental impact.
by 50% Delivering against absolute targets is Reduce polluting power of wastewater by 60% -9.8 -18.1 notnecessarily a linear process, however: our progress with some impacts has been more Eliminate waste to landfill 53.4 77.9 rapid than with others.
As our business continues to expand, achieving our targets 1.
Diageo defines water-stressed sites as those locations that pose a higher risk for water insecurity now and or will become increasingly challenging, and we into the future: the definition is based on an evaluation of physical or economic water scarcity as well as will continue to evaluate our progress in the regulatory and social risk.
Our efforts will be greatly enhanced by the commissioning of our bio-energy plant at 1 Progress in efficiency format by litre of packaged product Cameronbridge in Scotland.
The plant, which Cumulative came into full service in the last quarter of 2013, 2013 performance performance 20072013 is expected to reduce total company CO 2 Target by 2015 % % emissions by over 5% by the end of 2014.
Reduce carbon emissions by 50% 1.2 27.3 Improve water efficiency by 30% 1.5 19.5 2 Reduce water wasted at water-stressed sites 6.7 33.3 by 50% Reduce polluting power of wastewater by 60% -13.0 -16.5 Eliminate waste to landfill 52 78 1.
Carbon emissions grams CO litre of packaged product : water efficiency and water wasted litre litre 2 of packaged product : wastewater polluting power grams litre of packaged product : waste to landfill grams litre of packaged product.
Progress against packaging targets Cumulative 2013 performance performance 20092013 Target by 2015 % % Achievement Reduce average packaging weight by 10% 1.2 5.3 Increase average recycled content across 2.0 37.0 all packaging to 42% Make all packaging 100% recyclable reusable 0.2 98.5 32 Diageo Sustainability & Responsibility Report 2013
