About our business Approach and performance Impacts About this report and GRI Membership of codes and charters We define our stakeholders Engaging stakeholders Diageo is a signatory to a number of global as all those who affect or external codes and charters that reflect Working in partnership with all are affected by Diageos our principles.
thoseon whom our business has an business.
They include Alcohol in society: we are a signatory impact our stakeholders is an internal and external to the Dublin Principles, which provide essential part of how we do business, guidance for mutually acceptable means stakeholders, ranging from and its importance is growing.
of co-operation, based on ethical principles, employees, investors and for all those concerned with alcohol commercial partners to We engage stakeholders on two levels, local consumption and its effects, including the governments and local and global.
At a local level, employees across beverage alcohol industry, public health communities.
many functions engage our people, local officials, researchers, and others.
The governments, customers, media, and Principles were adopted by consensus by community groups on issues of immediate an international group of experts in 1997. concern to them.
At a global level, we engage This year we joined 12 other industry leaders investors, customers, suppliers, and in announcing a set of CEO Commitments multinational organisations such as United to combat alcohol misuse.
40 Nations agencies or NGOs that have a broad Water and the environment: in 2002 we We interviewed more than remit.
This year we interviewed more than 40 signed the UN Global Compact, the worlds 40 external stakeholders in global stakeholders as part of our work to largest corporate citizenship initiative.
reviewing our Sustainability refresh our Sustainability & Responsibility In 2008 we endorsed the CEO Water & Responsibility Strategy Strategy.
Mandate, a UN-sanctioned private public Here we outline in general terms who our partnership that aims to address the worlds stakeholders are, and how we communicate growing water crisis as pressures intensify with them.
from climate change, population growth, and development.
In 2010 we signed the Our stakeholders Cancn Communiqu urging governments 84% We define our stakeholders as all those who to make rapid progress on a number of key 84% of employees said Diageo affect or are affected by Diageos business.
issues during the sixteenth UN Climate was performing well across a They include internal and external Change Conference of the Parties COP16 diverse range of sustainability stakeholders, ranging from employees, in Cancn, Mexico.
and responsibility programmes investors and commercial partners to Socio-economic development: in 2013 in this years Values Survey governments and local communities.
we signed the UN Womens Empowerment The table below sets out each stakeholder Principles, a joint intiative between UN group and examples of how we currently Women and the UN Global Compact.
engage them on all issues, including sustainability and responsibility questions.
Our stakeholder engagement programme Stakeholder group Programme Investors Formal annual general meetings Meetings between investors, senior leadership, and investor relations team Conversations between investors, sustainability and responsibility team, and investor relations team Annual investor audit Online communications Investor conferences Investor road shows Employees Values Survey Team meetings Employee newsletters Forums Commercial partners Annual customer survey Top-to-Top meetings between Diageo and customers senior executives Third-party supplier audits SpeakUp helpline Consumers Consumer carelines Formal market research Brand and corporate websites Social media Product information on packaging Government regulators Briefings and direct meetings Multi-stakeholder forums Local community One-to-one meetings or conversations organisations Multi-stakeholder forums and NGOs Annual reviews Diageo Foundation Ongoing partnerships Media Senior leadership meetings Global networks Regular media surveys Approach and performance 15
