About our business Approach and performance Impacts: Our value chain About this report and GRI Our agricultural suppliers quality ingredients which underpin the success Sustainable agriculture and We buy raw materials such as barley, sorghum, and growth of their brands.
local sourcing maize, and grapes from a diverse range of Like barley, sorghum is an ingredient suppliers, from sizeable commercial businesses in many of our African beer brands and We rely on raw materials from to smallholders whose area of sorghum or represents 4% of our raw materials.
Sorghum is agriculture, so it is imperative that barley might cover no more than an acre.
more drought-tolerant and therefore requires we focus our efforts on anticipating Wedeal directly with around 150 first tier less water to grow than many alternatives, and climate change and resource suppliers and thousands of farmers: and offers a supply for our operations in water- 1 scarcity in partnership with we have an even wider network of suppliers stressed regions.
We buy sorghum in Ghana, whose produce we buy indirectly.
While Nigeria, Kenya, and Tanzania, where we are suppliers and farmers.
historically we have sourced the largest working with local farmers and government proportion of our ingredients from Europe, agencies to increase the supply of sorghum Growing agricultural raw materials often our business has grown significantly in other through training and technical assistance to requires resources that are under mounting regions, notably Africa a particular focus of small-scale farmers.
Challenges such as water scarcity, our work in local sourcing.
unsustainable farming practices, competition Sustainable agricultural partnerships for arable land from fuel crops, and climate Buying locally Where we have been able to establish change all pose potential risks to the supply of Local sourcing is a deliberate choice to ensure longstanding partnerships with suppliers our raw materials and to the livelihoods of the a reliable supply of raw materials from close to based on the principles of sustainable farmers who produce them.
our breweries and distilleries, while having a agriculture, we have seen significant benefits We approach our agricultural supply positive impact on the communities in which for our business and our suppliers.
chain knowing that the future prosperity of we operate.
In Kenya, for example, we have long farmers, suppliers and our business is closely For example, we use barley to make both worked with commercial barley farmers linked with our ability to create partnerships beer and whisky, and it represents 36% of our whosupply grain to our malting facility.
and generate joint business value in ways that total raw materials by volume.
We source barley Ourpartnerships with these farmers aim to are sustainable, secure, and mutually beneficial.
mainly from Scotland, Ireland, and Kenya, improve yields and develop scalable business We support sustainable sourcing and, where where it is processed locally.
models, linking larger farmers with smallholder appropriate, local sourcing of raw materials communities.
We are also working with which meet our quality standards.
In the Our ambition for Africa financial services companies to provide United Kingdom and Ireland, our largest Our brewing businesses have had close farmers with credit facilities and basic insurance production region by volume, we source up connections with farmers in Africa for decades: against loss of income due to drought.
to 90% of our cereal supply locally.
as our largest region by volume for beer, Similarly, our barley development Increasingly, we are looking at alternative Africa is an important focus for our activities.
programme in Ethiopia, in partnership with raw materials like sorghum and cassava, which Our target is to source 70% of all our raw the Ethiopian Governments Agricultural are more resilient and better adapted to their materials locally in Africa by 2015.
By raw Transformation Agency ATA and 764 local climates.
For example, this year we materials locally we mean all materials within smallholders, is designed to develop supply successfully launched Ruut Extra Premium Africa and used in our African operations to for our operations there.
beer in Ghana, Diageos first cassava-based produce our brands, which includes raw In Ireland, our work with cereal farmers beer, providing local farmers with a materials of both agricultural and nonhas included programmes linking seed commercial market for one of Ghanas most agricultural origin.
We currently source over houses, cereal growers, and the maltster.
At the heart of our approach 52% of agricultural raw materials locally programmes include fully traceable sourcing isthe recognition that partnerships with throughout Africa, which approximates to from seed to brewhouse, food safety farmers are the most effective way to promote 180,000 tonnes per year.
The 52% understates education and accreditation, seed assurance sustainable farming practices and secure local our total performance against our target, validation, and advice on crop rotation, supply networks.
We have seen how these which should also include non-agricultural pesticides, and chemicals.
We support these partnerships, when successful, can change raw materials.
We plan to report on these partnerships with an annual due diligence lives and transform communities.
audit programme, and have worked with As a business, we aspire to the aims Sourcing agricultural and other raw suppliers to use the spent grains which defined by the Sustainable Agriculture materials locally provides a reliable source of previously went to landfill as a valuable input Initiative: Sustainable agriculture is the efficient income for thousands of smallholder farmers toanimal feed and fertiliser.
production of safe, high quality agricultural and agri-businesses, which in turn benefits Cream is another example of an products, in a way that protects and improves theeconomies in which they trade.
Farmers ingredient which has formed the basis of a the natural environment, the social and benefit from longer-term supply agreements partnership with a supplier.
In 2011, we joined economic conditions of farmers, their and access to advice, training, inputs and with our primary cream supplier to develop employees and local communities, and financing options.
Our local operations benefit a sustainability strategy addressing quality safeguards the health and welfare of all from a diverse, sustainable supply of high assurance, animal health and welfare, carbon, farmedspecies.
biodiversity, water, and health and safety.
InJuly 2012, they began a two-year audit programme which will monitor progress and Performance against target: buying locally compliance in 4,300 farms.
Target by 2015 2013 performance Cumulative performance 20062013 Achievement Source 70% of raw materials used 1 1.
Diageo defines water-stressed sites as those 52% N A inAfrican operations from Africa locations that pose a higher risk for water insecurity now and or into the future: the definition is based 1.
Given that this number represents agricultural raw materials only, we are confident that, once we include all on an evaluation of physical or economic water raw materials in our reporting, we will be on track to achieve our target.
scarcity as well as regulatory and social risk.
