The work managed by these governance This year the board How we manage sustainability bodies is reported publicly through this approved Diageos and responsibility Sustainability & Responsibility Report, certain refreshed strategic aspects of which are assured externally.
As well We manage sustainability and priorities at its annual as publishing this report online, we also publish responsibility in the same way that strategy conference.
our social, ethical and environmental policies.
we manage all our business operations, at global and local levels.
Policies and standards At the highest level, sustainability We have global codes, policies and standards covering various aspects of sustainability and and responsibility is overseen by the responsibility.
A note on definitions: corporate citizenship committee, Global policies cover the principles to which chaired by the chief executive.
we are committed when doing business: they are relevant to most employees Governance structure Global standards are more procedural and The corporate citizenship committee is apply to specialist activities: they apply to responsible for making decisions or, where individuals only in certain specific roles.
appropriate, recommendations to the board or executive committee, concerning policies, Both policies and standards stem from our issues, measurement and reporting for Code of Business Conduct, which defines how thefollowing impacts across our value everyone at Diageo is expected to do business.
chain:alcohol in society: water: broader In the table below you will find those policies environmental sustainability: socio-economic that are particularly relevant to how we development: our people: and governance manage our sustainability and responsibility and ethics.
Please note, however, that these The committee reports progress at least do not represent the full spectrum of our once a year to the board: this year the board policies and standards.
approved Diageos refreshed strategic priorities at its annual strategy conference.
Two executive working groups one on alcohol in society, chaired by the corporate relations director, and one on environmental performance, chaired by the president of global supply and procurement assist the committee with decisions on specific issues.
Beyond this global management, the regions and local markets manage those sustainability and responsibility areas most material for them given their specific operational footprint.
Code, policies and standards Sustainability and responsibility Document type Title programme Code Code of Business Conduct All Policy Anti-Corruption Governance and ethics Policy Anti Money Laundering Governance and ethics Policy Competition & Antitrust Governance and ethics Policy Employee Alcohol Alcohol in society Policy Environment Water and the environment Policy Human Rights and Anti-Discrimination Our people Policy Marketing Alcohol in society Value chain customers and consumers Policy Occupational Health & Safety Our people Policy Quality Value chain customers and consumers Policy Tax Governance and ethics Standard Charitable contributions Socio-economic development Standard Partnering with Suppliers Value chain our supply chain For more about our policies and standards, go to www.
