Pre-qualification: a questionnaire used as Responsible sourcing part of our supplier qualification process that CDP asks key questions about social and ethical We work with suppliers to make sure We have reported our emissions risks, including human rights.
the goods, raw materials and services to the Carbon Disclosure Project 3.
Qualification: any potentially high-risk we need are produced responsibly, since 2006, and are now asking suppliers are required to register with the ethically, and with respect for human our suppliers to do the same SEDEX see below, and to complete the rights and the environment.
Audit: suppliers who represent the highest We are committed to working with our risk are independently audited with the SEDEX suppliers, industry partners, and trade Members Ethical Trade Audit SMETA 4 pillar We are committed to associations to drive higher standards in audit protocol.
We agree ways to address any working with our suppliers, business ethics and sustainability.
We have gaps, and work with suppliers to help raise industry partners, and trade clear sets of standards and guidelines as well their ethical standards.
In the rare event that associations to drive higher asa defined process for managing social and a supplier is unable or unwilling to improve standards in business ethics ethical risks throughout our supply chain.
standards, we will end our contract with them.
Our Partnering with Suppliers standard Performance and partnerships Our Partnering with Suppliers standard sets We work through SEDEX, a not-for-profit out the minimum social, ethical and organisation that enables suppliers to share environmental compliance standards we assessments and audits of ethical and require suppliers to follow as part of their responsible practices with their customers.
contract with us, as well as aspirations for our To date, 1,095 of our potential high long-term partners to work towards.
It includes risk supplier sites have registered with the following.
Of these, Ethical business practices we emphasise 998 have completed a SEDEX self-assessment our Code of Business Conduct standards, questionnaire.
Some 134 of the highest risk and require suppliers to comply with companies were independently audited legislation, and commit to working against during the last three years: audits were corruption, extortion, and bribery.
commissioned by Diageo 4, or accessed Human rights we recognise International through SEDEX and AIM-PROGRESS 130.
This Labour Organisation core standards on safe is an increase from 105 last year.
Suppliers from working conditions, fair pay, and reasonable China and India accounted for 21% of these hours as a minimum, and encourage audits, with issues relating to health, safety, and suppliers to endorse the Universal hygiene being those most frequently raised.
Also, our Merchandising materials remain one of global human rights and anti-discrimination our highest risk categories, because they are policy applies, as far as is reasonably often made in higher risk countries and we achievable, to partners, suppliers, and often buy through intermediaries and third-party contractors.
therefore may lack visibility of the original Health and safety standards we expect manufacturing source.
We continue to work suppliers to maintain a safe working with our key merchandising suppliers to environment, including access tosafety develop assurance further down the supply equipment and training.
chain, with around 80 of our second tier Environmental impacts we set out our suppliers now audited.
commitment to reduce carbon emissions, We are also an active member of waste, and water, and ask suppliers to AIM-PROGRESS, aforum of 35 leading demonstrate a similar commitment by consumer goods companies including managing, monitoring, and improving Coca-Cola, Unilever, and Nestl, which their performance.
promotes responsible sourcing practices and Responsible drinking programmes we sustainable supply chains.
In October 2012 we encourage our partners to make use of our hosted an AIM-PROGRESS supplier capability information and experience in creating a event in Lagos, Nigeria, designed to equip more positive role for alcohol in society.
suppliers with the knowledge, resources, and tools to uphold responsible sourcing practices.
Identifying and managing risk Suppliers are also encouraged to use our The process by which we manage social and confidential whistleblowing service, SpeakUp.
ethical risks has four stages.
This year we received three calls relating to 1.
Initial screening: a series of key risk-based suppliers and vendors through SpeakUp questions which our procurement team only one case was substantiated, and we applies to all current and potential suppliers.
are working to address concerns raised Criteria for identifying high risks include about discrimination.
analysis of country of origin, type of goods or service, potential impact on a global brand, and use of temporary or casual labour.
