About our business Approach and performance Impacts: Governance and ethics About this report and GRI Ultimately, the toolkit is designed to show Compliance and ethics managers how to lead their team in a way that programme remains faithful to our purpose and values.
It helps them understand their responsibilities, Our global programme aims to what to do in different situations and how to create an exemplary compliance handle any breaches of our Code, policies or environment, and an ethical standards.
The changes we have made should framework to ensure that Diageo help reduce the number of breaches and always does business with integrity.
near-breaches of our standards, and help us protect our reputation by addressing potential problems or behaviour early and correctly.
This year we restructured the way we oversee compliance and ethics across the business, Ethics Day in Asia Pacific boosts employee awareness of the importance of doing bringing together risk management, internal Standards and procedures the right thing control, and compliance and ethics into one We have clear and simple global policies, standards, and procedures that cover key central team.
This team is now managed by aspects of our business operations, and explain ourglobal risk and compliance director, who reports to the group finance controller, and to employees what is expected of them.
directly to the audit committee on all controls, To ensure our policies are relevant and up to date, we review them at least once a year, compliance, and ethics matters.
ensuring they are accessible and available to all.
Our controls, compliance, and ethics programme, overseen by the audit and risk We work with a team of subject matter experts committees, focuses on seven areas, each to manage the policies and standards, and we help our markets embed them effectively.
of which has an annual plan.
How the We audit and monitor compliance against programme is implemented, however, is determined by each of our markets, based these standards, which allows us both to on their areas of greatest risk, what matters detect and to prevent breaches.
most locally, and what will work best for Annual certificate of compliance those employees.
Our over-riding aim is to encourage integrity in every part of Diageo: The annual certificate of compliance ACC is instead of we do it because we have to, we an important measure of the effectiveness of our compliance and ethics programme, since want employees to feel that we do it because it includes questions that are designed to its the right thing to do.
confirm that managers have fulfilled their Organisational leadership and culture duties with regard to compliance, and have read and understood our Code and the global Our leaders and managers are at the front line policies relevant to their roles.
The ACC also in engaging our people in our Code and policies and helping them to make the right requires line managers to confirm that they decisions.
We have made good progress have had informed conversations with their direct reports about our Code, and the in raising the profile and importance of policies that are most important to their compliance and ethics within our business.
This year we focused on engaging and training respective roles.
line managers we believe this middle tier In 2013, we expanded the ACC to include all lower level managers in addition ofour organisation is central to developing to middle managers.
Translating the ACC into amore fundamental culture of ethics andintegrity.
14 languages for the first time, we succeeded in tripling its reach from 3,220 managers to In response to feedback through our just over 9,670, or 40% of our people.
Our target Values Survey and from the annual certificate for this roll-out was to reach all lower managers of compliance see below, we strengthened and relaunched our Leaders of Integrity toolkit by 19 November: by this date 99.8% had completed the ACC.
By the end of January, and training in December, by giving further all had done so.
guidance on areas such as handling conflicts ofinterest, gifts and entertainment, making policies relevant to teams, and preventing retaliation against those who report breaches.
Performance against target: annual certificate of compliance Target by 2013 2013 performance Achievement 100% of lower and middle managers and above 100% complete the annual certificate of compliance 99.8% completed in the allotted time, with the rest completing after the deadline Impacts: Governance and ethics 69 Assessing our risk profile or to a member of the compliance and ethics, Reported and substantiated breaches Each year, all business units and functions are human resources or legal teams.
In recent years we have extended SpeakUp to suppliers, so expected to carry out a compliance risk Total reported 1 cases: 743 assessment, including consideration of human that they too can raise any concerns with us.
Total reported rights and corruption, and to develop To track and respond to all identified 1 cases: 601 mitigation plans for their most relevant risks.
breaches faster and more securely, we launched a breach reporting database in July They are required to report on their progress Substantiated Substantiated to the boards audit and risk committee.
Having trained all relevant compliance cases: 388 cases: 376 year all did so.
managers and lawyers, and our corporate security team, to use the database, we now have better insights into our performance in Due care in delegating authority Were also committed to establishing good thisarea, from how quickly we manage and 2012 2013 working relationships with our partners and investigate breaches, to areas of breaches 1.
Reported through SpeakUp 242. ensuring that they adhere to our standards.
thatmay need specific training or other interventions.
Our approach to mitigating the risk of corruption from third parties evolved this year To help employees be better prepared to with a new programme called Know Your avoid breaches, we routinely share examples Business Partner.
It provides a consistent ofbreaches that have recently occurred, ortestimonials from colleagues who were framework for each market to assess bribery and corruption risk from business partners, tempted to do the wrong thing yet made the 160 and the steps to take to mitigate those risks.
So far we have trained the key employees who Our SpeakUp confidential hotline will manage this programme in our highest-risk Breaches this year can be accessed from more than countries, with the aim of implementing it in all There were 743 suspected breaches reported 160 countries our markets by the end ofthe next financial this year, compared with 601 in 2012, of year.
For more information on how we manage which 376 were subsequently substantiated social and ethics risks in our supply chain, see compared with 388 last year.
Of the suspected the suppliers section.
breaches, 242 were reported through SpeakUp, As our business expands through the same number as in 2012, but representing mergers and acquisitions, it is also important a lower percentage of employees since we toensure that we embed our principles in have grown this year.
Given that overall the newbusiness units.
We plan ahead and number of cases reported has gone up, movequickly to ensure our new partners are however, it is clear that more employees chose operating to the same standards as our existing to report directly to their line manager, the businesses, and we are consistent in our stance legal team, or our controls, compliance and on non-compliance issues.
Read more in our ethics managers.
This, along with the fact that case study.
the number of substantiated cases has gone down, strengthens our belief that our Monitoring, auditing, and reporting programme is working, and that we are Our internal audit team monitors performance creating an environment where people feel against our risk mitigation plans as well as comfortable raising concerns.
general compliance with our Code of Business Conduct, and may identify breaches during Response and continuous improvement their audit work.
We also strive to ensure All identified breaches of our Code and policies wehave a culture in which employees feel are taken very seriously and investigated within a target of 30 days by experienced investigators comfortable to raise concerns they might have about potential breaches.
This is essential if we who handle every breach reported to us that are to ensure that unethical behaviour does requires action.
Our response to proven not go unchallenged, and has appropriate breaches varies depending on the severity ofthe matter.
We aim to help employees consequences.
We expect anyone who comes across improve through individual coaching and abreach of our Code to report it immediately, training, but we will take formal disciplinary either through SpeakUp, our confidential action when necessary see enforcement and incentives, below.
whistleblowing helpline, to their line manager, Performance against target: monitoring, auditing, and reporting Target by 2013 2013 performance Achievement 1% of employees report breaches through 1 0.8% SpeakUp globalbenchmark 1.
Although this falls below the global benchmark, we have seen breach reporting overall increase by 24%, so we believe that employees still feel comfortable raising issues, but are using internal channels more than SpeakUp.
70 Diageo Sustainability & Responsibility Report 2013 About our business Approach and performance Impacts: Governance and ethics About this report and GRI Developing our Values Survey and creating Enforcement and incentives We want to be admired by anIntegrity Index Wherever possible, we look to improve our our stakeholders and always culture through training, coaching and To ensure we continuously improve our be proud of what we do: performance in this area we also rely on our incentives.
Annual performance appraisals are by measuring and reporting Values Survey, which asks every employee how weighted with 70% based on performance back to markets we can he or she believes we are demonstrating our and the other 30% based on behaviour including the individuals commitment to continue to strengthen company values, including the quality of our leadership and how we work as teams.
Diageos controls, compliance, and ethics our culture of doing the Three years ago we introduced two agenda.
Employees overall performance right thing.
questions on compliance, and the responses affects their pay increases, and where relevant, their bonuses.
have become essential in helping us shape ourprogramme.
This year, we adapted these We take seriously the disciplinary questions to give a better picture of how consequences of breaches of our Code or employees really feel about integrity policies, and any actions by employees that 84% violate certain aspects, for example our within Diageo.
provisions on anti-discrimination and human We scored 84% on our Integrity Question: My manager is committed to high rights, would result in the termination of Index, included for the first standards of ethical business practices their contract.
This year, 116 people exited time this year as part of our the business as a result of breaches of our and conduct Values Survey This new question has been included because Code or policies.
we want to hear how well employees feel their line managers set the right tone, and whether Training and communications they lead by example.
In addition to training on our codes and policies and our focus this year on middle Question: Where I work, I feel comfortable raising management, weve been giving further any concerns about compliance or ethics training to controls, compliance, and ethics Ensuring employees feel they can raise managers and ambassadors on the necessary concerns is critical to protecting an ethical function-specific and leadership capabilities culture, and we encourage them to share for their roles.
concerns either internally or via SpeakUp.
We follow up any weaknesses through a post-Survey review so that they can be understood and addressed.
This year we achieved our target of maintaining or improving positive responses tothis second question, with, as last year, 84% responding positively.
Reflecting the fact that sustainability and responsibility are growing themes, we brought these questions together with six others to create an Integrity Index to help us measure our performance in this area.
We want to be admired by our stakeholders and always be proud of what we do: by measuring and reporting back to markets we can continue to strengthen our culture of doing the right thing.
Performance against target: developing our Values Survey and creating an Integrity Index Target by 2013 2013 performance Achievement Maintain or improve positive responses to Values 2 84% Survey question: Where I work I feel comfortable 1 raising any concerns about compliance or ethics 1.
This question was changed this year: last years question was I would feel comfortable raising any concerns about compliance or ethics with my line manager, or through SpeakUp.
Impacts: Governance and ethics 71 Case study Diageos joint venture, brandhouse, based in South Africa, hosted its Nick Leesons cautionary annual Pathway of Pride event in February.
The event is designed to tale about integrity and inspire a culture of integrity in the company, educating employees corporate culture about compliance, ethics, anti-corruption and anti-bribery.
This year, a unique and fascinating guest speaker was invited.
Nick Leeson is the rogue trader who, at the you have a problem, rather than trying to age of 28, committed a fraud so large it caused dealwithit as I did many years ago.
He also the collapse of the company he worked for, the stressedthe importance of seeking out 230-year-old Barings Bank.
He was imprisoned experienced people who may have been for six years in 1995.
Today, his personal story insimilar situations but who made the right holds valuable lessons for employees of decisionsinstead.
Gerald Mahinda, brandhouse MD, Speaking to brandhouse employees, the commented: Feedback from employees has former banker explained that the fraud started been outstandingly positive, so much so that as a small mistake, a miscommunication there is now demand for more frequent discovered hours later, which he tried to hide.
Employees are Left to right: Anja Drew, Head of Compliance, He admitted that telling his superiors what had also debating far more about integrity and Controls and Ethics brandhouse : Nick Leeson: happened was the first thing I should have ethics issues, and there have been more calls Martin Kromat, Finance Director brandhouse done.
Yet he confessed to having a fear of toour SpeakUp confidential hotline.
failure and moreover described a culture of For more case studies from around the world, fear at the organisation.
I thought Id lose my please visit http: srreport2013.
com job [if I asked for help], he said.
Asked what others could do to avoid asimilar path, Mr Leeson said: asking for helpand advice and communicating when Case study As we expand around the world we want to embed our principles Growing our business the in our new businesses.
When choosing new partners we seriously right way in Brazil, Turkey, consider their compliance track record, and we work with new and Ethiopia joint ventures or acquisitions where necessary to strengthen their controls and compliance environment to be consistent with ours.
Implementing our compliance infrastructure compliance programme in our subsidiaries within newly acquired businesses in the first Mey ki and Meta Abo, respectively, which year of operation is critical.
So when we weacquired two years ago.
acquired Ypica, the Brazilian cachaa In Turkey our network of compliance and business, we rolled out our Code of Business ethics ambassadors employees embedded Conduct training to more than 600 employees, within the business champion the set up a risk management committee, and programme, answer queries, and ensure there introduced internal controls to ensure that is an accessible contact to raise potential critical risks to the business were addressed concerns.
This year, Mey ki employees also all within the first year.
completed our Values Survey for the first time.
As Renato Gonzalez, Managing Director In Ethiopia this year we rolled out Pathway of Ypica, said: As well as creating value, of Pride, Diageos compliance engagement Meta Abo, Ethiopia Diageo places equal importance on managing programme in Africa, while our teams in risks and creating a culture where integrity is London and Nairobi continued to train local lived every day within our organisation.
However, the process also continues For more case studies from around the world, beyond the first year.
In Turkey and Ethiopia, please visit http: srreport2013.
com forexample, we continue to embed our 72 Diageo Sustainability & Responsibility Report 2013
