In this section: Our people 57 Who we are 59 Safety We pride ourselves on being a great 61 Health and wellbeing place to work, winning multiple awards 62 Our talent including Britains most admired company this year.
Our status as one ofthe worlds best multinational workplaces in several countries where we operate recognises our performance, values and reputation.
Our approach and performance We support our employees through clear HR Our people We owe our success to our people, living our policies, competitive reward programmes, coaching and development opportunities, values throughout the 180 countries in which We want our people to be free we operate.
In this section we quote from and health and wellbeing initiatives.
to achieve their full potential.
Diageos Our Talent Story, which was compiled Maintaining a culture that embraces diversity from conversations with people throughout from recruitment through to senior leadership We aim to provide a safe, healthy, is particularly important, and as part of this we the business.
It articulates our pride in what inspiring work environment, wedo, and describes the opportunities and have a specific target for women in leadership ambition we have for the people around the positions 30% of all leadership roles by in which talent is developed world we rely on to make the great brands our 2014 which we are well on the way to and rewarded, and individuals achieving with 28% this year.
That way our Creating the conditions for our people Each year we carry out a Values Survey, to succeed is reflected in our ambition that and this year 92% of our employees took part.
people and our business everyone goes home safe, every day, We were pleased that engagement remained can be the best.
high at 85%, and super-engagement went everywhere.
Our philosophy of Zero Harm has helped us meet our target of reducing upto 41%, getting us closer to our aspiration lost-time accidents LTAs by 60% since 2010, of50%.
but we always work to eliminate accidents altogether.
However, this year four people Workplace awards were fatally injured at work, and therefore our We are proud that Diageo has been honoured priorities remain the development of our safety with workplace awards, as shown in the culture, the skills and capability of people in the tablebelow.
workplace, and our Severe and Fatal Incident Prevention programme SFIP.
From the moment they join Diageo, we want employees to feel engaged: aligned with our strategy, connected to our values, and motivated to achieve their potential.
1 Workplace awards Location Award Global Most Admired Company Management Today Global Ranked 9th in 2012 Argentina Ranked 6th in 2012 Canada Ranked 19th in 2013 Germany Ranked 16th in 2012 Greece Ranked 10th in 2013 Iberia Ranked 16th in 2013 Ireland Diageo demand was ranked 1st in 2013 Diageo supply was ranked 6th in 2013 Performance against targets Kenya Won inaugural Deloitte Best Company to Work For Survey Latin America Ranked 8th Best Multinational to work for in Latin America Achieved Off track Mexico Ranked 4th in 2012 On track Not achieved 1.
Awarded by the Great Place to Work Institute unless otherwise stated.
