Performance Our aim is to use more recycled and sustainably Sustainable packaging This year we have made progress towards all sourced virgin content in all our packaging.
Glass is our largest packaging material by Great brands should come in weight, and recycled content varies according great packaging which is vital Reducing packaging to factors that are often local, like the availability for protecting, preserving and Weight reductions not only affect how much of cullet and recycling facilities.
We are working displaying our drinks.
We want material we need to package our products, but with suppliers and improving technology to to keep the sense of celebration create other savings, especially in transport and increase recycled content.
In South Korea, for around Diageo products, while associated carbon emissions.
example, our glass suppliers increased recycled We saved 12,200 tonnes in packaging content on average to 52% this year, up from reducing the environmental weight, a reduction of 1.2%.
In North America, where recycling impacts of our packaging.
have reduced the average weight of our rates are low, good quality cullet is not packaging by 5.3% good progress towards available, and we are committed to finding Our approach the 10% reduction were committed to ways to work with government, industry, and People want the brands they enjoy to be in reaching by 2015. suppliers to improve this.
perfect condition when they buy them and This year, for example, we saved 1,600 we want them to stand out on the shelf.
But tonnes of packaging by reducing the weight Making packaging recyclable and reusable the packaging that helps protect and market of Smirnoff Ice glass bottles in Venezuela, and We are aiming to make all our packaging 100% our brands has environmental impacts a further 2,500 tonnes of packaging weight recyclable or reusable by 2015.
This year, the throughout a chain that stretches from our through the new J&B whisky bottles proportion was 98.5%, compared to 95% in suppliers, through the retailer, to the consumer improved design.
Making our packaging recyclable and beyond.
reduces the risk that it will end up adding to We want to use packaging which has the Increasing recycled content the landfill problem.
We tailor our approach to lowest possible environmental impact while We aim to increase the average recycled recycling according to what can be achieved protecting, delivering and presenting our content across all packaging by 20% to 42% by in the market where a product is sold, while brands.
This year, we increased recycled content aiming overall to eliminate the use of any ourselves targets to reduce our average by 2.0% to 36.5%, largely through increasing materials that are harmful to the environment.
packaging weight, increase the recycled the content of recycled glass in the new Baileys We also look for opportunities to work content of our packaging, and make all our bottle to 60%, changes in cullet content with retailers, consumers, and other packaging recyclable or reusable by 2015. recycled glass which has been crushed and stakeholders to increase recycling rates and, We are also looking for ways to work with our isready for re-melting across a range of beer where possible, deliver other benefits.
In suppliers, customers, and consumers to ensure bottles, and increases in the use of recycled Brazil, for example, we work with customers, that our packaging is effective as well as glass in our Smirnoff and Bundaberg brands suppliers, and co-operatives through our sustainable.
This includes an in-depth analysis inAustralia.
Overall, 80% of our cardboard glass recycling campaign.
Our partner, of US and European recycling rates.
packaging and 52% of aluminium cans are Cooperative Vira Lata, collects glass from made from recycled material.
participating customers, saving recycling costs for both customers and consumers.
Our bottle manufacturer, Owens-Illinois, then buys the ground glass from the co-operative, generating income for more than 60 co-operative members.
This year over 1,300 tonnes of glass was recycled, and the programme was recognised as one of the best sustainability practices by the American Chamber of Commerce at the Fibops and ECO Awards.
We have since launched our glass recycling initiative in four cities in Colombia.
Through our Learning for Life programme, wehave helped train 125 people working in the collection and recycling supply chain there.
Progress against packaging targets Cumulative 2013 performance performance 20092013 Target by 2015 % % Achievement Reduce average packaging weight by 10% 1.2 5.3 Increase average recycled content across 2.0 37.0 all packaging to 42% Make all packaging 100% recyclable reusable 0.2 98.5 40 Diageo Sustainability & Responsibility Report 2013
