About our business Approach and performance Impacts About this report and GRI A message from Ivan Menezes, Chief Executive from 1 July 2013 I am honoured to lead a company with such strong values.
Building the trust of our stakeholders is not only important to me personally, but it is essential as we continue to expand in high growth markets around the world many of which have evolving, and more demanding, expectations of the private sector.
Working alongside our leadership team, While we continue to focus on these three I have been very involved in shaping our important areas, we will not forget the business Sustainability & Responsibility Strategy, and fundamentals that are an important part of I will make it my priority am confident of the direction we are taking our commitment to international frameworks to ensure that as Diageo to respond to stakeholder concerns while such as the UN Global Compact.
Working for continues to grow, supporting and progressing our business.
high standards of safety and environmental we remain committed At the heart of this strategy, we will stewardship within our operations and to sustainability continue to think of new and innovative ways across our supply chain is essential to sustain and responsibility.
a framework of good governance and to create a positive role for alcohol in society since it is central to our licence to operate.
Given the importance of water to our business I am proud that today we are in a strong and our stakeholders, we will further drive place whether measured by sustainability awards, the results from this years employee our efforts to protect water resources as well as improve access to clean water in the local Values Survey, or feedback from our communities that need it most.
As part of this, stakeholders.
This is a tribute to Pauls I look forward to progressing our sustainable leadership, and I will make it my priority to ensure that as Diageo continues to grow, agriculture agenda through partnerships in our supply chain.
Responding to the call for we remain committed to sustainability further skills development and empowerment and responsibility.
in our value chain, I am proud to say that we aim to expand our Learning for Life programme around the world.
Already in Asia, we have made a commitment to support 2 million women through community investment programmes in 17 countries, Ivan Menezes in line with our recent endorsement of the Chief Executive Womens Empowerment Principles, a joint from 1 July 2013 initiative between UN Women and the UN Global Compact.
