Our approach and performance Regulatory environment Governance and ethics To help our employees make the right andpublic policy decisions at work, we have a sound corporate People want to trust the governance structure see our 2013 Annual Our success and ability to create a company behind the brands that Report and a robust compliance and ethics positive role for alcohol in society programme with our Code of Business they love.
Earning and keeping depends to a great extent on a Conduct at its centre.
that trust requires vigilance, and balanced regulatory framework However, doing business with integrity goes beyond having a good corporate that provides a strong foundation is essential for our long-term governance framework and compliance with for our programmes.
Behind a policies, procedures, and regulations.
It is about business that acts with integrity creating a culture that demands integrity.
This Alcohol is one of the most regulated products year, we have been working harder than ever in the world.
Virtually every aspect of our are employees doing the right to engage our employees, with training for operations is regulated: production, product thing.
Our reputation can only more of our managers, as well as our new liability, distribution, importation, marketing, joiners, so that aculture of integrity resonates be sustained if every one of us is promotion, sales, pricing, labelling, packaging, across the business.
advertising, labour, pensions, compliance and doing the right thing, every day, This year, the number of potential control systems, and environmental issues.
breaches raised to us by employees increased This high level of regulation can be an by 24% around a third of which were reported advantage to companies with good corporate via our confidential whistleblower hotline, governance and the right approach to SpeakUp, which is available to all employees business ethics, where regulation is balanced and our business partners.
We see this increase to promote economic growth.
We work with as an indication that our people feel more governments around the world to develop confident in sharing their concerns: in our proportionate, effective regulation.
Our annual Values Survey, 84% of employees engagement with government bodies is reported that they felt comfortable speaking always professional and governed by our Code up.
However, we have also seen a slight of Business Conduct.
You can read more about decrease in the number of breaches our policy work and positions on alcohol in subsequently confirmed, and we view this as society in that section of this report: here we evidence of our programmes effectiveness.
We are continually adapting and assessing what we are doing.
We are choosing to be Tax affairs more transparent about our approach and Our approach to tax supports our strategy of ourperformance, because we want Diageo international competitiveness, expansion and tobe one of the worlds most trusted and investment, while balancing the interests of respected companies.
our stakeholders including shareholders, governments, employees, and local communities.
We believe that a fair and effective tax system is in the interests of taxpayers and society at large, and can contribute to the fight against poverty and corruption.
Advocating for fair and effective tax systems is particularly important in high growth markets, which we expect to account for more than 50% of our business by 2015.
We actively manage and report our tax affairs in a manner that ensures compliance with all fiscal obligations, and is consistent with our own values as well as international best practice guidelines, such as international accounting standards and the OECD Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises.
As part of our tax management we consider the implications of our strategy for Diageos wider corporate reputation and long-term sustainability.
This year, we paid 4.7 billion in taxes around the world, which includes excise, corporation and Performance against targets payroll taxes.
Achieved Off track On track Not achieved 66 Diageo Sustainability & Responsibility Report 2013
