y t e f a S & h t l a e H O u r e l E p n o v e i Dignity plc 34 Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Corporate and social responsibility Managing a sustainable business Richard Portman, Corporate Services Director Introduction Business integrity and ethics Conducting our business responsibly is one of We make our clients feel confident in us our fundamental values and a key element of so that they are reassured they are being our business growth strategy.
Behaving in an served by responsible individuals working We understand that ethical manner, working safely, reducing our for a responsible company.
how we take care of environmental impact, developing our people our reputation, our and contributing to the communities we serve Dignity has been identified by the FTSE Group enables us to create long-term value for in its FTSE4Good initiative as a company that clients, our people and our stakeholders.
is working towards environmental sustainability, the environment as developing positive relationships with well as how we plan We define our reporting in terms of our stakeholders and upholding and supporting workplace, the environment and the universal human rights.
for the future needs communities of which we play an important of our business is of part.
We strive to improve the way that we We build trust and respect with everyone critical importance perform, manage and report on corporate and touched by our business operations our social responsibility CSR matters across clients, our colleagues, our suppliers, trade to our having a all aspects of our business.
Within Dignity, associations, local authorities and members sustainable and Corporate Services Director, Richard Portman, of the communities we serve.
Everyone at is accountable for CSR and under this remit Dignity is encouraged to understand that ethical business.
identifies major issues and reports these at all times they are an ambassador for the to his fellow Board members.
Company and that the future success of the business depends on its reputation.
What we believe in Governance and sustainability The governing principles of Dignity are that Our Code of Conduct ensures that staff What we are here to do: we are here to help people at one of the most are aware of the principles that govern how To help people at one of difficult times of their lives and we do this with we operate in the business environment and the most difficult times compassion, respect, openness and care.
Our explains the standards of behaviour that all in their lives.
objective is to be the company that everyone our employees are expected to adhere to.
How we do this: knows they can trust in their time of need.
With compassion, respect, The Code of Conduct states that all clients openness and care.
Our values, which are enshrined in our should be supported during the funeral governing principles, are a fundamental part arrangements, at the service or when choosing What we want to be: of our culture.
By living these values, we ensure a memorial or funeral plan in a sensitive The company that everyone that we operate in a responsible way and that manner.
We should be compassionate and knows they can trust in we aim to deliver the excellent service upon caring: pay attention to detail: spend as their time of need.
much time as the client needs: be open and straightforward and keep in regular contact The flat management structure of Dignity with the client.
means that local management are empowered to make decisions that provide quick and Our CSR approach effective solutions to the needs of their clients, businesses and the communities they serve.
Only four per cent of our employees are based See Delivering on our strategy: at our head office in Sutton Coldfield where p. 10 to p. 17 they perform such necessary business tasks Making as Finance, IT and Human Resources.
This See Client survey: p. 19 Building trust a positive approach demonstrates our commitment to with all our impact on our stakeholders communities See Governance: p. 42 to p. 70 providing staff in locations where they can directly help and support our clients.
Striving for Meeting our excellence in responsibilities everything to our clients, we do suppliers & partners r P o r n u m O e n t s e i t i n u m m o C r u O Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Dignity plc 35 Annual Report & Accounts 2013 We strive to improve the way that we perform, manage and report on CSR matters across all aspects of our business.
Our CSR commitments Objectives Performance summary To ensure our staff have the skills to be Dignity reviews employment People development able to meet and exceed our clients applications and appointments to expectations.
ensure that we comply with all employment legislation.
We value our people and understand, To train and develop our staff to the respect and value personal and cultural very highest standards, enabling them A record is kept of training courses differences.
Dignity is committed to high to fulfil their potential.
attended by each employee and this standards of employment practice and is analysed to help develop future To develop and retain our people aims to encourage, retain and develop training requirements.
enabling us to improve our operations successful employees.
and the quality of service we provide See Our People: p. 36 to p. 38 to our clients.
To create a culture of workplace safety Health and safety is proactively Health & safety so that our staff understand and abide monitored via quarterly return by legislation and guidelines ensuring analysis, premises inspections, health Our business is conducted in such a their own health and safety and that of surveillance, line manager observations way as to ensure as far as is reasonably their colleagues and clients.
of how tasks are performed and regular practical, the health, safety and welfare reports to the Board.
To maintain our physical assets and of all our employees and all persons who minimise the risk of injury to help us Investigating accidents, collation and may be attending our premises.
preserve the integrity of our operations.
analysis of statistics and ill health investigation reactively monitors health and safety.
See Health & Safety: p. 39 To promote environmental issues Dignity submits its carbon data Environment and sustainability, seeking new to the Carbon Disclosure Project, initiatives that enable us to become a not for profit organisation that more efficient, reduce operational measures disclosures from thousands We are committed to maintaining the costs and minimise the impact of our of organisations across the worlds quality of the environment in which we business activities on the environment.
all live and we aim to reduce the impact ofour operations so that we act in an environmentally friendly manner.
See Our Environment: p. 40 To make a positive contribution to the Improving the welfare of the Community engagement local communities we serve.
communities we serve is embedded in our corporate culture and is To build closer relationships with enthusiastically supported by our staff.
We are committed to making a difference the communities we serve, helping to our clients and to improving the us to promote our business and gain All funds raised for our corporate charity welfare of all who live in the communities a greater understanding of our clients are recorded in detail and deposited we serve.
Any funds raised are allocated to the geographical region that generated them.
See Our Communities: p. 41 Dignity plc 36 Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Corporate and social responsibility continued The quality and integrity of our people People and values A detailed job description identifying key People development Our people principally come from the towns responsibilities and competencies for each and cities they serve or from families that role in addition to a personal specification for have been in the funeral profession for the ideal applicant have been developed to What we focus on: generations and are dedicated to delivering aid recruitment.
These enable the interviewer Training and development.
to assess each candidates suitability for the role to which they have applied.
We are committed to high standards of interviewing for management positions, Promoting diversity.
employment practice and aim to encourage, competency based interviews are held and Employee engagement.
retain and develop successful employees.
candidates are expected to be able to clearly Our employees are critical to the continued demonstrate their experience and expertise success of Dignity and staff turnover is low.
2013 Highlights As in previous years there continues to be Part of Dignitys growth has been through 29% an equal split of male and female staff.
The the careful acquisition of other funeral 29 per cent of Dignity staff Board of Directors has 20 per cent female businesses.
Upon acquisition, many have over10 years service.
representation and 20 per cent of senior proprietors continue to be involved in managers are female.
management or consultancy roles and Dignity provides support to all staff that join the 20% Our culture Company as part of an acquisition to further 20 per cent of the 28 Our Code of Conduct is reinforced in a improve the service they provide to clients.
senior managers within staff handbook, Helping our clients every Dignity are female.
step of the way, which is given to all new Dignity provides additional support to staff employees working in our funeral locations.
development through its Welfare Trust, which 5 years The aim of the brochure is to embed all new provides funds for professional training and The average length of service employees into the Dignity culture and to hardship grants.
The Trust has approximately for a Dignity employee is remind existing members of staff of the 1.6 million available for future use.
standards of behaviour and attitudes that are expected of them.
A similar brochure, Performance, reward and recognition Serving our communities is provided to Managing performance is critical to ensuring our staff working at our crematoria.
our people fulfil their potential and meet the needs of our clients.
In a competitive The Code of Conduct is also published marketplace we recognise the importance of on the Dignity plc investor website financially rewarding employees appropriately www.
for the value they bring to the business.
Managing, motivating and supporting In 2013, we encouraged our staff to our people participate again in our SAYE scheme and Whether its at the start of a career through potentially benefit from the Companys our training initiatives, a flexible job for working success.
parents or carers, or a second or third career for someone later in life, we offer opportunities Dignity has rewarded its loyal staff with long and support for people to fulfil their potential.
service awards totalling approximately 0.2 million in 2013.
Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Dignity plc 37 Annual Report & Accounts 2013 In focus Training and development initiatives During 2013, Dignitys Training Department has delivered a management development programme for junior managers to provide them with the skills to manage our business in an effective and sustainable manner.
This programme includes courses on Financial Analysis, so that managers understand how to read and understand management accounts: People Management including leadership, motivation, recruitment, development and communicating with your team: Managing Meetings at Work: Problem Solving: Presentation Skills and The Importance of Being Client Focused.
Our Training Department has also continued to deliver courses that provide our people with the skills they require to maintain the exceptionally high standards of customer service we deliver and to ensure that our rigorous procedures are followed in all branches.
Left: Jonte Thomson, one of Dignitys Training Managers that delivered the management development programme.
Elizabeth Murray Bruce, Administrator, Enfield Crematorium, Haringey.
Lisa Farley, Branch Support 1 Administrator and Pauline Bourke, Funeral Service Arranger, Droitwich 2 3 Spa Funeral Services.
Angie Goodfellow, Funeral Manager, Northamptonshire.
Dignity plc 38 Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Corporate and social responsibility continued Employee engagement Our on the job training concentrates on Senior managers % To achieve our business objectives we need a buddy system where an experienced engaged employees dedicated to our vision member of the team provides new and values.
operational staff with guidance on the responsibilities of their role, our professional Dignity publishes a quarterly in house practices and company procedures in magazine, Dignity Express, to enable the addition to demonstrating our commitment Groups Directors, managers and employees to being a client focused organisation.
to communicate objectives, explain financial Male 80% performance, client satisfaction results and Promoting diversity Female 20% share best practice and news in a cost Dignity businesses recruit their people effective manner.
Dignity Express is from the communities they serve and we supplemented by monthly news bulletins are successful in understanding the needs to keep all employees informed of what of our clients because our employees is happening within the organisation.
reflect the diversity of that community.
Employee ratio % Staff are encouraged to discuss suggestions Within Dignity there is no discrimination and ideas with their line managers.
on the grounds of gender, race, religion, age or sexual orientation in terms of recruitment Training and development or career advancement.
We encourage Dignitys investment in training enables our colleagues to show respect and understanding staff to provide our clients with the highest to each other and prejudice of any kind standards of service and care.
Male 50% Female 50% Dignity has a number of training centres Objectives for 2014 around the UK and provides employees with both in house and external training To reward and retain successful programmes.
External training includes employees: both relevant job training and tutoring for To ensure that all our people are aware of professional qualifications including the Employee service the principles that govern how we operate National Association of Funeral Directors and the standards of behaviour they are NAFD Diploma in Funeral Directing expected to adhere to: and Membership of the British Institute To analyse training records to develop of Embalming.
future training requirements: and The courses provided by our Training To ensure that courses provided by our Department are assessed via feedback from internal Training Department and on the Less than 1 year 12% delegates and line managers with a view to 1 4 years 33% job training provides our people with the 5 9 years 26% guaranteeing that they are relevant and necessary skills to meet our clients needs 10 19 years 20% add value to the contribution made by and expectations.
Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Dignity plc 39 Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Health and Safety continues to be a key priority Health & Safety management Case study Health & Safety Effective health and safety management continues to be vital to Dignity and a key priority Health & Safety initiative of the Directors.
We are committed to protecting, What we focus on: The combined weight of a deceased and a as far as is reasonable, the health, safety and coffin has frequently been reported in local Ensuring safety.
welfare of all our employees and all persons and national media as a significant issue who may be attending our premises.
at the time of a funeral as it occasionally presents unfortunate challenges with regard Employee welfare.
Dignity has a full time Health and Safety to where the funeral service can take place Manager who is dedicated to these issues and Occupational safety.
e. g. maximum capacity permitted at a is supported by eight Health & Safety Officers.
2013 Highlights This network of Regional Health & Safety From a funeral directing perspective, Officers cover our funeral trading regions.
knowledge of such aspects allows Dignity to 360 Dignitys head office, crematoria and advise clients appropriately on the options 360 members of staff have manufacturing facility also have their own available at their time of need.
In addition, it now completed a health and manager with responsibility for Health and allows us to allocate the necessary resources safety course.
to each funeral in terms of equipment Safety.
The majority of these managers and and employees.
officers have qualifications from the National Examination Board in Occupational Safety The manual handling regulations stipulate 200 and Health NEBOSH.
that knowledge of the weight to be lifted is There are now 200 health intrinsic to the risk assessment process.
and safety co-ordinators What we achieved in 2013 Dignity are in the process of installing embedded across the Dignity has 12 managers with qualifications electronic weighing machines with a view to business.
Within this group there are also assisting our high levels of service to clients nine that possess the NEBOSH Fire Certificate.
combined with ensuring compliance with 17% our welfare obligations to employees.
Dignity also has 137 managers or officers that There has been a17per cent reduction in the number have successfully completed the Institution of of accidents reported on Occupational Safety and Health IOSH course.
Objectives for 2014 Dignity premises over the last five years.
There are also 213 employees that have To monitor health and safety proactively completed the Chartered Institute of via quarterly return analysis, premises Environmental Health CIEH Working inspections, health surveillance, line Safely one day course.
manager observations of how tasks are performed and regular reports to the Board: and The number of accidents reported has been reduced by 17per cent over the last five years.
To monitor health and safety reactively During 2013, Dignitys manufacturing facility by investigating accidents, collating in East Yorkshire began working towards and analysing statistics and ill health ISO18001 Occupational Health & Safety investigation.
Health & safety training number 12 137 213 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 140 160 180 200 220 Employees with NEBOSH qualification: 12 Employees with IOSH qualification: 137 Employees with CIEH qualification: 213 Dignity plc 40 Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Corporate and social responsibility continued Committed to environmental sustainability Environmental management Dignity aims to reduce its future carbon Environment Everyone at Dignity is committed to footprint and in 2013 Dignity continued to maintaining the quality of the environment submit its data to the Carbon Disclosure in which we all live.
All areas of the business Project.
This is a not for profit organisation that What we focus on: aim to operate in accordance with our aims to improve the environment by measuring Reducing our carbon environmental policy and use energy and disclosures from thousands of organisations footprint.
We recognise across the worlds major economies.
the impact of our operations on local Reducing energy surroundings and our aim is to reduce consumption.
Case study this and operate in an environmentally Promoting sustainable friendly manner.
Environmental initiative In 2013, Dignity undertook an energy Minimising our What we achieved in 2013 reduction project at its Business Centre in environmental impact.
Our business continues to have a low Walthamstow, London.
These premises were environmental impact and its activities are traditionally one of the highest consumers not expected to give rise to any significant of electricity in Dignitys property portfolio.
2013 Highlights environmental risk over the next 12 months.
As part of this project environmentally 29,000 friendly LED lighting was installed in Waste generated is properly disposed of in addition to passive sensors that turn lights accordance with current legislation and steps Approximately 29,000 off automatically if it cannot detect that are taken to recycle waste wherever this is cremations at Dignity staff are present in that part of the building.
We are investing in energy efficient crematoria were mercury The refrigeration system in the mortuary abated during 2013. technology and Dignity has reduced its energy was also updated during 2013 and a control consumption by installing 899 smart meters at mechanism fitted to the heater in the garage its premises.
This figure represents 92 per cent 899 area that automatically turns off the heating of our target.
when the garage doors are opened.
Dignity now has 899 electricity smart meters These initiatives have seen a 50 per cent Approximately 29,000 cremations at Dignity installed in our premises reduction of the premises electricity usage crematoria were mercury abated during 2013, to reduce our energy compared with 2012. representing 52 per cent of the total number consumption.
of cremations and a 61 per cent increase on the number of mercury abated cremations 5% in 2012.
Objectives for 2014 The data that Dignity To continue to install LED lighting in submits to the Carbon Dignitys coffin manufacturing facility in our premises: Disclosure Project shows East Yorkshire has ISO14001 accreditation, that the company has an internationally accepted standard for an To continue to install intelligent heating reduced its figure for metric effective Environmental management system controls and energy management tonnes of CO2 equivalent that is designed to address the balance initiatives across the estate: and by five per cent over the between maintaining profitability and reducing To develop an Environmental Awareness past five years.
Our coffins are document for communication to all manufactured using raw materials that are employees.
sourced from well managed and sustainable See more about carbon reporting sources.
97per cent of the coffins manufactured in the Directors report: p. 69 by Dignity are from Forest Stewardship Council FSC accredited timber.
Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Dignity plc 41 Annual Report & Accounts 2013 1.
Suzanne Tanner, Administrator at W J Winn 1 in Cornwall who raised 1,800 for breast cancer charities with charity founder Nina Barough.
Kevin Banham, Regional Manager Anglia 2 3 and Jennie Myers, Funeral Director at L Fulcher in Bury St Edmunds at a fundraising Tea Party difference in our local 4 for Marie Curie Cancer Care.
Armistice Day Service at Heart of England communities Crematorium, Nuneaton.
Funeral Directors, Alex Thornhill and Gareth Wall of W S Harrison in Newcastle upon Tyne raised 1,200 for their local hospice.
Community engagement A strong local focus Building strong links with the communities in which we operate through local engagement and charitable giving enhance our reputation and enable us to give something back to the local communities we serve.
Dignity raised approximately 83,000 during 2013 for its corporate charity, Marie Curie Cancer Care through a variety of fund raising initiatives and sponsored events.
Dignity also raised money for Marie Curie Cancer Care by taking part in their national campaigns such as The Great Daffodil Appeal, where branches sold the charitys lapel badges and The Blooming Great Tea Party where staff sold hot drinks, snacks 83,000 and homemade cakes for a charitable donation.
Dignity raised approximately It is very rewarding 83,000 for its corporate charity, To demonstrate our values and principles Dignity people have to know we play an Marie Curie Cancer Care, in 2013. provided financial support to many local sports, music and social clubs: helped to restore a historic church and raised important role in the funds for many other national and regional charities.
2,000 local communities Dignity staff around the UK took we serve.
part in the Easter Egg Challenge and collected 2,000 chocolates to distribute to people in hospices, childrens homes, hospital wards and local good causes.
As well as supporting our chosen corporate charity, Marie Curie Cancer Care, our staff devote their time to many local good causes and charities relevant to them and the areas in which they live and work.
To find out more about how we make a difference: www.
