Diploma PLC 36 Corporate Responsibility Employees Employment policies throughout the Group have been Building and developing the skills, competencies, motivation established to comply with relevant legislation and codes of and teamwork of employees is recognised by the Board as practice relating to employment, health and safety and equal being key to achieving the Groups business objectives.
The Group provides good quality working stability and commitment of the employees is demonstrated environments and facilities for employees and training and by the average length of service which has remained strong.
development appropriate to each of their roles.
Inaddition the number of working days lost to sickness is less than 1% a year.
These measures remain consistent across each Some of the Groups operating companies have structured of the Groups Sectors.
apprenticeship schemes for technical staff and the Group provides sponsorship for high potential employees for higher Key Employee Statistics education courses where appropriate.
Vocational training is also provided and some staff are enrolled on National 2013 2012 2011 Vocational Qualification NVQ level courses.
Employees are Average number of employees actively encouraged to undertake Continuing Professional in year 1,145 1,062 910 Development CPD.
Females as % of total 35% 33% 32% Length of service years 6.2 6.0 6.3 Health & Safety Average staff turnover 20.4% 16.7% 16.3% The Group is fully committed to ensuring clean, safe and Sick days lost per person 2.2 2.3 1.9 healthy working conditions.
The Group actively promotes a strong safety culture and ensures a collective responsibility for Set out below is an analysis of the number of employees by ensuring Health & Safety standards are continually improved.
The Group Chief Operating Officer, Iain Henderson, has 2013 2012 overall responsibility for Health & Safety procedures across male Female male Female the Group.
However, in line with the Groups decentralised Directors 6 1 6 management approach, accountability for Health & Safety Senior Managers 55 17 46 13 is with local management to match local regulatory Employees 695 385 696 356 requirements, culture and specific business needs.
The Group 756 403 748 369 requires that each operating business conducts a Health & Safety review against its specific operational risk profile and local regulatory requirements.
The Group values the commitment of its employees and recognises the importance of communication to good working 2013 2012 2011 relationships.
The Group keeps employees informed on matters Minor injuries 54 21 16 relating to their employment, on business developments and 1 Reportable lost time incidents 1 2 1 on financial and economic factors affecting the Group.
This is achieved through management briefings, internal 1 Three or more days absence from workplace.
announcements, the Groups website and by the distribution of Preliminary and Interim Announcements and press releases.
The increase in minor injuries through 2012 and 2013 reflects the improved systems for reporting and collecting injury data, Copies of the Annual Review and Annual Report & Accounts particularly in relation to recently acquired businesses.
The are also made available in the operating businesses.
This most common types of injury relate to minor cuts, slips trips communication programme enables employees to gain a and lifting injuries.
better understanding of the Groups business objectives and their roles in achieving them.
Both employment policy and All injuries are fully investigated and corrective actions and practice in the Group are based on non-discrimination and preventative measures put in place to ensure that the injury equal opportunities.
Ability and aptitude are the determining does not reoccur and future risks are mitigated.
factors in the selection, training, career development and promotion of all employees.
Health & Safety forms part of the induction process for new employees and where relevant, more specialist training is The Group remains supportive of the employment and provided for specific functions.
The Group has good coverage advancement of disabled persons.
Applications for employment of employees who have formal Health & Safety training and or by disabled persons are always fully considered, bearing in mind qualifications and this will be expanded during 2014. the respective aptitudes and abilities of the applicants concerned.
If an employee is, or becomes disabled during their period of Human rights employment, the Group will, if necessary and to the extent The Groups activities are substantially carried out in developed possible, adapt the work environment to enable the employee countries that have strong legislation governing human rights.
to continue in their current position or retrain the employee for The Group complies fully with appropriate legislation in the duties suited to their abilities following disablement.
At 30 countries in which it operates.
September 2013 the Group employed one disabled employee.
Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Strategic Report 37 Environmental The Groups policy towards suppliers is that each operating The Group comprises sales and marketing focused businesses business is responsible for negotiating the terms and conditions which essentially receive products from suppliers and under which they trade with their suppliers.
The Group does not despatch them to customers.
The Groups businesses do not operate a formal code that it follows with regard to payments to operate delivery fleets: they use third party carriers to provide suppliers.
Group companies agree payment terms with their much of their packaging requirements and to deliver their suppliers when they enter into binding purchasing contracts for products to customers.
The Groups ability to control the the supply of goods or services.
environmental impact of its logistics partners is therefore Suppliers are, in that way, made aware of these terms.
The primary impact on the environment, which is companies seek to abide by these payment terms when they entirely in the Groups control, is consumption of the normal are satisfied that the supplier has provided the goods or business energy sources such as heating and power, which the services in accordance with the agreed terms and conditions.
The Group considers the environmental and social impacts of The Group ensures it minimises its impact on the environment conducting business on the community and this forms part through compliance with relevant environmental legislation.
of the business decision making process.
Many community The Group is committed to identifying and assessing activities and events are fully supported by the Group and environmental risks, such as packaging waste, arising from this relationship is managed by the local management teams.
Some examples of Group community activities include: Waste management initiatives are encouraged and supported In North America: by the Group and materials are recycled where practical.
Various charitable donations made locally at each operating company by employees for local charities Local management are committed to good environmental such as United Way over $20k donated by employees, management practices throughout our operations.
Haven House Abused Women and Clothes for Kids.
The Managing Directors have responsibility for environmental Hercules US sponsorships at charity golf challenges.
performance of their operating businesses and each subsidiary Adopt a Needy Family at Thanksgiving and Christmas at is required to implement initiatives to meet their Hercules US: employees donate cash, food and gifts for responsibilities.
Some specific environmental initiatives are a designated family in the community.
provided below: Each location participates in recycling paper, plastic, In Europe: cardboard, and wood from pallets.
Staff from a1-CBISS took part in the Tough Mudder Hercules US has reduced the amount of plastic bags used fund raising activity on behalf of Claire House Childrens for packaging of parts to be shipped by over 50%.
Hercules Canada has worked with local waste IS-Rayfast supported Prospect Hospice near Swindon management to recycle over 95% of all disposal items, UK, in memory of a long term colleague who was sadly virtually eliminating any landfill waste.
lost to cancer last year and took part in the Swindon HKX is in compliance with ISPM15 phytosanitary regulations Race for Life to support Cancer Research UK.
Cabletec supported Weston Hospice in Weston-superCabletec in the UK has modified all products to ensure they Mare UK, again in memory of a long term colleague who are now fully REACH Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation was sadly lost to cancer.
Teams from IS-Cabletec and and restriction of Chemicals compliant.
IS-Rayfast took part in the national Movember charity event to raise awareness of mens health issues.
Ethics The Group recognises its obligations towards the parties with The Group also contributes to local worthwhile causes and whom the Group has business dealings including customers, charities and in 2013 the Group made donations of 32,359 shareholders, employers, suppliers and advisors.
No political donations were made.
Dealings with these groups depend upon the honesty and integrity of employees and the Group ensures that a high standard of expertise and business principles are maintained in all such dealings.
Community The Group believes that good community relations are important to the long term development and sustainability of the operating businesses.
It recognises the obligation it has towards the parties with whom it has business dealings including customers, suppliers, shareholders, employees and advisors.
In general, the interactions with these parties are managed at a local level by senior management and the Group expects a high standard of expertise and business principles are maintained in such dealings.
Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2013
