Directors Report Performance Review Corporate Responsibility Report Dixons Retail takes its responsibility to its stakeholders the provision of safe and reliable own-brand products, and the environment seriously.
We believe that good achieved as a result of our expert technical knowledge with sustainability practices make sound business sense, products sourced from manufacturers which are audited not only to benefit the environment, stakeholders and against our ethical requirements: and the communities in which we operate, but also to help to add to and promote the customer proposition in us achieve our corporate objectives, fulfill our business relation to product reuse and recycling.
During the year the Corporate Responsibility CR Committee initiated a sustainability Members of the Committee have been identified as review looking at the current practices and reporting accountable for each of these priorities and the main areas mechanisms of the Group.
The review is not yet complete of the Committees responsibilities are set out below.
and will be reported on in the next annual CR report alongside any improvements made.
Business ethics The way we do business is important to us and forms Corporate responsibility management framework part of our corporate responsibility objectives.
Our shared The Group Finance Director, Humphrey Singer, is the values are to: Board member responsible for corporate responsibility matters.
He is supported by the CR Committee, which operate with honesty and integrity: comprises senior executives from key business areas and give outstanding service to our customers: is chaired by Helen Grantham, the Company Secretary and General Counsel.
The Committee met five times during the respect our colleagues: period under review and a summary of some of the key treat suppliers with respect and to check the ethical values matters discussed are listed below: of the businesses we intend to deal with: Conducting a sustainability review.
continually seek ways to improve performance: and Consideration of the new mandatory carbon reporting work together to beat our competition.
requirements and the compliance mechanisms required.
The Dixons Retail Ethical Conduct Policy applies to all Monitoring key performance indicators at each meeting.
employees and all employees at managerial level must sign Ongoing evaluation of the Groups risks and opportunities an annual statement to confirm that the policy is adhered to.
and identification of areas where the Committee can enhance reporting or control mechanisms already in place.
Customer services We are proud to serve many customers every year in Reviewing the Group Health and Safety Policy.
our stores, over the telephone and on-line.
In the tough Supply chain risks and social and ethical auditing.
economic environment of the last few years, our customers have looked to us to provide greater value, choice and service and we have reinvigorated our business model Our approach to corporate responsibility accordingly.
In accordance with the approach to corporate responsibility contained within the Association of British Insurers We engage with our customers in a variety of ways and Guidelines, Dixons Retail seeks to identify the risks and listen to their feedback from mystery shopping and exit opportunities which are most significant and relevant to its surveys.
In the UK, one of the main statistics we monitor is business rather than addressing a standardised agenda.
whether our customers are likely to recommend us.
Accordingly, the Committee maintains a matrix of risks and opportunities that are specific to its business.
The principal Customer satisfaction in the UK continues to improve, with risks to the Company as a whole are outlined in the 93% of customers likely or very likely to recommend us Principal Risks to Achieving the Groups Objectives section.
Satisfaction with staff and purchase The monitoring of the risks and opportunities allows the conversion continued to maintain a high level across the identification of our main exposures and most significant year.
A plan is then produced to mitigate exploit those exposures in line with the risk appetite of the Group.
The customer satisfaction measures are combined with key Our priorities continue to be: performance indicators from across operations, people and finance to form our scorecard.
This provides a balanced to provide a safe and healthy environment for customers, view of how we are doing and is reviewed regularly by the colleagues and visitors to our stores and other locations: Committee and the Board.
to engage colleagues through the provision of rewarding workplace environments and careers, whilst assisting in As part of our commitment to delivering customer service the ongoing improvement of customer service levels: to the highest standards, our colleagues work to ensure that our communications with customers are clear and that to improve operational energy efficiency and forward the information we present to them is accurate and not planning: misleading.
We maintain compliance with trading standards to reduce our impact on the environment and to reduce and legal requirements.
Our policies and procedures costs and raise revenue through improved waste recycling: integrate those standards into our daily work.
the monitoring and reduction of our main carbon emissions: Dixons Retail plc 23 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13 Directors Report Performance Review Corporate Responsibility Report continued Supplier relationships Carbon management Many of our electrical products are sourced through major Dixons Retail is committed to a carbon management international brands, which have their own strong ethical programme throughout its major international businesses and environmental policies in place.
which aims to reduce the Groups carbon footprint and this area is monitored by the CR Committee.
Along with The Group operates its own Ethical Sourcing Policy based other large UK businesses, we reported our Scope 2 on the Social Accountability 8000 criteria.
We have our own emissions as part of the Carbon Reduction Commitment social and ethical auditing team and audit suppliers of our CRC Energy Efficiency Scheme.
As part of an ongoing own brand products prior to selection against strict trading UK & Ireland energy strategy Energy ABC Automation, terms and operating procedures.
Included within these Behaviour and Control we have been able to reduce terms are minimum standards in respect of health and consumption on a like for like basis by just over 13%, safety, wages, working hours, equal opportunities, freedom reducing the impact of our operations on the environment of association, collective bargaining and disciplinary whilst improving efficiency and comfort in stores and saving procedures.
It is also against our terms of operation to money that can be used to fund future energy efficiency employ any forced or child labour.
Once the audits are works.
This programme will continue into 2013 14. complete, suppliers are rated on a traffic light basis.
Green status on an audit indicates that a supplier meets Energy management or exceeds all of our standards.
Amber status indicates We continue to work on reducing our environmental impact that some of the standards required have not been fully and improving energy efficiency in our operations.
Red status means that some significant failures were of our UK Energy ABC strategy we have rolled out our identified against our Ethical Sourcing Policy standards.
energy reduction initiatives programme to 220 stores over Suppliers are approved if they reach either green or amber the past three years.
We will continue this programme status in our audits.
Once suppliers have been approved through 2013 14.
In addition, there is a large programme of they remain subject to regular checks and audits and their initiatives in our main distribution centre and our customer status may be adjusted according to the findings of these service centre that receive a similar focus on efficiency.
A large part of this years strategy was to have remote connectivity to stores to establish faults on site and any These supplier audits are carried out with a view to out of hours consumption above profiled set points.
Trials assisting them in improving their working practices and we for newer technology continue and in 2013 14 we are work with factories where failures have been identified.
evaluating opportunities to use LED lighting across the Where this is not possible or no improvements are made, estate as well as other efficiency initiatives.
they will not be approved as a supplier, or will be delisted as appropriate.
During the year under review ten suppliers Over 75% of UK Dixons Retail store colleagues have were classified as red, failed to make improvements and now undergone energy awareness training to help them therefore the Company did not approve them to supply our better control and reduce their energy usage.
We are also branded products or were delisted.
scoping further improvements in reporting through the store management structures.
The results of ethical supply chain audits carried out during the period under review are detailed below: Waste management In addition to being good for the environment, managing Performance Indicators 2012 13 2011 12 waste in the most efficient way is an opportunity for our business.
We backhaul recyclable waste from our largest Green 0 0 stores to our distribution centres, where it is then processed Amber 74 90 and collected by our waste management supplier.
Red 25 51 Total factories audited 99 141 We take seriously our responsibility for the electrical products Delisted Not approved 10 26 that we place on the market, especially when consumers no longer require their products.
In the UK, in accordance Environment with the WEEE Regulations, we provide an in-store takeDixons Retail recognises that it has a responsibility to back service to the public.
We also collect and recycle old manage the impact of its business on the environment both equipment, free of charge, from our customers homes whilst now and in the future.
Key areas of focus continue to be: delivering new products.
Last financial year Dixons Retail collected and recycled over 50,000 tonnes of unwanted energy use and emissions from stores, warehouses, electronic equipment, which was up 15% on the last financial distribution centres and offices: year.
fuel emissions from the transportation of products to either stores or customers homes: Waste recycled as a percentage of total waste 2012 13 2011 12 waste created in stores, warehouses, distribution centres UK 77% 65% and offices: and Nordics 95% 95% unwanted electrical equipment collected for recycling.
Dixons Retail plc 24 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13 Directors Report Performance Review Corporate Responsibility Report continued Transport and distribution Disability Keeping our stores stocked with the thousands of products We encourage applications from individuals with disabilities who can do the job, and all candidates will be considered we sell, and delivering to our customers homes, means our fleet of commercial vehicles is constantly transporting for any roles they apply for.
We are committed to providing products around the country.
The Group seeks to reduce colleagues with equal opportunities, from recruitment to training and development.
We make every effort to the environmental impact of delivering its products by efficient route planning to avoid unnecessary mileage, retain disabled colleagues in our employment including using rail freight where appropriate, increasing vehicle load any reasonable adjustment to their jobs, workplace or and making use of empty vehicles on return journeys.
have increased our miles per gallon and a reduction in the CO produced per vehicle year-on-year.
2 Employee diversity Colleague diversity in terms of age and gender remains a key Fleet carbon emissions performance indicator of ours and we report on these below: Tonnes of CO produced 2012 13 2011 12 2 2012 13 2011 12 UK home delivery fleet 9,855 8,660 Female 32% 32% UK retail fleet 12,933 15,278 Male 68% 68% Nordics delivery fleet 12,065 11,775 Full-time 54% 58% Total 34,853 35,713 Part-time 46% 42% Aged over 50 8% 8% Workplace Our colleagues We have removed the KPI relating to ethnic minority Our people are at the heart of our business and they are non-national as this information is no longer required to the key to delivering excellent customer service.
They are be given by employees in all jurisdictions and therefore the face of our business and truly understand our customers any data could not be produced accurately, however we and what they want from our company.
We want them to continue to encourage diversity in our workforce.
flourish and we are committed to providing them with development opportunities to reach their potential.
Training and development Each of our international businesses has their own method We value and respect each colleague and endeavour to of performance development.
In the UK our personal and engage their talents and abilities to the fullest extent.
We career development processes are designed to ensure want to be recognised as an employer of choice and aim to all our people have the skills to meet the requirements reward colleagues fairly, to provide equality of opportunity, of their roles.
Each person has a personal appraisal personal development and training.
Our culture supports and development plan, including an assessment of their the discovery of new and better ways of working, two-way performance, together with their line manager on at least communication and the speedy resolution of any concerns a twice-annual basis.
We also encourage all of our office or queries.
We monitor our staff turnover rates regularly.
based employees to work in store over the Peak period to support our sales colleagues and to increase their We also regularly review our benefits offering to colleagues understanding of the Groups operations.
to ensure these are attractive and conducive to the recruitment and retention of talented people.
Through a Employee communications range of share plans, we encourage all colleagues to build In the UK we have a comprehensive engagement a personal stake in the business.
During the year a full anonymous colleague engagement survey was conducted using an external We work to achieve high standards in employment provider.
As a result of these several initiatives have been practices.
We have a comprehensive suite of employment set in motion to confirm our drive to make Dixons a great policies and procedures, which we review regularly.
Dixons plans to repeat this survey every policies include guidance on family friendly procedures year, with pulse surveys in between to check on progress.
through to colleague dispute management and, of course, diversity and equal opportunities.
We also engage our colleagues through executive blogs, employee forums and regular Q&A sessions.
Our Equal opportunities Business Improvement Group is an employee forum which The Group is committed to equality of opportunity across all represents head office colleagues by facilitating effective of its employment practices throughout the Group.
We strive two-way communication between business leaders and to prevent unlawful discrimination in the workplace on the head office colleagues.
grounds of sex, race, disability, sexual orientation, religion or religious belief, age, marriage and civil partnership, gender reassignment, pregnancy and maternity.
To that extent, we promote an open and honest environment and encourage colleagues with concerns to report issues to us either directly through line managers or via the independent, confidential integrity line.
Dixons Retail plc 25 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13 Directors Report Performance Review Corporate Responsibility Report continued Health and Safety UK & Ireland It is the policy of the Group to comply with relevant Health In the UK, under the Switched on Communities and Safety and Fire Safety legislation and to take all programme, the Group continued its support of Lifelites reasonably practicable steps to ensure the health, safety and the e-Learning Foundation in the UK & Ireland, who and welfare of all employees, visitors and members of the work locally with colleagues to support their fundraising efforts.
Additionally, the Group is supporting the Tablets for public who are or may be affected by our activities.
This is a joint initiative with Carphone Dixons Retail engenders a positive health and safety Warehouse that aims to give all 11 year olds access to culture throughout the business, taking measures to tablet computers at school.
It is currently undergoing trials maintain a safe environment for our customers and and we look forward to developing this initiative further in colleagues.
A comprehensive safety management system the year ahead.
is operated throughout the business to ensure legislative requirements and best practice, are adhered to.
This is In 2012 we decided to support the UKs Children in Need supported by Group Standards that the business units event enabling our colleagues across our store, service formally confirm compliance with.
and logistics networks to get behind fundraising efforts for a nationally branded fundraising event that supports In the past year we have undertaken a number of initiatives causes across the UK.
In a relatively short period of time related to key priorities, including: our fundraising efforts resulted in a donation of 102,740, including a donation of 8,000 from the Group.
Prevention training programmes focused on addressing The total charitable donations made by the DSG key root causes and investigations into equipment that international Foundation in 2012 13 were 1,350 2011 12 could generate more effective risk mitigation.
Engagement improved engagement with the senior management of the businesses, supported by a For the 2013 14 financial year in the UK we have decided performance dashboard that drives clear actions.
to continue our support for Children in Need with an emphasis on each of our business locations and stores Accountability a clear RASCI Responsible, Accountable, engaging directly with beneficiaries of funds raised local to Support, Consulted, Informed has been developed to them.
ensure that the matrix management structure in place is fully understood and that all parties are executing their Outside the UK responsibilities.
Elkjp continues to support the Red Cross Water for Life Compliance a consequence model has now been Vann for Livet project.
Various fundraising activities raised implemented across all areas of the UK business to approximately NOK 3.75 million, including a NOK 1 million ensure that key policies are complied with and that donation by the Company.
reporting is accurate, timely and of sufficient depth.
Other charitable initiatives have also taken place across our These initiatives have resulted in reducing employee operating regions, such as in Denmark and Italy.
accidents in UK Supply Chain by 34% and reducing accidents per 100,000 customers in the UK Retail by 18%.
Key performance indicators The performance criteria reported above are largely Health and Safety performance is reviewed by the CR focused on the Groups UK & Ireland and Northern Committee on a quarterly basis, with an in-depth review European businesses which represent 83% of Group annually.
The Group Health and Safety Policy, KPI revenues in the period.
performance in the preceding 12 months, and priorities for the year ahead are reviewed and approved by the Board annually.
The next review is scheduled for July 2013.
1 Health and Safety: employee accidents and injuries 2012 13 2011 12 Humphrey Singer 2 Number of accidents or injuries reported 876 869 Executive Director with responsibility for 2 Rate of accidents per 1,000 employees 43 42 Corporate Responsibility 1 Data for UK & Ireland.
2 Reduction targeted for 2013 14 based on root cause analysis of accident kinds in each business unit.
Community and charitable donations During the year colleagues and businesses across the Group have been encouraged to support charities of their choice.
The amount of charitable donations made by the Group is set out in the Statutory Information section of this Annual Report and Accounts and examples of some of the key initiatives are set out below.
Dixons Retail plc 26 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13
