31 Strategic report Corporate responsibility We place great emphasis on taking a proactive approach to corporate responsibility.
As a global manufacturing business we have minimising our impact on the environment: expressed in our core values clarity and an effect on society and the environment.
and supporting and engaging with the focus, commitment, energy and urgency, Recognising the importance of this, our communities in which we operate.
listening and honesty, team spirit and positive Corporate Responsibility Policy covers attitude.
These values are the essence of accountability to all of our stakeholders.
We believe that by operating on a strong our identity and drive us to be at our best This includes striving for the highest ethical ethical basis we reduce our business risk and in every decision and business relationship.
standards of business practice: supporting, create long-term value for our shareholders, developing and rewarding our employees: customers, suppliers and staff.
This is Highlights from 2013 Objective for 2014 A 22% decrease in our accident rate from 133 Launch a new Domino Code for suppliers to Clarity and focus in 2012 to 104 recorded accidents this year.
ensure the sustainability of our supply chain.
Our Safety Data Sheets and label designs have been brought in line with the requirements Achieve ISO 18001 certification at our newly Commitment of the Global Harmonisation System two expanded Cambridge, UK manufacturing site.
years ahead of regulatory deadlines.
Energy A significant increase in our reporting score Reduce our CO footprint per square metre 2 and urgency with the Carbon Disclosure Project to 74C.
of our facilities space by 3 per cent.
Online Safety Data Sheet system MY-SDS.
The Listening Group now has its entire ink product SDS Refresh training for all staff on anti-bribery and honesty information available on its website, on a 24 7 basis, legislation and the Groups ethics policy.
in 29 languages, with full customer support linkage.
Provided over 30,000 hours of formal training to Establish an apprentice scheme at our main Team work support our employees personal development.
Build on our support for educational initiatives by Attitude Group-wide over 52,000 in charitable donations.
helping young people develop business skills with the support of our expert staff.
Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 32 Corporate responsibility continued Clarity and focus environmental and ethical challenges.
information enables us to manage future Setting a clear agenda for We have established a sound understanding risks, to seek out new sources of competitive sustainable development of our business impacts, both environmental advantage and to set priorities and action In line with our core value of clarity and and social.
This has been achieved through to deliver our corporate responsibility focus we ensure that every business and the application of ISO 14001 at our ink plants, objectives.
Material impacts are summarised: channel in the Group acts to address reviewing our health and safety procedures corporate responsibility.
Our Corporate at our main manufacturing sites, carrying out Responsibility Policy, established in 2011, a Life Cycle Analysis of our continuous ink continues to provide the necessary jet printer and conducting an anti-bribery framework for our approach to business risk analysis across the Group.
This At our sites Our products Our workforce Health and safety Energy usage Energy usage of printers Employee social activities Occupational illness w w w w during lifetime and accidents Waste generation Local hiring practices w w VOC emissions Work environment w w VOC emissions w Waste reduction Safety of workforce on the w w road and at customers sites On the road Fleet fuel usage w Logistics fuel usage w Environment Workplace Value chain Community Business ethics Our communities Preventing corruption Community impacts from w w business activity Protecting human rights w Supporting community w projects and charitable Our workforce Our products initiatives Diversity and inclusion Quality w w Engagement Product stewardship w w Training and development w Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 33 Strategic report Our corporate responsibility programme hazard classification.
We have also put We want to ensure that all our customers is led by the Group Human Resources training in place for all our operations staff have the health and safety information Director who chairs the Group Environmental and an online training tool has been devised they need so, as well as providing the Committee.
The Committee monitors, to ensure updates can be disseminated necessary Safety Data Sheets with our among other issues, performance quickly and efficiently.
We shall continue to inks as they are shipped, we have also set against our sustainability priorities and proactively monitor developments in the up an online resource with all our Safety implementation of associated policies regulatory compliance arena with specific Data Sheets available in 29 languages, across all of the operating companies.
focus on topics such as new chemicals being with full customer support linkage.
identified in the Candidate List of Substances of Very High Concern under the REACH We know that sustainability is as important Human rights regulation and the new Biocidal Product to our customers as it is to us, therefore we The Group is committed to upholding regulation.
Around the world we have worked are committed to reducing the environmental the protection of internationally across our business to ensure conformance footprint of our products.
This year the proclaimed human rights throughout our with other regional requirements such as innovative design of our i-Tech ink system value chain.
For our business the most the Korean REACH.
We also continue to in Dominos A420i continuous ink jet significant areas for human rights are: work closely with our customers to ensure printer won a highly commended award compliance with regulations and guidelines for sustainable innovation in the coatings w respecting the diversity of our staff and which impact their sectors directly.
sector from the British Coatings Federation.
looking after their health and safety: The A420i delivers ultra-low make up Improving sustainability throughout usage linked to reduced volatile organic w ensuring our suppliers respect our supply chain compound VOC emissions.
It also reduces the rights of their staff: We operate in global markets, with our own ink wastage by 90% and has energy saving w maintaining a firm stance operations covering 16 countries and our software to enable automatic shutdown against corruption: and value chain reaching even further to over when our customers production lines stop.
w contributing positively to the wellbeing 140 countries.
Wherever we have an impact of the communities where we operate.
we take seriously our duty of care towards In the design of our next generation of all persons in the value chain from suppliers CIJ printers, we have utilised a Life Cycle to customers.
We base our actions on the Analysis tool which provides insight Commitment UN Declaration of Human Rights and the into the impact of changes to product Consistently delivering on UN Convention Against Corruption.
architecture at the earliest stage of design.
our responsibilities We are committed to advancing our All suppliers are contractually required to policies and objectives across the Group to follow the Domino Supplier Standard, which ensure that we address all aspects of our mandates the minimum expected ethical, corporate responsibility impacts.
We are labour and health and safety standards.
It delighted that this commitment has been is also our policy to audit our production recognised with our fifth consecutive year suppliers operating in countries deemed of listing on the FTSE4Good Index Series.
as high risk by the Maplecroft Human Rights Risk Atlas.
Using the standards set Compliance is the foundation for sound by the International Labour Organisation environmental practice.
During this past year we seek to ensure suppliers are protecting we have implemented a range of system the human rights of their employees.
updates to ensure our compliance two years ahead of the deadlines in all territories for the Globally Harmonised System for chemical Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 34 Corporate responsibility continued Waste generation by site all sites 400 Compost 350 Reuse 300 Land ll 250 Incineration 200 Recycling 150 100 50 Energy and urgency used during our main manufacturing sites This footprint is a report on all of the emission Driving positive action in pursuit of testing process by around 30 per cent.
sources required under the Companies sustainability Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors The Groups fluids plants in the UK and USA Greenhouse gas emissions reporting Reports Regulations 2013.
These sources are have now completed their 12th year with We have been working hard to improve the under our operational control.
We have used ISO 14001 accreditation for environmental breadth and depth of our understanding the Greenhouse Gas Protocol methodology management and improvement and our China about our greenhouse gas emissions and for compiling our greenhouse gas data.
We fluids plant is in its ninth year of accreditation.
are in our third year of reporting to the have not reported this year on one of our Carbon Disclosure Project.
We were subsidiary companies, Graph-Tech, but have This year has seen Domino UK, particularly pleased this year to have started collecting data from their two sites.
Domino Benelux and Citronix move increased our reporting score by 11 points.
We also have 36 very small sites that are noninto new operational facilities.
We are manufacturing locations typically local sales very pleased to have found buildings This year we have reported on Group branches.
Collectively they account for less with improved energy efficiency.
sites covering 97 per cent of our full than 3 per cent of full time equivalent staff.
time employees, an increase on our Due to their small size, low energy intensity We have continued our efforts to drive 2012 coverage of 93 per cent.
activities and low staff numbers in each down waste to landfill.
Our total waste building we are not collecting data on their tonnage is 1,298 tonnes across the Group Our greenhouse gas footprint is 10,187 emissions.
The graph shows a breakdown of which 44 per cent was recycled.
tonnes of CO e. In addition to this of our emissions by site across the Group.
2 footprint we collect information on our We are tackling VOC emissions in our refrigerants use and our air travel.
Our Since 2011 we have been measuring our manufacturing processes.
This year we have total footprint is 11,591 tonnes of CO e. emissions at our baseline sites the four 2 1 reduced the amount of these chemicals largest plants across the Group.
At these sites we have seen an 11 per cent increase in Domino Printing Sciences greenhouse gas footprint our Scope1 and 2 greenhouse gas emissions: this is due to production increases.
Year ended 31 October 2013 Total footprint tonnes of CO e 10,187 2 Combustion of fuel tonnes of CO e 5,330 2 Electricity, heat and cooling purchased for our use tonnes of CO e 4,857 2 Tonnes of CO e per m of revenue 30.3 2 1 Cambridge, UK head office and manufacturing site: Tonnes of CO e per full time employee 4.6 2 Liverpool, UK fluids plant: Shanghai site: and Gurnee, 2 Tonnes of CO e per m of facilities space 0.2 USA fluids plant.
2 Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Waste generated tonnes Cambridge UK Liverpool UK Rotherham UK Gurnee factory USA Gurnee of ce USA Fort Worth USA Oakville Canada Mexico City Mexico Shanghai China Seoul Korea Gurgaon India Rambouillet France Houten Netherlands Hamburg Germany Mainz Germany Gottmadingen Germany Malm Sweden Dubai UAE 35 Strategic report Greenhouse gas emissions by site all sites Scope 3 3,500 Scope 2 3,000 Scope 1 2,500 2,000 1,500 1,000 500 Baseline sites environmental impacts Being honest with ourselves and others We are proud of our reputation for high quality products.
Domino manufacturing % change plants in the UK, USA, India, China, from Germany and Sweden, as well as our Impact Units 2013 2012 2011 2011 offices in the UK, Spain, France and Scope 1 direct emissions from Benelux are all certified to 1SO 9001. fuel combustion and industrial tonnes processes CO e 2,891 2,977 3,091 6% 2 We operate our business with honesty and transparency.
We never make Scope 2 indirect emissions tonnes from purchased electricity CO e 4,052 3,067 3,152 29% untrue claims regarding our products or 2 services.
We welcome our customers tonnes Not interest in our operations and respond Scope 3 business travel CO e 755 498 collected N A 2 to many questionnaires each year.
We are always pleased to host visits from customers to our operations worldwide.
Listening and honesty for food packaging.
We have also designed Engage with and understand a heat seal ink for flexible food packaging We take a zero-tolerance approach to our stakeholders which is helping our customers efforts to corruption and align ourselves with all As one of the worlds leading companies in reduce the weight of their packaging.
Our comprehensive the development, production and support ethics policy requires that all our employees, of equipment for coding and marking, We ensure open discussion with our agents and business partners demonstrate the we have always been market led, with employees on the status of the business in highest standards of professionalism, fairness customer requirements at the centre all areas of our operations.
In addition, we and integrity when conducting business of all our operations.
Working with and run internal surveys annually to find out on our behalf.
In addition, our whistlelistening to our stakeholders, particularly how employees view Group management.
blowing policy allows individuals to raise customers and employees, has enabled Following our 2012 survey we put in place concerns confidentially and any comments us to consistently meet the ever-growing actions to support our staffs personal received are reviewed and investigated.
requirements for coding and marking from development such as a new career and talent businesses across the world.
For example, management process, enhancements to our We participate in industry groups and this year we launched our new mineral oil online training tool and increased provision support important initiatives such as the free ink for secondary package printing.
The results of Carbon Disclosure Project, to increase our This was designed in response to our our 2013 survey show that staff are more knowledge and awareness of corporate customers requiring a safer ink alternative engaged and feel supported at work.
responsibility issues and allow full transparency of our sustainability efforts.
Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 GHG emissions tonnes CO 2 Cambridge UK Liverpool UK Rotherham UK Basingstoke UK Gurnee USA Fort Worth USA Oakville Canada Mexico City Mexico Shanghai China Seoul Korea Gurgaon India Rambouillet France Houten Netherlands Hamburg Germany Mainz Germany Gottmadingen Germany Malm Sweden Madrid Spain Porto Portugal Dubai UAE 36 Corporate responsibility continued Team spirit their communities, and advance their careers.
will be dealt with promptly, fairly and by Investing in our employees Across the Group this year we delivered over the appropriate level of management.
We aim to employ a workforce that reflects 30,000 hours of formal training to our staff: an the diversity of our customers and the average of 12.7 hours per person.
We also ran Our employee benefits package is designed communities we operate in.
We apply our classes for UK and German employees where to respond to the needs of staff at every equal opportunities policy rigorously across we have a significant number of staff for stage of life.
Our employees are proud the Group and our recruitment practices whom English or German is a second language to be members of the Double Five Club are designed to attract and retain highand they need to improve their competence which is an award recognising 10, 20 and calibre individuals.
At the end of 2013, we in technical and business vocabulary.
Each Group business employed more than 2,400 people by unit tailors its particular benefits to serve headcount in over 25 locations worldwide.
We do not tolerate misconduct or the specific needs of its employees such as harassment in any form and investigate private medical insurance, bonus schemes To sustain our competitive advantage, the any accidents and take appropriate action.
In the UK, where Group maintains an environment where Our grievance procedure ensures that the Groups shares are listed, we provide all employees can develop to their fullest employees have an opportunity to raise a Share Incentive Plan and Save As You potential, have the opportunity to give back to complaints formally and to be sure these Earn scheme for qualifying employees.
At the end of 2013, we employed more than 2,400 people by headcount in over 25 locations worldwide.
Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 37 Strategic report Creating a safer working environment government as a member of the Health a charity setting up job training and literacy The health and safety of our staff, contractors and Safety Executives stakeholder panel classes for women.
We also give our staff and visitors that come on to our sites is of on the Global Harmonisation System.
time to volunteer their skills to community paramount importance.
Domino Germany has donated established process for annual assessments in From our HQ we are promoting corporate money to support local welfare services for all our sales channels and business units and responsibility to other businesses through children and this year they also sent a team employees are expected and encouraged to our role as partners in the Business in Action of volunteers to work for a day improving be proactive on health and safety issues.
programme which is run by the world the play area at a local childrens nursery.
Our Board receives regular reports on Our commitment to the Domino Values compliance with health and safety standards Giving back to our communities is driving us to achieve our sustainability across the Group.
As part of our ongoing We work best as a business when we strategy.
We also recognise that commitment to continuous improvement work together with our local communities.
sustainability requires an unrelenting we have conducted reviews and updates While our business operations do not have long-term commitment to operate our of our health and safety procedures at the potential to have a significant negative business according to a strong set of our Cambridge, UK and Gurnee, USA impact on the communities around our values and ethical practices.
We have also retrained all managers production sites or offices, we do ensure aim and through increasing visibility of and key staff and, across the Group for that we are meeting high standards for our performance we are looking to all staff, we have provided over 6,000 environmental protection and that our enhance engagement through our value hours of health and safety training.
All freight operations do not cause disruptions.
chain: new employee initiatives, increased of our ink plants have maintained their sustainability in our products lines and certification to ISO 18001.
As a result our We have excellent engagement with improved efficiencies in business operation.
accidents have reduced this year to 104, an charitable and philanthropic causes average of 0.043 accidents per person.
This year we have Board approval of the Strategic Report donated over 30,000 to charitable causes Attitude with a further 22,000 donated by our Taking the lead in industry staff.
In the UK, we fielded the second Domino seeks to take the lead in crosslargest team for the London to Cambridge industry collaboration as well as sharing our bike ride with 40 staff taking part, raising Nigel Bond Andrew Herbert expertise with regulators.
We are active 3,000 for a breast cancer charity.
As well Group Managing Group Finance board members of the British Coatings as donating money, Domino China has Director Director Federation as well as chairing its Printing found ways to support schools in poorer 11 December 2013 11 December 2013 Inks Technical Committee and sitting as areas of the country by collecting donations members of the Sustainability Committee of clothes, school bags and books, while and Environmental Panel.
We also advise Domino India has donated sitting mats to Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
