Corporate Social Responsibility report CSR We take CSR seriously because it matters to our customers and our colleagues, it affects profitability and it is important for our reputation Highlights Zero waste to landfill achieved in December 2012 Customer First programme focuses colleague time on customer facing activities Colleague engagement survey completed and colleague council relaunched New combined supplier technical and ethical audit standard introduced 24 Dunelm Group plcAnnual report and accounts 2013 B Bu us siin ne es ss s ove over rv viie ew w B Bus usiin ne es ss s r re ev vie iew w G Gove over rn na an nc ce e F Fiin na an nc ciia all s st tat ate em me ent nts s Company information Our key CSR considerations Customers Colleagues Health Suppliers Environment Community and Safety CSR Consideration Why it matters to Dunelm The success and future growth of our business depends on us being able to Customers deliver a wide choice of products and services to our customers, that are great value, from a convenient location We employ over 8,000 colleagues across our stores and in our distribution, Colleagues manufacturing and store support centre locations.
Without their hard work and dedication we would be unable to deliver great products and services to our customers and successfully grow and develop our business We recognise that we have a duty of care to ensure the health and safety of Health and Safety customers, colleagues, contractors and all other visitors to our premises.
Health and safety risk management is an integral part of the core standards that we set for our business We do not manufacture our own products, therefore we need to maintain Suppliers relationships with suppliers and manufacturers worldwide who can meet our high standards for design, innovation, quality and value.
These suppliers must also demonstrate that they operate in accordance with recognised standards that uphold human rights We recognise that we have a responsibility to manage the impact of our Environment business on the environment both now and in the future.
The Group is committed to controlling and minimising the impact of its operations in the key areas of waste management, energy consumption and carbon CO emissions 2 As a responsible retailer, we are committed to supporting charities, both on a Community national and a local basis How do we manage CSR?
We do not treat CSR as a separate function: Ultimate accountability rests with the Board: individual Directors and senior managers have responsibility for CSR topics through their role accountabilities.
The diagram below sets out how we manage CSR matters: Board Overall responsibility Approve policies for CSR Executive members have line responsibility for managing specific CSR topics Monitor KPIs through Board reports Annual presentations on health and safety and suppliers ethical trading Executive Board Members have line KPIs monitored by the Executive Board responsibility for managing specific CSR topics Dialogue and Customers: through social media Communication Colleagues: In-house magazine and through Colleagues Council Suppliers: Annual conference and meetings throughout the year Others: social media, corporate website Dunelm Group plcAnnual report and accounts 2013 25 CSR Report continued Customers Champion: Chief Operating Officer What do we do?
We aim to provide to our customers: Great products and services, that are safe, legally compliant and competitively priced.
Excellent service in store, online and through customercare.
Stores that are safe and accessible.
What have we achieved this year?
2012 13 objectives Achievements Continue to collect and act on feedback from our Weekly survey measures customer satisfaction customers Quarterly survey covers a range of measures against our competitors Results fed back into our customer offer and the Customer First programme Refocus colleague tasks in-store We rolled outour Customer First training programme so colleagues now spend more time oncustomer-facing activities Continue to improve our service to multi-channel customers We launched our first catalogue in the autumn, followed by a spring version Same day service offered on Reserve and Collect We upgraded our website to make it easier to navigate and to optimise performance for tablet users Other achievements Awards: UKs second favourite homewares retailer according to the 2013 Verdict survey fourth in previous year.
Readers of House Beautiful magazine voted us the Home Retailer of the year Gold Award for 2012 second year running.
2013 14 objectives: Further development of our Customer First initiative to enhance the customer experience in-store.
A major upgrade of our online store to enable us to offer a far larger range of products for home delivery.
Improved delivery service for online and catalogue orders from our new fulfilment centre.
Roll out of our Dunelm at Home bespoke curtain and window treatment service.
26 Dunelm Group plcAnnual report and accounts 2013 Business overview Business review Governance Financial statements Company information Colleagues Champion: Finance Director What do we do?
We are a growing business and we need to be able to attract and retain colleagues to help us deliver our development plans.
We offer a competitive remuneration and benefits package, including our annual sharesave scheme which is open to all colleagues.
We are an equal opportunities employer: our policy is to recruit, develop, promote and retain skilled and motivated people regardless of disability, race, religion or belief, sex, sexual orientation, gender reassignment, marital status or age.
We maintain regular communication with all colleagues, through store manager huddles, our Dunelm Gazette magazine which is published at least quarterly, and via the computer-based Dunelm Academy, to which all colleagues have access.
We also operate a Colleagues Council, through which colleague representatives can raise and discuss ideas and concerns with senior management.
Concerns raised are then fed back to the Executive Board for consideration and action.
In addition we run an annual colleague engagement survey the output of which also is fed back to the Executive Board and actions agreed.
We offer a range of training and development opportunities to colleagues at all levels of the business.
These include: Nationally accredited modern apprenticeships and NVQs.
Our graduate programme, which leads to an Institute of Leadership and Management qualification.
Support for colleagues studying for professional qualifications, such as in finance, HR and IT.
A range of workshops in key management skills, such as leadership and communications.
Interactive computer based product knowledge and other training.
2012 13 objectives Achievements Double the number of places on our graduate programme We recruited 17 graduates in September 2012 compared with 6 in 2011 Conduct an employee engagement survey across the Survey completed in September 2012 and a further Group survey planned for September 2013 Colleagues Council will be relaunched This was relaunched across the business with a set timetable for local and area meetings.
Feedback and suggestions are put forward every six months to our Executive Board Continue to improve our colleague training opportunities, Significant training programme launched for all store through structured programmes and additional modules based colleagues under the Customer First initiative.
on the Dunelm Academy We continue to invest in training for all colleagues including product knowledge and management development programmes Work with partners to provide opportunities to the We have continued to provide work experience unemployed opportunities for the long-term unemployed this year and developed strong relationships with Job Centre Plus.
We continue to offer enhanced support to job applicants who have been unemployed for six months or more Other achievements We launched the role of Team Leader across all stores with clear accountabilities and opportunities to develop into management.
A suite of management development workshops was launched to all Team Leaders across our stores and to first line managers within our Store Support Centre.
Successfully opened 14 new stores with fully recruited teams.
2013 14 objectives Review of our current careers website to be undertaken.
Roll-out second module of our Customer First programme to all retail colleagues.
Roll-out a Customer First Programme to all non-retail areas of the business.
Continue to develop and deliver learning and development initiatives to meet the needs of the business.
Respond to issues and opportunities identified from the engagement survey taking place in September.
Continue to recruit and train colleagues in line with our new store opening programme.
Dunelm Group plcAnnual report and accounts 2013 27 CSR Report continued Health and safety Champion: Chief Operating Officer What do we do?
The Board is ultimately responsible for the creation and implementation of our health and safety policy and procedures, which include an effective system of upward and downward communication, appropriate standards for monitoring performance and for ensuring that sufficient resources are available to support this activity.
Health and safety is a standard agenda item at every Board meeting and the Board receives a monthly report and a formal annual presentation from the Groups Health and Safety manager.
Regular Health and Safety review meetings held between the Groups Health and Safety Manager and senior management from key operational functions.
These meetings ensure risks are understood and that relevant mitigating action has been taken to provide a safe environment.
Each store manager is responsible for ensuring the implementation of health and safety policy and procedures in his or her store, supported by the area manager and the Group Health and Safety Manager.
Risk assessments are in place and updated as required.
We have an in-house health and safety audit document, which proactively addresses health and safety risk and is updated every six months.
The audit covers stores, workplace transport, store development, warehousing and the store support centre.
Our stores complete an online self audit monthly and area managers audit all of their stores at least once a year.
This is backed up by our in-house operational audit team and followed up by the Group Health and Safety Manager.
We have an ongoing programme of education and training, including DVDs and interactive computer based learning.
2012 2013 Objectives Achievements Further utilise and develop the intranet and e-learning We have introduced a Training and Development team systems for training and central recording of site within the HR department to manage the training for all documentation colleagues assisted through e-learning Review and improve our key risk controls for: Fire Safety Annual extinguisher training introduced Work Related Road Safety Driver guide fully reviewed Workplace Transport Six monthly driver survey completed Other achievements By targeting high standards of compliance to Company procedures and using positive reinforcement of success achieved, we have been able to improve compliance against our internal audit to 89% for 2012 13 82% 2011 12.
We have seen an accident rate of 3.9 accidents for every 100,000 visits up from 3.5 in 2011 12, which reflects our focus on ensuring that all accidents are recorded, however minor.
The proportion of accidents involving very minor incidents no treatment required is high: 52% of customer accident reports and 42% of colleague reports.
Customer accidents Actions taken to address two key areas for accidents to customers have seen excellent results: Car Park trips six monthly inspection surveys with remedial repairs have been implemented which has resulted in a 50% reduction in reported accidents from this cause in January to June 2013 compared with the previous six months.
Falling canvasses Adjustments to our display stands have resulted in a 32% reduction in reported accidents from this cause in January to June 2013 compared with the previous six months.
Colleague accidents The extended use of totes for stock deliveries and the introduction of plastic pallets in place of wooden pallets has led to a reduction in colleague accidents: Deliveries a reduction of 24% of accidents in January to June 2013 compared to the previous six months.
Replenishment a reduction of 38% of accidents in January to June 2013 compared with the previous six months.
2013 14 objectives Review and update Health and Safety training DVDs.
Develop an online accident reporting system.
Development of new claim handling procedures in line with requirements of legal reforms.
28 Dunelm Group plcAnnual report and accounts 2013 Business overview Business review Governance Financial statements Company information Suppliers Champion: Buying Director What do we do?
We work with our suppliers to ensure that our products are produced in clean and safe environments, that workers are treated with respect and earn a reasonable wage and that suppliers work within the relevant local laws and regulations.
All direct suppliers are required to sign up to our Code of Conduct enforced by a full programme of independent factory audits at least every three years, based on the Ethical Trading Initiative ETI base code.
Following the well publicised factory fire in Bangladesh not a Dunelm supplier we extended our audit to specifically cover building safety.
Where non-conformances are discovered we have a formal procedure for working with a supplier to help them achieve compliance, usually within three months.
The majority of non-conformances arise from the absence of records.
Critical non-conformances such as use of child labour or absence of valid Building Certificate are escalated immediately and supplies cease until the issue has been resolved.
Ultimately if progress is inadequate we will cease to trade with the supplier.
We aim to treat all of our suppliers fairly and consistently.
We ask all of our suppliers to sign our standard terms and conditions.
All new suppliers are made aware of the basis of trade with Dunelm and in particular our standard payment terms in advance of commencing trade.
The number of days purchases outstanding for payment at 29 June 2013 was 29 days 2012: 30 days.
2012 13 objectives Achievements Work with partners to develop in-house ethical auditing New in-house combined technical and ethical audit expertise implemented from December 2012 includes building safety Upgrade supplier ethical audit database to give us greater Database cleansed and updated visibility Other achievements We have formalised commercial arrangements with a small number of partners in the Far East this will enable us to monitor adherence to our policies more closely.
2013 14 objectives Join SEDEX to gain better visibility of supply chain standards.
Set targets for key suppliers to improve workplace conditions beyond the minimum.
New sustainability standards to be introduced to encourage better water usage, reduction of harmful effluents, use of recycled materials and energy efficiency.
Procedure to be implemented to ensure full traceability for timber and paper products.
Community Champion: Marketing Director What do we do?
We adopt a charity of the year, for which collections are made in-store, specific fund-raising events are organised and the Group makes its own donations.
Each store has a Charity Champion and amounts raised by store are reported monthly, with the top three recognised in the Dunelm Gazette.
We also support colleagues who are raising money for charities of their choice, often by matching the sums raised.
We have a monthly payroll lottery, half of the proceeds of this go to our chosen charity.
We do not make any political donations.
2012 13 objectives Achievements Support our Charity of the Year, Wallace and Gromits Funds were raised through a variety of ways, including childrens charity whose objectives are to improve the our payroll lottery, the annual Friends and Family night, quality of life of sick children in hospitals and hospices a themed fancy dress fundraising evening in store, across the United Kingdom through sale of pin badges, bake sales, fancy dress days, sample sales and the Wrong Trousers day The total value of donations made by the Group in the year ended 29 June 2013 was 80,000 2012: 97,000.
Total funds raised for charity by the Group and colleagues was 205,000 2012: 192,000.
2013 14 objectives During 2013 14 our charity of the year will be Barnardos.
We will continue to support our colleagues in their charitable fundraising efforts.
Dunelm Group plcAnnual report and accounts 2013 29 CSR Report continued Environment Champion: Finance Director Dunelm recognises that it has a responsibility to manage the impact of its business on the environment both now and in the future.
The Group is committed to controlling and minimising the impact of its operations, directly and indirectly in the key areas of waste management, energy consumption and carbon CO emissions.
2 The Group has an Environment Committee consisting of senior managers representing key areas of the business.
This team is tasked with the development and implementation of strategy as well as ongoing monitoring to achieve high levels of environmental performance.
Our progress over the past financial year and our goals for the forthcoming year are detailed below: 1.
Waste recycling What do we do?
Dunelm is committed to increasing the volume of waste which is recycled and to reducing the volume of waste going to landfill.
This commitment is championed by our National Recycling Manager.
During the year the company has continued to develop its Recycle at Work initiative.
This program ensures that colleagues are engaged and supported to deal appropriately with waste at a site-by-site level.
All superstores and warehouses are equipped with balers to process waste at source, while colour coded bins and signage supports further grading and segregation of other waste streams.
This initiative is underpinned by annual site audits to ensure ongoing compliance and improvement.
In the year we have invested in an industrial paper shredder.
This adds to our capabilities and means that our national recycling centre can now recycle all of our cardboard, plastics, paper, confidential paper, bottles and cans.
This investment, combined with our drive in stores has increased the level of recycled waste to 82% 2012: 76% We have also engaged our suppliers to review the specification of packaging used to maximise recyclable content.
All plastic packaging is now clear LDPE Low Density Polyethylene, this product having a much greater recyclable content.
The use of polystyrene has also been reduced.
This drive to improve our level of recycling has allowed us to divert all of our waste from landfill.
Any waste that is not recycled within the business is sent offsite for further sortation, to extract other recyclable content, and the remaining general waste is incinerated in a waste to energy plant with carbon capture technology.
2012 13 objectives Achievements Reduce all waste to landfill to zero Dunelm achieved a Zero Waste to Landfill status in December 2012.
Increase use of reusable totes in the supply chain Deliveries in reusable totes now account for 17% of all supplier deliveries Waste recycled all stores % 2013-14 objectives To maintain zero waste to landfill.
100 To increase the recycled element of waste to over 90%.
To reduce the level of polystyrene in packaging by 50%.
90 80 82 76 68 60 50 40 20 0 09 10 10 1111 12 12 13 Target 13 14 Landll Waste to Energy Recycled previous years Target 2013 14 30 Dunelm Group plcAnnual report and accounts 2013 Business overview Business review Governance Financial statements Company information 2.
Energy usage What do we do?
Energy reduction on a site-by-site basis has been a key focus for the Group in the last financial year.
Dunelm fit AMR Automatic Meter Reading smart meters in all sites to monitor and control all electricity and gas supplies.
Data on energy consumption is pulsed through on a half-hourly basis allowing us to profile high or unusual patterns, target specific sites and to monitor the success of our energy reduction initiatives.
All investments in new and refitted stores now come with a Building Management System BMS as standard.
This BMS is designed to optimise energy usage across the site while maintaining an appropriate shopping environment for our customers and colleagues.
At the end of the year we had 118 stores 2012: 101 with BMS.
As a result of these actions we have reduced electricity usage in like-for-like stores by over 8% during the past three years.
Last year in isolation, however, saw an increase of 1.2% as a result of extended operating hours as well as very unseasonal weather through a wet summer and historically cold March.
2012 13 objectives Achievements To reduce electricity usage by 5% in LFL stores Target missed, Electricity consumption increased by 1.2% see above 2013 14 objectives Y-O-Y Reduction in electricity consumption LFL stores % To reduce electricity by 5% in LFL stores.
To reduce gas usage by 10% in LFL stores.
7.0% Fully trial LED lighting technologies in new stores.
Carbon emissions CO 2 What do we do?
Dunelm participate in the Environment Agencys Carbon Reduction Commitment CRC scheme and have submitted annual reports for the last three years.
During this time we 2 have reduced our CO equivalent emissions per ft of selling space by 13%.
The Groups 2 carbon footprint from these core supplies was 26,747 tonnes of CO 2012: 23,234 tonnes, 2 a year-on-year increase of 9 tonnes per store.
Over the past year we have continued to source electricity from Green Energy supplies such as combined heat and power sources where CO emissions are 30% lower than the national average.
We have also signed a new energy 2 supply agreement which commits the business to this source of energy for the next two years.
We continue to reduce the emissions generated by our company car fleet.
Average emissions were 114 CO g km 2012: 2 120 CO g km driven by the many fuel efficient options that exist on our car schemes.
2 During the year Dunelm achieved reaccreditation with the Carbon Trust Standard CTS recognising our success and commitment to reducing our carbon footprint.
This certification lasts until December 2014 and underlines our continuing commitment in this area.
The Group has continued its association with a specialist partner to consult on our energy buying strategy, investments in energy saving technology and to further focus on reducing our carbon emissions.
This year we will focus on building design, in-store environment and investments to reduce consumption further.
Continued investment and optimisation of BMS will remain a strategic goal and we aim to complete a full store-wide LED lighting trial.
Dunelm Group plcAnnual report and accounts 2013 31 CSR Report continued 3.
Carbon emissions CO continued 2 What have we achieved this year?
2012 13 objectives Achievements Work with partners to focus on carbon emissions Achieved See previous page 2 Reduce relative CO emissions per ft year on year Achieved 2 Carbon emissions tonnes per store 2013 14 objectives To reduce relative CO emissions year on year.
2 250 To trial electricity generation from solar panels.
Product packaging What do we do?
Dunelm continues to work with suppliers to reduce the absolute level of product packaging whilst at the same time improving its recyclable content.
In the year we have audited many of our waste streams to divert materials from landfill where possible.
Most recently we have identified a particular specification of clear plastic or wrap that should be used by suppliers.
This will be the standard for all suppliers going forward.
The Group is promoting a reduction in the use of single-use carrier bags and has implemented a charge for these bags in all stores in Wales and Northern Ireland in line with legislation.
2012 13 objectives Achievements Reduce number of carrier bags per store by 10% Achieved Roll out use of totes Achieved 17% of goods delivered to store via national carrier scheme in totes 2013 14 objectives: Eliminate polystyrene in all packaging.
Increase recyclability of all product packaging.
Nick Wharton Chief Executive 12 September 2013 32 Dunelm Group plcAnnual report and accounts 2013
