Strategic report Corporate responsibility WE ARE Committed to corporate responsibility We recognise the importance of developing a long-term strategy for further reductions and work to achieve this through Sustainable Aviation, which sets out the collective approach of UK aviation to tackling the challenge of ensuring a sustainable future for our industry.
At a local level, noise tends to be the major environmental issue and accordingly easyJet works very closely with our airport partners in order to reduce noise.
More generally, we remain strongly committed to engaging with the local communities where we are based and this has involved easyJet supporting a number of community initiatives and activities across our network.
Our links are particularly strong around our headquarters in Luton where we employ the most people and where we have forged strong links with Carolyn McCall OBE As the UKs largest airline and fourth the local community through partnerships with Chief Executive largest in Europe, we take our Corporate schools, local government, businesses and the local football team.
It is fundamental to delivering our ambition and Across our network we focus our charitable efforts therefore inuences everything we do.
through our partnership with UNICEF which has raised over 2.1 million in just two years.
These Our passengers and people lie at the heart of the donations from easyJet and its passengers have business.
The delivery of high levels of customer allowed UNICEF to vaccinate over 5.3 million service depends on motivated, connected people.
mothers and children against preventable, lifeAs well as placing safety as our highest priority threatening diseases across West and Central Africa.
we continually seek to improve customer service.
Our Customer Board plays an important role in We want to grow our talent and keep easyJet strong.
this process and this year we have developed a We do this by having enthusiastic, well-prepared number of new initiatives which will help drive further people who are capable of stepping in for each other performance improvements.
This has been supported and taking ownership.
by a culture change programme involving our people Were already working hard on this.
Last years to ensure we deliver excellent customer service.
priority of developing good leaders and managers Airlines have a responsibility to minimise their has added value to our business already and we will impact on the environment.
At easyJet we do this continue to build on this to ensure we are in a number of ways.
Our industrys most significant impact is through our In this section of the report we provide an overview CO emissions.
However, due to easyJets simple, of our performance in our key CR areas.
These are 2 efficient operations and young eet, our passengers safety, our people, our customers, the environment carbon footprint is already 22% less than a passenger and the community.
Further details in relation to on a traditional airline ying on the same route each of these areas can be found on our web site at and aircraft.
We are also always looking at ways to lower our emissions further.
Our planned investment in 100 new Airbus A320neo aircraft will ensure we continue to have one of the most efficient eets in Europe.
The Carolyn McCall OBE new planes will be around 13% to 15% more fuel Chief Executive efficient than the planes they are replacing and our target is that they will form 35% of the eet by 2022. easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2013 44 Strategic report No compromise on safety SAFETY FIRST The easyJet Safety Management System SMS, At easyJet the safety of passengers and Fatigue Risk Management System FRMS and people comes first.
Safety is a guiding principle SafetyNet are all well established and incorporate rigorous reporting processes.
and a core value that inuences every decision made.
easyJet is committed to developing an All reported safety-related incidents are assessed open safety culture that promotes reporting of and categorised, with risk values assigned and all safety-related incidents.
aggregated to form a Composite Risk Value CRV index.
The index has remained consistent, Comprehensive processes and structures continuing to be well within the assigned boundary are maintained to monitor and manage level.
easyJet maintains a constant focus to ensure safety-related risk throughout the airline.
the risk value remains within this target range.
The safety management structure is led Protecting passengers, people, brand and assets from the top of the organisation.
The security of passengers and people is a high priority.
easyJet employs a security team that works The Chief Executive, Carolyn McCall, and the Chief to reduce vulnerability from security-related risks.
Operations officer, Warwick Brady, are responsible The team co-operates closely with government and for all aspects of safety delivery, including regulatory agencies throughout the network to compliance obligations under the Air Operators ensure strict compliance with security regulations.
The AOC Accountable Manager Security risk assessments are conducted for each is Carolyn McCall and she chairs the Companys airport and country to which the airline ies.
The Safety Review Board which meets monthly to highest standards of vigilance are maintained assess reports from the Safety Action Groups regarding the current geopolitical situation within across the airline.
This review and assessment those countries to inform these assessments.
easyJet process delivers monthly reports to both the UK implements measures to protect the Company from Civil Aviation Authority UK CAA and the easyJet corporate and aviation security risks, ensuring internal Board.
In addition to the internal safety and governance of business sensitive and personal data, compliance, the Director of Safety and Security, staff vetting and asset protection.
Security awareness Captain David Prior, delivers an independent safety is driven through the business to ensure the security report to the Safety Committee of the Board each team is able to deliver an effective and efficient month.
Captain David Prior has a direct line through support service to easyJets people.
to the Chairman which reinforces the independence of safety oversight.
com 45 Strategic report Corporate responsibility continued REDUCING FATIGUE RISK easyJet operates an industry leading Fatigue Risk Management System FRMS.
To achieve this, the airline works with independent partners, Imperial College London and the NASA Ames Research Institute in California.
Research is undertaken, known as the Human Factors Monitoring Programme HFMP.
This collects performance and alertness data which is used to mitigate fatigue proactively.
Imperial College London provides analytical support which looks for trends and correlations in the data.
NASA reviews the data to determine reliable methods of predicting fatigue and alertness.
For example, this involves correlating pilot and aircraft performance data to identify fatigue precursors and associated risk proles.
An HFMP study runs typically every two years using crew volunteers.
The 2013 study was the largest to date with 44 participating pilots recording data over a four week period.
This study used the latest technology to collect data and also involved the use of melatonin testing on participants.
The melatonin test is the first attempt to correlate physiological measures with a range of other fatigue and alertness measures.
The results of this ground breaking research will help inform easyJets future rostering strategies and ensure measures are in place to mitigate against fatigue risk as the network and operations evolve and develop.
easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2013 46 Strategic report High performance culture OUR PEOPLE At easyJet we set ourselves stretching goals and Our people are at the heart of our business we want our people to understand the key part that they play in our strategy and our success.
and they are the key to our ability to make We want them to feel accountable for their travel easy and affordable and meet our delivery and rewarded for their success.
ambition of being Europes preferred Talent and succession short-haul airline.
Our focus is to attract In order to protect the long-term success of and recruit the right person at every level, easyJet we want to ensure that we understand and to keep them engaged in such a way our talent pipeline and support their development that we can deliver our business goals and so that our people can be the best that they can our customer promises.
We would like to be a company of choice for current and future talent from across Europe.
Our three-part strategy is to make it easy for our people to be at the gate, on-board and able to y. Embedding our people ambition By this we mean: 2013 was the second year of this people strategy, with the focus this year being on creating more at the gate the right people, in the right job, connection with our people and continuing to at the right time, equipped to succeed and improve key people-related processes.
We have supported by processes that work: made good progress this year, examples of which on-board living the values, wanting to be part are documented below, and we are confident that of the Companys success and knowing the part we will deliver our people strategy.
they play: and HR service delivery able to y a high-performance culture where We successfully transferred 237 of our people from success and continuous improvement are Madrid to 17 bases around our network and are expected, managed and rewarded and people delighted that 195 of these employees remain with achieve their maximum potential.
In order to deliver this we have organised the This year we have recruited a total number of strategy under five core strategic pillars: 989 cabin crew, 98 cabin managers, 160 cadets and HR service delivery 89 experienced pilots for our summer 2014 ying This is all about the easyJet HR team being able season, and converted a further 224 from exi-crew to deliver a reliable, effective and efficient service contracts to a permanent easyJet contract for 2013. to our people, ensuring that our people and their In our management and administration function managers are supported by clear, simple and we have lled 318 roles of which 38% were accurate processes and making it easy for them lled internally.
to understand these processes and to ask when they need to.
This also means holding accurate This year we launched an external recruitment data on our people and providing our people campaign for experienced pilots.
We invited both managers with information which supports pilots already experienced on the Airbus A320 their roles.
family and also those requiring training such as Organisational effectiveness those leaving the military and we are delighted with Ensuring that the infrastructure of the the calibre of candidates and their desire to be part organisation enables delivery of the required of our airline.
We have also strengthened our business performance and drives our core relationship with our pilot training suppliers so that business processes, organisation design and our career path for pilots is now very clear.
physical environment are all enablers of business success.
We are also trialling the introduction of a new, exible employment contract for cabin crew.
This Leadership, management and development enables us to be able to offer many more cabin Our success will come from our people so we crew permanent employment with us helping to want to ensure that we have capable leaders and manage our seasonal demand.
Take up has been people managers to deliver the airlines strategy, high and we expect to extend the trial very soon.
and help to ensure that our people have the right skills and capability to deliver both now and in Organisational effectiveness the future.
This year we completed our expansion and refurbishment of our main ofce location in Luton, Hangar 89, where we greeted 15,660 visitors last year.
To support our people we added new shower facilities, bicycle racks and new restaurant facilities.
More information on our facilities and their environmental impact are shown on page 52. www.
com 47 Strategic report Corporate responsibility continued 600 people took part in our Race The World challenge RACE THE WORLD In 2013 our people were invited to do Target distance 40,075 km some exercise and raise money for UNICEF.
Actual distance 60,803 km Race The World was launched on 15 July Walking 5,475 km at Hangar 89, by easyJets Chief Executive Running 12,617 km Carolyn McCall and UNICEFs High Prole Supporter and Olympic medallist Cycling 40,333 km Colin Jackson.
Swimming 1,667 km The aim was to run, walk, cycle, swim and Rowing 711 km row the circumference of the world thats Our fundraising target was 20,000 and 40,075km by the end of September.
we were pleased to beat it and raised Over 600 of our people took part, logging 21,863, which is enough to buy 54,872 every kilometre they covered which was vaccines.
So not only did our people get made up as follows: tter and have some fun but we helped UNICEF save some lives.
easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2013 48 Strategic report Leadership, management and development A culture of wellbeing We have spent time building our leadership teams We recognise that creating a happier and healthier and individual leadership capability, ensuring that workforce will enable us to deliver our ambition our leaders understand our strategy, the associated and we want to further embed this into the culture business challenges and their roles in leading and of easyJet to ensure a sustainable future for engaging their teams.
To support this, we introduced a management We recognise that employee wellness physical development programme for all of our people and psychological health of the individual and managers: a new commercial awareness employee engagement the commitment, programme which helps our people understand satisfaction, advocacy and pride of the employee how we drive commercial success and the are at the heart of our business.
Incorporating these associated impact of their role: we have launched elements into our people strategy will ensure that a new online learning management system which our people are happy and healthy and our business has opened up learning and development to all is successful and profitable.
of our people across the network currently we easyJet is committed to ensuring the wellbeing have 882 management and administration staff, of its people.
All employees have access to the 718 cabin crew and 604 pilots registered on Employee Assistance Programme which can offer the Learning Management System and have support to employees at times of stress or 211 courses available.
We have launched a new challenge in relation to issues experienced both career development framework for all of our crew.
A condential whistleblowing We ran our second management conference in helpline is in operation through which employees November 2012, with a follow up at the half year, can raise issues of concern.
easyJet is also looking where we brought together our key functional progressively at ways to support employees to leaders and our leaders at the various bases across look after their general wellbeing.
For example a the network to share our goals and align our wellbeing clinic for the 24:7 teams operating out managers behind our plan for the rest of the year.
of our headquarters to help people understand how to look after themselves to deliver at their best High performance culture through to our industry leading safety programmes.
We have continued our focus on engagement as there are proven links between an engaged Staff turnover and attendance workforce and excellence in customer service and In line with the growth of the airline, our employment business delivery.
We are in the process of rening levels across Europe have continued to grow.
our approach to our employee survey so there are As at 30 September 2013, easyJet employed no new results to add this year.
However, we have 8,945 people 2012: 8,446 based across Europe successfully implemented a number of initiatives as illustrated below: across the business to help connect our people to our goals and ambition.
These include a new United Kingdom 5,609 additional day of training for all our captains on France 950 non-technical aspects of their leadership role and Italy 883 the critical part they play in supporting our Switzerland 793 commercial success: an additional training day for our cabin managers on our customer promise: and Germany 304 overhaul of our corporate induction to enable our Spain 268 new people to hit the ground running.
Portugal 137 As in previous years we have continued with our Netherlands 1 various internal communication channels such as Total 8,945 the Chief Executive weekly call, news round-ups, Executive Management Team base visits and Our performance culture is driven by the community based newsletters including a new commitment of our people to working at easyJet one aimed at people managers.
and this was very strong with staff attendance at 96% for 2013 2012: 95%, and staff turnover In the spirit of partnership we have spent significant decreasing to 6.5% 2012: 7.5%.
time this year in dialogue with our employee representatives, union representatives across Europe and our European Works Council representatives.
com 49 Strategic report Corporate responsibility continued The plans have won five major awards to date, Talent and succession planning This year we held our first succession review and we and involve three elements: SAYE: BAYE and Performance Shares.
During the year, all eligible are confident that this will support us going forward and become a key people process that is part of employees were offered the equivalent of two weeks salary in the form of Performance Shares.
our way of life at easyJet.
In support of developing our future talent we Each scheme is Her Majestys Revenue & Customs HMRC approved and is open to all our people on ran the second year of our European Graduate Programme and during the year we improved the UK payroll.
For our people who are on non-UK payrolls, international schemes have been our ranking in The Job Crowd publication of Top Companies for Graduates to work from 35th established with similar terms and conditions to the UK scheme, albeit without the UK tax benets.
to 30th and top of the category Transport and Logistics beating more established programmes easyJet offers a small number of Company provided benets in line with our cost focused in our sector.
This is a great achievement for the programme particularly as the ratings are derived approach.
These include insurances and access to staff travel at cost price.
from what our graduates think and say about the programme and represents an improvement on Our UK people are also eligible to participate in the previous years survey as we are now ahead a Group personal pension towards which easyJet of more established programmes in our industry.
contributes, as well as having the option to make their own contributions through salary sacrifice.
Our third year intake started with us on 1 October 2013.
In the UK we have also been able to facilitate a In addition we launched a new engineering number of additional exible benets under our apprenticeship scheme and 10 aeronautical Benets4me programme.
These enable our people engineers joined us last November.
We are pleased to access programmes and savings which would to say that all of them have now nished their not be available to them on an individual basis, college learning and are back with us to learn on without additional cost to easyJet.
We are so pleased by this success that we our popular environmentally friendly Ride 2 Work have announced that we are seeking another 10 to scheme in 2012, 93 people took up the scheme, join us in the coming year.
180 in 2013 and now the scheme has had over 700 participants in the five years since its launch and We recognise that our approach to reward is critical a carbon offsetting scheme.
A lifestyle benets to our ability to both attract and retain our people programme was also in place in the year offering and drive a performance culture.
easyJet offers a discounts on a wide range of products and services.
competitive reward package and reviews salaries annually in line with market rates to ensure Our people make further savings in tax and National continued alignment to the market.
The focus Insurance for many of these exible benets, is on cash and variable pay rather than xed through salary sacrifice.
The reward package includes an annual savings contribute to the nancing of the scheme, performance-driven bonus, based on personal and which is fully outsourced.
Company performance, and grant of shares, based on the performance of the airline which encourages Equality and diversity easyJet is an equal opportunities employer and all our people to contribute towards achieving our strategic objectives and enables them to share in our people and applicants are treated fairly and equally regardless of their age, colour, creed, our success.
disability, full or part time status, gender, marital Over 90% of easyJet employees are shareholders in status, nationality or ethnic origin, race, religion the Company.
As at 30 September 2013, easyJets or sexual orientation.
Applications from disabled employee share trust held around 90 million shares people are always fully considered, bearing in worth over 240 million on behalf of employees.
mind the aptitudes of the applicant concerned.
At the same point in 2012, the shares held in these Capitalising on what is unique about individuals trusts were valued at around 100 million.
The share price has risen from 5.81 at 30 September 2012 to and drawing on their different perspectives and experiences adds value to the way we do business.
12.78 on the same date in 2013 and over 3 million share options were granted during the financial year.
We recognise that a diverse workforce will provide us with an insight into different markets and help These shares are held in a variety of share schemes us anticipate and provide what our customers such as Save As You Earn SAYE, Buy As You Earn want from us.
BAYE and also include reward shares which easyJet gives to all its employees every year so they can share in the Companys success.
easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2013 50 Strategic report Fuel-burn Carbon reduction Fuels trading A breakdown by gender of the number of OUR ENVIRONMENT persons who were Directors of the Company, Addressing environmental impact is clearly senior managers and other employees as at part of the responsibility of an airline.
easyJet 30 September 2013, is set out below.
Our gender diversity throughout the Group remains strong, also considers it a business imperative.
especially at the senior level.
Out of two current Environmental concerns have a significant Executive Directors, our Chief Executive is female.
impact on public policy towards aviation, from We are continuing to work towards improving our restrictions on airport expansion to passenger workforce diversity including in terms of nationality, taxes.
It is therefore in the Companys interest to notably through our European Graduate Programme.
ensure that both easyJet and the wider industry properly address environmental concerns.
Directors Aviation emissions continue to increase.
Over the last ten years global aviation trafc has grown by over 5% a year, while efficiency gains have been about Female 2%.
Unless the industry can reverse this trend there Male is a real risk it will be subjected to growth constraints: 2 a suggestion already put forward by the Committee on Climate Change in their December 2009 report.
To prevent this, the industry needs to signicantly reduce emissions from ying through step-changes in technology and the right incentives to ensure that airlines and passengers y as efficiently as possible.
8 Climate change easyJet believes the most important environmental issue facing the industry is climate change.
As for all transport sector organisations there remain significant challenges in moving away from reliance on fossil Senior management team fuels.
In terms of the short to medium term easyJet remains committed to making its operations as efficient as possible through purchasing the most fuel Female efficient aircraft available and optimising their use.
Male 14 To support the longer term technological change necessary to deliver more sustainable ying, easyJet supports industry wide efforts as a member of Sustainable Aviation.
This is a UK body that focuses on cross-industry measures to improve carbon efficiency in particular.
Sustainable Aviation has 47 shown how overall CO emissions reductions can 2 be delivered alongside growth in aviation.
The chart below sets out the path to lower emissions and the contribution from different emission saving aspects.
Net CO emissions from UK aviation All easyJet employees 2 2.5 Female Male 2.0 1.5 4138 4807 1.0 0.5 2010 2020 2030 2040 2050 Demand growth Sustainable fuels Operations & ATM Carbon trading Imminent aircraft Net emissions Future aircraft www.
com 51 Strategic report Corporate responsibility continued At 83.76g km easyJets emissions per passenger CO passenger Km 2 kilometre are amongst the lowest in the industry and have reduced signicantly over the past g 10 years.
In the 2013 financial year, easyJets 120 emissions per passenger km the standard industry measure of efficiency were 83.76g km reduced 104.5 98.8 from 85.48g km in 2012.
A recent order for the new generation of Airbus short-haul aircraft, entering 60 the eet from 2017, will be an important factor in achieving this.
These aircraft are 13% to 15% more fuel efficient than the existing eet and will help 30 further reduce carbon emissions.
Accordingly, easyJet has set targets to reduce 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 CO g km per passenger further, by 2.5% by 2017 2 and by 5% by 2022.
These are driven largely by the Projection of CO Emissions from UK Aviation 2 introduction of the new, larger aircraft and assume easyJet was among the first supporters of aviations a similar sector length and route network as today.
entry into the European Unions Emission Trading System ETS, an important step to ensuring that significant progress in the development of the new generation of aircraft will also be necessary to reduce aviation is helping to tackle climate change.
The Company is disappointed that the scope of aviations emissions.
While there has been some progress in the short-haul market a second step change in role in ETS has been reduced with the exclusion of long-haul ights in 2013 and believes the future efficiency is necessary.
easyJet will continue to push the manufacturers to deliver this and would also like scope should be as wide as possible.
Mechanisms are in place to verify, monitor and report the required to see international minimum standards in place to drive the development of new technology aircraft.
data, which is independently veried, and to manage easyJets exposure to the carbon market.
In addition, easyJet has an ongoing programme that looks at how existing aircraft can be own as efficiently To achieve further emission reductions it is vital that the policy framework set by governments supports as possible.
This has included the installation of new lightweight seats and trolleys and the introduction of increased environmental efficiency in aviation.
easyJet would like to see ETS taxes support environmental sharklets: an enlarged wing tip which makes the wing more aerodynamic.
Fuel efficiency is monitored to objectives.
Aviation specic taxes should provide incentives for more environmentally efficient ying determine the impact of these measures.
Although some of these measures save relatively small amounts such as taxes on planes rather than passengers.
of CO per ight, as easyJet averages over 1,000 2 easyJets carbon emissions ights a day, total savings are significant.
easyJets total carbon emissions were 5.6 million tonnes see table below.
This is overwhelmingly made Local air quality Local air quality impact arises from nitrogen oxides up of emissions from fuel burn.
The calculation of these emissions is based on fuel burn measurement, NOx emissions during aircraft take-offs and landings.
easyJet has upgraded 61% of engines with the tech which is veried, to comply with EU ETS requirements.
insertion upgrade which reduces NOx emissions by Table of easyJets greenhouse gas emissions around 10%.
These engines are the best in class and Emission total help minimise the impact on local air quality.
tonnes Noise 1 CO emitted from ying activities 5,551,338 2 Aircraft noise clearly has an impact on residents 2 CO equivalent from facilities 1,382 2 around airports.
easyJet complies with local rules Total emissions CO 5,552,720 that govern noise at airports such as curfews and 2 routings to avoid built up areas.
easyJet aircraft 1 Emissions from ying activities are veried as part of our meet the tightest international noise standards EU-ETS obligations.
The data reported here is veried internally, as part of the ETS reporting requirements.
The Companys focus on that the CO reported gure for fuel emissions is actual 2 improving the efficiency of ying has also reduced CO, which is emitted from aircraft fuel burn.
CO 2 2 the noise impact: by changing the ap settings equivalents other than CO are not included in the 2 reporting of fuel emissions as there is no CO conversion used for landings, fuel efficiency has improved and 2 factor for any non-CO emissions from aircraft fuel burn.
noise levels at landing have been reduced.
2 2 Emissions calculated using UK Government guidelines for conversion of grid electricity.
Governance Many people within easyJet help deliver easyJets In addition to total emissions, easyJet also monitors environmental aims.
Oversight of easyJets emissions per passenger kilometre.
This is a environment policy is carried out by its regulatory measure of how efficiently passengers are carried team, and the Executive Management Team and Chief and allows comparison between airlines.
Executive receive regular updates on environmental policy as part of reporting on regulatory issues.
easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2013 52 Strategic report % % 13 -15 savings in fuel consumption expected from new generation A320neo aircraft REDUCING OUR CARBON EMISSIONS In July 2013, easyJet confirmed an order for Importantly, Airbus expects that as a 100 new generation Airbus A320neo aircraft result of the use of new technology, for delivery from 2017 to 2022 and has taken nitrogen oxide emissions will be 50% purchase rights on a further 100 aircraft.
The below the CAEP 6 standard and that aircraft will be equipped with new technology noise levels will be up to 15dB below engines, either the Pratt & Whitney PurePower the ICAO Chapter 4 standard.
or CFM Leap easyJet has yet to nalise The target is for the easyJet eet to its selection.
comprise of approximately 35% new The manufacturers expect that these new generation A320neo aircraft by2022.
generation aircraft, equipped with wing tip Sharklets, will deliver between 13% to 15% savings in fuel consumption and consequent reductions in CO emissions.
com 53 Strategic report Corporate responsibility continued KPI OUR CUSTOMERS easyJet is passionate about connecting Overall satisfaction on this occasion people by making travel easy and % 1.0ppt affordable.
At easyJet the service is focused on the customer with an emphasis on 100 creating a friendly experience.
Over the last 85 83 82 year a number of new initiatives have been 79 75 73 introduced to further improve customer service and ensure customers lie at the 50 heart of the airline including: end to end customer journey: 25 easyJet Customer Charter: customer experience governance: 09 10 11 12 13 allocated seating: and operational performance.
Customer experience governance End to end customer journey In March 2012 the easyJet Customer Board was A framework is in place which looks at every part of formed.
The aim was to bring together the key the customer experience and focuses on how it can stakeholders in the customer journey, to share be improved.
For each stage of the journey attract, customer insights and data and to discuss and book, check-in, bag drop, board, in-ight, arrival, agree continuous improvement initiatives.
A key contact and disruption the desired customer output from these discussions has been the experience is documented.
Customer satisfaction introduction of a customer impact assessment and business performance measures are also element in the framework for completing a included.
The framework provides a mechanism business case.
to drive continual performance improvement.
Operational performance easyJet Customer Charter Strong operational performance is critical to easyJet The charter sets out what customers should expect maintaining its cost levels.
On-time departures when they travel with easyJet: minimise the cost of disruption and are a key driver of customer satisfaction which in turn encourages Safety first, we never compromise.
On your side, we see it from your point of view.
easyJet has introduced the easyJet turn programme A big smile, friendly service is our passion.
to drive continued strong on-time performance.
This Make it easy, at every step.
has delivered improvements in on-time performance Open and upfront, we will always be straight by 3.9 ppt within 15 minutes.
Measuring customer satisfaction To ensure easyJets people have ownership of Regular feedback from customer satisfaction the charter it was co-created with over 300 CSAT surveys helps inform our programmes to employees including pilots, cabin crew, contact continually improve the customer experience.
centre employees and airport partners.
Over the Customers are invited to take part in the CSAT past 18 months, over 16,000 employees have been survey shortly after their ight.
introduced to these promises and have been trained on their relevance to their specic roles.
This web-based survey gathers feedback on performance from booking through to arrival across This cultural change programme seeks to engage the entire network.
The core strategic customer the hearts and minds of easyJets people to embrace measures focus on how satisfied the customer was the customer.
More recently, a team of customer with their recent experience, how likely they are to champions has begun to engage the management book again with easyJet in the future and how likely and administration teams on how they can also live they are to recommend easyJet.
Employees are also being encouraged to use the charter promises when In the last year there has been particular focus on the dealing with each other.
This will ensure a consistent areas most important to the customer on-time culture and approach is developed across the performance and boarding the plane.
A customer charter recognition of allocated seating in November 2012 increased programme is being introduced to reward and satisfaction with boarding the plane with easyJet celebrate where easyJets people demonstrate being recognised by the Family and Parenting Institute and bring to life the promises within the charter.
with their Family friendly award 2013. easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2013 54 Strategic report easyJet continues to achieve strong on-time HUMAN RIGHTS performance ensuring the majority of customers Whilst easyJet does not have a specic human rights arrive on time.
This has been helped by the fact the policy at present, it does have policies that adhere to vast majority of customers now check in online and internationally proclaimed human rights principles some an increasing number of customers travelling without of which are summarised below.
easyJet will give careful hold luggage which speeds movement through the consideration to whether a specic human rights policy is airport.
easyJet continues to focus on smoothing the needed in the future over and above our existing policies.
seasonal peaks and troughs in customer satisfaction by proactively managing the airport and in-ight Equality experience in our busiest periods.
easyJet is an equal opportunities employer and actively seeks to protect the right of all individuals to be free Special assistance passengers from discrimination or harassment.
To support this, fair, easyJet takes the welfare of all passengers objective and innovative employment practices are extremely seriously as it continues to work to used to ensure that all employees are protected from improve the travelling experience.
This includes discrimination and harassment and have an equal the requirements of around 300,000 passengers chance to contribute and to achieve their potential.
There have been ongoing improvements to training for both ground easyJet is committed to the equal treatment of and air crew developed with the support of the all passengers.
This commitment to protecting the special assistance and disabled community.
welfare of all passengers is supported by the advice of stakeholders within easyJet and the continued easyJet works with several leading experts and involvement of the easyJet Special Assistance associations from across Europe.
These include Advisory Group in policy and product development.
the French association APAJH Association pour Adultes et Jeunes Handicaps, Age UK and Freedom of association Mobility Schweiz International.
A special advisory easyJet recognises the right of all employees to freedom group the easyJet Special Assistance Advisory of association and collective bargaining.
The Company Group ESAAG chaired by the Right Honourable seeks to promote a spirit of co-operation between all David Blunkett MP continues to provide important employees, the management team, recognised trade feedback and guidance.
This covers the welfare, unions and representative bodies in order to promote requirements and trends around the special the success of the business.
The airline constructively assistance community.
engages with around 14 trade unions representing pilots, cabin crew and engineers and eight representative ESAAG gave crucial feedback on the website, bodies covering information and consultation obligations the pre notication process, important new services across various business areas and jurisdictions.
There is a such as allocated seating, online check-in, the structured schedule of meetings and negotiations with easyJet app, and discussed important themes each body which is proactively managed across each such as eAccessbility, boarding processes, airport community and group.
The establishment of the services and in-ight requirements.
An important easyJet European Works Council, which consists of addition to the group has been representatives representatives from across easyJet, also enables from easyJets legal and operations units.
With progressive communication between all parties.
the help of the advisory group, new mandatory eLearning special assistance training has been Trade union membership and representation is entirely rolled out to all managers.
voluntary and, in recognition of this, easyJet ensures that no employee is at a disadvantage by not being a easyJet has also worked with them to raise awareness trade union member.
easyJet ensures this by providing of the challenges faced by passengers requiring other avenues for employee representation through the special assistance, including a presentation by relevant consultative or collective bargaining bodies.
David Blunkett at easyJets headquarters.
Practical sessions have been used to further understand the Bribery and corruption challenges faced by those with special needs.
easyJet has a company-wide Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy.
This requires compulsory Anti-Bribery and Ethics training with an online examination for all management and administration employees.
As at 30 September 2013, this has been completed and passed by all of the Executive Management Team and 98% of senior management.
Political donations easyJet works constructively with all levels of government across Europe, the Middle East, Russia, and North Africa, regardless of political afliation.
easyJet believes in the rights of individuals to engage in the democratic process, including making political donations, however easyJet does not itself make any political donations.
com 55 Strategic report Corporate responsibility continued Charity Committee COMMUNITY AND CHARITABLE easyJet has a dedicated European Charity ACTIVITIES Committee to oversee the partnership with UNICEF easyJet undertakes a number of community that also determines how funding is spent.
These are focused on supporting the local Since launching in 2012, the Committee has communities where the Company is based as well awarded 36,000 to over 100 local charities across as harnessing the fundraising power of employees Europe.
These awards are nominated and chosen and customers.
To this end, in 2012 easyJet formed by easyJet people on a monthly basis, which a three year partnership with UNICEF, the worlds ensures support for charities at a local level.
leading organisation focusing on children and their rights, under the Change for Good partnership.
Local community engagement easyJet continues to provide support at local UNICEF: Our pan-European charity partner community level through a variety of initiatives across Change for Good Europe.
This has included school visits by pilots This year easyJet raised 302,000 during the and hosting a schools event at the headquarters in winter collection and 725,000 during the summer partnership with Solar Impulse Around the World collection.
In addition, 215,000 was raised in in a Solar Airplane.
response to the UNICEF emergency appeal to help easyJet has sponsored a number of local the children of Syria caught in the ongoing conict.
These include: This means that since launching the partnership, 2.1 million has been raised.
This is more than any the Manchester and Berlin PRIDE, in recognition other airline within the Change for Good programme: of the airlines diversity: an achievement easyJet aims to continue.
the Edinburgh International Film Festival to reect The Change for Good programme offers all easyJets position as Scotlands largest airline: and easyJet customers the chance to support the Luton Town Football Club along with the Love worlds children by dropping their spare change and Luton campaign which reects the airlines historic leftover foreign currency into fundraising pouches.
easyJet employees support this through fundraising activities such as sponsored challenges and raising money in innovative ways in their free time.
Donations from easyJet and its passengers have allowed UNICEF to vaccinate over 5.3 million mothers and children against preventable, life-threatening diseases across West and Central Africa.
The Company has also provided benets in kind, such as free prole raising for the charity through various channels and free ights to support the work of the charity.
easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2013 56 Strategic report SEEING UNICEFS WORK In the summer of 2013, a group of easyJet staff including pilots and cabin crew travelled to Ghana, West Africa, to see how money raised through customer donations is being used to help children in the region.
The team visited the rural districts of Northern Ghana to see how UNICEF delivers life-saving vaccines to children at risk from diseases including measles, diphtheria andtetanus.
The easyJet groupfollowed the last stages of the cold chain: the journey that a vaccine takes.
After seeing where vaccines are stored in the regional centre, Tamale, inindustrial-grade refrigerators supplied by UNICEF, the group then travelled to a rural health centre.
There they met community health nurse, Paulina Dumba, and followed her on her motorbike with vaccines carried in a specially designed cool box as she delivered and administered them to children in rural locations.
2.1m Raised so far, for the UNICEF charity 5.3m mothers and children vaccinated against 1.2m preventable life-threatening raised for UNICEF diseases in the year www.
