STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY INTRODUCTION training and educating our staff worldwide in the safe operation of our equipment: and This report describes the policies and procedures that the Board has put in place to ensure that ensuring that health and safety issues have Aggreko operates in a safe, ethical and responsible the appropriate level of focus throughout the manner, which protects the environment as well as management chain.
safeguarding the health and safety of its employees, its customers, and the communities in which it operates.
Aggreko has created its own Global Environmental The process for identifying, evaluating and managing Health and Safety Management System GEMS the risks that are considered significant is summarised which has been implemented throughout the business.
under the heading of Internal Control on page 70.
At the core of GEMS is a Best Operating Practice document that is published in ten languages.
The The nature of our business is that we work in many Best Operating Practice is updated in the light of different countries, often in remote and difficult experience and incidents.
environments, with equipment and substances which, if improperly handled, are potentially dangerous to GEMS incorporates a comprehensive reporting system people and harmful to property and the environment.
which is designed to ensure that the Company knows We frequently operate in response to natural or manof every incident, and can learn from it.
A uniform made disasters, where the infrastructure has been badly accident and incident data collection procedure is damaged and where operating conditions are far from implemented worldwide, and from this we can ideal.
Over time, therefore, we have developed a measure our performance and benchmark our comprehensive range of operating procedures and operations.
Performance measures are reported at a processes to ensure that we minimise any risk of business unit level on a monthly basis.
Any serious harm to people or to the environment.
incident is immediately reported to the Executive HEALTH AND SAFETY Director responsible for the business unit concerned.
Aggreko puts health and safety at the very heart Meetings of the senior management of each region are of its operations.
Most of our equipment is heavy, held regularly: at each of these an Executive Director electro-mechanical equipment which is moved around will normally chair the meeting, and incidents reported frequently.
Compressors and generators respectively under GEMS are discussed.
Monthly Board reports are produce high-pressure compressed air and high voltage then produced on Health and Safety and considered at electricity, either of which can be harmful to people each meeting of the Board, along with a report from if mishandled.
each of the Regional Executive Directors on Health and Safety in their particular region.
The Executive Aggrekos policy is to implement common health Director with overall responsible for Health and Safety and safety operating procedures worldwide.
In 2013, Rupert was supported in this operating in the Australian bush, the Saudi Arabian role by George Walker the Executive Director with desert or in downtown Manhattan, our operating responsibility for Health and Safety until 31 December procedures are the same high standard.
2012, going forward, Ron Sams Group Manufacturing, Operations & Technology Director and a member Among the key features of Aggrekos worldwide of the Executive Committee, will have operational Health and Safety Policy are: responsibility for coordinating Health and Safety policies and preparing reports to the Board.
ensuring that health and safety issues are at the forefront of considerations when we design our equipment: ensuring that our equipment is built and maintained to the highest standards: Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 53 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED SAFETY THE ENVIRONMENT Our business involves the frequent movement of Set out below is an explanation of the terms heavy equipment which, in its operation, produces and abbreviations used in this section.
lethal voltages and contains thousands of litres of fuel.
Rigorous safety processes are absolutely essential if we CO2 Carbon Dioxide.
are to avoid accidents which could cause injury to EPA Environmental Protection Agency.
people and damage to property and reputation.
Safety g kWh Emissions in grams per kilowatt hour.
processes are also a basic benchmark of operational kVA A thousand volt amperes.
discipline and there is, in our view, a close correlation between a well-run business and a safe business.
LWA Sound power level at source.
The main KPI we use to measure safety performance NOx Oxides of Nitrogen.
is the internationally recognised Frequency Accident Rating FAR which is calculated as the number of Particulate In general this term relates to visible smoke.
lost time accidents multiplied by 200,000 being the SCR Selective Catalytic Reduction.
base for 100 employees working 40 hours per week, Tier 1, Tier 2, Tier 3, Tier 4 US Federal Government 50 weeks per year divided by the total hours worked.
A lost time accident is a work related injury illness that results in an employees inability to work the Environmental policy day after the initial injury illness.
Aggrekos equipment is designed to function in all continents and all types of terrain.
By careful design The Groups FAR for 2013 was 0.68.
This compares and use of the most suitable technology, we also aim to favourably to the benchmark of 1.9 reported for US minimise the environmental impact of that equipment.
rental and leasing industries published by the US Aggreko makes available to its customers equipment Department of Labor in 2012, and was an improvement and solutions that are designed to comply with on the 0.94 achieved in 2012. applicable laws, regulations and industry standards wherever we operate in the world.
In effect, this means Further discussion of Health & Safety matters can they comply with the laws, regulations and standards be found in this report in the Principal Risks and of some of the most stringent jurisdictions in which Uncertainties section on page 38 and the Key we operate and, therefore, far exceed the levels Performance Indicators section on page 31. required in many others.
FAR was as follows: Year ended 31 December The two major environmental issues we deal with in 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 our business are emissions-to-air from our equipment the majority of which is diesel powered with an FAR 0.68 0.94 0.98 0.71 0.76 increasing proportion of gas, and the safe handling and disposal of fuel and oil.
Our Environmental Policies are managed in a similar way to safety.
They comprise: ensuring that environmental issues are at the forefront of considerations when we design our fleet: ensuring that our equipment is built and maintained to the highest standards: training and educating our staff worldwide in the safe operation of our equipment: and 54 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT ensuring that environmental issues have the As our suppliers produce engines which comply with appropriate level of focus throughout the new emissions, we work with them to introduce the management chain.
new engines into the fleet.
In 2008, we started trialling new Tier 2 compliant engines for our high-horsepower Emissions-to-air: exhaust gases and particulates range, and these were introduced into production in Emissions-to-air are an inevitable by-product of 2010.
During 2011 and 2012 we continued our hydrocarbon fuelled engines.
Over the years, as engines investment in new emissionised fleet and by the end of have become more efficient and legislation to limit 2012, the vast majority of our North American power emissions around the world has become stricter, fleet was certified to operate at Tier 2 EPA standards emissions have reduced sharply.
Aggreko works in or above.
During 2013, around 25% of the new diesel co-operation with the manufacturers of engines in order engines introduced to our worldwide fleet were certified to meet new emission requirements in a timely manner.
to at least Tier 3 in North America or the equivalent Stage 3A standard in Europe.
At the same time, we The principal contribution we can make to reducing continued our investment in Tier 4 Interim products, emissions to air is in maintaining our equipment in launching three new models in 2013.
Over 15% of the good order, and introducing engines into the fleet new diesel engines introduced to our worldwide fleet in with good emissions performance.
2013 were certified to the Tier 4 Interim standard.
We expect this trend for increasing emissions compliance In an increasing number of countries, air quality to continue and we will continue to introduce new Tier regulations stipulate emission standards with which 4 Interim certified products.
Research and planning for new equipment being sold must comply.
Generally Tier 4 final, for our classification of use, is underway countries allow mobile equipment already operating and we expect that there will be solutions and product to continue to do so for its useful life.
This is called available in 2015. grandfathering.
The US EPA has introduced the earliest and most stringent regulation in this area, To further reduce emissions-to-air for specific projects, introducing reduction targets for emissions of NOx after-treatment can be applied to existing fleet.
In 2008 and particulate in Tiers, starting with Tier 1 in 1996, a significant project was undertaken in Chile to deliver moving to Tier 4 final in 2014.
The EPA requirements the lowest level of NOx yet stipulated by a standard.
have therefore been the main driver of new generator Seventy of Aggrekos project machines were fitted development.
The following graph illustrates the with an advanced SCR unit that reduced NOx by reduction targets for emissions under the EPA regime.
More recently the post Tsunami diesel projects, totalling 248MW, utilised this technology on Aggreko NOx and particulate reduction targets machines to meet the Japanese air quality standards.
Similar technology will be required to meet EPA Tier 4 0.6 Tier 1 final requirements in the US and in Europe thereafter.
We are currently working closely with engine 0.5 manufacturers and primary technology developers to derive appropriate solutions for these requirements.
0.4 For the 2012 London Olympics, we developed and deployed a retrofit solution for existing fleet to meet LOCOGs stringent demands for low emission levels.
0.3 Tier 3 Tier 2 0.2 0.1 Tier 4 final Tier 4 interim 0 0 2 4 6 8 10 NOx g kWh Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 55 Particulate g kWh CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED Aggreko natural gas generator development Bio-fuels Across some of our markets we have We are constantly exploring new ways of reducing seen the emergence of Bio-diesel as an alternative emissions, and have now built up a fleet of 1,485MW energy source.
These fuels are compatible with most of gas-fuelled equipment, comprising 1MW sets used in of our generator fleet, either in a blended or pure our Power Projects and Local business as well as smaller format.
Bio-fuel can reduce CO2 emissions, given gas-fuelled generators used in the Local business.
This that the crop that derived the fuel has absorbed temporary power solution has significantly lower levels CO2 from the atmosphere.
While we will continue of emissions see below.
In 2013, over 14% of the to support customers who wish to run our new generator sets manufactured and introduced equipment on Bio-fuels, our main concern with to our worldwide fleet were gas powered.
this energy source is sustainability of the sources of production, and the environmental impact of Tier 1 engine Gas engine Reduction certain production methods.
Consequently, we are NOx 8.5 g kWh 1.4 g kWh 74% not actively promoting Bio-fuel use in our business.
Particulates 0.10 g kWh 0.04 g kWh 60% CO2 intensity 669 g CO2 520 g CO2 22% Fuel Cells Whilst we keep a close watch on the kWh kWh development of Fuel Cell technology, we do not currently see any commercial application in our business.
This may change as technology improves Natural gas presents a competitive advantage over and costs reduce.
It is seen as economically more efficient because only about 10% of the natural gas Renewables At present, it is hard to envisage produced is wasted before it gets to final consumption.
the application of renewable energy sources to In addition, technological advances are constantly large temporary power generation projects.
While improving efficiencies in extraction, transportation we have, for example, reviewed the application of and storage techniques as well as in equipment that battery technology in combination with a diesel uses natural gas.
generator to provide hybrid power, which can improve efficiency and reduce fuel consumption, Natural gas is considered an  technology is not yet advanced enough to enable clean fuel, offering important environmental benefits us to pursue a hybrid renewable option.
We do when compared with other fossil fuels.
The superior however foresee a role for our products in environmental qualities over coal or oil are that supporting systems and grids which rely upon emissions of sulphur dioxide are negligible and that renewables, where seasonal restrictions can occur.
the level of NOx and CO2 emissions is significantly lower.
Where the gas fuel is essentially a by-product Emissions-to-air: carbon dioxide of production or is derived from a biological source, Aggreko Greenhouse Gas Emissions Report a CO2 and greenhouse gas reduction is realised.
This 2012 and 2013 helps to reduce problems of acid rain, ozone or We are somewhat sceptical of the reporting on greenhouse gases.
Our issue is not with the principle of reporting, it is with attempting In many of Aggrekos target markets natural gas is to impose spurious levels of accuracy and pretending effectively a stranded resource.
Aggrekos service that the numbers produced are accurate.
They are not: allows for generation of power from this valuable they are an aggregate of many hundreds of more or resource on a more flexible and scalable basis than less wild guesses.
By way of example, in our reporting, existing solutions.
84% of our GHG emissions comes from our customers burning fuel in our engines.
But best practice dictates Alternative energy sources that we add 18.5% to this number to account for the In addition to the work we have undertaken assumed GHG gases expended making the fuel and developing natural gas-powered generators, we are getting it to site, irrespective of whether fuel gets to constantly reviewing product technologies, looking our engine down a pipeline or in a truck.
This 18.5% for advances that we can adopt within our product dwarfs our own in-house emissions.
These include: 56 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT However, over the past few years the pressure from Given the dominance of fleet emissions, there are various bodies to give a single number has mounted, three main factors driving Aggrekos total annual and this year became a requirement.
Last year for the GHG emissions: the fuel type our customers chose to first time we employed a consultant to estimate what use: the pattern of their usage: and the fuel efficiency our GHG emissions are, and weve used them again of Fleet.
Only the last of these is under the control this year.
Accordingly, this report presents our scope of Aggreko.
1, 2 and 3 GHG emissions for the calendar years 2012 and 2013.
The increase in GHG emissions between 2012 and 2013 largely reflects the increase in fuel used by our In order to calculate the GHG emissions, we have customers, where total energy delivered has increased used the method outlined in the GHG Protocol by over 31%.
The fact that the increase in total GHG Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard emissions was 29% demonstrates a decrease in the revised edition, together with the latest emission underlying carbon intensity of our fleet, mainly due factors from recognised public sources including, to a slight proportionate increase in our gas fleet.
but not limited to, Defra, the International Energy Without the fleet carbon intensity reduction of 2% Agency, the US Energy Information Administration, between 2012 and 2013, the total GHG emissions in the US Environmental Protection Agency and the 2013 would have been approximately 290,000 tonnes Intergovernmental panel on Climate Change.
Our investment in new fleet has therefore reduced GHG emissions by just over one Tables 1 and 2 below present the principal findings quarter of a million tonnes in a year, almost double from GHG analyses of the previous two years.
Table 1: Total GHG emissions by GHG In addition to reporting our GHG emissions, we are protocol scope also now required to report a net intensity metric as appropriate for Aggreko.
Intensity ratios express the tCO2e year 2012 2013 GHG impact per unit of physical activity or unit of Scope 1 12,639,771 16,287,898 economic output: a declining intensity ratio reflects a Scope 2 14,168 14,554 positive performance improvement.
Having given this Scope 3 2,358,459 3,071,360 some consideration, and as the majority of the GHG Total 15,012,398 19,373,812 emissions we report are generated by customers operating tCO2e year defined as tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent.
our fleet, we have chosen Revenue Intensity as the most suitable metric for our business.
Our intensity metric is therefore an indication of emissions per 1 of Revenue Table 2: Total GHG emissions by fleet non-fleet generated and is presented in Table 3 below: tCO2e year 2012 2013 Fleet 14,850,161 19,225,517 Table 3: Revenue intensity ratio Non-fleet 162,237 148,295 tCO2e 2012 2013 Total 15,012,398 19,373,812 Revenue intensity ratio 9.5 12.3 The results show that 99% of GHG emissions arise Whilst on the face of it our revenue intensity ratio from customers operation of our rental fleet.
In line appears to have worsened over the year, this masks with best practice, our GHG accounting systems the underlying performance in our business.
In 2012, include an estimate of the upstream GHG emissions a lot of our equipment was on-hire but was not running: associated with fuel supply chains which typically add it was in fact on standby.
The way our Power Projects 18.5% to combustion emissions: this 18.5% accounts contracts works is that we are paid a capacity charge for 98% of the scope 3 emissions detailed in Table 1. to provide the equipment even if it doesnt run: in which case we have revenue without emissions.
When the equipment runs, which more of it did in 2013 with a 17% increase in running hours, we acquire Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 57 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED incremental revenue but we also produce emissions.
2013 0.39 Given that about 75% of the average contract cost is the capacity charge, the revenue intensity ratio is 2012 0.41 heavily geared and therefore significantly impacted when our equipment runs.
2011 0.62 There are some more general points we should make: Our equipment has been specifically designed to first, Aggreko is committed to growing its business and minimise the risk of fluid spillage through features if we are successful it is inevitable that the amount such as a save-all base, double-walled storage tanks of fuel our customers burn, and therefore the amount and fail-safe valves.
A PRR score of 0.35 has been of GHG emissions from our generators, will increase.
set by the Group as a target for 2014, based on 90% However, by investing in alternative fuels such as gas of the actual performance for 2013. and fuel-efficient engines, we can seek to mitigate the impact of growth.
Another potential source of environmental damage is in the disposal of consumables such as engine oil Second, whilst diesel-powered generation is viewed and filters.
In our Local business, these are normally by many environmentalists as the devils spawn, a returned to our service centres where they are safely significant amount of our capacity is dedicated to disposed of.
In our Power Projects business, sitemaking practical emissions-free generation such as specific arrangements are made to ensure the safe hydro, practical.
Like all sources of renewable energy, handling of these items.
hydro is intermittent, i. e. when it does not rain, you get no hydro power.
In many parts of Africa, South Reporting of fuel spills is handled in a similar way America and Asia the rains fail every 4-6 years, and to safety incidents, with monthly reports reviewed they need alternative generation to support the grid at each meeting of the Board.
Supporting hydro with diesel is a core part of our business, and enables these countries to Noise provide both low-emissions generation and continuous Aggreko has built a competitive advantage through supplies of electricity, even in times of drought.
an equipment fleet that minimises external noise.
This is done by the use of custom-built acoustic enclosures Thirdly, legislation over the last twenty years related to as well as high performance isolation and attenuation combustion engines has focussed on reducing emissions systems.
Aggreko continues to work closely with its such as Nitrogen and Sulphur Dioxide, which are just suppliers and local university research departments in as harmful as CO2.
Engine manufacturers have been order to develop its expertise in this field.
As a result, our very successful at this, but, perversely, lower nitrogen equipment is able to achieve the following performance and sulphur dioxide emissions come at the cost of standards that are well below the maximum levels worse fuel consumption, and therefore more CO2.
permitted by current European legislation.
So as our fleet gets cleaner by one measure, it gets Size of generator Certified noise level Sound Power LWA dirtier by another.
Aggreko Aggreko Maximum Standard Premium Petroleum spills and the safe disposal of waste fluids Prime power EU limit Product Product Aggreko and its customers handle a considerable 30kVA 96.47 92.0 78.0 quantity of diesel fuel and the rare occurrence of 60kVA 96.77 93.0 80.0 accidental fuel spills is an area that the Group monitors 125kVA 97.10 94.0 83.0 very closely.
The measure used by management to 200kVA 97.30 94.0 91.0 measure the performance of the Group in handling 350kVA 97.55 92.0 90.0 fuel is the Petroleum Release Rating PRR.
This is Note: A reduction of 3 LWA in the certified noise level equates calculated as litres released to ground, divided by the to an audible noise level that is approximately 50% lower.
cumulative average MW on rent.
The PRR performance over the past three years has been: 58 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT Refrigerant Regional Management Teams and the two key central In accordance with the timelines and accords set out financial appointments of Director of Finance and by the Montreal protocol Aggreko has phased out Group Treasurer.
CFC plant from its temperature control rental fleet Year end 31 December 2013 and is in the process of phasing out HCFC plant: we % % have introduced HFC production models in all areas.
Male Female Total male female PLC Board 10 2 12 83% 17% EMPLOYEES AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES Senior Management 34 4 38 89% 11% Aggreko is committed to promoting equal opportunities Executive Director for all, irrespective of disability, ethnic origin, gender main reports or any other considerations that do not affect a Senior Management 68 3 72 96% 4% persons ability to perform their job.
Subsidiary Directors Whole Group 4,956 982 5,938 83% 17% The Groups policies for recruitment, training, career development and promotion of employees are based on the suitability of the individual and give those who HUMAN RIGHTS are disabled equal treatment with the able bodied.
At Aggreko we have always taken our responsibilities to Where appropriate, employees disabled after joining individuals seriously, whether they are our employees or the Group are given suitable training for alternative other people who might be affected by our operations.
employment with the Group or elsewhere.
We have identified matters such as Safety, Emissions, and People as matters to be considered as part of the The Group continues to operate team briefings principal risks and uncertainties facing the business, throughout its business to keep employees informed of set out on pages 34 to 39 and we have explained our developments and plans, both in their own operations approach to Health and Safety set out on pages 53 to and in the Group as a whole.
Employees have access 54, Equal Opportunities set out on page 59, emissions to the Aggreko Resource Centre, an intranet based and noise set out in the section on The Environment system, which provides them with a wide range of on pages 54 to 59 and grievance mechanisms see the information on the activities of the Group around the description of our whistleblower hotline on page 76. world.
The annual and interim results are publicised Whilst all these matters are linked, to a greater or lesser extensively throughout the business and are made extent, to human rights, we prefer to address them as available to all employees.
part of our operations, rather than as a separate issue of human rights, and although we continue to evaluate The Group has an externally facilitated all potential risks, we do not think that human rights whistleblowing hotline, which gives access for all otherwise present material issues for our business.
employees to a confidential, multi-lingual service to report any cases of ethical non-compliance, bullying OUR WORK IN THE COMMUNITY or discrimination.
Policy Aggreko has a policy of encouraging local teams to DIVERSITY engage with the communities in which they work, and The table below shows the breakdown by gender each year they undertake a number of initiatives to help at different levels within the organisation.
We have the disadvantaged or those affected by natural disasters.
included the information below on Subsidiary Directors as this is required by the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Reports Regulations 2013 however we believe that a better reflection of Senior Management would be those employees who are the main direct reports to the Executive Directors, that is, the other members of the Executive Committee, the members of the three Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 59 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED Charitable donations as well as consultants and agents who we work with, During 2013, the Group contributed to a range of are expected to behave ethically in their work, and our charitable, community and disaster relief organisations.
expectations of them are set out in a Corporate Ethics We have a policy of giving little donations to many Policy.
The objective of the Policy is to make Aggreko organisations which are involved with the communities a good company to work for: to maintain our reputation in which we work, rather than giving a lot of money for exceptional customer service and ethical business to a few.
Our largest single donation goes to Book dealings: to compete ethically: and to ensure the Aid International, a charity promoting literacy in business is managed to a consistently high standard.
The Africa with whom we have been working since 2006.
Board has an Ethics Committee comprising Ken Hanna Book Aid has provided hundreds of thousands of Chairman, David Hamill and Diana Layfield, to books to schools and libraries.
We admire their work oversee the implementation of the Groups policies and enormously, and donations from Aggreko have enabled procedures, and the report of the Committee is set out books to be distributed in Cameroon, Kenya, Namibia, on pages 77 and 78.
Further discussion of our policies Tanzania and Uganda.
Books are, we feel, a good form for handling ethical risks is set out under Principal Risks of donation: they do not require maintenance: they and Uncertainties Failure to conduct business dealings can be used by many people: they are not open to with integrity and honesty, on pages 37 and 38. corruption: they last a long time: and they help directly in the key task of helping people to help themselves.
Employees who suspect any breaches of the Corporate Ethics Policy are encouraged to speak up, and their BUSINESS ETHICS confidentiality and position is protected if they do so.
Ethics Policy Our Group-wide whistleblowing hotline, described Aggreko has a reputation for delivering innovation, on page 76, helps this process.
Also at the heart of our SEE OUR CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY WEBSITE long-term success is something less tangible and less easily illustrated with figures or case studies.
This key Further information and copies of the Environmental, element is integrity and honesty in our business Health and Safety Policy and Corporate Ethics Policy dealings, a factor that contributes to our long-term are available at http: ir.
com investors relationships with customers.
This Strategic Report is signed on behalf of the Board by: Rupert Soames Angus Cockburn Chief Executive Chief Financial Officer 6 March 2014 60 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 DIRECTORS REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT Board of Directors 62 Corporate Governance 65 Audit Committee Report 72 Ethics Committee Report 77 Nomination Committee Report 79 Remuneration Report 81 Statutory Disclosures 102 Statement of Directors Responsibilities 106 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 61
