Corporate responsibility DELIVERING SUSTAINABLE GROWTH n September 2012 we celebrated our 75th anniversary.
Having started life selling parts for radios from a small garage highlights 2013 I in London, Radiospares, now known as RS Components, offered 50 products in its six-page catalogue.
Today we offer 90,000 electronics and maintenance products in our catalogue and 550,000 24% products online.
As in 1937 our business model is still based on high reduction in lost time service, offering same day despatch, but now we serve over one accidents million customers internationally from distribution centres in 17 locations across the world.
10% Corporate responsibility CR is an integral part of our business and reduction in total waste as our business has evolved so has our commitment to sound CR generated policies and practices across the globe.
Our key stakeholders include customers, suppliers, investors, employees, and communities, who expect us to be an honourable and moral organisation.
We believe that 82% Our Group Chief Executive is the Director responsible for CR and the progressive participation in global the Board of Electrocomponents takes account of CR matters in the employee engagement alignment of Groups business operations.
Our new Non-Executive Directors have survey visited our distribution centres in the UK as part of their induction.
our values and We believe that the progressive alignment of our values and strategy strategy with with responsible and ethical business policies and practices is a driver responsible and for sustainable growth and success across the world.
ethical business Electrocomponents is a member of the FTSE4Good Index, which measures the performance of companies that meet globally policies and recognised corporate responsibility standards.
We have been practices is included in the 2013 Corporate Knights Global 100 List of sustainable a driver for corporations based on the disclosure of our sustainability practices, financial health, product category and financial sanctions.
This is the sustainable fifth time in the past seven years that Electrocomponents has been Silver award in RoSPA growth and included in the Global 100 list.
Occupational Health and success across Safety Awards We have identi ed the following corporate responsibility risks as the world having the greatest potential impact on our business and key stakeholders: carbon emissions, paper usage, product packaging, waste, health and safety issues, employee and community engagement.
We address these risks and communicate our findings under three separate headings: Our People, Our Community and Our Environment.
This year we have made encouraging progress on all three elements of our CR agenda.
Our people are our greatest asset and keeping them safe and healthy is of paramount importance.
Our five-year global safety strategy was developed and implemented in 2012 and has already led to some impressive results, including a decrease of nearly 50% in reported accidents.
In recognition of our health and safety success over this year, we have been awarded the Royal Society for the Prevention of Accidents RoSPA Silver award for ongoing commitment to raising occupational health and safety standards.
28 Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Directors report: Business review Following the restructure of our business into a global organisation in 2012, we have conducted our first global employee survey to learn how our people are feeling about the opportunity ahead, what motivates them and whats important to them.
During the year ending 31 March 2014 we will digest the results of this survey and implement initiatives to address areas of concern highlighted to us by that survey.
Our reputation in the local community is important to us.
We believe that we play a valuable role in supporting the development of our local communities and therefore invest time and resource in engaging with them.
Our Community activities are strongly supported by our employees and we encourage our people to get involved.
Local community activity and charitable giving are recorded and the results are monitored and reported to the Group.
We use a set of key performance indicators KPIs to assess and monitor the environmental performance of our businesses and sites.
Our KPIs index environmental impacts to sales to re ect performance adjusted for business growth.
This enables us to benchmark individual areas of the Groups business and helps identify opportunities for performance improvement.
The Group has a policy manual, Our Standards, which sets out the standards of behaviour to which every employee is expected to work and which fide fines the core values and principles we apply in dealing with our customers, suppliers and other stakeholders.
The manual covers gifts, hospitality and donations, fraud, compliance, competition law, con icts of interest and respect for our employees.
We issue Our Standards annually to our management population across the Group in seven languages.
We have a zero tolerance approach to all forms of bribery and corruption.
The Anti-Bribery Policy applies to all businesses, Directors and employees within our Group to ensure compliance with all laws and regulations governing bribery and corruption in the countries in which we operate.
Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 201329 Corporate responsibility continued lost time accidents LTAs 200,000 hours 1.5 1.2 0.9 0.6 0.3 0.0 2008 2010 2011 2012 2013 OUR PEOPLE........ AND THEIR HEALTH AND SAFETY We value our people and foster a culture that embodies our Group Health and safety is a key element of Building a Great Place to Work behaviours: Respect, High Performance, Working Together, Dynamic, and integral to continued economic success and a sustainable future.
We want to build a Group where our Our core objective is to achieve long-term cultural change within the employees work together as one global team with one global vision, business, promoting good practice and behaviours amongst all inspire trust amongst each other through openness and honesty and employees.
Our health and safety systems, processes and drive superior standards of professionalism.
Our aim is to encourage organisation are embedded as a core activity and underpin many accountability and continuous improvement while nurturing an wider business strategies.
Our customers are at the heart of our business With 17 distribution centres across the world, accident prevention is a and we strive to continually meet their expectations.
The implementation of the five-year global safety strategy We are committed to Building a Great Place to Work and believe has produced signi cant results after just one year.
We have reduced that we can attain this if we cultivate engaged employees who live the number of Lost Time Accidents LTAs by 24%, equating to by our Group behaviours.
Employee engagement remains key to 0.60 LTAs 200,000 hours.
We have also conducted our first global employee The amount of lost time has been reduced by 47% from 770 days engagement survey, My Voice, which we will use to shape our future in 2012 to 405 in 2013.
Furthermore, the total number of reported plans.
An impressive 82% of employees participated.
We recognise accidents, including minor, lost time and road traf c, has decreased that developing their skills, motivation and teamwork is key to by 45% from 967 to 532 in 2013.
Near miss reporting remains at a achieving our strategic objectives and are committed to helping high level 4,421 in 2013 compared to 5,157 in 2012, re ecting the them reach their full potential.
improvement in employee awareness and engagement regarding safety.
We conduct performance appraisals twice a year, encourage regular This performance has been achieved through a number of initiatives one-to-ones with line managers and use tools such as 360 feedback.
including a sustained programme of risk assessments, implementation Development programmes are offered and delivered through speci c of global health and safety standards, and further leadership and courses, on-the-job and virtual learning.
We also offer a number of safety training.
Our Target Zero campaign, which has been rolled global programmes, such as Leadership Coaching.
out as a global initiative, has improved the level of safety awareness Our evolution to a global operating model has resulted in a year of in all markets.
signi cant change for our people.
We involved our senior leaders There has been continued investment in safety training, including in fide ning and agreeing the changes, ensuring that we remained mechanical handling equipment, management training, safety fair and transparent throughout the process.
We recognised the leadership and re safety training, and the majority of our employees importance of effective and regular communication, and encouraged attended a safety training course.
In the coming year we will employee feedback, using a variety of channels including videos, implement a wellbeing strategy, including occupational health newsletters, emails, and our intranet.
We encouraged our managers education, to further aid and bene t our people.
to provide regular support to their teams so that our people understood why change was necessary.
We have created a network In recognition of our success we achieved a Silver award in the RoSPA of global Change Champions to support our people as we implement Occupational Health and Safety Awards, an improvement over our the changes necessary to achieve our seven strategic priorities.
Bronze award of last year.
In Italy we also received the Enterprise Award for Safety.
In the UK, the British Standards Institute BSI We respect the rights of our employees and aim to treat them with three-yearly re-accreditation process for Environment BS 14001 and dignity and consideration.
We are committed to a policy of equality Health and Safety BS 18001 standards was successful.
We were and apply the same criteria to all employees regardless of gender, also chosen as an of cial European campaign partner of the EU-OSHA disability, ethnicity or any other factor that could be the cause of Healthy Workplaces Campaign 2012-2013, Working together for discrimination.
Our focus is to educate our managers to create a risk prevention.
more diverse and inclusive culture.
This includes reverse mentoring to provide insight into another perspective and to challenge stereotype and judgement.
We also monitor statistics around recruitment, promotion and exit to provide insight for improving our processes.
All of the Groups employment and training policies are compliant with relevant employment legislation and regulatory obligations.
Where appropriate, facilities are adapted and retraining offered to any employee who develops a disability during their employment.
30 Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Directors report: Business review Through our offices and distribution centres we have strong links to our local communities OUR COMMUNITY In our key markets around the world we are a major local employer MY COMMUNITY and we believe that we have a responsibility to these communities.
Our employees feel passionately about supporting the local IN ACTION communities they live in, so we encourage our people and give them the opportunity to be involved with charitable activities.
We encourage In September 2012 the My Community forum was created in a multi-level approach to these activities as we believe this drives a Corby, UK, to focus on employee-led community and volunteer greater degree of employee and community engagement than simply activities.
A framework was developed with clear guidelines to donating cash and stock.
We support: ensure that the forum operates in an open, fair and transparent Provision of time and expertise manner.
My Community is inclusive and accessible to all employees and our people offer their participation on a Employee-led fundraising voluntary basis.
Direct donations The My Community management committee meets monthly Corporate matching of donations to review and make decisions about community activities and Donations of stock charity requests.
An annual budget is made available to support This year we are implementing a Group community engagement employee-led initiatives on a matched giving basis and to policy, which lays down the key principles for our approach to support local school initiatives.
community engagement and charitable giving.
To ensure that A My Community newsletter is published monthly and initiatives our community engagement efforts are as effective as possible, are promoted internally and communicated externally through we will focus on the following: public relations activities.
Since its launch My Community has Supporting charities which provide for the advancement of raised more than 27,000 through a number of fundraising events education, health or saving lives and has made donations to a vast number of local charities.
Supporting charities which provide relief to those in need by reason Through an employee request My Community was able to help of youth, age, ill-health, disability or poverty support Uppingham College students to build a car to enter into a local young engineers competition.
The original request was We believe that this more structured approach will enhance our local for financial support for the students to then go and purchase teams efforts and enable us to deliver more signi cant results parts for the car.
However, the outcome of discussions saw globally.
We do, however, continue to encourage local decision-making the students spending one of their evening sessions searching regarding the speci c charities our teams wish to support to ensure the RS website for the parts, providing a parts list which maximum employee engagement.
My Community provided the funding for.
Across the world our employees have invested their time and money to raise funds for valuable causes.
Some key highlights are as follows: In the United States, the Allied team donated $37,000 to United Way, an organisation dedicated to improving education, income and health in communities across the country.
In November Allied donated $10,000 to the American Red Cross Disaster Relief Fund to support relief efforts in the wake of Hurricane Sandy In Italy, the team donated 12,000 to those affected by the earthquake in Emilia, north of Bologna In Asia Paci c, the team donated 2,652 to those RS staff affected by Typhoon Gener in the Philippines.
Flood victims in Mindano were also helped by RS through donations of clothing In Australia, the RS team raised over 1,300 by taking part in City2Surf, a 14km annual fun run, and donated the monies to a cancer charity In South Africa, a team of RS volunteers entered a 97km cycle race on the roads of Johnnesburg and raised around 3,500 for the Endangered Wildlife Trust Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 201331 Corporate responsibility continued OUR Group Environmental Policy Statement commits us to identifying and managing the environmental impacts associated with our activities Recycling performance also improved in the year with 79% of total OUR ENVIRONMENT waste being recycled, up from 74% in 2011.
A key factor in this performance was the zero to land ll campaign implemented in the The Group Environmental Policy Statement explained in Our Standards UK business which gained a bronze award from the Lets Recycle commits us to identifying and managing the environmental impacts campaign for the progress made during the year.
The policy and our implementation programmes support the Groups business strategy.
Our aims Packaging and Paper are to promote greater ef ciency and progressively reduce our Total Packaging Consumed Packaging Per Line Ordered environmental impacts per unit of sales.
Packaging Tonnes Kg Our most signi cant environmental impacts include the carbon 2012 2011 2010 2012 2011 2010 emissions due to the consumption of energy at our facilities, together 5,895 5,497 4,959 0.26 0.24 0.23 with packaging for our products, the generation of waste, and paper consumption for the production of our catalogues.
The increasing importance of the internet for customer communications has allowed us to review the frequency with which We encourage businesses to gain the ISO14001:2004 Environmental we issue our catalogues to our customers.
We have moved to an Management Standard where this is supportive of our business annual print frequency allowing us to reduce both our costs and objectives.
Currently 55% of the Group by sales is certi cated resources consumed.
We work closely with our pulp and paper suppliers and printers Our environmental data is currently reported by calendar year, to improve the carbon footprint of the catalogue which remains an however, from 2014 we will align our environmental reporting important channel for our customers.
All the pulp for the catalogues with our financial year to be consistent with other Group reporting.
is sourced from either the Sustainable Forestry Initiative or the Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certi cation PEFC Waste and Recycling accredited forest management schemes, with printing carried out 1 Total Waste in ISO14001:2004 certi cated facilities.
Waste Total Waste Tonnes Tonnes m Sales 2012 2011 2010 2012 2011 2010 The growth in the export business from our largest UK distribution centres, together with electronic production packing of customer 3,129 3,494 3,201 2.52 2.84 2.87 orders, contributed to a 7% increase in total packaging consumed 1 Percentage Waste Recycled during 2012 to 5,895 tonnes from 5,497 tonnes in 2011.
Total Waste Recycled Recycling Total Waste Total Waste Recycled Tonnes Water 2012 2011 2010 2012 2011 2010 Water Consumed Employee 3 Water Total Water Consumed m Litres per Head 79% 74% 70% 2,461 2,570 2,256 2012 2011 2010 2012 2011 2010 1 KPIs are on a constant currency basis and updated to re ect changes in reporting 52,724 52,604 48,745 8,537 8,725 8,975 methodology and in emissions factors The Groups use of water includes domestic of ce use, on-site Our primary waste streams are card, paper, wood and plastics.
catering, re protection purposes and irrigation.
We monitor water In 2012 waste intensity was reduced by 11% to 2.52 tonnes per consumption per employee.
In calendar year 2012 this gure was m sales 2011: 2.84 tonnes per m sales.
Total waste was down down 2% to 8,537 litres per person from 8,725 litres per person 10% from 3,494 tonnes in 2011 to 3,129 tonnes in 2012. in 2011.
Total use is heavily in uenced by the number of people employed, the testing of re protection systems and irrigation This improvement in waste intensity was achieved through waste 3 requirements, with a small increase from 52,604m in 2011 to reduction initiatives at a number of Group sites, together with the 3 52,724m in 2012. incremental bene ts from several innovations.
These include electronic ordering and invoicing, the use of reusable replenishment A number of sites across the Group reported reductions in modules and transit packaging, and supplier contractual clauses for consumption during 2012, but our US business reported an increase the buyback of surplus or obsolete products.
in consumption due to the exceptionally hot summer.
32 Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Directors report: Business review Emissions We continue to target improvements in energy ef ciency through Energy Intensity investment in energy ef cient lighting systems in our locations, Total Emissions CO Tonnes CO m Sales installing LED and uorescent tube lighting systems linked to 2 2 2012 2011 2010 2012 2011 2010 movement sensors across many sites to replace older less ef cient lighting installations.
CO due 2 to premises Energy management systems have now been installed across the energy UKs trade counter network.
These systems, which include automated 1,2, 3 use 20,103 19,863 21,744 16.2 16.1 19.5 meter reading, allow for more ef cient control of heating and air conditioning systems, reducing carbon energy use and carbon 1 CO2 equivalent from all energy sources including country speci c CO2 factors emissions as well as producing cost savings.
for electricity 2 Excludes a number of smaller facilities included in lease costs The investment in energy management technology and systems 3 KPIs are on a constant currency basis and updated to re ect changes in reporting supported our UK business in gaining accreditation to the Certi ed methodology and in emissions factors Emissions Management and Reduction Scheme CEMARS and the Greenhouse Gas Data Veri cation standard, ISO14064-1.
Electrocomponents participates in the Carbon Disclosure Project High quality video conferencing has been progressively installed at CDP.
The CDP is a not-for-pro t organisation that assesses and rates facilities across the Group since 2011 to improve time ef ciency and companies according to their worldwide carbon related disclosures, cost management by reducing travel requirements.
During 2012 the strategies, management and reporting.
In 2012 we achieved our best use of these facilities, as measured by the number of calls made, score to date, appearing in the top quartile of CDP scoring methodology, has averaged over 150 per week.
re ecting the Groups progress in managing energy use and the resulting CO emissions.
2 The main sources of our energy usage and related carbon emissions are our premises and operational infrastructure.
These represent a relatively xed element of our carbon emissions footprint, so that as we increase sales, our energy intensity metrics will show overall improvements in ef ciency.
However, as much of our energy use relates to space heating in winter and cooling in summer our apparent energy-related performance is also subject to climatic variations.
In calendar year 2012 our CO emissions intensity due to energy 2 use increased by 0.6% to 16.2 tonnes per m of sales.
Absolute emissions rose by 1.2% to 20,103 tonnes from 19,863 tonnes in 2011.
Increases in energy consumption were recorded at sites across Europe and North America.
This was primarily due to climatic factors experienced in 2012, with increased winter heating required in Europe and increased air conditioning needed at our US business based in Texas due to the exceptionally hot summer.
Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 201333
