Corporate responsibility report Introduction Policies are updated as necessary and new ones implemented to take Elementis recognises that corporate responsibility CR is a account of the changing business environment with associated training fundamental part of the Companys business activities, which is why provided.
For 2014, training will focus on a number of updated policies the Chief Executive is responsible at Board level for all CR matters.
including the Global anti-corruption policy and a new Group computer usage and social media policy.
Diversity Elementis is fully committed to equality of opportunity.
We apply a policy of non-discrimination throughout the Group and to all aspects of our employment policies, except as it relates to a persons ability or potential in relation to the needs of a job.
A summary of our employment policies appears on page 49 of the Directors report.
We have a total workforce The Company has since September 2009 been a member of the including contractors and temporary workers of over 1,300 in three FTSE4Good Index, a leading global responsible investment index, which regions 44 per cent in the Americas, 25 per cent in Europe and demonstrates the Companys commitment to CR and that its activities 31 per cent in Asia.
In terms of gender diversity, out of our total workforce and aspirations are aligned with the principles of the UN Global Compact excluding contractors and temporary workers as at the year end, 963 on human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption.
Below is an were male 76 per cent and 312 were female 24 per cent.
Of these female illustration of the Companys CR framework.
employees, 50 16 per cent held managerial positions and nearly 40 13 per cent held an executive management position within the four tiers below Board level.
At Board level 5 directors were male and 1 was female and at senior manager level as defined under the Elementis corporate responsibility framework prescribed regulations 19 were male and 1 female.
The Group does not consider targets or quotas to be appropriate for increasing the percentage of women in management positions.
Staff turnover across Business conduct Health and Environment and the Group, for 2013, was under 1.2 per cent 2012: 0.5 per cent.
and ethics safety community Human rights  People and  Commitment  Commitment Elementis supports fundamental human rights, such as the right to compliance  Performance  Performance privacy, safety and to be treated fairly, with dignity and respect.
These programme  Initiatives Impact fundamental principles are supported by Group policies, such as our  Equal Emissions anti-harassment policy and grievance procedures.
Our employment opportunity Energy and policies reflect the UN Global Compact principles concerning the and diversity water use prohibition of child and forced labour, freedom of association, equality  Labour and Waste of treatment and non-discrimination.
Currently over 40 per cent of our fundamental  Initiatives employees are union members and over a fifth are subject to collective human rights  Product bargaining agreements.
 Customers, stewardship suppliers and  Community Further information on the Code, the Groups compliance programme supply chain engagement and human rights at Elementis can be found on our website at: www.
com  Business conduct and ethics Customers, suppliers and supply chain People Each of our business strategies has as its cornerstone an intense focus The long term success of the Group depends on the passion, attitude, on our customers with the goal of offering value added, high quality commitment and work ethic of all our employees around the world.
solutions that are supported by strong technical service.
Best in class It is our people who remain our most valuable asset and are a key technical service and innovative product development are critical differentiator between Elementis and its competitors.
elements in helping our customers be successful and in how we differentiate ourselves from our competitors.
Our success is driven by The high expectations Elementis has for all of its employees around the our close customer relationships, key account business process and world are set out in the Groups Code of Business Conduct and Ethics participation in trade shows and industry forums.
The Code is supplemented by policies, processes and guidelines covering a wide range of compliance matters, such as antiWe have continued to address questions from our customers on social bribery and corruption, conflicts of interest and compliance with local responsibility and environmental awareness programmes and have laws and regulations, which are supported by whistleblowing procedures successfully completed a number of surveys and informal audits.
Training including an anti-retaliation policy.
All employees are required to undertake worldwide for all procurement members continues to ensure compliance training on the Code and certify that they understand and agree to be and adherence to our Purchasing Code of Practice and anti-corruption bound by its provisions.
The Board and management team consider the policy.
Suppliers are likewise expected to affirm their conformity to Code to be critical to the Groups continuing success and in how it meets international labour laws, social and environmental responsible legislation its corporate responsibilities.
Conflict minerals continue to be absent from our supply chain.
In 2013, our training programme on the Code was translated into a sixth language, Portuguese, to extend its accessibility to our employees in Use of natural products within our supply chain grew by $1.3 million Brazil and bi-annual refresher training was provided to nearly 50 per cent in 2013 and is now up to $17.1 million annually.
This represents a rise of our global workforce to help employees stay up to date with their of 8 per cent from 2012 $15.8 million.
20 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Strategic report 02-23 Corporate governance 24-53 Financial statements 54-93 Shareholder information 94-97 Health, safety and environment worked 2012: 1.03 restated.
Within the chemical industry, the sustained Elementis takes active steps to protect the health and safety of its employees, performance of Elementis is comparable to companies that are generally contractors and visitors, and to preserve the environment.
Biodiversity is viewed as having industry best safety performance based on data for the protected wherever possible by reducing the potential for significant damage American Chemistry Council Responsible Care members, 0.75 in 2012, to sensitive species, habitats and ecosystems.
The Group also recognises a which is significantly better than the general chemical industry in the US 2.3 in shared responsibility globally for conserving natural resources and reducing 2012 based on latest data available from the US Bureau of Labor Statistics.
Elementis sites use contractors regularly and their safety is just as important The Group has a well established health, safety and environment HSE as the safety of employees and they are required to comply with the same management system that is aligned with international standards which policy and procedures.
In 2013, contractors suffered five recordable injuries includes: corporate policy, annual objectives, internal and external auditing, 2012: zero, which equated to an incident rate of 2.35 per 200,000 hours incident reporting and investigation, metrics, management review and worked.
None of the contractors sustained serious injury.
Health and safety initiatives Further information about the Groups approach to health, safety During 2013, our health and safety leadership team has continued to work and environmental matters can be found on our website at: on a number of improvement initiatives, such as a further roll out of our www.
com  Basic Safety Process programme, process hazard analysis for all our site  operations and focussing on hazard recognition skills at employee level including the use of visible operational metrics and HSE scorecards.
Health and safety performance The Company continually strives to eliminate accidents and injuries within Environmental performance the workplace.
This is achieved through maintaining our strong focus Elementis seeks to minimise the impact of its operations on the on, and commitment to, safety design, a safe environment, setting and environment and contribute to a more sustainable future.
We view communicating safety standards, training, encouraging safe behaviours compliance with all applicable legal requirements and other codes and developing a safety culture.
of practice as our minimum standard.
Our sustainable development strategy requires that we work proactively to reduce emissions, minimise The Group uses recordable incidents as its principal measure of safety waste from our processes, conserve valuable natural resources and performance.
Recordable incidents as defined by the US Occupational Safety ensure responsible product stewardship throughout the supply chain.
and Health Administration are basically work related injuries and illnesses that require medical treatment beyond first aid, work restrictions to normal duties Elementis records and categorises environmental incidents into tiers based or time away from work.
To monitor performance and trends among more on the severity or actions taken by regulatory authorities.
Tier 3 incidents are serious injuries and illnesses, the Group also records lost time accidents those that have an impact on the environment and require reporting to an LTAs that require greater than three days away from work not including the external authority and where enforcement action is likely.
Tier 2 incidents day of incident.
The number of recordable incidents across the Group in 2013 have a minor impact and require notification but are likely to result in minimal was 12 2012: 13 restated.
Of the 12 recordable incidents only three or no action by the authorities.
Tier 1 incidents require no external reporting required time away from work greater than three days 2012: two.
Of particular and are recorded internally and investigated so that continual improvements note is our hectorite mine in Newberry Springs, California, which has achieved can be made to reduce the likelihood of future Tier 2 and Tier 3 incidents.
22 years without a lost time accident, and the Chromium facility at Corpus Christi, Texas, which has achieved 10 years without a recordable injury In 2013, Elementis had no Tier 3 or Tier 2 incidents 2012: zero.
Environmental impact As well as the total number of recordable and lost time incidents, the Elementis monitors key environmental statistics of each facility, such as Board uses the overall recordable incident rate as a performance indicator.
emissions, effluent and disposal and reports the significant aspects.
The total recordable incident rate in 2013 was 0.95 per 200,000 hours These results are affected by changes in the fuel, processes, product mix and plant efficiencies, which may change with production volume.
As is standard practice in the chemical industry, emission values may Recordable incident rate be calculated from energy use or based on representative sampling, Recordable incidents per 200,000 hours worked as well as continuous monitoring.
It should be noted that water and energy consumption, emissions, discharges and waste generated are 5 all influenced by production output and special events.
An increase or 4 decrease does not necessarily mean performance in these areas has 3 or has not improved.
2 Emissions to air 1 The Group is committed to reducing emissions to air that pollute or 0 have a global warming potential.
2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Emissions of the oxides of sulphur and nitrogen and volatile organic Key compounds VOCs arising from the Groups operations are controlled Elementis to comply with regulatory permits.
As the volumes are not considered American Chemistry Council Responsible Care US chemical industry to be significant, they are not reported separately here.
Any emissions 2012 is latest data available for ACC and US chemical to air above regulatory permitted levels would be reported as environmental incidents.
Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2013 21 Corporate responsibility report continued Greenhouse gas emissions Water consumption Elementis now reports greenhouse gas GHG emissions for its global Generally the Company does not operate in areas of extreme water operations in a more comprehensive way than previously.
Nevertheless, water is a valuable resource and the Company emissions arising from fuel combustion and process reactions, emissions recognises the global need to conserve water.
Water consumption is associated with the use of electricity and steam are also reported Scope minimised where possible by treatment and recycling.
1 and Scope 2 emissions respectively under The Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Report Regulations 2013.
In this first Water consumption is related to production output, product mix, plant year 2013 being designated as the base year there is no comparison with utilisation and cleaning activities.
Water consumption was slightly lower previous years.
Future years will show comparisons with the previous year in 2013 despite an increase in production output.
Water consumption The principal GHG due to operations at Elementis locations are carbon 2013 2012 2011 dioxide, with a negligible quantity of nitrous oxide.
GHG emissions have been converted into carbon dioxide equivalent CO e using official data Per Per Per 2 Absolute tonne of Absolute tonne of Absolute tonne of provided by DEFRA.
GHG emissions are reported for all 20 manufacturing 000s production 000s production 000s production sites including principal offices and laboratories.
A number of much Water smaller sales offices have been excluded because the level of CO e 2 consumed emissions were deemed to be too immaterial.
Tonnes CO e per tonne of 2 Energy consumption production and tonnes CO e per kWh of energy consumed.
Both will 2 The energy requirement per tonne of production remained stable with provide in future years an indication of energy efficiency improvements consumption increasing slightly, in line with production output.
These ratios are subject to variations due to changes in the mix of products manufactured, volumes and energy efficiency improvements.
For example in 2013 the Specialty Energy consumption Products site at Livingston, Scotland, made energy efficiency 2013 2012 2011 improvements that resulted in site savings in CO emissions of 5.7 per cent 2 Per Per Per on a year on year basis, or a 7.2 per cent reduction on a production Absolute tonne of Absolute tonne of Absolute tonne of adjusted basis.
100 per cent of the electricity supply to the Livingston 000s production 000s production 000s production site in 2014 will be from renewable sources.
Energy consumed GHG emissions for 2013 are shown below.
GJ 5,102 13.0 4,910 12.9 4,862 12.1 Greenhouse gas emissions Examples of energy reduction initiatives The Specialty Products site at Delden in the Netherlands has an energy Scope 1: efficiency plan for the period 20132016.
The facility has identified several Combustion of fuel and operation of facilities 221,076 tonnes CO e 2 process efficiency measures where it is committing to reduce energy usage by Scope 2: an estimated 6 per cent over the four years, with an additional 6 per cent over Electricity and steam purchased for own use 89,500 tonnes CO e 2 the same period subject to further study and investment.
Areas where such TOTAL Scopes 1 & 2 310,576 tonnes CO e improvements are anticipated include ventilation, replacement of the nitrogen 2 supply and through the activities of an Operational Excellence initiative.
Intensity ratio: tonnes CO e tonne production t t 0.773 t t 2 The Specialty Products site at Livingston, Scotland, has replaced three Supplementary intensity ratio: steam boilers with two high efficiency boilers.
This resulted in a 5.2 per kg CO e kWh energy consumed kg kWh 0.270 kg kWh 2 cent absolute reduction in natural gas usage on a year on year basis, or a 6.3 per cent reduction on a production adjusted basis.
The site has The Group is committed to reducing its consumption of energy derived also made a combination of changes in operating practice including the from fossil fuels as a contribution towards reducing GHG emissions and installation of variable frequency drives on large electric motors which the consequent impact on global warming.
There is nevertheless an resulted in a 6.5 per cent absolute reduction in usage on a year on year energy requirement for production, so the Group has taken steps to move basis, or a 7.5 per cent reduction on a production adjusted basis.
towards cleaner energy sources, such as natural gas in place of oil.
In 2013 natural gas represented 95 per cent of fuel consumption.
Our executive management headquarters in East Windsor, New Jersey, There is also the added incentive that energy is an expensive resource is implementing a building optimisation programme in 2014 to monitor and its efficient use has a significant effect on the cost of production.
energy use throughout the building.
Linking this to an energy management system will reduce energy costs through rapid response to demand.
Discharges to water Annual savings are projected to be in excess of $100,000.
Maintaining the water quality of the areas in which we operate is a regulatory issue and vital to protect the local ecosystems and communities.
The Groups Solid and liquid waste production activity generates process effluent that is routinely tested to ensure As part of our commitment to sustainable development, Elementis that the quality meets strict permit limits prior to discharge.
Typical analysis seeks to reduce the quantity of all types of waste.
The first concern is to includes chemical and biological oxygen demand and total suspended solids.
reduce the amount of waste that is classed as hazardous.
Beyond that The volumes of these discharges are not considered to be significant and non-hazardous waste is minimised and recycled.
Non-hazardous waste are not reported here.
However, any discharges to water above regulatory is predominantly the inert residue from the chromate kiln operations, permitted levels would be reported under environmental incidents.
which is deposited in permitted impoundments and licensed landfill sites adjacent to the manufacturing facilities.
22 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Strategic report 02-23 Corporate governance 24-53 Financial statements 54-93 Shareholder information 94-97 Hazardous waste decreased in 2013 see table below due partly to changes in In addition to complying with the REACh regulatory requirements for solvent management and recycling initiatives at the Specialty Products site in our products during 2013, Elementis continued to focus on compliance Jersey City, New Jersey, and partly due to the intermittent nature of equipment with the United Nations GHS Globally Harmonized System hazard cleaning and refractory brick disposal at Elementis Chromium sites.
communications standard as it is implemented around the world.
In 2013 Elementis made significant investment in its regulatory compliance The overburden clay from the hectorite mine provides a good example of software system, Wercs, to more fully automate compliance and prepare recycling and reducing the impact on the land.
Residual clay is recovered for the implementation of GHS in the US by the end of 2014.
Additional from the discharge water and blended back into the process with the functionality has been added to meet the proliferation of GHS standards hectorite ore feedstock.
Tailings with minor clay content are sold for use as in several South American, Eastern European and Asian countries from liner for recreation ponds, fish rearing lakes and in 2013 a sizeable amount 2014 to 2017. was sold for a sewage lagoon liner project and recreational fishing ponds.
Brown overburden clay is also being sold for soil improvement in the central During 2013, in order to meet OSHAs mandate to provide GHS training valley of California.
Selling overburden and optimising stockpile height has to all US employees, Elementis instituted a more robust internal product the additional benefit of reducing the overall area impacted at the mine.
stewardship audit programme at all US plants.
This programme was extended to our European operations in late 2013 and will be further extended to our Asian operations in 2014.
Waste disposal 2013 2012 2011 Finally, in 2013 Elementis brought online an enhanced Export Control Per 1,000 Per 1,000 Per 1,000 Management System to ensure compliance with the extensive and strict Absolute tonnes of Absolute tonnes of Absolute tonnes of export regulations of both the US and the EU.
Key components of this 000s production 000s production 000s production system include strong internal written policies and proactive external Hazardous auditing of Elementis' freight forwarders and export brokers.
waste disposed Further information on product stewardship at Elementis tonnes 0.93 3.64 1.70 7.01 1.54 5.67 can be found on our website at: www.
com   hazardous waste Community disposed Our community programme remains centred on encouraging and tonnes 105 410 104 430 116 431 supporting employees to be active in their communities through volunteer work or fundraising.
The Group understands the need to work with local R&D and sustainability communities and be a responsible neighbour, such as continuing to be a Our R&D efforts support and contribute to a more sustainable future sponsoring partner of the Mojave Environmental Education Consortium with the global R&D team continuing to drive its research towards: in California, which provides many environmental education programmes Reduction in the use of materials that contribute to greenhouse gases.
and resources for teachers and students.
Our Newberry Springs mine is Development of new biodegradable products for use in located near the Mojave desert.
Expanded use of bio-based materials in our products.
Approval of Strategic report Facilitating the migration of decorative coatings to aqueous The Strategic report comprises the following sections: Chairmans solutions from solvent based systems.
statement, Group Chief Executives overview, Our objectives, strategies and business model, Our businesses, Finance report incorporating New rheological additive technology was introduced that facilitated the Key performance indicators and the Risk management report and development of higher solids, solvent borne coatings for use in high Corporate responsibility report which incorporates information relating performance applications.
New adhesion technology was developed to greenhouse gas emissions required to be included in the Directors that facilitates the adhesion of aqueous coatings to plastic substrates.
The Strategic report was approved by the Board and has been Both developments led to reduced use of greenhouse gas precursors.
signed on its behalf by: Our portfolio of zero VOC additives was further enhanced with new products that address long term industry performance needs, while earlier product launches continued to expand their geographical reach.
Product stewardship Our global product stewardship team is responsible for ensuring our Brian Taylorson products are safe for intended use, transport and to people and the Finance Director environment throughout the products' entire life cycle and that we are 25 February 2014 contributing to a more sustainable future.
During 2013 Elementis continued to be fully engaged in the European REACh programme and successfully delivered on its 2013 Tier 2 REACh obligations with the registration of 23 substances key to the Elementis product portfolio.
In 2013 our REACh programme was reviewed by a regulatory authority of an EU member state and found to be in full compliance.
As Elementis moves forward in 2014, we have begun preparations for registrations of those substances that will cross volume bands due to increased product sales, including work for the registration of over 100 substances for the 2018 Tier 3 REACh obligations.
Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2013 23
