Corporate Social Responsibility We recognise our duty to stakeholders to operate Responsible drinking the business in an ethical and responsible manner.
The irresponsible consumption of alcohol can have We are committed to developing our Corporate Social detrimental effects on the social structures of local Responsibility CSR agenda, recognising that it can play communities.
We recognise that Publicans, supermarkets, a major part in leading and influencing all of our Publicans off-licences, the Government and the consumer all as well as our own people and operations.
have responsibilities as regards the promotion and This report does not contain information about any policies management of a responsible drinking environment.
We of the company in relation to human rights issues since seek to be responsible by the following means: it is not considered necessary for an understanding of the Company is a sponsor of the Drinkaware Trust the development, performance or position of the Groups where Ted Tuppen is a Trustee.
responsible drinking and finds innovative ways to We work to ensure that we provide challenge the national drinking culture to help reduce the right resources, energy and alcohol misuse and minimise alcohol-related harm.
focus to meet the expectations of This independent UK-wide charity is supported by our Publicans and other stakeholders voluntary donations from across the drinks industry in relation to CSR.
We have made and provides people with accessible, evidencefurther progress in this area during based information about alcohol and its effects and the year which has been recognised works alongside the medical community, third sector by our continued inclusion in the FTSE4Good index.
organisations, Government, drinks manufacturers and retailers to promote responsible drinking: Full details of our responsibility policies and initiatives can be found on our website, enterpriseinns.
com we actively promote various proof of age card schemes to all Publicans and provide details of a COMMUNITY variety of schemes to all new Publicans to enable them to operate a scheme in their premises: We believe that the interests of responsible, entrepreneurial pub businesses need to be aligned to we promote the industrys Challenge 21 campaign the interests of local communities and consumers.
and have provided campaign materials to every pub: We therefore seek to ensure that our pubs provide a through membership of the BBPA, we have friendly, safe and controlled environment, and to promote participated in discussions with the Government in the positive contribution that pubs make to their local the fulfilment of its National Alcohol Harm Reduction communities.
Strategy: We continue to work extensively with Publicans, local we continue to work proactively with local authorities authorities and local communities to ensure that licensing and have actively made commitments to provide hours and conditions are appropriate and take account support for schemes such as Best Bar None and of the opportunities and interests of all parties.
Through Pubwatch to develop and implement policies and membership of the British Beer and Pub Association strategies which are designed to address the potential BBPA, we continue to engage with Government consequences of alcohol misuse whilst not penalising departments within the Home Office and the Department the majority of responsible Publicans and their for Culture, Media and Sport, to promote understanding customers: and of, and compliance with, the licensing regime.
using suppliers who have introduced sensible drinking Pub is The Hub messages on their products.
We continue to support the philosophy and ethos of The Prince of Waless Pub is The Hub campaign, encouraging Charitable work rural Publicans to diversify Our Community Hero Awards were created to honour and deliver a wider range of services to the communities those Publicans who make inspiring contributions to they serve, ensuring that the pub becomes the heart of their community.
The local pub has always been a focus the community and continues to thrive as a vital part of for local life and we wanted to celebrate the contribution village life.
A number of our Publicans have developed a of Publicans who have such an impact on the fabric range of such services including the use of their properties and cohesion of their communities.
We are investing as village shops and post offices.
1 million over a ten year period to fund the Community Hero Awards.
20 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report enterpriseinns.
com Stock code: ETI for the year ended 30 September 2013 23069.04 10 December 2013 2:19 PM Proof 6 Enterprise Inns Annual Report 2013-Proof 6-fix.
indd 20 10 12 2013 14:19:57 Following on from the introduction of the Community Our Values Hero Awards last year an in-house Enterprise Charity Committee was formed in 2013.
The Committee will be Our shared set of values, CHIEFS, embodies our annually awarded a discretionary spend for charity with approach: the majority of donations used to encourage charitable giving through employees taking part in charity events.
Clarity Having clear purpose, clear thinking, clear For our Community Hero communication and action.
Award Winners see page 127 Hard Work Race to the Stones Challenge: Having a can do attitude and drive to get the job done.
On one of the hottest days of the summer in 2013, 105 Integrity employees and guests joined the Race to the Stones, some walking, some running, along the oldest path in Demonstrating integrity and ethical behaviour, Britain: The Ridgeway.
honouring commitments and respecting everybody.
Enterprise paid the entry fee for employees and half Empowerment the entry fee for a partner, friend or other family member to enter this event.
A focus on personal accountability for finding solutions and achieving results.
The aim of the event was not only to fundraise, with money raised in sponsorship and donated to individually Fun chosen charities such as Cancer Research and Help Creating a positive, energising and fun environment, for Heroes, but also to encourage our employees to celebrating success.
take regular exercise and push themselves that little bit further.
Service Providing an unrivalled level of service to all our WORK PLACE customers.
We recognise that our people are key to the success of the business.
We value the contribution of each and every Policy one of our colleagues.
We want to create an inspiring The Groups employment policies and procedures are working environment where everyone is engaged and described in detail in its Staff Handbook, which is available motivated.
to all employees on its internal information portal.
This Handbook takes account of relevant employment legislation and best practice.
New policies, procedures and related training are developed as required.
The Groups anti-bribery and corruption code of conduct sets out how Group employees, Publicans and suppliers must act to ensure that our zero tolerance approach to bribery and corruption is upheld.
Diversity We are committed to equal opportunities and the creation of an entirely non-discriminatory working environment.
The aim of our diversity policy is to ensure that no job applicant or employee receives less favourable treatment because of, amongst other matters, gender, marital status, race, age, sexual preference, religion, belief or disability.
Health and wellbeing All decisions are based on the merits of the individual concerned.
The Group is dedicated to undertaking its It is important to the Group that we support our employees business operations in a way which respects individual in their health and wellbeing.
The Group operates a flexible human rights, treats individuals with dignity and allows benefit scheme that is available to all members of staff freedom of association.
and includes benefits such as the cycle to work scheme, leisure club membership, private medical and dental We give full consideration to applications for employment insurance, a health screening service and a confidential from disabled persons where the requirements of the Employee Assistance Programme.
job can be adequately fulfilled by people with disabilities.
We endeavour to retain the employment of, and arrange suitable retraining for, any employee who becomes disabled during their employment as well as providing training, career development and promotion to disabled employees wherever appropriate.
Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 21 for the year ended 30 September 2013 23069.04 10 December 2013 2:19 PM Proof 6 Enterprise Inns Annual Report 2013-Proof 6-fix.
indd 21 10 12 2013 14:19:58 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION ACCOUNTS DIRECTORS REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT Corporate Social Responsibility At 30 September 2013 the number of employees was MARKET PLACE as follows: Enterprise encourages positive working relationships with its Publicans and supply chain partners.
Employees FTE Male Female Directors 6 1 Publicans Senior managers 9 7 In line with the entire industry, we are totally committed to fair, transparent and lawful dealing with our Publicans.
Employees 256 191 We have a Code of Practice with benchmarked status Training from the British Institute of Innkeeping Benchmarking and Accreditation Services under which we manage We are committed to training and developing all of our relationships with Publicans, training is arranged to colleagues.
We place great importance on developing provide support to our Publicans and to develop business skills and potential in order to support our colleagues, potential and we seek to ensure that appropriate and harness talent and drive business performance.
Wherever reasonable actions have been implemented across the possible we endeavour to fill our vacancies through pub estate to ensure our Publicans comply with the internal progression.
Training is provided in a number disability discrimination legislation.
of ways, through on the job coaching, formal training courses, e-learning and mentoring.
We also sponsor Supply chain partners a number of our colleagues in studying for appropriate Supply chain partners are selected on the basis that they professional qualifications.
have similar core values to Enterprise.
Communication We strive to maintain long-term, respectful and mutually Emphasis is placed on effective communication regarding beneficial relationships based on clarity of purpose, matters that may affect employees and the overall integrity, honesty and fairness.
Employee engagement is met The benefits of this approach include improved quality of through a variety of means, including regular briefings service to our Publicans and their customers as well as and team meetings.
The Groups internal information the local communities surrounding our pubs.
portal is also widely used to ensure employees are regularly updated on developments and news: feedback Our Publicans support local businesses is encouraged.
In addition, the Group regularly publishes empower also available on the Companys website Our Publicans recognise that by sourcing local fresh which contains items of news, current affairs and produce they are not only providing their customers with information relevant to employees and Publicans.
great quality but also supporting local businesses and the community.
Share schemes HEALTH AND SAFETY We encourage employee ownership of Company shares through the provision of a Save As You Earn scheme in Enterprise takes the Health and Safety management of which 168 employees have entered into savings contracts, its employees, Publicans and supply chain partners very at the end of which they are entitled to purchase shares seriously.
To ensure the Health and Safety function is at a 20% discount to the market price of the shares at the best placed to meet the evolving needs of the business, time of the issue of the options and the Share Incentive we operate two Health and Safety management groups Plan in which 206 employees have purchased shares out designed to ensure that every area and function of the of pre-tax income up to statutory limits which are held organisation has a say in the development of Health and in a trust.
The Company currently offers matching share Safety systems and procedures.
awards to employees purchasing shares in accordance Health and Safety Management Group with the Share Incentive Plan.
SMG In recognition of our employment policies, we have attained the prestigious accolade of an Investors In The SMG meets on a bi-monthly basis to discuss and People Champion.
debate any day-to-day Health and Safety challenges, demands and required solutions for the organisation.
This includes any changes or breaches to our Health and Safety policies procedures which are designed to safeguard safety through minimum impact on our operational commercial objectives.
22 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report enterpriseinns.
indd 22 10 12 2013 14:19:58 The greenhouse gas GHG emissions statement below Strategic Health and Safety Group provides a summary of the Companys greenhouse SSG gas carbon emissions from 1 October 2012 to 30 The SSG meets on a bi-annual basis to oversee the September 2013.
It gives a summary of emissions from fuel combustion and the operation of our facilities which direction of Health and Safety within the business.
This strategic group is specifically tasked with a governance include our offices and company cars, scope 1, and from our purchased electricity use during the year scope 2. oversight role to discuss the businesss performance, operational targets and objectives in relation to Health We have adopted the operational control approach, as defined in the Greenhouse Gas Protocol, A Corporate and Safety.
Accounting and Reporting Standard Revised Edition, Primary Authority Agreement 2004, therefore emissions associated with our pubs are not included in this statement as they are outside the The organisation continues to participate in a Primary Companys operational control.
Authority Scheme PAS relationship with City of Westminster Council.
The PAS arrangement ensures a company trading across council boundaries is guaranteed For full disclosure of our Greenhouse Gas Emissions access to robust and reliable advice about its regulatory see page 24 responsibilities around Health and Safety subjects such as gas, electric and asbestos safety.
During 2013 the Company is pleased to report it has taken part in a pilot exercise with London Fire Brigade facilitated by the Better Regulation Delivery Office, an independent unit within the Department for Business, Innovation and Skills to look at the extension of the current primary authority remit to include fire safety.
Whilst the key relationship that exists under these schemes is between Enterprise, City of Westminster Council and London Fire Brigade there is no doubt that our Publicans will also benefit from this relationship through the gradual introduction of a consistent approach to Health and Safety and fire safety through the scheme.
ENVIRONMENT We recognise our responsibilities to achieve good environmental practice and to continue to strive for improvement in areas of environmental impact.
Our approach is to work through education, communication and direct action wherever possible.
Greenhouse gas emissions We are constantly looking for new ways to improve our carbon footprint and have put various initiatives in place at head office in order to achieve this objective, for example, passive low-energy lighting throughout the whole building and the installation of a voltage optimisation unit, which ensures that the minimum voltage required is used at all times.
Cars available to certain employees as part of the Companys car scheme are currently subject to a CO 2 restriction of 120 g km.
During the year, actions have been taken to further reduce our carbon consumption at head office, for example we have introduced mixed recycling in order to reduce the amount of waste that goes to landfill.
Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 23 for the year ended 30 September 2013 23069.04 10 December 2013 2:19 PM Proof 6 Enterprise Inns Annual Report 2013-Proof 6-fix.
indd 23 10 12 2013 14:19:58 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION ACCOUNTS DIRECTORS REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT Corporate Social Responsibility GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS STATEMENT Assessment Parameters Baseline year FY 2013 Consolidation approach Operational control Boundary summary All facilities under operational control were included Consistency with the financial statements The use of the operational control approach causes a variation to those assets listed in our financial statements.
The pubs listed on our Balance Sheet are not under our operational control and therefore are not included in our emissions table, however approximately 250 leased vehicles which are under our operational control appear in our emissions table but not in our consolidated financial statements.
Emission factor data source Defra October 2013 Assessment methodology The Greenhouse Gas Protocol and ISO 14064-1 2006 Materiality threshold Materiality was set at Group level at 5%, with all facilities estimated to contribute 1% of total emissions included.
Intensity ratio Emissions per full time employee equivalent FTE 2013 Greenhouse Gas Emission Source tCO e tCO e FTE 2 2 Scope 1 1,389 2.96 Fuel combustion natural gas, diesel and fleet vehicles 1,380 2.94 Operation of facilities refrigerants 9 0.02 Scope 2 450 0.96 Purchased electricity 450 0.96 Statutory total Scope 1 & 2 1,839 3.92 Group Metrics 2013 FTE 470 Intensity Ratios Gross Emissions 2013 Tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent per FTE tCO e FTE 3.92 2 Statutory carbon reporting disclosures required by Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Report Regulations 2013.
24 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report enterpriseinns.
