Essar Energy plc 28 Business review Annual Report and accounts 2013 Sustainability Achievements Essar Energy believes that to create a successful long-term ``Essar Energy has signed up to the United Nations Global Compact principles, thus setting out a business, a strong focus on clear framework for all our businesses to follow.
sustainability is vital, with a ``Expanded activities in communities around our particular emphasis on the sites, with a clear focus on education, healthcare communities around our and encouraging entrepreneurship.
Essar Energy is building and operating oil Sustainability performance Environment and gas, power and exploration and highlights `` For the second successive year, Essar production assets which will have lifespans Operational and economic Oil was ranked the highest scorer in of several decades.
Therefore, it is critical `` Vadinar refinery completed optimisation the energy sector by the Carbon that these assets can operate sustainably project four months early, taking Disclosure Project, India.
for a very long period, taking into account capacity to 405,000 barrels per day.
`` 189% increase in energy saved at the needs of all stakeholders, particularly `` Power generation capacity increased to Vadinar refinery.
the people and communities in the 3,910 MW in FY2013 from 1,600 MW.
`` Low energy intensity of 0.446 tCO e 2 neighbouring areas.
`` 1,517 employees trained in the UK per MWh maintained by Essar Bribery Act.
One of the key elements of the Companys `` 15% reduction in hazardous waste strategy is therefore a strong commitment Social generation at Vadinar refinery.
to being a good corporate citizen.
`` 13% increase in employee training hours achieved by Power Business Indeed, to demonstrate this commitment Group.
to sustainability, Essar Energy became a `` Increase in number of employees signatory to the United Nations Global trained in health and safety by 124% Compact principles on 2 April 2013, atVadinar refinery and 123% at CBM requiring us to follow a clearly defined way project, Raniganj.
of operating across all our businesses, with `` Zero LTI frequency rate achieved by a focus on environment, labour, antipower plants at Hazira and Vadinar.
We believe `` 326% increase in number of this is the best way for us to create value contractors trained in health and ina sustainable, long-term way.
safety at CBM project, Raniganj.
`` Zero occupational disease rate Despite global and national challenges achieved at all sites.
being faced by the Energy sector, we were `` Over 96,000 beneficiaries of our able to make considerable progress in our healthcare initiatives undertaken at economic, environmental and social various sites.
This section of the `` Over 89,000 beneficiaries of our Annual Report gives a brief overview of community care initiatives undertaken Essar Energys sustainability performance at various sites.
For more detailed information, `` Over 17,900 beneficiaries of our please refer to Essar Energys second educational initiatives undertaken at Sustainability Report Building a various sites.
sustainable energy business-which is available at www.
Company overview Business review Governance Financial statements Essar Energy plc 29 Annual Report and accounts 2013 Committed to sustainability Extensive efforts have been made to develop and maintain greenbelt in and around Vadinar refinery site Essar Energy plc 30 Business review Annual Report and accounts 2013 Sustainability There is a strong focus on helping stimulate entrepreneurship, including among women.
For the second successive year, Essar Oil was ranked the highest scorer in the Energy sector by the Carbon Disclosure Project, India.
Our people Our employees are our biggest assets without whom we cannot achieve our business objectives.
Our priorities last year included employee retention, succession planning and nurturing and growing internal talent.
Various employee engagement initiatives, coupled with an enhanced focus on individual training needs in alignment with the business objectives, helped us tomeet our objectives.
Case study Towards achieving excellence in We continued to focus on effective management of people performances energy conservation through a clear linkage with business results and motivation through appropriate Our sites are committed to conserving more efficient way of running the large rewards.
The Short-term Incentive Plan energy to deliver benefits such as lower number of pumps required to push which was introduced in FY2011 for the fuel consumption, better profitability, gas around the network on site.
This middle management of Essar Energy India environment protection, and a lower resulted in an increase in power employees was paid out at the end of carbon footprint.
An estimated FY2013 to consistent performers.
reduction of 79.56 metric tonnes of Our power plants at Hazira together carbon dioxide was achieved with this Health and safety implemented 23 energy saving projects initiative during the few months of Managing the health and safety of the ranging from equipment modifications FY2013 post-installation.
people who work for us, both directly and and optimisation to technology indirectly, continued to be our top priority upgrade resulting in an estimated Amongst various energy initiatives last year.
The focus at most of our sites was saving of over 12 million units of implemented at the Vadinar refinery, to enhance safety culture, contractor safety electricity, or 3,204 million tonnes of oil one was to recover desalinated management, risk assessment and training.
equivalent, which equates to a saving condensate heat to be then used to Although our overall safety performance of over Rs.
heat demineralised water and reduce was good and various sites won external The emissions reduction as a result is cooling tower heat load.
Here, 2.9 recognition for their safety efforts, there estimated to be 12,800 tonnes of gigacalories per hour of energy were were also key learnings from the incidents carbon dioxide equivalent.
The project cost US$1,800, but that occurred at our sites which we will use savings amounted to around to further improve our safety processes.
Comparing the results for the months US$182,000 pa. where the generation was similar, we Unfortunately, a road accident outside the see a downward trend of auxiliary For more energy case studies and process plant at the Vadinar refinery led to consumption.
the Groups performance by site, a contractor fatality in June 2012.
Following please refer to the Sustainability the recommendations of the investigating One energy conservation initiative Report FY2013 available at team, the entire refinery was inspected involved the energy team at the CBM www.
and areas with any potential for similar project at Raniganj, who found a much accidents were identified and action taken to prevent future incidents.
Company overview Business review Governance Financial statements Essar Energy plc 31 Annual Report and accounts 2013 72 100 Essar Oils score in the Carbon Disclosure Leadership Index, the onlyenergy company in India to featurein the list.
Environment As a respected and responsible global energy company, Essar Energy recognises its obligations with regard to climate change mitigation and adaptation.
Ourapproach towards climate change mitigation and adaptation continues to aimat providing clean solutions to our customers and reducing our carbon footprint by adopting the latest technology and energy conservation measures.
Case study Vadinar: Shishu Mangalam Project We continue to report our carbon performance at Carbon Disclosure Project combats malnourishment CDP level.
For the second successive year, Essar Oil was ranked the highest The World Bank estimates that India is existing Integrated Child Development scorer in the energy sector by the Carbon nd ranked 2 in the world of the number Services ICDS structure and focus Disclosure Project, India.
In terms of the of children suffering from malnutrition.
exclusively on raising the health and Carbon Disclosure Leadership Index The prevalence of underweight nutritional level of malnourished CDLI, Essar Oil achieved a score of children in India is among the highest children below six years old and 72out of 100, and was the only energy in the world, with severe reducing the number of highly company in India to be featured in the list.
consequences for mobility, mortality, malnourished children.
Overall, Essar Oil is positioned sixth in the productivity and economic growth.
CDLI List, cutting across all sectors.
This Gujarat has a particularly high A physical assessment was score is achieved in spite of the refinerys proportion of children in this category, conducted to identify and grade capacity addition and Nelson complexity with 44.7% of children underweight, thenutritional status of children.
Health index enhancement as well as the 22.3% of the population is check-ups of children in yellow zones inclusion of emissions being generated undernourished and 6.1% of children were carried out by medical officers onaccount of the Exploration and who die under the age of five do so ofthe primary health centre and Production divisions coal bed methane from hunger.
thosein red zones were carried out production operations, for the first time, bypaediatricians.
Medical causes which contributed to Essar Oils total The Essar Foundation, in collaboration were identified and basic treatment, emission count.
Our power plants in with the District Panchayat, Jamnagar, aswell as referral, was ensured.
Hazira collectively reported to CDP, started the Shishu Mangalam Project Additionally, ahigh protein nutrition Indiaunder the Other Responding during June 2012 to December 2012 supplement was provided along with Companies category.
has the highest percentage in India of malnutrition 38% among children A third party assessment showed under the age of five years.
The significant improvement in the project strategy was to leverage the nutritional status of children.
Essar Energy plc 32 Business review Annual Report and accounts 2013 Sustainability 23 Essar Oil now has agreements with non-fuel product suppliers for its retailoutlets.
Product responsibility As an ISO 9001 certified organisation, we deploy stringent measures to ensure the quality of our products.
The quality control assessment starts from the raw material stage when crude oil is unloaded through crude and product process streams and right through to ship loading.
Our refinery at Vadinar has a fully equipped laboratory to certify the refinerys range of products, for example LPG, kerosene, aviation turbine fuel jet fuel, gasoline, diesel, furnace oil, bitumen, petcoke and vacuum gasoil.
The facilities have been upgraded and new infrastructure built to house additional equipment with the completion of the refinery expansion.
Wealso have a dedicated jet fuel testing laboratory approved by the Directorate General of Aeronautical Quality Assurance.
The laboratory has been designed to cater to the jet fuel demands complying with BISand DEF STAN 91.
In addition, the Case study laboratory has a true boiling point unit to predict the crudes characteristics before it Raniganj: sight restored is processed.
As a part of the reliability and competency Healthcare is often the most neglected primary schools to cover those left out assessment of our laboratory, the refinery issue in rural communities, a situation during similar checks in villages, the has been participating in the International worsened by high levels of poverty doctor diagnosed the girl with a severe Proficiency Testing Programmes and illiteracy.
Paira Khatoon, pictured eye infection.
Her right eye was conducted by the ASTM standards body centre, an eight year old girl in Class III swollen, making it impossible to see, for various products and the gasoline and at Labnapara Free Primary School, and was also very painful.
Her parents diesel fuel engine correlation scheme who had previously been a regular were called immediately, medicine was conducted by The Energy Institute EI in attendee at the school, began prescribed, and her teachers were the UK.
This participation has ensured our struggling with her studies and requested to ensure she was checked confidence in certifying the products attendance due to an eye infection regularly by the mobile medical van before releasing to our customers.
which had been ignored by her doctor.
As a result, Paira made a full parents, who assumed it was a minor recovery.
Essar is continuing with the problem.
However, during one of the check-up camps for school children to regular child health check-up camps ensure any similar health issues are conducted by Essar in government addressed in a holistic way.
Showing changes in severely undernourished children covered by the project Age June 2012 November 2012 Severely undernourished children Severely undernourished children Moderately undernourished children Healthy children Boys Girls Total Boys Girls Total Boys Girls Total Boys Girls Total Total 612 months 94 67 161 22 14 36 34 19 53 26 22 48 137 13 years 228 242 470 79 99 178 88 89 177 36 33 69 424 36 years 192 199 391 63 73 136 71 72 143 21 15 36 315 Total 514 508 1,022 164 186 350 193 180 373 83 70 153 876 Source: Calculations based on the data compiled by the ICDS from the Shishu Mangalam Health Card Company overview Business review Governance Financial statements Essar Energy plc 33 Annual Report and accounts 2013 During the year therewas a strong focusin the areas of education, health and community care.
On the marketing front in India, we continued to develop strategic alliances with alternative fuel and non-fuel retail products to offer a more congenial and mutually beneficial business environment to our franchisees.
Currently, Essar Oil has existing tie-ups with around 23 brands across segments like lubricants, agro products, banking and financial services, and food and beverage companies.
Community The community engagement projects atEssar Energys India locations are Case study undertaken through the Essar Foundation, which is a registered Stanlow: entrepreneurship helping not-for-profit organisation under the small businesses with space to grow Indian Trust Act, 1882.
The engagement model is designed to deliver maximum ENTEP Properties is a joint venture thought we should be providing to value to the community in line with the between Cheshire West and Chester customers and so I was determined to Essar Foundations philosophy.
County Council and Essar Oil UK which give it a go myself.
My wife was really aims to provide affordable industrial important in giving me the confidence The Essar Foundation at the beginning units for small businesses operating in and backing to go out there and get it ofeach year draws up a plan of activities the area close to the Stanlow Refinery.
I started on my own, literally in consultation with the sites, local Since being established in 1983, it has working out of the van for 12 months government authorities and the helped numerous small businesses before moving to the Canal Bridge community to ensure that the projects toprosper.
undertaken during the year have maximum impact on the community.
Gareth Williams, from Ellesmere Port, Our first few jobs gave us the capital to started his own kitchen and bathroom make it work and for a new business, Our mission towards socio-economic business in September 2010 after we have done it without taking on debt improvement of neighbourhood working for other companies for over from the banks.
The flexibility of the communities is an investment for the 15 years.
Setting up as a sole trader, he leases available through ENTEP and future and follows an equally dedicated has since employed another full time the low rents for the units were ideal for and in-depth execution approach which member of staff and has further plans me setting up on my own.
is as follows: to take on more people.
`` Assessment of social structure and We will soon be opening our own understanding the socio-economic He explained: I learned the trade showroom above the workshop and and political dynamics working for other people, but had a have developed a website to help us `` Identification and implementation of clear idea of the level of service I reach a much wider customer base.
projects in line with business goals and government programmes `` Third party assessment to evaluate the positive impact of our community projects.
Last year several activities were undertaken in the areas of education, health and community care.
Essar Foundation also celebrated local andinternational events to promote social causes.
