Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC 44 44 www.
com Corporate and Social Responsibility The group is diverse and operates through who have environment management systems Greenhouse Gas GHG reporting a large number of businesses in many compliant with the ISO 14001 standard.
The The company, as part of the wider Daily Mail and geographical locations.
Each business provides paper used for the groups publications is General Trust plc group DMGT, participates in important channels of communication to produced from pulp obtained from sustainable a DMGT group-wide carbon footprint analysis different sections of society throughout the forests, manufactured under strict, monitored completed by ICF International.
The success of the groups businesses and accountable environmental standards.
has been undertaken every year since 2007 owes much to understanding and engaging using the widely recognised GHG protocol with the communities they serve both locally The group is not a heavy user of energy: methodology developed by the World Resource and globally.
however, it does manage its energy Institute and the World Business Council for requirements sensibly using low-energy office Sustainable Development.
This year, the groups The paragraphs below provide more detailed equipment where possible and using a common carbon footprint has been restated in order to explanations on key areas of corporate sense approach to office energy management.
account for material changes to the conversion responsibility.
For instance, the UK group uses new secure factors provided by Defra for company reporting multi-functional device technology which purposes.
Environmental responsibility enables two sided printing and allows The group does not operate directly in industries employees to delete unwanted documents at The directors are committed to reducing where there is the potential for serious industrial the printer before printing.
This initiative should the groups absolute carbon emissions and pollution.
It does not print products in-house or reduce paper, ink and electricity usage.
The company, as have any investments in printing works.
It takes part of the wider DMGT group, committed to its environmental responsibility seriously and Each office within the group is encouraged reducing its absolute carbon emissions by 10% complies with all relevant environmental laws and to reduce waste, reuse paper and only print from the baseline year of 2007 by the end of regulations in each country in which it operates.
documents and emails where necessary.
The targeted 10% reduction was achieved Wherever economically feasible, account is main offices across the group also recycle two years early.
In 2012 the company, as part of taken of environmental issues when placing waste where possible.
This year the UK, US the wider DMGT group, set a challenging new contracts with suppliers of goods and services and Canadian offices recycled 81,000kg of target to reduce its carbon footprint relative to and these suppliers are regularly reviewed and paper and card, which is equivalent to more revenue by 10% from the 2012 base by the end monitored.
For instance, the groups two biggest than 900 trees.
of 2015. print contracts are outsourced to companies GReenHOuSe emiSSiOn StAtement The following emissions have been calculated according to the Greenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard revised edition methodology.
Data was gathered to fulfil the requirements under the CRC Energy Efficiency scheme, and emission factors from the UK Governments GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting 2014.
The carbon footprint is expressed in tonnes of Carbon Dioxide equivalent and includes all the Kyoto Protocol gases that are of relevance to the business.
The companys footprint covers emissions from its global operations and the following emission sources: Scope 1 and 2 as defined by the GHG Protocol, business travel and outsourced delivery activities.
ASSeSSment pARAmeteRS Baseline year 2012 Consolidation approach Operational control Boundary summary All entities and facilities either owned or under operational control Consistency with the financial statements The only variation is that leased properties, under operational control are included in scope 1 and 2 data, all scope 3 emissions are off-balance sheet emissions Assessment methodology Greenhouse Gas Protocol and Defra environmental reporting guidelines Intensity ratio Emissions per million of revenue 22706.04 13 December 2013 6:27 PM Proof 6 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 45 45 GReenHOuSe GAS emiSSiOn SOuRCe 2013 2012 tCO e tCO e m tCO e tCO e m 2 2 2 2 Scope 1: Combustion of fuel and operation of facilities 200 0.5 200 0.5 Scope 2: Electricity, heat, steam and cooling purchased for own use 3,100 7.7 3,000 7.6 Total scope 1 and 2 3,300 8.2 3,200 8.1 Scope 3: Business travel and outsourced activities 7,700 19.0 7,400 18.8 Total emissions 11,000 27.2 10,600 26.9 Statutory carbon reporting disclosures required by Companies Act 2006 The group works and partners with recognised FTSE4Good charitable organisations that have expertise The group was included within certain sectors, thus ensuring that for the first time in the the implementation and management of a FTSE4Good index in charitable project is carried out efficiently and 2011 and continued that donated funds reach the communities at to be a constituent of the index in 2013.
The which the charitable cause is aimed.
At the group has maintained its ESG rating of 3 5 and same time, the charity committee is careful has a group percentile rating of 44% in the ICB to address the sustainability aspects in each Global Super Sector.
charitable project to ensure a long lasting FTSE Group confirms that Euromoney Institutional beneficial impact.
Investor PLC has been independently assessed Condemned water facilities according to the FTSE4Good criteria, and has satisfied Below is a summary of some of the charitable the requirements to become a constituent of the activities undertaken in the past year.
FTSE4Good is an equity index series designed to facilitate investment in companies that meet globally recognised corporate responsibility Water and standards.
Companies in the FTSE4Good Index Sanitation, Series have met stringent environmental, social and Kechene, governance criteria, and are positioned to capitalise on Addis Ababa, the benefits of responsible business practice.
Ethiopia Since February 2011, the group has supported Social responsibility the African and Medical Research Foundation The group continues to expand its charitable AMREF with its sustainable water and activities and raised over 1.4 million for local sanitation project in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia.
New sanitation blocks and international charitable causes during The groups funding for the project to date has the year.
These contributions came from its exceeded 260,000, with additional funds to be Activities in 2013 have included the construction own charitable budget, individual employee donated in the coming months to fund a second of two sanitation kiosks and three water fundraising efforts and also from clients who phase of the project.
Working together, AMREF storage tanks, as well as reaching a total of generously made donations in support of and Euromoney have provided better access 2,420 residents with hygiene and sanitation the companys charitable projects.
The group to water, sanitation and health information campaigns and education sessions.
These also continues to encourage employees to for more than 19,000 residents of Kechene.
activities are having a notable impact on the be involved actively in supporting charities by Programme activities have included the health of communities in Kechene.
Euromoney fundraising themselves which it then matches.
construction of 12 sanitation kiosks, nine water plans to fund a second phase of AMREFs water storage tankers, and seven community shower and sanitation project in Kechene which will facilities, as well as rebuilding two water springs.
see the organisation extend its proven model of 24 local water and sanitation committees have developing community run water and sanitation also been established which are now managing facilities to more communities throughout these facilities.
22706.04 13 December 2013 6:27 PM Proof 6 Corporate and Social Responsibility Governance Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC 46 46 www.
com Corporate and Social Responsibility continued Little Rock School, Kibera, Nairobi, Kenya This project involved funding the cost of land and the construction of new school premises for Little Rock School and was completed in February 2013.
The original Little Rock premises consisted of five separate rented buildings spread across the slum area of Kibera in Nairobi.
The school has 16 classrooms, a computer and physiotherapy rooms and kitchens.
The school caters for over 300 fulltime pupils one third of whom are disabled and over 200 after-school pupils.
Little Rock is much more than a school.
In addition to day teaching, it provides a feeding programme, after-schools clubs, term holiday tutoring, a public library, community engagement, parent support groups and an income generating workshop.
This holistic approach empowers children, families and the community to work together to improve the lives of some of the most vulnerable children in the world, not only while they attend Little Rock but with skills and resources they carry forward into further schooling.
The co-ordination of the Little Rock is carried out by AbleChildAfrica, a UK-headquartered charity which specialises exclusively in advocating for and supporting disabled children and disabled Previous Little Rock school premises New Little Rock school buildings young people in East Africa.
Completed February 2013 The schools operations are now on a much sounder footing but it still needs over 150,000 a year to operate 70% of the costs involve teacher salaries.
There is no government funding and little income from the childrens parents as all the pupils live in very poor conditions in Kibera.
Euromoney continues to help with part of the funding and our employees have played a very active role in helping to fund some of the operating costs of Little Rock over the past year.
22706.04 13 December 2013 6:27 PM Proof 6 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 47 47 Water Well Project in Kimbunga Valley, Mombasa, Kenya Euromoney has continued its support of Hallers work in the Kisuani District, north of Mombasa in Kenya, to help rural communities become self-sufficient.
This year, Euromoney has sponsored the prototype and demonstration model for a new innovative eco-sanitation facility and the funding for an additional four community facilities to provide basic sanitation and to ensure water supplies are not contaminated.
This infrastructure is combined with extensive farmer training which will help Irrigating crops surrounding the dam Eco-sanitation facility transform the fertility of their land, suitable to grow crops.
This years funding is expected to help approximately 1,600 people by providing Anchor House, them with the infrastructure and support they Canning Town, need to achieve sustainable livelihoods.
London E16 Anchor House is a residential and life skills centre for single, homeless people in Newham the second most deprived borough in the UK.
It aims to turn its 1960s-style st building into a 21 Century facility providing workshops for vocational courses: an e-learning zone: a new kitchen training facility and 25 Workshop new move on studio flats for residents.
Anchor House is transforming itself into a residential life-skills centre for the homeless.
It annually supports around 180 people and provides a stable and safe environment to help them develop aspirations, confidence and self-esteem, thus enabling them to move towards leading independent and self-fulfilling lives.
Euromoney raised over 45,000 for Anchor House in 2013, in addition to the 175,000 th raised at the EuroWeek 25 Anniversary Awards Dinner in 2012.
Education and counselling Collecting drinking water from the well 22706.04 13 December 2013 6:27 PM Proof 6 Corporate and Social Responsibility Governance Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC 48 48 www.
com Corporate and Social Responsibility continued Trachoma Project, South Action Against Omo, Ethiopia Cancer This project aims to provide Action Against Cancer clean water and sanitation funds the development of cures for cancer at facilities to help eradicate Imperial College, led by the world-renowned trachoma a chronic, contagious inflammatory oncologist Professor Justin Stebbing.
The funds eye disease which can lead to blindness are being devoted to the development of a new and is run jointly by ORBIS and AMREF.
The drug aimed at blocking a cancer-causing gene, aim is to improve the water and sanitation which Professor Stebbings team discovered and facilities for 230,000 people within the found to be responsible for promoting resistance South Omo community, improve the primary to treatment to available cancer treatments.
The Scientist at work eye-care services for 644,000 people, treat drug, once developed, will be made available to over 550,000 people suffering from trachoma all.
The work will be undertaken in memory of Tlcoms Sans Frontires with antibiotics, surgically treat 13,000 adult the companys former chairman, Padraic Fallon, Close to 100 runners took part in a 5km fun run sufferers of trachoma and train 16 eye care who lost his battle with cancer in October 2012. at TelCaps ITW conference held in Chicago and workers and 600 teachers to identify trachoma raised US$15,000 for Tlcoms Sans Frontires, symptoms.
Euromoney has raised a total of 1 million the humanitarian-aid non-governmental including client contributions at the annual organisation specialising in telecommunications The first 12 months Euromoney and EuroWeek awards dinners as for emergency situations.
of the project have well as individual contributions from employees Expert Miracles Foundation been taken up with which are being match-funded by DMGT.
In Institutional Investor raised over US$95,000 a thorough planning addition, numerous other fundraising initiatives at their annual awards dinners for the Expert and research phase.
Key milestones during 2013 by various divisions including Institutional Miracles Foundation, which is one of the have included: Investor and American Metal Market have also leading advocates in the fight against cancer a three day planning workshop in Addis raised funds for the charity.
within the financial services industry, and the Ababa followed by a series of meetings High Water Women Backpack Program which with government staff to develop plans for helps thousands of children start the school the implementation of the project for the year ready to learn by providing fully-supplied South Omo region: backpacks for children in need.
the mapping of trachoma incidence across South Omo which has created an accurate Project Paz picture of the prevalence of the disease: Latin Finance and raised over US$31,000 at its Deal of the Year an analysis of the regions water and Awards Dinner for Project Paz, which focuses sanitation facilities.
its work for underprivileged children in Ciudad Juarez El Paso, Mexico by expanding The full project delivery plan has now been Professor Stebbing and team and strengthening childrens basic education developed with two regions in South Omo development with complimentary educational prioritised due to their high incidence of activities and extended after-school hours.
The project is expected to begin in early 2014.
At its July 2012 Awards Dinner, Euromoney raised over 480,000 to fund the first two years of this five-year project and the group raised a further 49,000 in 2013.
