52 Experian Annual Report 2013 Business review Corporate Responsibility We understand our responsibilities as a corporate citizen and strongly believe that we must focus on these to generate profitable and long-term growth.
Our emphasis this year has been on the growth and evolution of our programme, driven by a desire to achieve more, to create more impact and in turn to strengthen our business growth.
Were especially focused on helping local communities achieve their social and economic potential.
The story of our year There was strong awareness that creation of a global CR steering group.
our resources not just financial, The group, comprising senior leaders This year Experians people took but our unique capabilities and our data from across Experians five regions, was Corporate Responsibility CR to heart resources could really make a difference established to drive the development in a new way.
Whether it was our 150 and new ideas began to emerge for and improvement of our CR programme.
most senior leaders locked in debate products and service offerings and over Experians role in tackling poverty, Three workstreams have been ways of engaging as a team beyond or the 1,000 colleagues getting involved established within the steering group, the conference.
See the Corporate in our global environment challenge, each led by a senior leader, with the Responsibility Report 2013 CR Report weve seen how these issues have the objective of: at www.
com crreport for power to engage and inspire people.
Enhancing the Groups community more detail including a short video.
As a result of engagement through our programme, improving the connection New global CR working groups Heart of Experian culture programme, between employees and leaders, we have found new ways to involve our and the focusing on social context in A key outcome from Mumbais global 17,400 colleagues around the world each region: management conference was the in transforming the way we work with society: looking at how we embed CR in our business even more dynamically Our Heart of Experian and providing a new focus for our Social Responsibility programme is community engagement programme.
about making a real difference to the lives A new opportunity to engage leaders of people living in the communities where we In May 2012, we held our annual global operate management conference in Mumbai.
The conferences theme centred on growth with responsibility and the event At the heart of our local communities, created a powerful opportunity for were creating inspiring This is the spirit 150 of our most senior leaders to volunteering and at the fundraising programmes develop an even greater understanding Heart of Experian that connect us even about the social context for growth more closely with where we live and work in emerging markets a key part of Experians strategy.
As described in last years report, leaders were taken out into Mumbai to visit and talk with people involved in social enterprises and charities addressing the citys many social needs.
At the heart of our company, its about The groups were then brought together harnessing what we do Our aim is to help to discuss the role of business in society to help people realise communities realise their true economic and to examine Experians specific potential from tackling their social and responsibilities.
the root causes of economic potential poverty to supporting small businesses in our communities Business overview Business review Governance Financial statements 53 The focus on financial education has Community investment been a longstanding one at Experian 2013 2012 and also led us to develop educational Re-presented US$000 US$000 support programmes such as Values, Funds from Experian plc 1,217 981 Money and Me.
This has been delivered 1,2 nationwide across the UK this year and Financial donations and investments from Experian subsidiaries 2,676 1,504 3 helps schools teach children about the Employee time volunteered 656 505 importance of financial responsibility, and 4 Gifts in kind 323 282 not just money management skills.
The Management costs 416 274 programme has been approved and the Total from Experian 5,288 3,546 distribution supported by pfeg, the UK As % of Benchmark PBT 0.44% 0.31% financial education charity, and there are plans to replicate it in Ireland.
This year we Employee fundraising 785 815 also announced a three-year partnership with pfeg to establish Centres of Total value of all giving 6,073 4,361 Excellence, supported by Experian and our As % of Benchmark PBT 0.51% 0.39% volunteers, promoting financial education 1.
Financial donations and investments from Experian subsidiaries have been re-presented in the light of in schools located in the UKs most improved data capture processes.
Additional financial donations were identified in the North America region, the largest of which was US$180,000 in relation to Donors Choose.
The total amount was previously reported financially disadvantaged communities.
Financial donations and investments include relevant costs incurred in respect of our commercial initiatives New emphasis on Big Ideas in the community in Brazil, Clean my name.
Our CR report sets out how we have calculated the costs that We believe that commercial solutions directly benefit the community.
No comparable initiatives and costs were incurred in the prior year.
to social problems will have scale 3.
Manual and skilled time volunteered during normal working hours on Experian projects.
This level of data capture was not possible in prior years.
and longevity beyond those based on 4.
Gifts in kind have been re-presented in the light of improved data capture.
41,000 free credit reports were donations and philanthropy: they will provided to not-for-profit advice agencies in the UK.
The total amount previously reported was US$166,000.
have the most sustainable effect on society.
Termed Big Ideas, we are now looking at how we can deliver more Improving the Groups measurement Sharpening our community focus through our strengths and capabilities and reporting of its social and Our programme of community as a business, scaling up these activities environmental impacts, which investment remains hugely important, as part of our Heart of Experian Social will help us focus on how we are engaging our people and touching the Responsibility programme.
protecting the environment and lives of thousands of people across the addressing social concerns, not only world.
This years total was US$6.1m An outstanding example of a Big Idea how much we are investing or saving: made up of volunteering hours, cash, we first reported last year is our work with and donations in kind and employee the Big Issue Invest, the investment arm fundraising as shown above.
Our Seeking out how the Group can better behind the iconic Big Issue magazine, to colleagues worldwide value the chance identify and respond to social needs create the UKs first commercial Rental to get involved in their local community, through product innovation, referred Exchange Service.
This will offer a secure and volunteer enthusiastically.
to at Experian as creating Big Ideas.
and compliant way to include a tenants rental payment history in credit reports, We have always looked beyond our The launch of the Heart of Experian with their permission.
Rental payment centrally funded initiatives and this Social Responsibility programme information is not currently included on year we have included in our reporting, The most important outcome from the credit reports.
programmes developed within our global management conference was business units.
These include, for This year we have invested further and establishing a global theme for Experian.
example, donations made to an worked with the social housing landlords As part of our successful global culture organisation called Donors Choose and tenants and set up the infrastructure programme, the Heart of Experian in North America, from our consumer to make it possible for the first time Social Responsibility programme was business.
Many of the organisations we for tenants to build their credit history launched globally in March 2013 to support have been partners with us for a by taking account of their regular rent 17,400 employees around the world.
One such example is the payments.
This will strengthen their Allen Community Outreach ACO project With the aim of helping communities credit history, enable them to apply for in Texas, which supports struggling families realise their social and economic mainstream loans and help them qualify with food, clothing and financial advice and potential, the Heart of Experian for lower-cost credit deals.
Most of ACOs customers have Social Responsibility programme no access to computers, making it hard encompasses our existing successful New ways to engage with consumers for them to deal with potential employers, community programmes while also There have been a number of initiatives government agencies or other companies pioneering how we use our business this year focused on greater engagement online.
In the past Experian has provided skills, products and services to with consumers and the most dramatic support to set up a computer room, promote financial education, financial was in Brazil.
A series of five Clean My allowing users to get online at the project inclusion and support small business Name debt fairs were organised by and Experians employees have volunteered entrepreneurs.
Serasa and 56,000 people attended these extensively at the centre and provide the one day events to meet Serasa Experian financial education and support so vital to making a long-term difference.
and all its lender clients in one place.
O M M N O N C I R E M U S N O C D E B M E T N E M N O R I V N E S A U T 54 Experian Annual Report 2013 Business review Corporate Responsibility continued Linking to our business strategy Corporate responsibility for Experian is an essential element of our business growth strategy and supports our drive towards product innovation, geographic expansion and work in new customer segments.
Our CR programme is developed through a cycle of consulting, focusing, embedding and innovating.
We have great stories to tell in our CR Report, which show how were making progress in all our areas of responsibility.
com crreport for our case studies.
BIG ISSUE INVEST PARTNERSHIP In our second year of partnership with the Big Issue Invest, engagement with social landlords is becoming a reality.
For the individual we provide a means to build a repayment pro le that will give access to mainstream lending and help them achieve considerably cheaper interest rates.
GREEN CHALLENGE NEW Our global environmental engagement programme ran CUSTOMER PRODUCT SEGMENTS INNOVATION for three months and challenged our people to make a change to their green, or not so green, behaviours.
Over EXPERIAN 3,000 colleagues regularly read and watched our updates PLC and over 1,000 people signed up in teams across 20 countries.
Our case study tells their story and you can see an amateur video grown out of green passion!
EXPANDING GEOGRAPHICALLY GROWING THE HEART OF EXPERIAN Our culture programme, the Heart of Experian, is helping us foster a working environment where people are engaged and inspired.
In this second year we have made great strides and our case study describes some of our progress and shares a video that formed one of the first exciting messages about the initiative.
VALUES, MONEY AND ME CLEAN MY NAME Developed by our UK and Ireland business, Values, Money and Or Limpe Nome as its known in Portuguese, is the title for Me is a free primary school online programme that explores what a series of five major events held across Brazil, developed money can and cannot buy.
Developed in partnership with teachers by our Serasa Experian business to help people set their and backed by pfeg, the UK financial education charity, the case finance records straight and solve their debt problems in study video shows children and teachers using the resource and one day.
Over 56,000 people attended see the impact and having a lot of fun learning about nances and values.
hear their inspiring stories in the case study.
The fairs provided a unique opportunity A new green engagement programme pledged to good causes as an incentive for to address credit problems in one go, in participation and to reward winning teams.
Many of Experians people are housed real time, to clear up misunderstandings in modern offices, controlled by building Over 3,000 colleagues around the world and bring new hope to people stuck at management systems with little individual visited the dedicated Green Challenge the limit of their credit.
scope to be involved in reducing our intranet site and around 1,000 people took footprint.
So this year we launched our Many people who attended told us part in 126 teams across 20 countries.
Green Challenge to harness the creativity that they arrived feeling hopeless and The results were outstanding, with and interest of our colleagues around the left energised by a new and realistic photos, stories and videos flooding in world and encourage them towards more plan to deal with their debt problems.
From Costa environmentally aware behaviour in the Lenders will benefit too, with lower Rica to California, Monaco to Madrid, office, at home and as they travel between default rates expected from attendees.
colleagues have said that being part the two.
Serasa Experian employee volunteers of a global project but in a local team added to the value of the events by The idea was simple: colleagues were was a motivating force for them.
As we providing financial education sessions invited to register in self-organised plan the legacy of the project we have for attendees, to help them in the teams and were presented with a series termed the phrase Green for Good longer term.
of environmental challenges throughout because we know we have changed the the competition.
Points were awarded behaviour and outlook of a large number for the best performing teams.
Funds were of Experian colleagues.
C A D O F S T C U D O R P T L U S N O C R E Y O L P M E E Y T T I A N V U Business overview Business review Governance Financial statements 55 Responsibility 2013 Objectives Status How achieved Data Use and protect data properly, Make Experians Global Code of Conduct available Our Code of Conduct has been translated into respecting all the relevant to external stakeholders, rolling out first via the 15 languages, available via the CR section of the laws, helping evolve industry CR section of the Experian plc website.
By the end Experian plc website and links have been created guidelines and new legislation of the financial year provide a link via Experian via our country websites making our conduct and ensuring a culture of country websites to versions translated into local around data visible to all stakeholders.
compliance with the highest languages.
Products and Services Create social and economic Work with members of the Strategic Projects With global CR Steering Group support we created bene t through our products, Committee in each region, raising their level of frameworks and diagnostic tools to help product services and capabilities, Social Ethical and Environmental SEE issue managers across all regions assess the social balancing commercial bene t awareness.
Enable their decision making on new bene t of the products and services in their remit, with consumers rights and developments to take account of social bene t, enabling them to review new developments.
using tools and frameworks created by the global CR Steering Group.
Consumer Inform and empower Maximise the reach of our financial education North America: we increased our focus on social consumers, and ensure that advice to consumers in three of our regions media, hosting 12 live events over three months, those who interact directly with by working with partners including consumer with a typical TweetChat reaching more than our Company receive fair and organisations and clients, using new channels and 150,000 accounts.
UK and Ireland: we established a Facebook page in September and already have 17,000 likes.
Latin America Brazil : the emphasis has been on new face-to-face events in collaboration with clients, with 56,000 people attending five Clean your name events across Brazil.
All regions: we continued to collaborate and share information regarding the achievements in the above regions.
Employer Be a good employer to all, Work with senior leaders to improve their We engaged senior leaders via the Global establishing a set of expected understanding of Experians role as a responsible Management Growth Conference running a behaviours and values, aiming business in line with statements in Heart of half-day programme on the role of Experian as a to ensure that everyone working Experian employee materials.
Inspire and enable responsible business in society.
Support materials for us is treated fairly, given the them to hold informed discussions with employees including video and intranet communications have maximum opportunity to ful l leading to local community plans at a regional been provided and discussions with employees are their potential and that all our level and improved employee engagement and ongoing.
Regional CR plans were included in the workplaces are safe and healthy.
main strategic plans for the first time.
Environment Minimise as far as possible Overall reduce CO emissions normalised by 2 Aggregated PUE has reduced by 12.6% across the environmental impacts revenue by 2% by 2016.
Targets for this year were: our four core data centres based in the UK and associated with our business North America.
The technology investment Achieve a 5% PUE Power Utilisation and enable employee required in one site was delayed, so we expect Effectiveness reduction in our primary UK and participation, with a particular to achieve more reductions in the future.
North America data centres by December 2013. concentration on the reduction Air travel in EMEA has reduced by 29% in terms of energy use and its effect on Decrease air travel between locations with of mileage, and 20% in terms of costs of air global warming.
video conferencing VC facilities in the travel between VC locations.
UK and Ireland and EMEA by 4% and 7% respectively during the current year.
Air travel in the UK and Ireland has reduced by 12% in terms of mileage, and by 5% in terms of costs of air travel.
Community Play an active part in social Improved data capture processes are in place and Complete the process of improving the capture and economic regeneration in the increase in regional charitable contributions of local business unit charitable payments and our communities, be they local, and investments partly re ects this improvement.
Policy and goal development work is ongoing with Develop global policies for match funding, regions as part of the CR Steering Group remit.
volunteering and payroll giving and set goals for implementation taking account of regional limitations.
