20 Experian Annual Report 2013 Business overview Our people With over 17,000 employees located in 40 countries operating across four different global business lines, our people strategy needs to be diverse and comprehensive.
Our people objectives are fundamental to executing Experians global strategy and are intended to attract, retain, and inspire talent.
We are now one year into a significant global culture agenda called the Heart of Experian.
This is the foundation for transforming Experian to become one of the best places in the world to work.
Global people strategy exceptional Culture and engagement generating performance through people a sense of pride and connection Our efforts to progress the Group Last year, the Heart of Experian initiative from good to great are supported was launched to further identify a by a robust global human resources way to express the ties that bind our strategy.
Experians global people organisation across all regions and vision is to deliver exceptional business business lines.
Included in the launch of performance through our people.
To the Heart of Experian we defined three deliver this, our strategy is focused on words that express our convictions, how two areas: we behave and what we believe, in other words, our Core DNA: Connect, Protect, culture and engagement: and Create.
We are making great progress talent.
in having the Heart of Experian become Regional people plans are also in place simply the way we do what we do and to ensure local issues are addressed.
making Experian one of the best places to work in the world.
Our culture and These strategic strands are underpinned engagement strategy plays a central role by the work we have done and continue in achieving this.
to do in bringing the Heart of Experian alive for our people.
1 2 3 Business overview Business review Governance Financial statements 21 Global initiatives Throughout the past year, to assist 3 the Global Recognition programme, Beyond our global initiatives, locally our people in understanding the Heart that for the first time provides an and regionally our leaders held of Experian and our Core DNA, we opportunity to be nominated for events, workshops and employee launched several global initiatives: recognition across all of our people.
communication sessions to spread the word and gather feedback on the Bureaucracy Busting, an initiative 1 Along with these human resources-led Heart of Experian.
This feedback helped aimed to help reduce bureaucratic initiatives, two other major efforts were identify further initiatives to enhance processes both globally and in local launched: local work environments.
work environments: 4 Discover Experian has created a way 2 Performance for Growth, a new to help our employees broaden their global performance management understanding of our business and process that we have repositioned expand their discussions with clients under the Heart of Experian as a key and colleagues alike: and lever for employee engagement: and 5 our commitment to Corporate Social Responsibility has been highlighted and relaunched under the Heart of Experian banner.
5 4 22 Experian Annual Report 2013 Business overview Our people continued Employee engagement embark on the Heart of Experian.
listening to our people The feedback from this survey is being used to enhance our plans around Our global people survey, carried out developing our culture globally and every 18 months, provides valuable locally.
In the upcoming year we will insights into the views of employees continue to help unify the Group and their level of engagement with the through global initiatives.
Our last global people survey are also emphasising regional and local was carried out in November 2011.
The activities to bring the culture alive and results of the most recent global people make the Heart of Experian just the way survey, conducted in the spring of we do things around our business.
2013 will be available in August 2013.
More information on November 2011 Talent strengthening and employee engagement scores in diversifying our talent pool our global people survey can be Our talent mission is to release the P24 found in this annual report in the key potential of every employee to deliver performance indicators section.
Experians performance goals by driving In-between administering global people the attraction, growth and retention of surveys, we conduct a shortened version a deep pool of talented employees who to gauge the pulse of the Group and reflect our global reach and our belief in whether our efforts in improving the the value of diversity.
work environment through action plans We have a diverse employee population and management efforts are on the right approximately 46% of our employees track.
In November 2012, a short Groupare female and 54% male.
Around 28% wide global pulse survey was conducted are classified as white and 11% as to track our progress around culture non-white, with the remainder choosing and engagement.
There was a strong not to disclose this information or the response rate: 76% compared to 72% in information being unavailable to report.
This is above the global average response rate which is 60% to 65% for Our overall objective remains to drive these types of surveys.
The results diversity through the talent agenda to showed that we had made significant ensure that our future senior leadership improvements across all categories team better reflects our client, consumer since the previous survey and major and employee base.
The table opposite progress in every question.
In the area outlines the current picture and of how management has been perceived highlights the progress being made.
in following up with the previous global You will find details of our Board people survey, the results were up 9% P60 diversity in the corporate governance since 2011 and 22 percentage points report later in the annual report.
above the global high performing norm, In 2014 we will further enhance our representing a world-class performance.
EXPERIAN EMPLOYS : efforts on diversity and inclusion.
The global pulse survey also asked We plan to reinforce an unequivocal 17,400 people globally our people to comment on what leadership commitment to prioritise difference the Heart of Experian will 6,100 in North America diversity, create a supportive make, which resulted in comments infrastructure for diverse employees and 3,500 in Latin America with very strong positive themes make progress sustainable by further around motivation, corporate culture, 3,800 in UK and Ireland improving our underlying organisational international reach, improved leadership culture.
We have a unique opportunity 4,000 across EMEA and communications as likely benefits, in this area to build a more inclusive and Asia Paci c endorsing the Groups decision to culture as part of the Heart of Experian.
As at 31 March 2013 Business overview Business review Governance Financial statements 23 GLOBAL COST PROFILE Labour 55% Talent programmes IT 8% Building a strong talent and leadership Data 12% Marketing 11% pipeline is a significant part of the Other 12% talent agenda and we continue to have Central Activities 2% traction with a number of global talent programmes which are supporting the accelerated development of top talent: Experian Business Network EBN CEO Forum Executive Success This development forum for high This development forum is designed After the very successful pilot of the potential and diverse emerging for senior talent with a focus on Executive Success programme in talent was successfully launched creating opportunities for exposure 2012, this year we have initiated the in October 2008 and now runs in to the CEO and other senior second cohort of the programme.
Members are selected This programme targets our 300 employees have been or are from the leadership succession highest potential leaders who have currently part of the EBN, with talent pool, with diversity being participated in the CEO Forum and analysis showing that approximately actively encouraged.
Analysis shows have been identified as individuals 18% of participants have gained that since its creation in 2008, of the we want to further develop.
The a role promotion during or since 75 participants, 16 have received programme is aimed at accelerating participation.
This promotion rate is a notable promotion, of which 4 leadership development for our top ahead of the average promotion rate were women.
global talent that will help them for Experian.
Of these promotions, prepare for future roles in the most 49% have been for women.
Diversity profile of the senior leadership team September 2009 September 2010 September 2011 September 2012 Total population 87 Total population 90 Total population 85 Total population 89 Gender number and % females 14 16% 16 18% 16 19% 17 19% Ethnic origin number and % non-white 4 5% 6 7% 8 9% 8 9% Talent and succession planning The most recent review highlighted Approximately 93% of senior leadership improving our leadership pool and the following: roles have successors ready to cover deepening our talent pipeline these roles in the short term through 10% of the senior leadership team are emergency cover, and 52% have one or Succession planning, an integral part occupying developmental roles outside more candidates identified as permanent of our talent strategy, ensures that their home market and geography.
successors over the short and medium appropriate resources are in place This mobility of talent continues to be a term.
The key focus is on developing the to achieve our strategic objectives.
key focus as building global capability is strength and depth of this talent pipeline.
The plans for senior leadership key to our sustained success.
We continue to cascade the talent review succession are regularly reviewed by process to increasingly junior levels of the Group Operating Committee and emerging talent as one way of doing this.
the Boards Nomination and Corporate Governance Committee.
