CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Fenner believes that being a good employer and operating our companies in a safe and responsible manner underpins the sustainability of our business.
Nicholas Hobson Chief Executive Officer Why corporate responsibility is important legislation or industry standards demand.
collective responsibility is discharged to to Fenner Each operating unit is responsible for ensure that the workplace is safe for Fenner understands that corporate ensuring that, as a minimum, it meets local ourselves, our colleagues, our customers and responsibility is an essential cornerstone in statutory requirements and is encouraged to all those with whom we work.
the deliverance of long-term sustainable reflect identified best practice within the Fenner looks for and promotes H&S as a key business success.
We also recognise that we Group.
element in the culture of each of its have social and environmental responsibilities operations.
Since its launch in 2009, the All employees are expected to take personal to the communities in which we work.
By Health & Safety Management System responsibility for their conduct and Fenner recognising and managing our corporate Framework The Framework has provided recognises that the necessary culture and responsibilities appropriately, we add to the structure and guidance to operations, behavioural environment must be in place overall success of the business and further irrespective of size, to deliver continuous across the Group to facilitate the successful enhance our reputation, profitability and improvement within the unique culture and implementation of the Groups policies.
The Framework Health and safety provides individuals, operating units and new How we manage corporate responsibility Why it matters to Fenner acquisitions with a clear understanding of Fenner strives to understand and manage Fenner has a very clear vision as to why H&S what is required of them, while allowing local significant risks to the environment and is important to us.
We believe that anyone management the freedom to develop their communities in which we operate, as well as who works for Fenner should expect to return systems to satisfy local legislation, practice considering the positive impact we can make home in the same fit and healthy state in and social mores.
We have identified five which they came to work.
It is expected that key areas which we use to address the What policies and practices are in place?
everyone who works for Fenner, regardless of potential impact of our activities on the location, is responsible for the safety of both The Framework, together with Group policies, environment, our employees, the themselves and their colleagues.
We forms the foundation of the Group Health and communities in which we work and wider continually strive to ensure this individual and Safety Management System.
The Framework stakeholders: Health and safety H&S : Corporate Responsibility and Governance Our people: Environment: Board External Reporting Code Community: and Audit Committee of Conduct Business behaviours.
Chief Executive Officer The risks associated with these five areas are managed within the Groups risk management framework and are continuously monitored Policies Board and assessed, with necessary controls put in place in order to reduce any potential impact.
Group Compliance Officer The Board sets the strategy and has overall Group Company Secretary responsibility for the development and Procedures monitoring of the Groups policies relating to Divisional Confidential Directors corporate responsibility.
The task of ensuring Whistleblowing that these policies are communicated and Procedure Local Compliance applied at a divisional and operating unit level Officers is delegated through the Chief Executive Communication Officer to senior managing directors and on to Employees each operating units senior management.
All policies and associated management systems are reviewed at least annually and at any time when significant changes in the business, Fenner PLC Annual Report 2013 49 Overview Business Review Governance Remuneration Corporate Responsibility Financial Results Operational Challenge and continuous review improvement comprises 13 Elements subdivided into 89 what improvements have been achieved in the demonstrated by the development and delivery Expectations.
The Expectations provide clear previous year and revise priorities based on of the operating unit improvement plans.
At a long-term improvement goals and new input Group level, it is delivered by a periodic review guidance to all our operating units to enable gleaned from sources including incident of The Framework to ensure that it remains them to undertake a risk-based assessment of their local H&S management systems and investigations, assurance visits and relevant and applicable when addressing the Group industry communications.
The develop appropriate improvement plans.
In risks faced by our operations.
At its launch in continuous improvement approach to H&S 2009, it was envisaged that a major review of line with the culture of delegated management and the core processes integral The Framework would take place every five accountability in the Group, the accountability to this are illustrated in the Safety for managing H&S and developing local H&S years to ensure that it continued to remain Management System diagram below.
The management systems resides with local appropriate.
Accordingly, during 2013, an response within the Group to the structure extensive programme of internal reviews and management: this ensures the systems are and clarity provided by The Framework is interviews across the Group and at all levels of appropriate to the local culture, organisation extremely positive.
and regulatory environment, while additionally the organisation has been undertaken.
This seeking to meet best practice standards.
The exercise has confirmed that The Framework content is fit-for-purpose for most of the principle of continuous improvement The Group Health and Safety Policy can be viewed at www.
com Groups operations and that only a few specific enshrined in The Framework drives the additions need to be made to address risks enhancement of the local H&S systems and culture, ensuring that the resultant local H&S that have resulted from growth and the What are we doing?
evolution of the Group across the globe.
management system is robust and fit for The Framework requires each operating unit to purpose.
Since the inception of The Framework in 2009, conduct an annual assessment of its current it has been recognised that an essential part of A number of key activities take place that level of compliance with the Expectations, the management of H&S in the Group is the ensure the operating units are focused on the taking into account the current operational risk effectiveness of its associated assurance correct risks: there is an external assurance profile and applicable regulatory requirements.
An appropriate assurance programme which measures Group The unit then produces an improvement plan programme was implemented shortly after the performance against industry-wide which incorporates and builds on its existing roll-out of The Framework.
This comprises benchmarks and best practice standards: at a H&S programmes.
The Framework is a core visits by independent, third party H&S experts divisional level, senior H&S professionals component of the integration plan for all who review documentation, engage with staff have multi-site oversight to share best acquisitions.
Progress against these plans is at all levels in the operating unit and assesses practice and internally challenge local monitored and subject to independent the local H&S culture and behaviours.
We improvement plans: and improved assessment through an assurance recognise that the assurance programme communication and sharing across the programme.
The benefits of a structured delivers multiple benefits in the Groups broader H&S community within the Group.
approach are evident in both the established diversified culture: it provides independent Fenner operations and our recent acquisitions.
Embedding The Framework into Group verification to the Executive Committee and the operations will be a long-term project as it At the core of The Framework is the concept of Board as to the state of local safety necessitates a degree of cultural change.
This idea permeates management systems and safety culture process is built on individual operating unit the Groups approach to H&S and across the Group: it provides each operation improvement plans that are refreshed encompasses continual monitoring and with recommendations for improvement based annually.
Each year, all operating units review periodic review.
At an operational level, this is upon a broad cross-Group perspective: and it acts as another conduit for sharing best practice across the Group.
Safety Management System We believe strongly that H&S is at the heart of the way we do business.
Every manager and supervisor is accountable for delivering high Local levels of H&S performance in their area of H&S performance influence.
These leaders are supported by a network of local H&S managers within the Planning and execution operations who are able to advise, support and drive improvements in their safety Operational strategy management systems.
All operations have an H&S committee which meets regularly to Learning from past experiences discuss H&S topics and concerns, make Risk management recommendations and implement and monitor Training and competencies any improvements or initiatives.
H&S key Core Policy and procedure issues and measurements are also routinely processes Leadership and direction monitored and discussed at management Measurement and assurance meetings with investigations into serious Technical integrity incidents and near misses reported to the Group for dissemination across all global operations.
The Framework Accidents and near misses are recorded and Group policies reviewed locally and safe systems of work updated if necessary.
Accidents involving lost Group Regulatory compliance time are reported through divisional management to the main Board.
The process for sharing details of an incident and the Fenner PLC Annual Report 2013 50 Ownership, communication and promotion Balance of accountability Corporate Responsibility continued years as employees were engaged to take personal ownership of their H&S agenda.
This Case Study change in approach was embraced at all levels within the business and pervades the day-to-day approach taken by operating units, Our Houston facility, which is used by CDI Energy where H&S is seen as an integral part of Products and EGC Critical Components, has business practice.
successfully changed its safety culture over a period of five years.
It was not about creating Our people safety rules and policies, but more about Why it matters to Fenner educating employees on the risks associated with Our ability to consistently deliver reliable and their jobs and developing a true belief that all superior solutions to customers is founded work can be done safely.
upon a stable, technically skilled, innovative This was achieved by developing a culture and and committed workforce.
We are committed understanding amongst all employees, which gave to recruiting, developing and retaining the them the confidence to be their own safety officer best people to help ensure the continued and if there is any doubt about the safety of a task success of the Fenner Group.
This cultural change has resulted What policies and practices are in place?
in FAST Houston exceeding 1,000,000 hours Each operating unit employs recruitment worked without a lost time incident and become practices which identify the best available the first member of the Fenner Millionaires candidate for each position.
All employees are Club, an award for sustained H&S performance.
actively encouraged to apply for roles, including cross-divisional opportunities where measures around the Group to prevent similar awards from two of their major customers applicable.
accidents happening elsewhere has been for sustained safe working, which has Fenner aims to provide an inclusive and formalised and extended to include near resulted in over 18 months of accidentdiverse workplace environment, in which all misses and guidance on wider health issues free operations on their sites: employees are treated with dignity and with a business impact.
H&S regulators are The Hallite operation in Wixom, USA respect.
Fenner is committed to providing increasing their level of activity, increasing received a SafeTask Safety Vigilance equal opportunities in recruitment, penalties and extending their interest across Award.
This award is presented by CSM employment and development: we do not businesses with common ownership.
The Inc. our external, independent HSE discriminate against any person based on Framework and our Group-wide processes not assurance providers, in recognition of gender, race, age, caste, origin, religion, only ensure our performance improves, but their significantly improved safety culture.
disability, sexual orientation or any other also address this increased regulatory activity.
Fenner does not Since 2008, we have also awarded the annual Highlights from the year tolerate any form of harassment, Fenner Group Health and Safety Improvement In 2011, we created a new award for sustained discrimination or bullying and is committed to Award.
The award recognises the operating H&S performance.
The award was recognition progression based on merit.
unit which has made the most progress for any operating unit who passed 1,000,000 towards achieving our goals of making safety hours worked without a lost time incident.
the top priority in all work environments and July 2013, the Houston facility in the USA Fenner strongly believes in the importance of ensuring that all those who work for Fenner passed this prestigious milestone.
Local providing training and development can expect to return home in the same fit and management believe that a fundamental opportunities to enable employees to increase healthy state in which they came to work.
change in culture has been undertaken over their contribution to the Group and realise the past five years.
All employees now enforce their full potential.
New employees receive There were a number of operating units that the safety culture through education, induction training on a variety of subjects, were in contention for this years award, with awareness and empowerment to affect their the Fenner Dunlop Americas belting operation including H&S and Group policies and working environment.
in Bracebridge, Canada, the Fenner Dunlop procedures.
Additional training requirements are continually assessed at a local level and Australia service locations in Wollongong and In November 2012, the inaugural Global Darwin, Australia, the Fenner Precision further appropriate training is provided to Fenner HS&E Conference was held in operation in Wilmington, USA and the Hallite meet the development needs of both the Manchester, UK.
The conference was operation in Hamburg, Germany all receiving operating unit and the employee.
Employees attended by over 50 delegates drawn from commendations for the improvements that take part in formal annual appraisals to primarily H&S and operations personnel they have made over recent years.
discuss performance, achievements and across the Group.
Key note speeches were potential areas for development and delivered by Executive Committee members The 2013 Fenner Group Health and Safety progression.
and the Chief Executive Officer.
The purpose Improvement Award has been awarded to the of the conference was to build upon the Hallite operation in Wixom, USA.
Following Fenner believes that regular communication common foundation The Framework provides, the introduction of The Framework in 2009, helps to increase employee awareness and to enhance the understanding and sharing of the Group-wide review against the understanding of our culture and vision at how to deliver improved H&S and Expectations revealed that the business had both a local and Group level.
In addition to significant opportunities for improvement.
publications provided at a divisional and local Consequently, there was a fundamental level, the Fenner Focus magazine is Two of the Groups operating units have rethink regarding the H&S approach at produced and distributed to all employees on received external recognition and awards Wixom.
Today, Wixom is considered to be one a quarterly basis and is an effective route to during the year for their performance: of the Groups leaders in H&S culture, ably communicate matters of Group and supported by local management.
The culture The Fenner Dunlop Americas service operational significance.
The magazine also change has taken place over a number of operation in Chile was recognised with recognises operating units and individuals for Fenner PLC Annual Report 2013 51 Overview Business Review Governance Remuneration Corporate Responsibility Financial Results The Group is committed to identifying and assessing the risks of pollution and other Case Study forms of environmental impact arising out of its activities and actively seeks to reduce its impact on the environment to the lowest Over the course of the year, Fenner practical level by ensuring that all operations conducted a review of the continued and activities of the Group exemplify current appropriateness of the pension provision for environmental best practice.
As a result of the review, a new pension scheme has been What policies and practices are in place?
introduced, which is open to all UK At Board level, the Chief Executive Officer has employees.
The Scheme provides all specific responsibility for the development of pension scheme members with the policy and management systems.
opportunity to take advantage of enhanced Responsibility for each operating division is contribution rates, as well as improved delegated to the senior managing director ancillary benefits.
and, at a local level, to a senior manager at each site, supported by in-house or third party professionals.
Each senior managing director their work in the community, H&S and Fenner attaches a great deal of importance to reports to the Board on a regular basis and environmental initiatives and long service the health and welfare of our employees, both advises the Board immediately of any awards.
in the workplace and in their private lives.
Over environmental risks or other incidents likely the year, operating units have continued to to be significant to the business.
No new At a local level, operating units regularly provide a variety of health programmes and material environmental risks or incidents communicate with their employees through initiatives to their employees.
A large number were reported to the Board in the last year.
the use of staff meetings, management of operating units offer free health screenings walkabouts, newsletters, consultative councils, We believe that, due to the large variation in and vaccinations to employees.
Several suggestion schemes, electronic messaging, environmental regulation and approach operating units also encourage their appraisals and social events.
All operating across different countries, our best response employees to lead healthier lifestyles through units encourage two-way communications and to deliver environmental management is to the use of wellness programmes.
These provide channels for feedback and comment ensure that each operational location is fully programmes range from the provision of on the Groups activities.
aware and supported with respect to its local, smoking cessation and weight loss initiatives to national and international regulatory encouraging gym membership and offering onHighlights from the year obligations.
Taking this locally-focused site exercise sessions to employees.
During the Due to the global nature of the Groups approach, operating units have established a year, Fenner Drives US operating units business and customer base, we have a number of different local environmental introduced Employee Assistance Programmes, geographically and culturally diverse management systems.
These systems are in where employees are able to take advantage of workforce.
On average during the year, the line with the Group Environmental Policy and free sessions for counselling and wellness Group employed 5,272 people 2012: 4,970, of The Framework, which outlines a set of Group programmes.
Xeridiem in Tucson, USA which 31% were located in EMEA, 44% in the Environmental Expectations.
Currently, where provides a welfare programme which offers Americas and 25% in Asia Pacific.
local management believe that it provides a incentives to employees who complete certain During the year, Fenner appointed a Group HR benefit, 31% of the Group is either accredited screenings throughout the year.
Xeridiem Development Director to provide expert or working towards accreditation under the receives a health report based on the results of guidance and support to operating unit internationally recognised ISO14001 scheme.
screenings which identifies the top three management in the furtherance of their local biggest health risks at the company, so that All acquisitions are subject to appropriate HR development programmes.
Over the year, future wellness initiatives can be targeted environmental due diligence, which is she has also worked closely with the Groups towards minimising those risks.
specifically extended to include environmental Executive Committee to identify the qualities management systems and operational and behaviours that we expect from our Environment compliance.
These qualities and Why it matters to Fenner behaviours will be used to support the Concern for the Groups impact on the development of staff across the business, The Group Environmental Policy can be environment is a fundamental part of the viewed at www.
com further enhancing succession planning at a Groups business strategy as it endeavours to Group level.
Employees by location Case Study 25% In 2013, Fenner introduced the Jobs at Fenner website for its employees.
The website allows each of the Fenner businesses an opportunity to share 44% vacancies across the Group.
By sharing professional and managerial vacancies in 31% this way, we aim to provide more varied career opportunities, strengthen interdivisional cooperation and improve the retention of skilled staff.
Americas Asia Pacific EMEA Fenner PLC Annual Report 2013 52 Corporate Responsibility continued What are we doing?
Waste Minimisation Case Study The general principle adopted by the Group is one of waste minimisation in its broadest The Group has been working towards sense, whether that waste is energy, raw improved greenhouse gas reporting for material or water.
Wasteful use of any the past two years.
We have been working resource is counter to the efficient running of with a third party software provider to any business and incurs additional cost, either develop a multifaceted, non-financial data from suppliers or from disposal of the waste: reporting system that creates a single therefore the minimisation of manufacturing portal for collecting environmental, waste and the maximisation of energy health & safety, energy and greenhouse efficiency are recognised as beneficial to the gas data.
Group from both an environmental and commercial viewpoint.
The portal will be critical in ensuring we can report in line with the new Waste minimisation is driven and managed at greenhouse gas reporting requirements.
All major manufacturing operations monitor their waste emissions and all operating units comply with local environment legislation.
General waste factors proscribed within the internationally number of locations use processes which management programmes and initiatives are accepted greenhouse gas protocol.
We have involve a range of chemicals which are encouraged and the recycling of materials generically referred to as volatile organic engaged a third party data collection takes place where practical, either internally consultancy with expertise in converting utility compounds VOCs.
These chemicals are or through external programmes with suppliers subject to strict regulation: their storage and usage into carbon emissions to ensure that we or other third parties.
An example of this is the use is strictly controlled.
We continually seek are kept abreast and utilise all the appropriate recycling programme running at our Hallite to identify alternate substances to replace national and international factors see the facility in Wixom, USA see case study below.
Where it is not case study above.
possible to identify suitable alternatives, we Climate Change In the UK, Fenner is registered for the Carbon strictly control and minimise the use of these The Group recognises the increase in public Reduction Commitment scheme CRC, a substances, as well as invest in equipment to awareness of the climate change debate and key component of the Climate Change Act recover material rather than emit it.
the need for companies to understand the which subsequently was turned into a carbon scale of their greenhouse gas emissions.
It Many of our existing operations, as well as tax.
As part of our approach to carbon also recognises that there is no globally new acquisitions, are located on sites that are emissions, we are a voluntary member of the accepted methodology for calculating many decades, even centuries, old.
This British Plastics Federation Climate Change emissions, with most countries having a presents risks and challenges as we deal with Agreement CCA.
The CCA sets industryportfolio of emission factors for various energy legacy issues from activities in previous eras, wide targets for reduction with penalties for sources based on either the average where environmental control was not so strict.
failing to reach those targets.
In past years, we composition of primary fuels or averaged The Group recognises and actively manages have won the British Plastics Federation emission factors for secondary energy sources the legacy environmental risk though local energy award for outstanding improvements in such as electricity purchased from a national action plans supported by Group oversight energy efficiency.
It should be noted that only grid.
While these averages are inherently where appropriate.
All new investment is 8% of our scope 1 and 2 emissions come from inaccurate, they are the generally accepted designed to meet or exceed local regulations our operations in the UK.
to ensure that our impact on the local methodology for estimating the end users greenhouse gas emissions for year-on-year Air quality could be adversely affected by some environment is continuously improving.
To this end, the Group has elected of our processes and we have implemented to report global figures based on emission systems to ensure this does not happen.
A Case Study Since moving to a new location in February reducing the waste sent to the landfill by 2011, Hallite in Wixom, USA has greatly approximately 62 tons, a saving of over reduced its environmental impact through $10,000 to the business.
The employees commitment was a vital part Since the implementation of the programme, of the recycling programmes success and over 683 tons has been recycled.
This contributed towards achieving certification of includes six different types of plastic scrap, our Environmental Management System in scrap metal, used oil, cardboard, office paper, only 14 months ISO14001.
plastic waste, pallets, batteries, fluorescent bulbs, printer cartridges, computer These efforts have also been recognised by equipment and mobile phones.
receiving the Michigan Department of Environmental Qualitys Michigan Business The latest material to be added to this list is Pollution Prevention Partnership award for the recycling and reuse of the coolant from two consecutive years.
Furthermore, the recycling efforts have had a positive financial benefit by Fenner PLC Annual Report 2013 53 Overview Business Review Governance Remuneration Corporate Responsibility Financial Results Fenner undertakes regular reviews of its such considerations are embedded within the employee with a Christmas hamper.
This activities and the workings of The Groups decision making processes.
year, employees were provided with the Environmental Policy to ensure it is option of having the value of their hamper What policies and practices are in place?
comprehensive and effective, identifying donated to a number of charities, with the Our support for the communities in which we objectives and standards that will enable a Company doubling the amount of money operate is driven at a local, rather than Group demonstrable continuous improvement in raised.
The money raised was split level, with operating units supporting and environmental matters.
between: the Imena Foundation, a charity enhancing employee efforts in their which supports projects in Africa, Highlights from the year communities through the application of the including improved schooling, the Energy efficiency Groups resources.
provision of clean drinking water and During 2013, the Group has undertaken a healthcare for the poorest: the Salvation The Groups Code of Business Conduct global roll-out of an energy and emissions Army, to help furnish a local community prohibits any political donations and no reporting system.
The system will result in kitchen: and A better Romanian World, a political donations were made during the year.
more robust and efficient reporting of charity which helps orphaned children as greenhouse gas emissions.
The system will What are we doing?
well as the elderly and poor.
ensure we are able to comply with The Over the year, the majority of operating units Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and chose to provide support to local causes.
Donations by type Directors Reports Regulations 2013, which During the year, total charitable donations of requires the Group to report on global 108,000 2012: 102,000 were made.
Highlights from the year The Group does not set global targets for Employees and operating units have given greenhouse gas emissions, but many their time and helped raise funds for a variety 44% 44% operating units set local environmental of charities and projects over the past year.
targets and all operations comply with local Some examples include: legislative requirements.
Due to the diversity Employees at Fenner Drives in Manheim, of the Groups manufacturing processes, USA volunteered to teach classes at local operating unit size and location, it will be 12% schools through Junior Achievement USA, challenging to produce meaningful, consistent Community Education which aims to help students connect with and predictable intensity measures.
Health education, develop life skills and discover The Group uses a variety of energy sources.
their potential: The main contributors to greenhouse gas Fenner Dunlop Europe in Hull, UK Business behaviours emissions are electricity consumption and supported rugby, football, cricket and Why it matters to Fenner fuels burnt on our premises which, combined, bowls teams from the local community, account for 84% of the Groups emissions.
Fenner believes that high standards of providing on-site playing facilities and integrity and responsible corporate behaviour All of our operating units manage their energy sponsorship: help to ensure that an organisation is well efficiency as part of their normal operating run.
Our conduct and reputation also help to Hallite in Wixom, USA adopted a local cost control.
Examples include: the purchase both ensure our long-term sustainable family through the Adopt a Family of new equipment with consideration of business success and encourage the Program and raised money for their lifetime energy costs: studies underway to formation of successful partnerships with thanksgiving dinner and Christmas gifts.
replace older boilers with more efficient third parties throughout the Groups supply For their participation in this programme modern boilers: and widespread utilisation of chain, thereby creating additional business and other charitable work, Hallite energy efficient lighting.
received a 2013 Outstanding Citizenship Community Award from the Lakes Area Chamber of What policies and practices are in place?
Why it matters to Fenner Commerce: The Board has ultimate responsibility for the Fenner believes that good relations and longdevelopment and monitoring of the Groups Fenner South Africa provided support for term partnerships with the communities in policies relating to corporate behaviour and a disadvantaged student at a tertiary which it works are fundamental to its success.
for ensuring that those policies are institution: and Fenner always considers the potential social understood and communicated to employees.
and environmental impacts that its business As a custom, Fenner Dunlop in Drachten Responsibility for ethical and behavioural activities may have on those communities and standards in each division is delegated via the in the Netherlands has provided each senior managing director to the senior manager at each operating unit.
Greenhouse gas emissions Fenner is committed to doing business at all 25% times in an ethical and transparent manner.
The principles of openness, integrity and 2% accountability are enshrined within the Code 11% of Business Conduct, which sets out the 1% behavioural standards expected from all 5% employees.
The Code is an overarching policy which is supported by additional policies and 59% procedures at both a Group and operational level, including: 2% Anti-trust Competition Policy: Electricity Fuel Water Air Waste Other Vehicles Anti-bribery & Corruption Policy: Fenner PLC Annual Report 2013 54 Corporate Responsibility continued Corporate Gifts & Hospitality Policy: comply with all laws relating to antiFenner recognises that gifts and hospitality corruption as well as our related policies.
In can potentially create improper influence and Whistleblowing Policy: addition, we expect strategic partners and conflicts of interest, or the perception of a service customers to have H&S management conflict of interest.
Accordingly, we have a Email & Internet Use Policy: and systems that are aligned with those of the Gifts & Hospitality Policy, communicated to all Group Control Manual.
operating units regarding the receipt and provision of gifts and hospitality from and to Fenner encourages its employees to discuss Highlights from the year third parties.
An online gifts and hospitality any ethical concerns that they may have with Training has been provided to appropriate register is available for use by all operating local management.
In addition, a confidential employees at an operational level for both units.
and independent whistleblowing helpline is anti-bribery and anti-competition through available to all employees who wish to raise seminars, meetings and poster campaigns.
any concerns they may have regarding Group-wide mandatory e-training potentially unethical workplace behaviour.
programmes addressing bribery and Calls to the helpline are free and the helpline corruption, the Fenner Code of Business operates 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.
In Conduct and anti-competitive behaviour are recognition of the fact that we are a global currently being finalised and will go live in the business, reports can be made in a wide near future.
We have identified those Nicholas Hobson range of languages.
employees deemed to have a higher risk of Chief Executive Officer exposure to bribery and corruption, all of What are we doing?
13 November 2013 whom will be required to undergo training.
The vast majority of operating units have, or Such at risk employees include: are working towards, ISO 9001 or equivalent status and each undertakes rigorous All senior management: customer satisfaction assessments, including All sales and purchasing teams: and senior face to face meetings and customer surveys.
Performance and the timing and Other employees who could potentially be handling of any complaints are routinely the subject of external influences.
discussed at management meetings and are The whistleblowing helpline received eight used as a key measurement in determining calls 2012: seven over the year from the success of the operating unit.
Complaints employees who wished to raise concerns are regularly recorded and used to help alleging unethical workplace behaviour.
operating units improve the service that they Following suitable investigation, no action was provide.
required in three of the cases, with the Fenner expects that all business partners will remaining cases being appropriately adhere to the high levels of business conduct addressed through further training, policy that we require of ourself.
It is a standard improvements or disciplinary process at a requirement of our terms and conditions of local level.
All whistleblowing incidents are business that both suppliers and customers reported to the Audit Committee.
Fenners Corporate Responsibility approach Governance H&S management H&S culture Health and safety H&S assurance programme Training and development Employee welfare Our people Leadership development Employee communications Environment management Climate change Environment Waste management Energy efficiency Community engagement Employee community involvement Community Community related donations Business behaviours Policies and procedures Employee training Data and performance Code of Business Conduct Business partner management Whistleblowing procedure relationship management Reporting and Management systems Audit and assurance communication Fenner PLC Annual Report 2013 55 Operational impact areas
