36 S TR A TE G I C RE P OR T FERRE XPO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2 0 13 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY FPM continues to improve its safety systems using knowledge gained from international best practice.
We are modernising our mine and processing plants to increase productivity and optimise our energy consumption.
The ongoing success of our business provides for a sustainable employee and community development programme.
Victor Lotous Chief Operating Officer of Ferrexpo Poltava Mining FPM FYM was brought into commercial production in 2013 with the employment of over 1,000 individuals.
Local and national contractors worked to establish world class standards of mining, maintenance and administrative infrastructure.
Through the engagement of the community and regional stakeholders FYM was able to gain approvals to construct a 10mtpa iron ore concentrator.
Once constructed, this facility will ensure that a great mineral resource continues to share many benefits with employees, future employees and the surrounding communities for many decades to come.
Nikolay Goroshko General Director of Ferrexpo Yeristovo Mining FYM FBM is a potential new mining and processing resource that is undergoing technical, environmental and community reviews in order to establish a business case for future development.
The knowledge and experience gained from FPM and FYM have been taken into account so as to minimise the impact on the environment and maximise the positive impact on future employees and nearby communities.
Bob Garrick General Manager of Ferrexpo Belanovo Mining FBM 37 S TR A TE G I C RE P OR T FERRE XPO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2 0 13 Governance Stakeholder Engagement The Corporate Safety and Social Responsibility Committee Stakeholders The Group has a Corporate Safety and Social Responsibility Stakeholders are those groups or individuals who are significantly Committee the CSR Committee which is a sub-committee of the affected by Ferrexpos activities or those whose actions may affect main Board and includes two Board members and two senior the ability of the Group to implement its strategies and objectives.
It monitors the implementation of CSR policies.
The stakeholder groups that the Group engages with are described The CSR Committee is chaired by Brian Maynard Group Chief below.
The other members of the CSR Committee are Michael Abrahams Chairman of the Board, Kostyantin Shareholders and the Investment Community Zhevago Chief Executive Officer and Viktor Lotous FPM Chief Directors and senior executives have frequent discussions with Operating Officer.
To assist them in the exercise of their duties, institutional investors and major shareholders on a range of issues the CSR Committee will, from time to time, engage specialist including performance, strategy and governance.
The Head of technical advisers.
Investor Relations manages programmes and communications, particularly at the time of the full and half-year results During the year the matters considered by the CSR Committee announcements when presentations are given to analysts, brokers included the following: and major shareholders.
The Annual General Meeting is an A review of the main CSR risks facing Ferrexpo see the Principal important event in the calendar, giving all shareholders the Risks section of this report on page 28 and how they are being opportunity to engage directly with Directors and management.
A review of the work being done to implement the greenhouse Customers and Suppliers gas emissions reporting regulations in the UK.
Ferrexpo has had successful business relationships with several of A review of health and safety, human resources, community its customers for over 20 years.
Marketing plays an important role in support projects, environmental protection measures, and developing new relationships in order to diversify the customer base progress in improving the use of natural resources.
in anticipation of the planned increase in production.
A review of Ferrexpos environmental and social risk profile from the investors point of view.
Shareholders and Investment Local Communities Community Sponsorship finance and knowHow Annual Report and Accounts how Website Funding of community projects Ferrexpo Analyst and investor meetings and Local TV Engages conferences Local press articles and interviews Annual General Meeting Site visits with its Written communication and email Stakeholders Presentations Site visits Customers and Suppliers Government National and Local Employees and Trade Unions Written communication and email Written communication and email Face-to-face regular meetings with Face-to-face Face-to-face employees and unions Annual Report and Accounts Site visits Information boards around the site Networking at conferences Audits and inspections Training Annual Report and Accounts Written communication and email Surveys Special programmes e. g. antibribery procedure training 38 S TR A TE G I C RE P OR T FERRE XPO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2 0 13 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY continued Employee Engagement Respect for Human Rights A reputation for integrity and responsible behaviour underpins Ferrexpo is committed to the adoption of fair labour practices at Ferrexpos commercial performance and is gained by motivating its workplaces: the Groups conditions of service comply with employees and building trust and goodwill.
Employee engagement applicable laws and industry standards.
starts at a personal level when employees begin their employment through an established induction programme, and continues Ferrexpo promotes workplace equality and seeks to eliminate all throughout their period of employment with the Company.
It takes a forms of unfair discrimination.
variety of forms according to circumstances from face-to-face discussions between employees and their supervisors to formal The Group does not tolerate inhumane treatment of employees, Group training programmes, from job-specific training to events for including any form of forced labour, physical punishment, or ensuring compliance with legal or regulatory requirements such as other abuse.
that undertaken in 2011 and repeated in 2013 in implementing anti-bribery procedures across the Group.
Ferrexpo prohibits the use of child labour.
In addition, all employees are communicated with through Ferrexpos The Group recognises the right of its employees to freedom formal internal communication system.
This system includes use of of association.
bulletin boards, monthly publications and tool-box talks at the start of each shift.
Important information is also communicated through Ferrexpo operates fair and appropriate means for the determination Ferrexpo memoranda.
In general, either an operations Director or of terms of conditions of employment.
senior manager is responsible for issuing these formal communiqus to the relevant employees.
The Group provides appropriate procedures for the protection of workplace rights and its employees interests.
Two-way communication is also encouraged, with employees providing feedback through their line managers or through Ferrexpo provides employees with opportunities of enhancing their occasional employee surveys.
skills and capabilities, enabling them to develop fulfilling careers and to maximise their contribution to the business.
Employee Representation At FPM approximately 90% of the workforce is represented by a Ferrexpo respects human dignity and the rights of individuals and single labour union, while at FYM employees are represented by of the communities associated with its operations.
The Group an employee representative forum consisting of both management seeks to make contributions to the economic, social, and nominated and employee elected representatives.
Positive educational wellbeing of these communities by means that include engagement with employees and the labour union is maintained sponsoring local community events and providing opportunities through established forums and communication structures.
In 2013, for employment to workers from the communities surrounding the the Company continued to enjoy positive labour stability without any Groups operations.
Ferrexpo believes that it has the right and the responsibility to On various matters of mutual interest to Ferrexpo and its employees, make its position known to governments on any matters that management regularly consults and communicates with employees affect its employees, shareholders, customers, or the communities belonging to the labour union or represented by the employee associated with its operations.
representative forum through transparent partnership and communication structures.
Minutes from formal meetings are While the primary responsibility for the protection of human rights published to ensure that all the relevant employees of the applicable lies with governments and international organisations, where it is business operation are kept clearly and meaningfully informed on within the Groups power to do so Ferrexpo seeks to promote the issues currently under discussion.
observance of human rights in the countries where it operates.
The Group supports the principles set out in the Universal The labour union and employee representative forum also consult Declaration of Human Rights.
directly and provide feedback to their members at membership meetings.
The Company provides the necessary resources for these Ferrexpo respects the personal participation of its employees meetings to enable these employee representative organisations to in the democratic political process and their right to absolute brief their members on important employee and Group matters.
privacy with regard to personal political activity.
The Company will not attempt to influence any such activity, provided there is no disruption to workplace activities and that it does not contribute to industrial unrest.
39 S TR A TE G I C RE P OR T FERRE XPO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2 0 13 The recent civil unrest experienced in some parts of Ukraine did not At the same time, the right to equal opportunities and fairness is impact the areas surrounding Ferrexpos operations.
Approximately 27% of the Groups total workforce is composed of women as can be seen from the table below.
Protection services are supplied to the Group through an external contract security company.
The protection services supplier Number of Employees ensures that its personnel take cognisance of Ferrexpos stance Female Male Total on human rights, especially in relation to procedures of search, Employees 2,651 7,045 9,696 arrest and charging.
% of workforce 27% 73% Local Communities Directors of Ferrexpo plc 8 8 Ferrexpo recognises that a regular dialogue with the communities affected by its operations, in which many employees also live, is an EXCO members 5 5 important element in minimising the risk of local hostility or disruption Other key management 8 53 61 to operations.
Ferrexpo has a positive impact on local communities through being a major employer.
As a mining company, it also Training recognises the sensitivities that surround the occasional necessary Human resource development is a core component of Ferrexpos displacement of small communities by its operations, and those human resources and business strategies.
Our investment in skills operations impact on the physical landscape.
It works hard to training initiatives is significant, with the objective of ensuring that maintain dialogue with local communities and has a dedicated the Company is resourced with people with appropriate skills to department through which communications are channelled.
contribute to Ferrexpos performance and results.
Support for local projects and community events is a further element Human resource development primarily takes place through the of community engagement.
The structure and objectives of Ferrexpo Training and Development Centre in Komsomolsk, which community engagement are defined for all operations, where this is delivers core technical, mining, information technology, and labour relevant, and clear management accountability and success criteria safety training to both employees and contractors.
Training in theory have been identified.
is followed up through practical application and formal assessment in the workplace.
Government National and Local Engagement with local and national government is open and Healthcare proactive.
Communication often revolves around project Comprehensive, quality healthcare is available to all Ferrexpo implementation and land acquisition, as well as routine submission employees and their dependants through a fully equipped company of information as required by the authorities.
In addition, the Group has a well-developed system of occupational healthcare services, including annual health Diversity screening for all employees working in hazardous areas and Ferrexpo believes that by building an inclusive culture it benefits from an annual assessment of hazardous areas where employees are the many advantages of a richly diverse workforce.
Being able to required to work.
draw on diverse experiences, perspectives and approaches encourages innovation and can be a source of competitive Contractors differentiation.
The Groups efforts in this area therefore endeavour to Contractor staff working on Ferrexpos sites are subject to agreed create an inclusive culture where all employees feel appreciated for minimum performance requirements between their employers and their uniqueness and the contribution they make to the Company.
Ferrexpo that cover, inter alia, compliance with labour legislation, labour safety and environmental protection.
For example, all In this important area, the need to increase the number of women in contractor staff are required to undergo appropriate safety induction the workforce remains a key challenge.
Mining as a career remains programmes before being allowed to work on the site.
Ferrexpo the choice of few women in Ukraine as a consequence of a mixture requires adherence to these principles by its business partners, of historical and cultural factors, such as the need to work shifts, and and their willingness to accept these principles is an important legislative restrictions in Ukraine that prevent women from working factor in the Companys decisions to enter into, and remain in, in potentially hazardous areas.
The Group acknowledges that it has such relationships.
an important task ahead in finding effective ways to attract more women into careers in mining.
Notwithstanding this, Ferrexpo recognises that it has a duty of care to provide a system of work that is safe for women of reproductive age, their unborn children, and working mothers who are breastfeeding.
40 S TR A TE G I C RE P OR T FERRE XPO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2 0 13 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY continued S TR ATEG Y CSR Strategy Set out below are the short, medium and long-term CSR goals for the Group.
Short-term 12 years Progress Medium-term 35 years Progress Long-term 5 years Reduce eliminate recurring injuries Implement effective systems to Implement hazardous operations Health and through improvement in safe ensure compliance with the Groups analysis and risk assessment Safety workplace behaviour safety standards processes to drive best practice Increase availability of improved Increase employee Integrate recruitment and Employees living accommodation development programmes retention systems Keep controlled emissions dust, gas Adapt production techniques so Increase productive output Environment and effluent below permitted limits as to minimise use of inputs and while reducing the impact on and reduce further where possible minimise waste the environment through new processes and technology Improve workplace conditions through the implementation of modern equipment and processes Contribute to the development Align the growth of operations with Work jointly with local communities Community of the education and skills of the land acquisition and city planning to create new infrastructure, social local population, and support processes for rural and urban living programmes and leisure activities the modernisation of local community infrastructure and services, in order to develop and maintain the local labour pool Conduct successful negotiations with local communities in order to facilitate land acquisition for mining infrastructure Key Achieved In progress Not achieved 41 S TR A TE G I C RE P OR T FERRE XPO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2 0 13 HEALTH AND SAFET Y P O L I CY G OA L S The prevention of injuries to employees is the highest priority of the Board and Ferrexpos goal is to develop a culture in which safe production is recognised as management.
Policies and practices at all levels reflect this.
cost-effective, and which leads to improved workplace conditions and behaviour.
The objective originally set in 2009 of achieving the best mining safety record in Within the operating assets, accountability for health and safety performance lies Ukraine is supported by targets including a reduction of 5% in the lost-time injury with senior line management.
All operating assets are required to develop and implement health and safety management systems in line with Group policy, including performance management.
In 2013, management continued the task of further reinforcing the safety culture at Ferrexpo.
During the year, it concentrated on implementing a programme of Performance metrics will reflect the Groups commitment to strive to achieve the addressing high potential hazards in the workplace.
The link between safety highest standards of health and safety performance.
performance and staff remuneration safety KPIs now apply to all staff down Senior line management is responsible for ensuring that adequate resources are to middle management level continues to be operated.
committed to health and safety.
They have an obligation to secure their resources through the Groups planning and budgeting processes.
Adequate health and safety training will be given to all employees and contractors.
Specific focus needs to be applied to behavioural safety at all levels, to fatal risk prevention and to the major industrial health hazards associated with our operations.
Employees are personally responsible for their own safety and that of their colleagues.
S TR ATEG Y Short-term 12 years Progress Medium-term 35 years Progress Long-term 5 years Reduce eliminate recurring injuries through Implement effective systems to ensure Implement hazardous operations analysis improvement in safe workplace behaviour compliance with the Companys safety and risk assessment processes to drive standards best practice During the year, injuries in the workplace were reduced as can be P E RF O RM A NC E seen in the table below: Short-Term Performance Most regrettably a contractor died at the Groups operations in 2013.
2013 2012 2011 2010 The fatality occurred when the contractor was placing concrete on 1 LTIFR 0.64 0.66 0.77 1.46 the roof of a new control room, on the top floor of the new flotation Fatal accidents 1 0 0 1 building.
While performing these duties his shoulder came in contact Total accidents 10 10 11 20 with an electrical conductor on the overhead crane, and he suffered Lost days 758 338 469 916 a fatal electric shock.
The state regulator Labour Safety investigated the incident and issued a number of findings and recommendations.
1 LTIFR number of work-related lost time injuries per million man hours not including The systems for Contractor Safety Management are being modified contractors.
in order to address the deficiencies.
The prevention of injuries to employees is the highest priority of the Board and management, The number of lost days increased due to specifics of the received who follow the principle that all accidents are avoidable.
injuries which required more days for recovery.
42 S TR A TE G I C RE P OR T FERRE XPO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2 0 13 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY continued Number of Accidents at the Groups Mining Operations 80 70 60 50 40 30 20 10 0 84 86 88 90 92 94 96 98 00 02 04 06 08 10 12 14 The accident rate in Ferrexpos operations has fallen.
Staff are trained in health and safety matters as part of their general technical training.
In 2013, safety training was provided to 4,117 employees at the Groups mining operations.
Ferrexpo is pleased to announce that in 2013, FPM was awarded second place in the category Cultural Evolution in Safety or Sustainability by DuPont at its annual Safety and Sustainability Awards.
The award evaluated companies from 17 countries.
DuPont An FPM employee believe the award reflects FPMs determination to continue to improve is safety record in line with industry best practice.
Contractor Safety During the year, a mandatory personal protective equipment PPE policy was implemented for all contractors.
The Group also implemented a contractual clause that outlines the monetary penalties for contractors that do not follow Ferrexpos safety requirements.
Furthermore, there is now a requirement to review all the contractors own safety programmes during the tender process and random safety audits of contractor safety behaviour are being carried out in the workplace.
Medium-Term Performance The Group aims to continue to address high potential hazards in the workplace such as overhead cranes, explosives and electricity dangers.
There was a significant increase in the availability of PPE during the year which Ferrexpo believes has led to a noticeable improvement in contractor safety behaviour.
Long-Term Performance In 2014, FYM plans to commence a hazardous operation and risk assessment regarding the proposed FYM 10 million tonne per annum concentrator.
43 S TR A TE G I C RE P OR T An FPM employee FERRE XPO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2 0 13 EMPLOYEES P O L I CY G OA L S Ferrexpos employment principles include policies and practices on company Ferrexpo is aware of the increasing demand for staff with mining expertise in the CIS standards, security, recruitment, remuneration, equal opportunities and training and countries and elsewhere, and is constantly looking for ways to motivate and retain development.
These are backed up by subsidiary company employment manuals to its employees by involving a greater number of staff in its employee development cover local legal and regulatory requirements.
programmes and by ensuring compensation packages remain competitive.
Ferrexpo aims to combine employees local knowledge with modern technology so as to enhance the capacity and utilisation of its physical plant and equipment.
S TR ATEG Y Short-term 12 years Progress Medium-term 35 years Progress Long-term 5 years Increase availability of improved living Increase employee development Integrate recruitment and retention systems accommodation programmes Number of Employees and Contractors Trained P E RF O RM A NC E Short-Term Performance Employees Contractors Total A notable achievement in 2013 was the construction and FPM 6,909 680 7,589 commissioning of 212 apartments to be allocated to FYM and FPM employees under the Groups subsidised housing and social loyalty FYM 742 742 programme.
The aim of this programme is to motivate and retain FBM 54 54 skilled workers within the Company by enabling them to take out Total 7,705 680 8,385 loans for the purchase of accommodation at a subsidised rate of interest.
In Ukraines current economic environment the proposed subsidised rate of 4% per annum is five to six times lower than the Long-Term Performance market average.
During the year, 135 FYM and FPM employees As is the norm in Ukraine, the Group does not have individual joined the programme and purchased apartments in the new contracts with its employees other than with its senior managers.
At FPM, a collective agreement with the representative labour union Medium-Term Performance is renewed on an annual basis, which states, inter alia, that individual Ferrexpos strategic goal to increase employee development salaries will be increased at least in line with inflation.
Management programmes was ongoing during 2013.
The Group provides believes, having externally benchmarked wages, that wages paid technical training for all employees consistent with their duties and by the Group are higher than average wages in Ukraine.
In particular, investment has been made in facilities been no major industrial action or labour dispute at the Companys for health and safety training.
Training takes the form of basic and Ukrainian operations since its privatisation in 1995. specialised training, retraining and refresher training courses, both internal and external.
Further information on employee numbers is set out in note 35 to the accounts.
44 S TR A TE G I C RE P OR T FERRE XPO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2 0 13 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY continued ENVIRONMENT P O L I CY G OA L S Operating practices and growth plans will be implemented in a manner consistent Maximise recovery of iron from ore, tailings and concentrate so as to ensure the with the principles underlying long-term sustainable resource development: Ferrexpo best use of Ferrexpos natural resource.
will always bear in mind the long-term environmental consequences of its actions.
Minimise use of production consumables such as water, electricity, natural gas, All operating assets are required to develop and implement environmental diesel fuel and explosives in order to reduce demand for externally sourced management systems, in line with Group policy.
All new capital projects will include environmental risk assessments according to Use timely investment to sustain existing operations, and develop new projects so International Finance Corporation IFC Environmental and Social Performance as to allow mineral resource to be converted into new iron ore reserves.
Utilise stripping materials topsoil, sand, clay, rock to support the creation of new plant and transport infrastructure.
Eliminate workplace waste through improved management systems, and utilise plant facilities to reuse scrap materials.
Monitor processes and employee behaviour in order to minimise waste and byproduct contaminants and improve the condition of plant and equipment.
Monitor dust and gas emissions, and waste effluents in order to keep them below the permitted limits, and reduce them further wherever possible.
Work with engineers and National Design Institutes to ensure that modernisation and production growth plans include designs and documentation that reduce their overall impact on the environment.
Monitor new technologies that could assist in the reprocessing of iron ore tailings.
S TR ATEG Y Short-term 12 years Progress Medium-term 35 years Progress Long-term 5 years Keep controlled emissions dust, gas and effluent below permitted Adapt production techniques so Increase productive output limits and reduce further where possible as to minimise use of inputs and while reducing the impact on the minimise waste environment through new processes Improve workplace conditions through the implementation of modern and technology equipment and processes Emissions in tonnes 2013 2012 2011 2010 P E RF O RM A NC E Short-Term Performance Total gas emissions 5,915 6,332 5,803 6,294 As can be seen from the table opposite total gas emissions in 2013 Of which: declined by 6.6% despite an 11.6% increase in pellet production.
Nitrogen dioxide 2,762 3,293 2,475 2,922 This was due to more steady feed of concentrate and higher utilisation of the kilns.
Carbon monoxide 2,107 2,226 2,345 2,336 Sulphur dioxide 946 813 887 937 Emissions in Tonnes Total solid emissions 2,861 3,296 3,968 3,575 Monitoring the effectiveness of environmental policy includes the review of key emissions which are shown opposite.
Total emissions 8,776 9,628 9,771 9,869 45 S TR A TE G I C RE P OR T FERRE XPO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2 0 13 Electricity Gas 3 kWh per tonne of pellets m per tonne of pellets 205.5 165.0 22.0 16.2 20% 26% 2005 FY2013 2005 FY2013 In 2013, FPM spent approximately US$7 million 2012: US$11 million The methodology for the calculation of CO quantities for the Groups 2 on the implementation of environmental protection measures.
primary iron ore operations was based on energy volumes reported, Additionally, US$10 million 2012: US$9 million was spent on and multiplied by the factors stated in the following source environmental monitoring and maintenance activities.
Charges documents: payable under emissions regulations totalled US$6 million 2012: US$4 million.
Liquid, solid, gaseous fuels, refrigerants, purchased heat & steam DEFRA 2013 Factors as per their UK website Ongoing environmental management activities in 2013 included the Purchased electricity European Bank for Reconstruction and building of reservoirs for water conservation using mining Development Development of the electricity carbon emission overburden to build dams, further development of the closed water factors for Ukraine Baseline Study for Ukraine Final Report cycle for production activities, environmental equipment upgrades, 14 October 2010. and landscaping work.
In addition, new measures implemented Blasting explosives Australian Government Department of included the replacement of an electric filter at pellet plant No 2 with Climate Change National Greenhouse Accounts NGA Factors a bag filter and construction of waste water treatment facilities at the January 2008. fuel storage centre.
Business Improvement Programme BIP CO reporting Short-Term and Long-Term Performance 2 In order to comply with the new UK Carbon Reporting Regulations, The table below highlights the savings made from the BIP in 2013.
Ferrexpo held two workshops with an external service provider to The programme targets a reduction in the Groups C1 cash cost of understand and work through the greenhouse gas information 1% to 2% per annum on a constant output basis.
This has resulted offered by DEFRA UK.
The business units of FPM, FYM, and FBM in an overall reduction in the C1 cost of US$8.6 per tonne or US$64 collected information on greenhouse gas emissions created by solid, million since its inception in 2006. liquid, and gaseous fuels, as well as refrigerants, explosives, purchased steam and electricity.
The results are shown in the table The Group has placed particular emphasis on reducing its energy below.
consumption given that energy comprises 50% of the cost of production.
The graphs at the top of the page show the decrease in Item Figure electricity and gas consumption since 2005, the year before the Intensity ratio CO tonnes pellet tonnes 0.2 2 commencement of BIP.
Total tonnes of CO million tonnes 2.2 2 Major BIP Projects Implemented in 2013 UAH000 savings in Division Name 2013 Description of savings Mining department A reduction of open pit shovel excavator and truck loading cycle times 7,282 Loss of productivity Truck department Utilisation of pre-made overhaul kits to reduce repair time 12,905 Loss of time Railway department Recycling of axles for railway wagons and locomotives 3,242 CapEx avoiding Railway department Improved maintenance planning in locomotive overhauls 7,761 Loss of time Blasting department Recycling of plastic borehole sleeves used in open pit blasting 304 Cost saving Crushing and concentrating plant Magnetic separation control system improvements 1,469 Electricity Crushing and concentrating plant Modernisation of ball mills including new automation equipment 9,158 Electricity Crushing and concentrating plant Grinding media consumption monitoring 10,374 Electricity Pelletising plant R&D for a new natural gas burner in one of four rotary pelletising kilns 1,018 Gas FPM service department Improved maintenance techniques for large ball mill gears 3,350 Cost saving Motor transport department Improved utilisation of mobile service and support equipment 3,095 Fuel Talling storage Improved pumping of hydraulic tailings from the concentrator to the 1,586 Electricity tailings dam Total projects 61,544 46 S TR A TE G I C RE P OR T FERRE XPO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2 0 13 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY continued B IO D I V E RS I T Y Please see the panels outlining Ferrexpos initiatives in 2013 and approach to biodiversity below.
FPM Environmental Initiatives and Biodiversity 1 2 TO FOSTER A RESPONSIBLE THE L ARGE VARIET Y OF FLORA ATTITUDE AND CARE FOR NATURE CULTIVATED ON THE GROUPS ROCK IN FUTURE GENERATIONS THE WASTE DUMPS ARE A GOOD FOOD FOLLOWING INITIATIVES TOOK RESERVE FOR BIRDS PLACE IN 2013 Over 100 of the bird species nesting in the Poltava region have been observed.
In addition to permanent nesting sites near Komsomolsk, the migration routes Site visits for the students of Komsomolsk where they learn proper ecological of many birds that fly to Africa or Western Europe for winter are nearby.
These methods, and the local flora and fauna types.
birds stop at the Groups rock waste dumps to replenish their food reserves Children scatter apricot, plum and cherry stones along with seeds of acacia, before the long journey.
chestnut and hawthorn over the slopes of FPMs waste rock piles.
Plenty of small animals and insects on the moist FPM dumps attract birds of Flora grows relatively quickly in the waste dumps as rocks are warmed during prey.
Over the FPM territory one can often see falcons, golden eagles and the day and at night the moisture condenses on the surface of the stones hawks.
Occasionally, ornithologists observe rare bird species like the emperor creating favourable conditions for trees and grass.
The various rock types eagle with a wingspan of around 2 metres.
This bird was included in the provide certain chemicals that allow roots to take hold in particular pines, International Red List of vulnerable species.
poplars and fruit trees 47 S TR A TE G I C RE P OR T FERRE XPO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2 0 13 3 4 WE USE BIOENGINEERED FACILITIES FPM WAS CERTIFIED FOR ISO 14001 TO CLEAN CLARIFIED WATER THAT ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT HAS ACCUMULATED IN THE FPM SY S T E M TAILINGS DAMS The system was implemented to minimise the influence of the Companys activities on the environment, and to allow for continuous improvement of the The total area of such facilities at FPM is 18 hectares.
On the bottom of these environmental KPIs.
In doing so, FPM has established new practices for artificial basins there is a waterproofing material covered with layers of river environmental management in the Poltava region.
sand and gravel, creating a favourable medium for the development of This standard is applied to all organisational levels, and operational practices in organisms which biologically decompose harmful organic impurities.
The standards set out the steps to be taken by the Company in filtration of the water is done by the bulrush cattail plants that have water order to achieve their environmental management goals.
The quality of the purifying properties.
The cane filters particles of heavy metals and organic system is monitored by the state regulator , compounds.
Cane can remove around 20 chemical elements from the water and there are 16 auditors based at FPM monitoring the standards and ensuring including contaminants like phosphorus, nitrogen and potassium.
that any deficiencies are addressed.
The accreditation of the FPM Decomposition products are well absorbed by the canes.
environmental management system ISO 14001 is confirmed every five years.
Following cleaning at the bioengineered facilities the water is drained into the nearby river.
Dense thickets of canes and plants on the edge of the river act as high quality modern filters.
This filtration method is also applied to clean storm and spring water coming from the site.
There are fish in the tailings dam and crayfish clean water species in the drainage channels.
48 S TR A TE G I C RE P OR T FERRE XPO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2 0 13 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY continued COMMUNITIES P O L I CY G OA L S Ferrexpos presence should benefit those communities around its operations: Make operational leadership accessible to the various local citizen groups and operations will benefit if local communities are thriving.
organisations, so as to allow Ferrexpo to assess and prioritise their concerns about its various initiatives.
Ferrexpo strives to be recognised as an attractive local employer and a concerned corporate citizen.
Provide expertise and voluntary services in order to sustain and or improve community infrastructure, supplying financial assistance where appropriate.
Ferrexpo will assist in the development of the micro-economic environment within the communities in which it operates, so as to ensure that their dependence on Ferrexpo Participate in the development of modern cultural and social programmes and for their livelihood is reduced.
activities in the local area.
Ferrexpo aims to enhance and have a positive relationship with the communities Work consistently with local town and village councils in order to understand their around it: to hold an open dialogue with those communities: and to ensure that its expectations of Ferrexpo, so that Ferrexpo can within reason provide value added involvement with them is cost-effective and relevant to their needs solutions or alternatives.
Give preference to suitably qualified local residents when hiring to fill vacancies.
S TR ATEG Y Short-term 12 years Progress Medium-term 35 years Progress Long-term 5 years Contribute to the development of the education Align the growth of operations Work jointly with local communities and skills of the local population, and support with city planning processes to create new infrastructure, social the modernisation of local community for rural and urban living programmes, and leisure activities infrastructure and services, in order to develop and maintain the local labour pool Conduct successful negotiations with local communities in order to facilitate land acquisition for mining infrastructure Community Context P E RF O RM A NC E The Poltava region, in which Ferrexpos mining operations are Community Initiatives situated, in an area of predominantly flat agricultural land close to the Ferrexpo has been a significant investor in local community initiatives River Dnieper, one of the largest European river systems and an from the outset, investing substantial funds in the social important transport artery for Ukraine, Belarus and Russia.
Iron ore infrastructure of Komsomolsk and the surrounding area.
These funds mining in the area dates from the 19th century, although the major have been spent on medical facilities, social services, education, expansion of mining activity occurred in the early 20th century.
The religion, culture and sporting activities, as well as on the town of Komsomolsk was established adjacent to the mine to maintenance of certain of the citys social and cultural structures.
support the mining operation and ancillary industries transport, Links with the local community are strengthened by meetings of power etc.
Ferrexpo is still by far the largest employer in the town, senior management with heads of schools and colleges, supporting which has a population of around 55,000 people, with approximately local celebration days, giving vocational guidance and vacation work 23% of the working population of Komsomolsk being employed by to the students of local schools including providing financial the mine in one capacity or another.
sponsorship to individual students whom Ferrexpo may subsequently employ and organising student excursions to Ferrexpos operations and its museum.
49 S TR A TE G I C RE P OR T FERRE XPO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2 0 13 Historically, the Group has employed a significant number of people a Health and Safety in providing support services to its mining activities.
In many cases, In 2013 First-DDSG experienced six lost-time accidents, equating to these services could be made available on a commercial basis to a LTIFR of 6.98 accidents per million man hours: there were no other enterprises within the local community which in turn improves fatalities.
Accidents were mainly due to injuries causes by handling the viability and sustainability of the local economy.
To encourage equipment during frequent barging and mooring operations.
this process, Ferrexpo has offered financial and other support to Accidents are reported to, and discussed at, monthly meetings with employees who provide these in-house services so as to encourage the senior management of the Group, and steps are taken to them to transform internal departments into stand-alone businesses.
Community spending in 2013 US$000 : b Employees First-DDSG provides training for staff so that they can develop the FPM FYM FBM Total knowledge, skills and values necessary for the performance of Medical care 318 8 4 330 their roles.
Financial support to vulnerable people 1,380 83 11 1,474 c Environmental Education 1,246 54 13 1,313 First-DDSG complies with the applicable environmental regulations Sport 1,300 42 1,342 of the countries along the River Danube in which it operates for Infrastructure 4,039 1,581 594 6,214 example, regarding the prevention of fuel leakages and the grounding of barges.
2013 total 8,283 1,768 622 10,673 d Community Medium-Term Performance As a transport company operating over a wide area rather than The Kremenchug council officially approved the proposed FYM concentrated in one place, First-DDSG does not at present consider concentrator and the FBM mine development including its impact it appropriate to incur significant expenditure on community on the local communities and environment.
Long-Term Performance FBM optimised the mine design so as to mitigate the social impact on local residents by redefining the mining area and the location of fixed infrastructure.
First-DDSG Logistics Holding GmbH formerly Helogistics Holding GmbH The Group acquired the river transport company Helogistics Holding GmbH now renamed First-DDSG Logistics Holding GmbH FirstDDSG at the end of 2010.
Because of the different nature of its activities its CSR is reported on separately from that of the Groups mining operations.
Ferrexpos strategy is to integrate First-DDSG fully into Ferrexpos CSR culture.
50 S TR A TE G I C RE P OR T FERRE XPO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2 0 13 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY continued The average expenditure on community support over the last three years was US$14.8 million.
This reflects the timing of project completions.
In 2012, the Group spent US$21.8 million and in 2011, US$12.0 million.
Please see the panels below for examples of FPM support in 2013.
1 2 FPM PROVIDES FINANCIAL SUPPORT FINANCIAL SUPPORT FROM FPM WAS TO STUDENTS COMPETING IN USED TO EQUIP NEW CL ASSROOMS REGIONAL AND NATIONAL CONTESTS History, geography and IT classrooms at the secondary school of Dmitrovka were equipped with new furniture, computers, air-conditioners and video These grants encourage more children to spend some of their free time projectors.
The IT classroom has a new interactive SmartBoard computer continuing to learn in order to take part in the contests.
In the 2012 2013 touch screen which allows new teaching methods in many subjects.
In academic year, local students won 50 prizes in the regional contests record addition, two plasma TVs were purchased so that the students can watch breaking.
educational video courses and present their own projects.
Free Wifi internet is A grade 10 student V. A. Nizhnichenko school ranked third in the National now also available for the students.
Three students from grade 10 L. Buhaevska school won the Ukrainian contest for young business entrepreneurs with their project on Iron ore sculptures.
Another student won the national contest for geological research, and was also placed third in the national geography contest.
51 S TR A TE G I C RE P OR T FERRE XPO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2 0 13 3 4 THE CHARIT Y FUND OF FPM THE CHARIT Y FUND OF FPM SUPPORTED REPAIRS TO THE PROVIDES SUPPORT TO TALENTED GYMNASIUM, PHYSICS AND IT SPORTS ENTHUSIASTS OF LABORATORIES, AND CREATION KOMSOMOLSK ON A REGUL AR BASIS OF AN EDUCATIONAL 3-D CINEMA, For example, the funding of the large-scale reconstruction of the local Neptune IN KOMSOMOLSK SCHOOL NO.
1 swimming pool installation of a new ventilation system, replacement of the SPECIALISING IN ECONOMY AND LAW roof, floor, walls, heating system, wall cladding.
In addition, modern equipment for water sterilising, purification, heating and quality control was installed at the swimming pool.
One of the latest achievements is the opening of the first innovative iPadTraining in the improved conditions has resulted in better performance.
In the classroom in Ukraine.
In this project traditional textbooks have been replaced regional, national and international competitions the trainees of the local by iPads.
The students have a great opportunity to learn how to work with swimming school ranked first 97 times, won 113 silver and 101 bronze medals.
different operating systems on different types of computers, allowing them to The local swimming school ranks sixth among 50 sport schools in the team be well grounded in the IT world.
In addition, thousands of educational event and 26th among 78 swimming schools domestically.
programmes and electronic books have now become available to the pupils.
During the 2012 2013 academic year 657 athletes of various categories trained 33 iPads and special Wifi routers ensure high speed quality of teaching.
at the Komsomolsk swimming school.
Regional champion Marina Nadtochiy The school signed an agreement with the Kyiv Institute of Innovative joined the ranks of the national swimming team and Alexandra Konareva joined Technologies and the Ministry of Education to implement an official experiment the team as an alternate.
for the introduction of the iPad-classrooms.
Teachers and students In 2013, Komsomolsk boxer Anna Okhota became the national champion of immediately improved their skills.
Ukraine for the fourth time in a row, and is among the best European juniors.
In September 2013, she won a silver medal at the World Boxing Championship for women aged under 23.
Annas coach Alexander Serednitskiy receives financial support from FPM which allows him to accompany Anna to training camps and competitions.
