Fidessa group plc 11 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Achieving gender diversity in certain Corporate social responsibility Employees, employee and human rights involvement and equal sectors, including the software and opportunities technology sector, presents particular The Board believes that Fidessa has Fidessa is a service provider with its a positive social impact through the challenges when considering the employees as key stakeholders in the profile of the available talent pool in employment it creates, the payment business.
It therefore aims to maintain of corporate, employment and sales those sectors.
Fidessa has successfully an attractive place to work, where achieved a good degree of gender taxes, its participation in activities employees can develop successful with local communities and its regular diversity and has active female and rewarding careers for themselves.
involvement at director, senior support of a number of fundraising activities for employee nominated management and throughout other Effective employee communications management levels.
Employees are encouraged and openness with employees are to follow good principles of social Male Female vital and Fidessa promotes the behaviour which are reflected in Directors 6 1 understanding and involvement of all Fidessas internally published social Other senior managers 8 1 employees in its business aims and and ethics policy.
Fidessa believes that All employees 1,295 376 performance.
The policy of providing engagement with local communities employees with information about helps support the principles set out in Fidessa has policies specific to each new products, operations and the its social and ethics policy.
country in which it has employees, performance and development of designed to ensure that it operates the overall business has continued Whilst Fidessa does not have a in a legal and ethical manner.
These through the intranet site, product specific human rights policy, it include policies that, where relevant, seminars and interactive Group-wide believes the policies relating to are related to health and safety, meetings at which progress updates equality, equal opportunities and whistle blowing, anti-corruption, are given by the directors and senior anti-corruption help avoid causing grievance, maternity, paternity, management.
or contributing to negative human adoption and parental leave, flexible rights impacts.
working, learning and career Fidessa is committed to continuing development, security and IT.
to be a diverse and inclusive place to Environmental Fidessa reviews its policies on a Fidessa recognises the importance work and its employment policies, regular basis so that they comply including the commitment to equal of meeting globally recognised with current applicable laws and corporate responsibility standards as opportunity, are designed to attract, regulations and tests them for retain and motivate the very best illustrated by it being a constituent effectiveness.
company in the FTSE4Good Index employees regardless of colour, nationality, sex, marital status, sexual Series.
It is important to its employees, The health and safety of employees, its customers and its suppliers that orientation, age, religion, disability or customers and visitors is of primary any other characteristic protected by Fidessa acts in an environmentally importance.
Fidessa is committed to responsible manner and it has law.
Applications for employment by maintaining a safe and healthy disabled persons are always fully endeavoured to manage the effect working environment by managing its that it has on the environment and to considered, bearing in mind the activities so as to avoid unnecessary aptitudes of the applicant concerned.
Health and Wherever possible the employment safety audits and risk assessments, of employees who become disabled Fidessas environmental policy is including fire risk assessments, are regularly reviewed and is published on will be continued and appropriate carried out regularly.
Appropriate training and career development its website and intranet.
information, training and supervision will be offered.
are provided in support of this policy.
Fidessa group plc 12 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic report continued As a software product and services For the year ending 31st Intensity ratios 2013 December 2013 the quantity of tonnes of CO e per unit office-based provider, Fidessa 2 Scope 2 emissions in tonnes of Ratios of carbon emissions to: has no activities that pose major carbon dioxide was 10,067 tonnes environmental issues.
Usage of Total revenue 0.04 CO e. energy to facilitate the computing 2 requirements of its data centres and Recurring revenue 0.04 The GHG Protocol Corporate its employees, as well as international Operating profit 0.23 Accounting and Reporting standard travel, are considered to be the revised edition and emission factors greatest environmental impacts Employees 6.02 from the UK Governments GHG associated with its daily operations.
Number of connections to Conversion Factors Guidance 2013 Other factors include the use of the network community 2.15 were used to calculate the quantity electrical and electronic equipment, of emissions.
the consumption of water, the use of Number of Fidessa users 0.42 paper and the disposal of waste.
Fidessa calculated the emissions from data available for its major operations On behalf of the Board Fidessa endeavours to minimise and extrapolated these results to take energy and natural resource usage, account of the smaller operations.
Andy Malpass support the reduction and recycling of Scope 1 data has not been included Director materials and ensure the legal disposal of waste arising from the activities of as it is not considered to be material.
Fidessa encourages employees to reduce their usage of The legislation requires the those resources and sets policies and statement of relevant intensity procedures to assist in this so that ratios.
This is an expression of productivity is not negatively the quantity of emissions impacted.
in relation to a quantifiable factor of the businesses activity.
Fidessa Greenhouse gas emissions has identified six such intensity In accordance with the Large and ratios as set out in the table below.
Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008, Fidessa is required to make certain disclosures concerning greenhouse gas emissions.
