Fidessa group plc 25 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Payments for loss of office In the event of termination, the directors will receive payments for loss of office in accordance with the termination provisions of their service contracts and letters of appointment as applicable.
The Committee has discretion to recommend the payment of an alternative bonus to an executive director in relation to the notice period worked by that director.
Such bonus shall not exceed 125% of salary for the Chief Executive and 100% of salary for any other director, shall be in lieu of any pro-rata annual bonus the executive director may be entitled to receive and may only be payable if the executive directors role was materially changed during the relevant period and appropriate performance criteria were set and satisfied.
No executive director is entitled to receive any bonus payment in lieu of the required notice period or unexpired part thereof.
The treatment for share-based incentives previously granted to an executive director will be determined based on the relevant plan rules.
The default treatment will be for outstanding unvested awards to lapse on cessation of employment.
In relation to awards granted under the PSP, DABP, SIP or MSPP plans, in certain prescribed circumstances good leaver status may be applied and the awards may vest in full in the case of the DABP, SIP and MSPP or part in the case of the PSP.
A summary of the good leaver provisions and the treatment for the part vesting of awards are set out in note 19 to the financial statements.
Employees and shareholders Fidessa expects the total remuneration for employees to be at a level appropriate to attract, recruit, motivate and retain the most suitable individuals.
Employees receive a bonus, which in many cases will be a percentage of salary with an element determined by personal performance and an element determined by Fidessas financial performance.
For more senior employees, a higher proportion of remuneration is payable as a bonus.
The benefits available are dependent on market practice in each country.
The pension scheme available to an employee varies according to location with contributions at a competitive level for each country: Fidessa only offers defined contribution pension schemes.
There is no formal mechanism through which Fidessa consults with employees when determining executive directors remuneration but the Committee takes into consideration the pay and benefits of employees when reviewing the remuneration of the executive directors.
Fidessas shareholders have been very supportive long-term of the remuneration philosophy and policy.
On the few occasions that dialogue has been required, this has been constructive and positive.
In 2012 the balance between salary and bonus for the executive directors was reset to be more comparable to that seen in other companies in the IT sector and listed companies with a similar market capitalisation.
Some shareholders, whilst comfortable with the overall sum of salary and bonus, expressed concern at the extent of the re-balancing.
Following a constructive dialogue it was agreed with major shareholders that for 2013 the Chief Executives salary be decreased by 13% and the target annual bonus increased by a similar value.
In prior years there has been correspondence regarding share plans.
As has been the case in the past, the Committee will consider shareholder feedback provided for the forthcoming Annual General Meeting and throughout the year when setting the overall policy.
