Corporate responsibility Delivering sustainable travel solutions We have made good progress in achieving The years ahead will bring some serious transport challenges driven many of our corporate responsibility by the need to meet the travel demands of a growing population whilst managing pressure on resources and climate change.
objectives this year and achieved Gold Providing sustainable travel solutions to address these challenges is status in Business in the Communitys central to our vision and in order to do this we focus on working with local and national governments to ensure the right policy and Corporate Responsibility Index, up from investment frameworks are in place, whilst working to reduce our own Silver in the previous five years.
environmental impact and that of our suppliers.
Within FirstGroup this means using new systems to improve Our corporate responsibility priorities environmental performance and investment in best practice solutions, Our corporate responsibility CR priorities support the delivery which over the past year have included: of our vision to provide solutions for an increasingly congested world keeping people moving and communities prospering.
In First Transit we have a number of partnerships with technology Formore information on our vision and values, please see page 4. providers that allow us to offer added value to our customers.
These include DriveCam, which promotes safer driving and fuel efficiency, Our CR impacts broadly fall into four key areas: NextBus and Transloc which provide passengers with real time Delivering sustainable travel solutions information, and RouteMatch scheduling software.
Putting our customers at the heart of everything we do We continue to use the DriveGreen driver management system in our Engaging with local communities UK Bus division to encourage our employees to drive as fuel efficiently and safely as possible.
Throughout the UK more than half the drivers Valuing and developing our people certified at the highest level of excellence by GreenRoad, the Within these four areas, our CR priorities are focused on the manufacturers of DriveGreen, are FirstGroup employees.
issues that are most relevant and material to us, notably service We have also introduced a programme in First Student that aims to performance, employee engagement, customer service improve fuel efficiency and reduce emissions through encouraging and addressing the challenge of climate change.
Further our employees to alter driving habits.
89% of our drivers surveyed information on our materiality process can be found at have changed their habits as a result of the initiative and almost 300 www.
com corporate cr of our locations have reported measurable fuel savings.
Corporate responsibility management In UK Rail we continue to develop active partnerships to build cycle CR has for many years been integral to our organisation and our storage facilities at our stations.
Working with Hertfordshire County activities.
Our CR programme is led by the Executive Management Council we have secured funding to double cycle parking capacity at Board EMB, which reports directly to the Board of FirstGroup plc.
Harpenden station, and at Luton and Leagrave we have worked with The programme and associated reporting is developed in line with the Luton Borough Council to quadruple capacity.
AccountAbility Principles Statement AA1000APS and independently assured in accordance with the AccountAbility AA1000 Assurance Standard 2008.
Prohibiting alcohol on evening trains Making our buses accessible for all First ScotRail worked in partnership with Our UK Bus division is working closely the Scottish Government to successfully with organisations, including Guide introduce this bylaw which has led to a Dogs and the Alzheimers Society, to c. 16% reduction in accidents at stations.
improve journeys for our passengers.
42 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Performance Putting our customers at the heart of everything we do Engaging with local communities To grow our customer base and provide the transport solutions that Transport is vital to the economic, social and environmental wellkeep people moving and communities prospering, we put our being of our local communities.
We have a role as a trusted advisor customers at the heart of our business.
We constantly strive to deliver on community transport issues and in creating successful local better services and find ways to improve the customer experience partnerships.
We want to play an active and positive role in the areas across our businesses.
We undertake extensive research on we serve and we work with local communities to support broader customer satisfaction on topics ranging from affordability to community initiatives.
We also engage with charity partners in both accessibility.
We use wide-ranging engagement methods including the UK and USA.
forums, one to one meetings, and surveys, and we use this feedback Examples of our community engagement in 2012 13 include: to help shape the business and our service offering.
As part of an initiative led by Greener Journeys across the UK bus The safety of our customers remains of critical importance and we industry, Jobcentre Plus travel card holders were able to travel for continue to work both independently and in partnership with the free during the month of January 2013 on almost every local bus communities we serve to reduce the risk of injury to our passengers service across the country.
More than 12,000 people benefited from and pursue our zero injuries goal.
Developments in 2012 13 have included: We are committed to supporting local schools to reduce the risk First Student has launched a new website that builds on feedback of bullying.
First Student took part in a campaign, recognised by from our customers.
The new user tested design makes it easier for the White House, to encourage employees to take action where customers to find things they need such as data and service necessary and our rail teams worked with the charity Red Balloon information.
This new online presence helped to push First Students to promote anti-bullying initiatives in the UK.
customer service score to 83.4% a 6% improvement since 2010.
During the year our employees in the UK selected Macmillan Cancer We launched an innovative new service called Your Ideas on the Support as our new charity partner.
420,000 has been donated in First Capital Connect website, allowing concepts to be suggested cash and in kind since June 2012, including 300,000 of bus and voted on by other passengers.
In response to feedback on this advertising space in support of Macmillans awareness-raising site, we launched a free email and text service that warns rail campaigns, and 10,000 raised in one day by our employees.
passengers of issues with specific trains.
In North America, our chosen charity Childrens Miracle Network is We are currently looking to extend the applicability of our Safer dedicated to saving and improving the lives of young people by Journey card in UK Bus, which was originally introduced to allow raising funds for childrens hospitals.
During 2012 13 we raised older customers to discreetly communicate to the driver any $108,000.
These charity partnerships are part of our community additional help they might require.
We have sought feedback on a contributions in cash and in kind of more than 1.36m in 2012 13, card for passengers with disabilities from a range of organisations.
as measured by London Benchmarking Group LBG.
In 2012 13 we reduced passenger injuries by 11% and vehicle collisions by 2%.
We continually seek ways to work with our customers to improve passenger safety with campaigns at various points during the year.
All of our bus and train drivers are trained to the highest safety standards, including fatigue management.
Reaching new customers Community rail schemes Our partnership with PayNearMe and First Great Western participates in six of the top retailers including 7-Eleven allows ten performing Community Rail Partnerships Greyhound customers without debit across the country.
Our partnerships in Devon or credit cards to book attractive fares and Cornwall saw two million passengers for the online and pay by cash in store.
first time during the year and were selected by the DfT to become mentors to others nationwide.
FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2013 43 Corporate responsibility continued Valuing and developing our people We recognise that, in common with much of the transport sector, we Our transport services are crucial to the local areas in which we still need to work harder to improve the balance and diversity of our operate but we are also a major local business and employer in workforce but we are pleased to be making progress towards this all of our communities.
We believe that our strategy for recruiting, goal.
In particular, we recognise the under-representation of women in developing and engaging our 120,000 people is an important step our UK operations and we are focused on increasing the percentage towards our success.
The combined energies, capability and of women in senior roles, which is currently 17%, through a number of commitment of our people can offer us significant competitive development opportunities.
Our employees are the key to ensuring we provide We are committed to ensuring that our working practices and consistently excellent standards of service and maintain high levels policies ensure our employees or potential employees do not suffer ofcustomer satisfaction.
discrimination, harassment or bullying and have the opportunity Our new vision and values were introduced during the previous to report such matters in a confidential and safe manner.
yearto provide our people with greater clarity and support As well as career and skills development opportunities, reward is consistentbehaviours.
animportant part of our retention strategy.
We offer our employees acomprehensive reward programme, which includes a valuable In order to support the achievement of our new vision and the andwide-ranging benefits package, and we recognise our employees consistent application of our values in everything we do, our priorities for their contribution to the success of the business through a range broadly fall into three main areas: ofaward schemes at a local, regional and national level.
We are Recruitment and retention committed to wide employee share ownership and employees Development and performance management continue to have the opportunity to participate in our Save As You Earn and Buy As You Earn schemes, details of which are set out in note 35 Employee engagement to the financial statements.
Recruitment and retention Development and performance management We aspire to be the employer of choice in our industry and we hire, train Ensuring our employees have the right skills and training to do their and develop more employees than any other company in the sector.
jobs is essential to our performance and to employee retention.
We want to continue to attract and retain the best people that the Ongoing development needs are established as part of regular transport industry has to offer.
We employ experienced, professional performance and capability development reviews, with manager and and dedicated people to deliver a safe journey for our passengers with peer feedback used in conjunction with feedback from our customer a high standard of customer service.
Specific training for our customer facing employees has We recognise that the opportunity to build diversity and inclusion in our been introduced to help build engagement around key customer teams will allow us to develop our workforce to be more representative service, operational and safety matters.
of the communities we serve and to access a wider skills pool.
Our strategy for recruitment and development supports this aim and ensures that we have the right mix of capability and experience to deliver and drive business performance.
Employee Director London 2012 Games Most of our UK operating companies have an Employee Director on their Our employees were a crucial link in the positive spectator boards.
This principle extends to the Board of FirstGroup plc where an transport story at the London 2012 Games.
The Employee Director is elected by their peers to represent employees across the development of our people is an enduring legacy within the Group.
Mick Barker, a train driver for First Capital Connect, has held that company.
First Capital Connects dedicated 24 7 centre position since January 2012 and is able to give an employee viewpoint on all has been retained and transformed into a permanent matters affecting the direction and governance of the Group.
feature of the companys customer service.
44 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Performance Alongside role specific training, we also offer professional We take an informed and consultative approach to employee development opportunities for employees at all levels, including a communication across our business.
As well as more traditional variety of qualifications such as National Vocational Qualifications forms of communication, employees can also access online facilities for all of our UK Bus drivers, as well as graduate schemes and and our redesigned internal employee portal is to be launched in apprenticeship programmes.
In Greyhound, we have introduced a summer 2013.
In addition management teams work to ensure that Supervisor Certification programme to provide managers with formal face to face communication is cascaded throughout their business management skills development.
Employees are encouraged to discuss any issues with management at any time and events, such as an executive roadshow Strong management teams with in depth knowledge and experience series in Greyhound, have been arranged at regular intervals to allow of transport and their local markets is a priority.
We believe that this employees the chance to feed back to senior management.
provides a good platform for growth in the future, and the focus on development among these teams is already having an impact in our A significant proportion of our workforce belongs to trade unions, with transformation programmes, particularly in First Student and UK Bus.
our employees represented by approximately 30 different unions.
The majority of our employees in North America, approximately 80% of Recognising the impact strong leadership can have on driving our our UK Bus employees, and a significant proportion of our UK Rail strategy forwards, we are investing further in our most senior employees are represented by unions.
management teams with a series of programmes to enhance capability in areas proven to be critical for improved business performance.
We have a regular dialogue with employees and representatives from These areas will assist our leaders in creating strategic momentum, trade unions.
Each division has its own information and consultation delivering sustainable performance, driving commercial growth and arrangements and levels of employee involvement in the business differ.
innovation and engaging and developing their own teams.
To further In the UK, we have worked with trade unions on a number of key nurture and harness the talent and expertise across our organisation, workplace matters and initiatives including the restructuring of Group we have in place detailed and robust succession planning and our pension schemes.
leadership teams from across the Group regularly meet to share best As well as gathering feedback throughout the year through formal and practice and ideas.
informal channels, all employees are also given the opportunity to make Employee engagement their voice heard through our regular employee surveys.
These surveys With such a large employee base, continuing and enhancing employee at Group, divisional and local level provide a useful insight into what our engagement is key to improved performance and fundamental to our people think about the company.
The priorities identified by our own wider success.
We are committed to achieving sustainable employee people help to shape our future employee strategy.
engagement by ensuring that FirstGroup is a great place to work and Summary that our customers receive a high standard of service.
We are focused We believe that our commitment to CR supports improved business on inspiring people through our vision and values and driving the performance.
Motivated employees, delivering sustainable operations cultural change necessary for the development of the Group, and the focused on customer service and provided in partnership with our transformation programmes in First Student, Greyhound and UK Bus communities, are all key to our continued success and future growth.
would not be possible without employee commitment and involvement.
For more information, please see our latest CR report online: www.
com corporate cr Graduate scheme success First Transit employee feedback Our graduate scheme attracted more than 1,000 applicants for 1,800 employees took part in a survey which examined current 15 places this year and was rated in the top 300 in the UK by perceptions of the First Transit brand and how it distinguishes itself, the Guardian.
First ScotRails modern apprenticeship scheme in and a further survey has been conducted to determine preferred customer service, the first in the industry, is developing forms of communication.
The information provided in these surveys employability skills in young people and has been recognised by will have an important influence on the future development and the Scottish Government as a valuable opportunity.
FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2013 45
