O UR A PPR O A CH TO CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Sustainability is a key part of our business model and we recognise its importance in delivering shareholder value.
POLICY We recognise that appropriate attention to the fulfilment of our corporate responsibilities can enhance our overall performance.
In structuring our approach to the various aspects of corporate social responsibility, we take account of guidelines and statements issued by stakeholder representatives and other regulatory bodies from around STEVE CORBETT the world.
Social, environmental and ethical matters are CHIEF EXECUTIVE reviewed by the Board, including the impact such matters may have on our management of risk.
Sustainability is a key part of our business model and we recognise its importance in delivering shareholder value.
Our sustainability approach is embedded in our business BACKGROUND through four key areas: Alent employs some 2,500 people, has a global 1.
O UR CODE OF CONDUCT: base of manufacturing facilities and is serving requiring all of our businesses and our people to comply customers in more than 100 countries worldwide.
with the highest standards of legal and ethical behaviour: We operate in just in time supply chains 2.
OUR PEOPLE: with short lead times from order to delivery.
investing in and developing our most valued asset: We therefore have a relatively large number our people: of smalland medium-sized facilities located close 3.
OUR PRODUCTS & SERVICES: to our customers throughout the worlds major developing innovative products and services which economic regions, rather than large, centralised promote sustainability in our customers production factories supplying customers worldwide.
processes and products: and Our manufacturing processes are not energy 4.
O UR HEALTH, SAFETY & ENVIRONMENT: intensive total energy costs are approximately protecting the health and safety of our people, 1% of revenue and do not produce large quantities contractors, customers and the general public, of hazardous or other wastes and emissions.
and reducing energy consumption and waste in our operations.
OUR CODE OF CONDUCT The Group has a Code of Conduct the Alent Code, which is obligatory and sets out the standards expected of everyone, without exception, who works for Alent in any of its worldwide operations.
The Alent Code emphasises our commitment to ethics and compliance with the law, and sets out required standards of legal and ethical behaviour.
Everyone within the Group is accountable for upholding its requirements.
The Alent Code sets out clear and simple principles covering: customers, products and services: employees: investors: society and local communities: health, safety and the environment: conflicts of interest: and competitors.
28 ALENT ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2013 WWW.
COM STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION Long-term customer satisfaction is recognised as Our programmes are based on our core values: being essential to the attainment of Group goals, as customerand market-oriented innovation: is maintaining a reputation for integrity in all business teamwork and collaboration: and other dealings, both with customers and suppliers.
enthusiasm and passion: The Alent Code defines how we must compete vigorously and honestly.
resultsand people-orientation: and flexibility, responsiveness, and agility.
We believe we can only achieve our goals through the efforts of our people.
Job satisfaction requires working There are several critical success factors that underpin our environments that motivate our people, together with strategy while driving our people development initiatives: opportunities for training and development to maximise we must be a customerand market-driven company that personal potential.
Wherever they work, our people have our customers rely on and prefer to do business with: the right to be treated in good faith and with respect for we must be a company that develops high-value, the dignity of the individual.
All of our companies must innovative products in a timely manner: ensure that recruitment, training, promotion, career development, termination and similar employment-related we must create an organisation that has deep issues are based on individual ability, achievement, technical competence: experience and conduct without regard to race, colour, we expect differentiated performance of our people nationality, culture, ethnic origin, religion, gender, sexual through rewards and recognition: and orientation, age, disability or any other reason not related our goal is to recruit and retain high-performing people to job performance or prohibited by applicable law.
who create value for our organisation.
We are committed to the highest standards of corporate Employee development governance and transparent investor communication, To achieve success, we need to ensure that we work within as discussed in more detail in the Governance section a culture that supports these critical success factors.
Our comprehensive development opportunities help We seek to be a good corporate citizen wherever we introduce, reinforce and further strengthen each of our conduct business, to observe all national and local laws peoples special talents.
Regardless of what stage in their and take into account regional and local concerns, career, each programme challenges participants to learn customs and traditions.
new and better ways to achieve their personal and professional goals.
The Alent Code requires all of its people, officers and Directors to have a duty of loyalty to the Group.
Personal We believe our people are our competitive advantage interests that do, may or might appear to conflict with and we have created comprehensive development Group interests must be avoided at all times.
opportunities to introduce, reinforce and further strengthen their special talents.
These opportunities include: Approach to anti-bribery and corruption training EDGE Employee Development Generates Excellence The Alent Code and its policies on anti-bribery and programmes: corruption require that employees and others working on behalf of the Company do not engage in any form Alent University multi-language e-learning platform : of bribery or corruption.
Six Sigma: Our anti-bribery and corruption compliance programme Alent leadership programmes: has been implemented globally via an e-learning training Alent technical training: and module.
New employees, as relevant, are required to education training reimbursement.
complete the e-learning training as part of their induction process.
In support of our commitment to our people and their development, in late 2013 we launched the Alent The Alent Code is reproduced in full on the Groups website.
University, a multi-language online learning management system to enhance our various employee-development www.
com about-us opportunities and further define our suite of blended learning programmes.
OUR PEOPLE In addition to our development opportunities, we We believe in the importance of investing in and are committed to providing competitive pay and a developing our most valued asset: our people.
We utilise comprehensive benefits package to attract and retain a variety of programmes tailored to help our people the best employees.
Our plans and initiatives include enhance their performance, set and achieve objectives, health and welfare plans: incentive plans: wellness and develop their leadership skills.
In addition, opportunities: work life benefits: and market benchmark we recognise and reward their high performance compensation plans.
COM ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2013 ALENT 29 OU R A PPR O A C H TO CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED Total headcount We believe that these initiatives are an important reason for our ability to consistently help create added value for Male our customers, allowing us to outperform many other competitors in our industry segments.
73% Human rights We recognise our responsibility to respect and support human rights.
Therefore the working conditions of our people are in compliance with the internationally recognised standards and laws of the countries in which we operate.
Furthermore we acknowledge and support the principles of the eight core conventions that the International Labour Organisation has identified as being Female fundamental to the rights of people in the workplace: 27% 1.
Freedom of Association and Protection of the Right to Organise Convention, 1948 2.
Right to Organise and Collective Bargaining Convention, 1949 Senior management 3.
Abolition of Forced Labour Convention, 1957 Male 5.
Worst Forms of Child Labour Convention, 1999 7.
Discrimination Employment and Occupation Convention, 1958 Diversity We are committed to diversity and inclusion, not only in response to compliance requirements, but also because we believe it is the right thing to do.
We embrace the cultures of countries where we do business by: Female linking diversity initiatives to the Groups strategic 17% business plans: identifying internal barriers to success: eliminating bias and discrimination from employment Plc board policies and practices: ensuring advancement opportunities are provided Male to all employees: and 75% supporting the Groups policies on diversity and harassment.
The Board strongly supports the spirit of the Davies Report Women on Boards.
The importance of gender diversity is recognised in our commitment to recruit, develop and promote people on merit at all levels across the Group.
We are committed to gender-balanced leadership and want to ensure that we attract and retain the best people Female for our business.
17% of our senior managers and 32% of our supervisors are women: these figures have been 25% steadily increasing.
Additionally, 25% of our Board is female.
Our senior management and Board support our diversity and inclusion strategy, and are focused on ways to improve the number of women at both the executive and management level in the future, to ensure that we generate innovative and creative thinking for our business.
30 ALENT ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2013 WWW.
COM STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION Charitable work We are also actively participating in the Conflict-Free We are committed to being a responsible corporate Tin Initiative, launched in September 2012 by the Dutch citizen through support for appropriate charitable projects, government.
Its aim is to establish a pilot programme to organisations and charities.
With offices throughout the create demand for Conflict-Free Tin from a conflict region world, each location is encouraged to engage with the whose economy has collapsed due to a series of severe local community to develop its own local charitable internal and cross-border conflicts.
This initiative is designed programmes.
The needs of the communities in which we to prevent an unintended boycott of minerals from the operate are varied and diverse and although there are no area due to the increased due diligence required when global initiatives, there are numerous grassroots charitable supplying Conflict Minerals from Conflict Countries.
efforts carried out within the regions.
Examples include: American Cancer Society year-round donations are ALTOONA SITE CERTIFIED AS CONFLICT-FREE SMELTER generated through various events, including participation Alents facility in Altoona, USA, the largest single in the annual Relay for Life event: electronic solder recycling site in North America, sponsorship of UK charity Shooting Star Chase a has received certification as a conflict-free minerals childrens hospice caring for babies, children and young smelter by the Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition, people with life-limiting conditions, and their families: Incorporated and the Global e-Sustainability Initiative supporter of UK charity National Energy Action NEA, Conflict-Free Smelter Audit Review Committee, as whose work improves and promotes energy efficiency confirmed by a 3rd party compliance audit of its facility and brings social, environmental, housing and in November 2013.
Alent is an early adopter of the employment benefits: and Conflict-Free SourcingInitiative.
donations have been made throughout the years As the leading global supplier of soldering materials, we in support of the relief effort for natural disasters such acknowledge the importance of the Conflict Minerals as tsunamis, earthquakes and hurricanes.
legislation and its impact on the global electronics supply chain.
This certification, as well as our participation Furthermore, employees are encouraged to act as in the Conflict-Free Tin Initiative, demonstrates our responsible and responsive citizens and to support projects, organisations and services that work towards the common leadership and commitment to aconflict-free supply chain for the electronics assemblyindustry.
good and improvement of their community and society.
We take extremely seriously our obligations in this Employee helpline We have a 24-hour Employee Business Concern Helpline process and have been very proactive in communicating telephone and email facility.
This is an independent our goals to suppliers for transparency and documented and confidential service through which our people certification of our source tins status as Conflict Free.
worldwide may register any concerns about any incorrect We have documented and implemented a Conflict or irregular practices they perceive in our workplace Minerals Policy based on the Organisation for or business environments.
Economic Co-Operation and Development Framework for DueDiligence.
OUR PRODUCTS & SERVICES Metals recycling Green technologies We move c5% of the worlds tin in any given year.
Our commitment to being a leading and preferred supplier We continue to invest and expand in our capabilities of advanced, consumable specialty chemicals and to take back metal waste streams and responsibly engineered materials includes developing technologies reclaim that waste into high-purity raw materials for reuse.
that are socially responsible and eco-friendly.
Our product Our metals recycling services operate the largest solder technology focus is to develop  metals recycling facility in North America with major products, many that are lead-free, halogen-free and operations in Europe and significant operations in hexavalent-free.
Many of our products and processes help South America.
support our customers sustainability strategies.
Water treatment We collaborate with our customers, technology partners, Our water treatment business has long been committed to and the worlds leading manufacturers to ensure that our developing products and services that help our customers green technologies create value by meeting current and lower their environmental impact.
Through initiatives such future performance, productivity, design, profitability, safety, as the Home Energy Conservation Act, the UK Government and regulatory requirements.
has taken steps to address the key issue of global warming Conflict minerals by reducing greenhouse gas emissions.
We have We have been very engaged with critical industry developed a portfolio of products that enable domestic stakeholders in the Conflict Minerals issue and regulation users to minimise their carbon footprint by ensuring their over the past few years.
In August 2012, the US Securities systems operate at optimum efficiency.
and Exchange Commission SEC published the final In 2013, we extended our range accredited with the rules of implementation of Section 1502 of the Dodd Frank Carbon Footprint logo from 5 to 23 products, which Act regarding Conflict Minerals, requiring any USA publicly held company annually to disclose its use of conflict underpins our commitment to reducing carbon emissions and promoting sustainability.
Each of our individual minerals that originated in Conflict Countries.
As a UK listed company, we are not required to comply but we products carbon footprint is certified to PAS 2050: choose to do so as we strongly believe in this initiative.
a specification for the assessment of the lifecycle Conflict minerals are those minerals whose derivatives are greenhouse gas emissions.
Furthermore, each carbon tin, tantalum, tungsten or gold.
We take very seriously our footprint product is assessed on a two-year basis and obligations in this process and have been very proactive in must prove a continuous programme of reduction in communicating our goals to our suppliers for transparency order to keep the label.
and have initiated our due diligence to certify our source tins status as Conflict-Free.
COM ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2013 ALENT 31 OU R A PPR O A C H TO CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED We are also a member and sponsor of the National ACHIEVE BEST-IN-CLASS PRODUCT Energy Action NEA charity whose partners assist the UK PERFORMANCE OF PV RIBBON Government in delivering the ever-challenging targets to Objective tackle fuel poverty in the UK.
The definition of fuel poverty Optimise our manufacturing process and obtain has been revised recently to encompass households where best-in-class performance of pv ribbon.
their income is below the poverty line taking energy costs into account : and their energy costs are higher than Six Sigma Project typical for their household type.
The correct use of our Use a combination of statistical process control tools, products is proven to maintain energy efficiency levels process capability analysis, and manufacturing of boilers, reducing fuel wastage and thus lowering bills.
experimentation techniques in order to achieve the desired product performance characteristics.
We have a vital part to play in ensuring the success of renewable water-borne central heating technology Results by developing the next generation of water treatment The Singapore site achieved a 15% improvement products.
These protect the hardware of the new systems in a critical customer-required parameter resulting by offering full protection against corrosion, limescale and in best-in-class performance of our pv ribbon.
microbacterial contamination, as well as offering heattransfer properties.
OUR HEALTH, SAFETY AND ENVIRONMENT Our products also comply with the principles of the Kyoto HS&E Protocol by being low in toxicity and manufactured to the We recognise our operations impact a wide community ISO 14001 environmental quality standard.
They are free ofstakeholders, including investors, customers, business from nitrates, phosphates and EDTA, making them highly associates, our people and local communities.
As such, biodegradable when discharged into the environment.
wehave a wide range of initiatives to support health, safety and environmental activities.
Those activities As part of our R&D programme, we are pioneering the includeadvanced manufacturing facilities, designed to development of organic products and renewable international standards, a high level of training for chemical technology heat transfer fluids to complement our operators, and segregation of raw materials and finished water treatment range.
All of our operations are designed with waste water Operational excellence treatment and pollution abatement equipment which Our efforts to achieve operational excellence in all of our meets or exceeds local compliance requirements.
facilities include a strong focus on maximising sustainable Alent is committed to operating a sustainable, responsible opportunities.
Examples of just a few of our many Six organisation that protects the environment and the health Sigma projects undertaken throughout the Group are and safety of those with whom we have relationships our outlined below: customers, our suppliers, our shareholders, our people, the environment and the communities in which we operate.
REDUCTION OF PLASTIC PACKAGING Our commitment to protecting the environment is focused Objective both on minimising the impact of our operations and on Reduce shipping costs by 20%, whilst being making a contribution towards a sustainable future conscientious stewards of the environment.
through the design of our products.
Compliance with applicable HS&E laws and regulations is a fundamental Six Sigma Project obligation for all our businesses.
We therefore monitor energy Our German operation in Langenfeld wanted to consumption and greenhouse gas emissions as Group reduce the return costs of chemical packaging level KPIs.
whilst reducing its environmental impact.
We are committed to maintaining a level of HS&E Results performance that is amongst the leaders in the specialty Using Six Sigma tools, a 20% reduction in plastic chemicals industry, and to demonstrating respect for packaging was achieved, resulting in reduced the individual and the environment.
We recognise that transport and disposal costs whilst providing successful HS&E management involves integrating sound environmental benefits.
principles and practices into our daily activities so that business management and good performance levels are achieved by the collaborative effort of all of our people.
The Board has overall responsibility for our HS&E policy and for monitoring its implementation.
Executives and line managers at all levels are directly responsible through the normal management structure for HS&E matters in the operations under their control.
32 ALENT ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2013 WWW.
COM STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION Particular emphasis is focused on the following areas: TOTAL RECORDABLE INJURY RATE TRIR regulatory compliance: compliance with air, water ALENT OSHA and waste emissions, and industrial hygiene criteria: 4 health and safety performance: protecting the health and safety of our people, contractors, customers and the general public: and 3 environmental performance: reducing energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions.
REGULATORY COMPLIANCE 2 All of our manufacturing locations are certified to ISO 14001, the international standard for environmental management systems.
In addition, 19 of our operations are certified to OHSAS 18001, the international occupational health 1 and safety management system.
Certification to these international standards is not appropriate for all facilities, particularly smaller ones and those with very limited environmental, health and safety impact.
Regulatory actions against Alent companies have been at a low level for several years.
This is indicative of the LOSS WORK INCIDENT RATE LWIR emphasis on continuous HS&E performance improvement ALENT OSHA across the industry in relation to statutory obligations.
0.8 Like many manufacturers, some of our operations have potential environmental liabilities because of past 0.7 operations at their current or former sites.
Where remediation is required, we work with external specialists and with 0.6 government authorities to ensure that remediation is conducted effectively and efficiently.
0.5 REACH 0.4 In Europe, the second registration deadline under the Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of 0.3 Chemical Substances EC1907 2006 regulations REACH took place in June 2013.
This requires the registration of all 0.2 substances produced or imported in quantities of between 100 and 1,000 metric tonnes per year.
We have provided 0.1 our suppliers with the data required for them to meet this deadline.
We have also begun preparing for the final stage 0.0 2011 2012 2013 of REACH which will require the registration of chemicals OSHA data for 2013 has yet to be published.
produced or imported in quantities of between 1 and 100 metric tonnes per year and has a deadline of 2018.
ROHS Global Incident Rate We continue to effectively address RoHS Restriction We use a number of metrics to evaluate health and safety of Hazardous Substances and any customer-required performance globally.
All of our facilities report injuries in restricted substance management through proactive accordance with United States Department of Labor contact with our suppliers and continued sampling Occupational Safety and Health Administration OSHA of materials deemed to be high risk.
Our incident rates are compared to NAICS 35 the chemical manufacturing incident rates HEALTH AND SAFETY PERFORMANCE from the United States Department of Labor Bureau of Our operations are impacted by the normal health LaborStatistics.
and safety risks associated with manufacturing and other activities within the countries in which we operate.
Total Recordable Injury Rate TRIR measures the number Our HS&E management programmes are designed to of recordable injuries illnesses per 100 workers.
In 2013, we be forward-looking in the identification, management achieved a TRIR of 0.68.
Lost Work Incident Rate LWIR and mitigation of HS&E risks.
tracks the number of injuries illnesses per 100 workers with one day or more away from work.
We utilise audits, inspections and risk analyses to Our strong performance in these areas continues, with assess and continually improve our safety programmes.
both rates substantially below the benchmark for our Both management systems and compliance audits are industry of 2.40 for TRIR and 0.70 for LWIR.
performed and results are shared across the organisation.
We developed a new communications vehicle in 2012, ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE to address common safety concerns identified through Energy Consumption incident reports and internal audits.
Safety Bulletins serve Our manufacturing processes are not energy intensive as a concise platform to convey critical safety information and do not produce large quantities of air emissions.
and programmes that can be deployed throughout the We operate a programme aimed at reducing energy use Group in a timely manner.
Safety Bulletins released in 2013 and its associated emissions of greenhouse gases GHG.
covered topics such as transferring and dispensing We also leverage our extensive Six Sigma programme to hazardous materials, incident reporting and investigation, identify and execute projects around the reduction of and management of change.
energy consumption at our facilities around the world.
COM ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2013 ALENT 33 OU R A PPR O A C H TO CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED In 2013, we consumed 287,118 million Btus British Thermal YEARLY GHG EMISSIONS SCOPE BREAKDOWN MTCO E 2 Units MM Btu of energy.
Of this 111,615MM Btu was SCOPE 1 SCOPE 2 electricity use indirect energy.
The remainder of our energy use consisted of natural gas and fuel oil direct 20,000 energy.
Note: In calculating energy consumption, we use the US national average to convert KWh to MM Btu.
16,000 GHG Emissions Our methodology for measuring GHG emissions follows the Greenhouse Gas Protocols of the World Business 12,000 Council for Sustainable Development and the World Resource Institute.
We report direct and indirect GHG emissions in terms of COequivalents COe.
Direct 2 2 8,000 GHG emissions are those that occur from stationary and mobile sources that we own or control.
These emissions are also referred to as Scope 1 emissions.
Indirect 4,000 emissions, or Scope 2 emissions, are related to the use or purchase of electricity.
0 2011 2012 2013 For 2013, we have added an intensity normalisation ratio to gauge performance and to be compliant with the UK GHG reporting requirements.
Margin over Material YEARLY MARGIN OVER MATERIAL k MOM was used as this factor as it effectively removes fluctuations in material cost from the calculations and 400,000 is the best gauge for our business.
We have collected data from all of our major manufacturing locations and major sites.
We have 300,000 excluded sales business offices and warehouses as we believe these are insignificant.
In 2014, we will review all office and warehouse space to confirm their energy GHG emissions are, as we expect, insignificant.
In addition, we 200,000 will perform an inventory audit of all Freon usage within the business and include any releases in our 2014 GHG emissions data.
From a preliminary review, the type of Freon most used is R22 which is exempt from the current 100,000 GHG reporting criteria.
In 2013, we had a total of 26,004 metric tons of GHG emissions, made up of 10,571 metric tons of direct 0 2011 2012 2013 scope 1 and 15,433 metric tons of indirect scope 2 GHG emissions.
On an absolute basis, our total GHG emission saw a 2.72% increase from the 2012 totals.
GHG INTENSITY MTCO E MOM 2 As a better gauge of performance, this year we generated a GHG Intensity number based on MOM in 0.10 which we saw a 6.25% increase from the 2012 intensity 0.09 number which we will be tracking from here forward.
0.08 Prior to 2010, we had reduced our overall consumption of energy through the implementation of energy and 0.07 GHG reduction projects.
We do not have very energy 0.06 intensive processes and expect similar emissions numbers going forward.
