Social and Sustainability Performance 4 Sustainability: Advance and Enhance the Sustainability of our Business The Health, Safety, Environment and Community Relations A letter from the HSECR HSECR Committee met during 2013 in accordance with its terms of reference to evaluate the performance and the Committee Chairman maturity of the HSECR System.
The report that accompanies this letter summarises the most relevant aspects of the Groups HSECR record and performance for 2013.
During 2013, executive management informed the Committee of the following: What we did in 2013 The Group regrets to inform of two fatalities in work-related accidents during the year The No More Accidents programme of the Safety Action Plan gained greater prominence within the overall safety strategy The HSECR system, and notably the safety component, was implemented at advanced projects San Julin, Centauro Deep and Orisyvo Contractors were actively engaged and involved in the Companys efforts to improve its safety record The HSECR Systems progress and evolution continued to be Rafael Mac Gregor validated by  PwC : the System Chairman Health, Safety, Environment reached an overall maturity of 75.5% vs. 64.6% for 2012 and Community Relations Committee What we plan to do in 2014 How our sustainability reporting differs this year Reinforcement of the Safety Action Plan Sustainability reporting is a living process.
Certication of all operating units in the Occupational Health and Safety Management OHSAS 18001 System We have modied our reporting this year to better engage and facilitate dialogue with Review and upgrade energy and climate change, water, our stakeholders.
Our guiding principle is to land and biodiversity strategies succinctly present how sustainability matters Conduct perception surveys and identify community to the business.
relations and opportunities Reinforcement of stakeholder engagement processes The topics covered in this report are the incorporating principles from the IFC Sustainability outcome of our materiality assessment Framework of the issues and concerns that matter most Leverage information technology to our stakeholders.
We have also adapted Continuance of progress to reach a fully mature HSECR our key performance indicators to facilitate System by 2016 comparability with our peers.
| 76 Fresnillo plc Annual report 2013 www.
com Fresnillo Strategic Corporate Financial Today Report Governance Statements Strategy Performance Health Environment Read more: Health Fresnillo plc is fully committed to the overall The Group monitors and measures Page 79 health and wellbeing of employees and environmental progress with certications such contractors.
A preventive approach to health as ISO 14001, International Cyanide Management hasbeen emphasised.
Code and the Clean Industry award by the Mexican Environment Protection Agency.
Combination of the Health and Safety working groups Recognising risks associated with climate change in 2012 has been supported in 2013 by the integration of processes to comply with OHSAS 18001 and water availability, management also closely Read more: monitors the performance by the Group.
A rigorous approach to manage occupational health Safety allowed prevention of new cases of occupational diseases Page 81 Public reporting to i the Climate Change and Water Improvement of occupational health performance at the Programmes of the Carbon Disclosure Project CDP Penmont and Fresnillo mines resulted in reduced risk as well as ii the Mexican Greenhouse Gases disclosure premiums payable to the Mexican Social Security Institute project GEI Mexico Emergency preparedness has been benchmarked at Benchmarking the Groups environmental performance national competitions with good results in water and GHG emissions against other mining Continuation of the campaign Promoting life which seeks companies in order to identify opportunities to promote healthy lifestyles Introduction of a more comprehensive set of environmental performance indicators The AlertOn programme continued with the purpose of identifying workers who are unfit to enter the work site thereby preventing potential risk situations Continued incorporation by significant contractors of medical services for their personnel Safety Community Relations Although mining is considered a high-risk activity, Read more: The Group strives to adopt international best Environment any injuries incurred by Fresnillos employees or practices for community relations at all locations Page 84 contractors are unacceptable.
Safety remains where it operates.
the Groups number one priority.
Overall community relations strategy was reviewed After reviewing a root-cause analysis regarding each Guidelines were revisited to offer a common framework fatality, the Committee requested the Group to reinforce for the operation and exploration business units safety procedures Reinforcement of corporate programmes such as Total Recordable Injury Rate and the Lost Time Injury ALeer To Read, promoting reading in the communities Frequency Rate registered improvements year to year and inquiry and hands-on science to develop science 31% and 64%, respectively Read more: education where we operate, as well as Pro-Empleo Community Business Skills Courses for Local Contractors and Safety leadership and commitment were prioritised Relations Sustainability Agenda The Group maintained its commitment to work Page 88 Accounting guidelines were introduced in order to better alongside local contractors in their efforts to obtain trace social investment the Self-Management certication from the Mexican Labour Ministry The Committee will continue to emphasise to the Group the importance of achieving excellence on HSECR matters, with Safety indicators were re-aligned to facilitate comparison safety at the forefront of the Groups priorities and with a against international mining sector view of achieving full maturity of the HSECR System by 2016.
In the accompanying report, shareholders will be able to obtain a fuller view of the overall HSECR efforts that the Company conducted for 2013.
Very truly yours, Rafael Mac Gregor Chairman, Health, Safety, Environment and Community Relations Committee | www.
com Fresnillo plc Annual report 2013 77 Social and Sustainability Performance 4 Sustainability: Advance and Enhance the Sustainability of our Business Overview Culture and ethics Our Code of Conduct is a set of rules and principles that guide our Mining and processing precious metals are essential activities behaviours and actions.
The cornerstone of this Code is our values: in our global economy, and carry social acceptability and Trust, Responsibility, Integrity and Loyalty.
The Code was enhanced in environmental challenges that must be effectively addressed.
2013 to provide further guidance on complying with the UK Bribery Act Finding solutions to these challenges requires exceptional 2010.
Training our people to make better decisions has been a crucial commitment, operational excellence and innovation.
element of our anti-bribery and anti-corruption strategy.
Our online training programme and evaluation covered 96% of our target audience throughout the year and has been recognised internally as a success for Governance its innovative approach.
In 2014, the coverage of our online training will The Groups Health, Safety, Environment and Community Relations be extended to money laundering and fraud.
HSECR Committee provides assurance to the Board on the effectiveness As part of our efforts to implement best practices in business ethics, of action plans, policies and management systems.
The responsibilities we launched a project with the guidance of PWC London aimed at of the Committee, whose members comprise a subset of the Board further embedding ethics and integrity in our culture.
Valuable outcomes of Directors, include monitoring the Groups social and sustainability of this project include the denition of our aspirational statement, the performance and the quality of its external reporting.
The Committee identication of winning behaviours and the design of a decision-making analyses the outcomes of independent audits on the maturity of the framework.
The project will continue in 2014, with a training programme HSECR system to provide recommendations to management and covering the entire organisation and the review of HR policies and the Board.
Recognising the importance of aligning incentives with practices to better support ethics and integrity.
sustainability performance, the Remuneration Committee takes into consideration sustainability criteria among the strategic objectives that determine the annual bonus of the CEO and other members of the Awards Executive Committee.
In 2013, Fresnillo plc was recognised by the Mexican Confederation of Industrial Chambers CONCAMIN with their prestigious Ethics and Maturity of the HSECR system Values in Industry award.
We were also recognised with the Socially Responsible Company award granted by the Mexican Centre for Supporting our sustainability performance with sound management Philanthropy CEMEFI.
The Group has been recognised with other systems remains a priority.
To monitor the maturity of the system, an awards and certications in 2013, as detailed herein under their independent audit is conducted annually by PWC.
The audit assesses relevant categories.
the progress made in the strategy, structure, processes, people and technology.
The system reached a maturity level of 75.5 % 2012: 64.6% against our 2011-2016 action plan objectives.
We are rmly committed Other reports to achieving a fully integrated HSECR system by 2016.
We participate in the climate change and water programmes of the Carbon Disclosure Project CDP and the Mexican GHG disclosure programme GEI Mxico.
| 78 Fresnillo plc Annual report 2013 www.
