Social and Sustainability Performance 4 Sustainability: Advance and Enhance the Sustainability of our Business 1 Our People 2 3 4 Our people are our most important asset.
Engaging and developing our people for the long term is our rm objective.
We are, therefore, strongly committed to attracting, selecting, developing and retaining the best people to successfully support our business strategy.
Weaspire to an organisational culture based on Trust.
We recognise Trust is the single most important characteristic of great places to work.
What we said we would do in 2013 What we did in 2013 What we plan to do in 2014 Enhance our recruitment, training and performance Recruitment and training efforts were intensied.
Promote earth science careers in the regions evaluation programmes Performance evaluations were applied across the where we operate organisation serving as mechanisms to obtain greater Launch initiatives and review our policies engagement of our people and a better alignment to improve gender diversity ofindividual objectives and the business strategy Strengthen our workplace satisfaction survey and the action plans resulting from the survey Review our HR policies and procedures to reinforce ethics Launch an initiative to strengthen Trust in our organisational culture Assessing our workplace Analyse alternatives to introduce more exibility toour work schedule y in-y out Conducted every two years.
Though not previously mentioned in our Start formalising career plans, prioritising reporting, we utilise the Great Place to critical success Work Survey to assess our employees satisfaction.
We erroneously reported the 2012 gure at 66%, when it was in fact 63%.
The average score of the best 19 companies in Mexico was 77%.
Our next workplace survey will be conducted in 2014.
Our People Strategy We seek to strengthen the talent pipeline withpeople Secure the Talent Culture who possess the right skills and capabilities to satisfy talent pipeline management of trust our present and future needs.
Talent management is Strengthen our Talent management Building trust is a a key element ofour strategy to develop and engage business with people is a key to develop high priority in order our workforce.
Building trust is a high priority inorder to who possess the right and engage our to engage employees engage employees and build constructive relationships skills and capabilities.
and build good with unions.
Employee satisfaction survey GPTW Conducted every two years.
Though not previously mentioned in our reporting, we utilise the Great Place to Work Survey to assess our employees satisfaction.
| 90 Fresnillo plc Annual report 2013 www.
com Fresnillo Strategic Corporate Financial Today Report Governance Statements Strategy Performance business schools in Mexico, the Mexico Autonomous Institute of Technology Secure the talent pipeline ITAM.
Recognising innovative contributions from people and nurturing To secure our talent pipeline we collaborate with leading educational entrepreneurship has been the objective of our Value Creation Projects.
institutions such as the National Autonomous University of Mexico UNAM, the National Polytechnic Institute IPN, the University of Culture of trust Guanajuato and the University of Zacatecas to offer internships.
Our approach is to detect talent by closely monitoring the performance Our vision is to nurture an avant-garde and honest culture founded on of our interns throughout their internships as we give priority to recruit trust.
Our working climate survey provided insightful information on from our pool of interns.
Effective training is offered to our new recruits the perception of our people with respect to our organisational culture according to their needs and always considering health and safety as and our areas of opportunity.
To reinforce our culture, we targeted non-negotiable elements of their training.
business ethics as a lever of inuence.
As part of the project, our HR policies were analysed and opportunities were detected to incorporate Fresnillo plcs Centre for Technical Studies CETEF was created to train in the upcoming years best practices in our HR lifecycle hiring, training, high-quality mining technicians for our specic needs.
Candidates to evaluating performance, promotions, etc.. join the CETEF are chosen from the communities surrounding our operations in order to favour local employment while securing the talent pipeline.
Our training approach is based on a model that favours Responsible labour policies and human rights hands-on experience dual system, spending 20% studying theory and As signatories to the UN Global Compact, we are strongly committed 80% practicing with modern equipment.
Furthermore, we also have to respecting and protecting freedom of association and collective an agreement with Peoles to send our candidates to their Centre for bargaining.
Our collective agreements with unions guarantee competitive Technical Studies of Laguna del Rey CETLAR.
The CETLAR follows a wages and benets for the 80% of our workforce that is unionised.
similar logic to the CETEF but focuses on training maintenance technicians.
We are also committed to respecting the fair labour practices and labour rights of our non-unionised workers.
Transparent and respectful relations Increasing the participation of women in mining is fundamental to secure with unions led to zero labour disputes or strikes in2013.
Good relations the talent pipeline.
In Mexico, the proportion of women participating in with unions have also facilitated their buy-in ofour efforts to embed metal mining is 7.2%.
Although we are slightly above the national average, safety in our culture.
we must maintain our effort to seize this opportunity.
Child labour or compulsory work are banned from our operations and are regularly monitored by Mexican authorities.
In our Code of Conduct, Talent management we make clear to our employees and contractors that we do not tolerate Developing and retaining talent is fundamental to meeting the human any form of harassment, intimidation or discrimination.
As a signatory to capital requirements of our business strategy and consistent with our the UN Global compact, we are strongly committed to supporting and vision to engage our people for the long term.
Planning of human capital respecting the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights requirements is carefully aligned to our operations and explorations with and ensuring that we are not complicit in human rights abuses.
frequent feedback to monitor progress.
Nurturing and developing talent has allowed us to ll 78% of our open positions this year with internal candidates.
The Groups whistleblowing line received one case of abuse of trust and another case related to working conditions during the reporting Our approach to evaluating performance was re-engineered to achieve year.
These cases were investigated and processed by the Honour a better alignment between individual objectives of our people and Commission, resulting in disciplinary measures for both.
Monitoring the performance with respect to the objectives and behaviours also allows for detecting leadership potential, Average workforce Average HSECR Investment in training training needs and the expectations of our people.
We aim at reinforcing training hours training hours programmes US$ millions feedback and openness and embedding them in our culture.
94 85 50 55 1.78 1.69 Leadership skills are developed through our Leaders with Vision programme that selects candidates with high leadership potential and takes them through a series of seminars to develop their skills.
Our senior executives deliver these seminars throughout the year as a mechanism to raise engagement and foster relationships.
Our senior executives themselves participate in a training programme organised by one of the leading 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 Voluntary labour turnover % Gender diversity % Employees and contractors Unionised workers Q Voluntary labour turnover Q Gender diversity managers Q Employees Q Non-unionised workers Q Total turnover Q Gender diversity Q Contractors Q Unionised workers 3.9 6.7 4.7 8.2 2.4 8.5 4.55 8.83 3,300 3,245 3,262 3,150 693 2,607 652 2,610 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 | www.
com Fresnillo plc Annual report 2013 91
