Sustainability Constructing a sustainable future Health & Safety Environment & Climate Change Our People We place the highest priority We aim to protect the We are committed to on health & safety.
environment and plan for its developing our people by improvement.
Health & safety is the first priority and the Delivering our projects inevitably Maintaining our innovative approach focusfor everyone involved with the Group, meansusing materials, fossil fuels requires an effective training and for themselves and their colleagues.
development programme, including investing in developing tools such as Our Challenging Beliefs, Affecting This has environmental impacts, so we e-learning.
We also develop talent for the Behaviour initiative complements our aimto cut waste and energy use to reduce future, through the Galliford Try Academy training room based safety courses and these and to save money.
We report our and graduate trainees.
extends it to anywherewhere people are waste and carbon performance quarterly, working together to encourage the use of to ensure visibility in the business and to safer working practices.
Nothing is more important My responsibility as a Thanks to the support than protecting our people project manager is to fromGalliford Try, I have and subcontractors.
deliver successful developed new skills and schemes while protecting made progress in my and improving the chosen career.
Rob Amson Paul Marshall Natalie Armstrong Health & Safety Adviser Senior Site Agent GraduateTrainee Assistant Site Manager Accident Frequency Rate target 0.17 Reduction in our carbon footprint since Number of training days delivered 2008 target 15% target8,000 0.10 26% 11,142 36 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Business review 02 The long term future of Galliford Try 01 03 reliesonthe positive management of the 06 04 05 fundamentals of sustainable business.
We recognise six fundamental responsibilities that ensure we are economically sustainable, while embracing our duty to society and the environment.
Community Customers Supply Chain Our objective is to make We give total commitment We actively engage with our apositive impact in the and high standards to all our supply chain, to promote our communities in which customers.
Our business benefits society by providing Our customers want well-designed We ensure our supply chain partners skills, the homes, buildings and infrastructure we projectsthat deliver high performance and and the materials they supply, meet our all depend on.
However we can only do this are efficient to construct and use.
Efficiency customers expectations and our if our communities support our work.
We helps us to remain competitive and secure environmental and social standards.
take time to consult with our stakeholders the orders that make us economically to understand and address their needs, sustainable.
It also means delivering energy We set high standards for our preferred and have our site performance efficient schemes that are free from defects suppliers and encourage our independently assessed by the and secure repeat business.
subcontractors to buy from them as well, Considerate Constructors Scheme.
I am encouraged tomake Customers get the highest Active engagement with apositive impact in our standard of service our supply chain is the key communities by engaging throughout their sale, to promoting our principles with local stakeholders purchase and aftercare and practices and and understanding process with Linden delivering an improved theirneeds.
Stevie Forster Daniel Rowland Simon Stone Site Manager Sales Executive Divisional Procurement Manager Average Considerate Constructors Customer Satisfaction, Linden Timber supplied with Chain of Score target 35 50 Homes target 90% CustodyCertification scoring system changedin2013 37 93% 89% Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 37 Our number one priority Our sustainability activities In the last 20 years, health & safety across the construction industry Health & Safety has been transformed, leading to continued improvement in accident frequency rates.
Galliford Try has an excellent record of reducing its accident frequency rate year-on-year but we cannot ever assume the job is done.
This was starkly illustrated by a fatality on one of our sites in 2012.
Our investment in health & safety continues through our Challenging Beliefs, Affecting Behaviour programme, and is supported by a team of over 50 health, safety and environment advisers.
We aim to reach everyone within and connected to our business, whether they are an employee or subcontractor, office or site based.
Ken Gillespie, 02 Construction Division Chief Executive, is the executive board 01 03 member responsible.
06 04 05 The executive board and business unit managing directors show commitment and leadership through dedicated health, safety and environment reviews on site each year.
We completed77 audits Improving our during the year, against our target of 80.
Safe behaviour discussions health&safety Our managing directors also lead in delivering safe behaviour discussions SBDs, one of the key tools in our behavioural performance.
In an SBD, our staff work with operatives on site to constantly identify an operations risks and agree the steps to make it safer.
By challenging unsafe acts and reinforcing safe working methods, this partnership approach encourages ownership and embeds behaviours more effectively than just Accident Frequency Rate issuing instructions.
We have a target of 10,000 SBDs each year Down 37.5% and completed55,654 in the year.
Actual 0.10 2013 Target Behavioural change 0.17 2013 We also continue to deliver our behavioural change workshops, Target with84 taking place in the year with1,022 attendees.
As well as 0.10 2014 general awareness workshops, we provide focused training for Target 0.10 2015 oursafety coaches.
During the year, we aimed to identify and train 600 safety coaches.
We achieved 530, which means that almost Performance under the Health & Safety Executives latest Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous Occurrences Regulations guidance, further information one-fifth of our employees are now superusers of our behavioural on page 45. toolkit, able to champion Challenging Beliefs, Affecting Behaviour and embed the new culture of health & safety across all ourworkplaces.
Accident Incidence Rate Our approach during 2012 has reduced our accident frequency Down 42.9% rate AFR to 0.10, compared to 0.16 last year, and accident Actual incidence rate AIR to 2.33 from 4.08 using the Reporting of 2.33 2013 Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous Occurrences Regulations Target 3.93 2013 RIDDOR definition.
Galliford Try recognises that every accident is Target significant and has monitoring processes to investigate all injuries 3.73 2014 and lost time incidents.
We base our targets on these reporting Target 3.53 2015 processes which are more stringent than RIDDOR and illustrate them in the performance graph.
Using our more stringent Performance re ects number of accidents across the Group per 1,000 employees.
requirements our AFR was 0.13, and our AIR was 3.01.
Safety Coaches We are supporting more of our staff with the skills to be a safety coach.
The programme is designed to influence behaviours, not just to reinforce processes, and to get even greater collaboration across our businessand supply chain.
38 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Business review Changing how we think about health & safety Health & Safety Key Statistics Galliford Trys AFR performance suggests that Challenging Beliefs, Affecting Behaviour is working.
In our employee survey, we ask Staffnow trained Percentageof employees two questions in particular to gauge staff perceptions and our as Safety Coaches agreeing that we place a high success.
The first asks if we place a high priority on health & priority on Health & Safety safety, with 95% of our employees agreeing.
The second and more significant question showed that 82% of our people understand the initiative and their role in it.
These surveys show how successful the launch and development programme has 530 95% been.
With more of our office based staff due to go through the Challenging Beliefs, Affecting Behaviour programme, we are Number of executive led Percentageof employees confident of increasing staff engagement in this critical area.
safetyaudits completed that understand their role in our Safety Leadership We also monitor our performance on prosecutions, prohibitions programme and enforcements by the Health & Safety Executive HSE and other statutory bodies.
Our target is always zero and we achieved this, receiving no prohibitions and enforcements while having45 visits from HSE.
However, during the year, there were two 77 82% prosecutions relating to historical accidents in 2006 and 2010.
Exemplary performance Safe Behaviour Discussions to reinforce Our focus on health & safety has seen exemplary performance safer working methods across many projects.
During the year, a number reached significant milestones by working accident free for millions of hours.
Three schemes alone achieved nearly six million hours or 3,000 working years of safe and successful delivery.
At Laggan 55,654 Tormore Gas Plant, Shetland, Galliford Try contributed over 700,000 accident free hours.
MGJV, our partnership with Morrison Utility Services, has achieved overtwo million hours without any lost time accidents.
GCA, a joint venture in which Galliford Try is a partner, has just reachedthree million hours without a lost time accident, while working on United Utilities AMP5 framework.
We expect these high standards to improve further, as Challenging Beliefs, Affecting Behaviour embeds itself across the business.
Tackling road safety We want to deal positively with health & safety on site and in the office.
We also recognise that many of our employees travel some distance to and from work, as well as between our offices, sites and to meetings with clients, which are all spread across the UK.
Galliford Try already gives comprehensive guidance to drivers on safe motoring and recently trialled driver training, which we propose to introduce across the Group.
This training encourages safer and more fuel efficient driving, thereby having a double benefit for our business.
We are also increasing the visibility and ownership of driving safety, by including Motoring Accident Incidence and Frequency rates in reports to business units and the executiveboard.
Always working safely We are currently delivering Laggan Tormore Gas Plant, a major infrastructure project on Shetland, for ultimate client Total.
Galliford Trys exemplary health & safety performance contributed over 700,000 hours to a total of one million hours worked by principal contractor Petrofac, with no three-day lost time accidents.
Accident free hours worked at Laggan Tormore Gas Plant 700,000 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 39 Our focus on reducing waste and carbon emissions Our sustainability activities We focus on reducing our waste and carbon dioxide emissions Environment and Climate Change tominimise our environmental impact and reduce costs.
Our Regional Environmental Advisers support our HSE Advisers, ensuring we comply with environmental legislation through a planned schedule of inspections and audits.
They also train employees and subcontractors, to improveperformance.
This framework supports our independently verified and ISO 14001 compliant environmental management system.
Our HSE Team also helps our senior management with environmental reviews of our activities.
During the year, 56 people attended our four-day training course, 02 Managing Environmental Responsibilities.
We delivered another 01 03 255 training days internally.
Galliford Try received no environmental 06 04 prosecutions or fixed penalties in 2012 13.
05 Reducing waste Recycling waste cuts our landfill tax bill.
During the calendar year Saving money and 2012, we created 900,000 tonnes of construction material waste and recycled over 92% excluding soil and stones, beating our target.
Of this, we reused 600,000 tonnes of materials, saving reducing our significant costs.
However, the challenge is to reduce waste relative to turnover.
In 2012, we produced less than12 tonnes per environmental impact.
During 2013 14, we aim to continue to divert more than 90% of construction material waste from landfill, and to keep waste per 100,000 of turnover below 20 tonnes.
We cannot improve our Waste Diverted from Landll Excluding Soil and Stones waste performance on our own, so we train our subcontractors, and we have also carefully selected the right waste-management Actual 92.3% partners and choose suppliers with take-back schemes.
2012 Target 90.0% 2012 Cutting our carbon footprint Actual 79.2% During 2013 we launched our Cutting Carbon Should Be 2011 Actual Everyones Business campaign, encouraging employees to be 59.5% 2010 energy efficient, reducing our emissions and saving us millions of Actual 55.4% pounds over the next few years.
2009 We revised our carbon management plan to deal with our two main sources of emissions over the next five years.
Our cutting carbon campaign has an element focused on site activities and Waste Per 100,000 turnover tonnes wehave agreed with our plant and generator suppliers to procure their most energy-efficient equipment.
Actual 11.5 2012 Actual We have also capped permitted emissions from company cars, 20.8 2011 incentivising employees to choose lower emitting vehicles.
While Actual 19.6 our car fleet has grown by nearly 23% since 2009, emissions have 2010 Actual remained stable.
We now include costs and emissions data in the 25.0 2009 chief executives quarterly review with every managing director, to ensure visibility.
All data calendar year end.
Delivering our strategic target Carbon Disclosure Project submissions Our efforts have significantly reduced our carbon footprint since metric tonnes carbon dioxide 2008, from 3.8 tonnes to 2.83 tonnes per 100,000 of turnover.
Our Site and Site and target was a 15%reduction relative to turnover and by the end of Office Office Total 1 2 3 Year Fleet Energy Electricity Emission Intensity the calendar year 2012 wedelivered a 26% reduction.
Our aim is now for our businesses to maintain their gains and reduce further where possible.
We will publish a new strategy to cover the period to 2018 later in the year.
Our People Wewant employees who are happy to work for us and who feel theycan progress.
We therefore focus on providing opportunities throughout their careers, and aim to deliver the equivalent of at least two training days each per annum.
Training is driven by individual needs, identified through annual personal developmentreviews.
During the year we completed mandatory training on the Bribery Act as well as equality and diversity training.
This was delivered through e-learning, which saves significant costs and time.
Successful businesses draw on diverse talent but we recognise 02 thatour sector has a lower rate of gender and ethnic diversity than 01 03 society as a whole.
To begin to address this, to raise awareness 06 04 andchallenge pre-conceptions about peoples suitability for 05 employment we have rolled out equality and diversity training.
Our training is not limited to compliance based issues, but also looks to develop the wider skill set needed by a multidisciplinary company, Engaging our such as health, safety and environment, technical, commercial, information technology and planning.
employees through Developing new talent A healthy business needs an appropriate level of employee development.
turnover and this year our churn rate was 11.45%, against a target of less than 10%, which we review each year.
We look to replace and promote from within and our graduate and trainee programme is a key element.
We invest significant time and money in training our future leaders, who can progress through our six-step Galliford Try Academy Enrolments Trainees Graduates management development framework.
Target is 2% of the workforce or 80employees Understanding our peoples views Our annual survey helps us to understand if we are meeting employees expectations.
We aim to maintain, and in some areasimprove, our performance each year.
We made significant 147 changes to our 2012 survey to gain better insight, so the results are not comparable with 2011.
However we believe these changes will provide a more robust benchmark for us in the future.
Training Days Number of training days delivered We have also started to monitor employee sickness and Actual 11,142 2013 absencerates, which should be lower in a satisfied workforce.
Target This allows us to identify trends and offer help through our 8,000 2013 employee support programme.
Actual 2012 8,837 Keeping our people informed Communicating with employeeshelps them to understand and question our business model, performance and strategy.
Our channels include news alerts, our magazine, staff briefings and, most significantly, our chief executives roadshow.
We encourage as many employees as possible to attend, with 33% being our minimum target.
This year we achieved 38%, enabling nearly 1,500 employees to listen to and question our chief executive.
Encouraging the Next Generation Paul Mills started his career with Galliford Try 13 years ago, asamanagement trainee.
We encouraged him to study and he completed a post graduate Diploma in Construction Management in 2002.
His continued progress has been recognised and he was named Project Manager of the Year at the Builder & Engineer Awards 2012.
Paul picturedon the leftreceiving his award saidThis was all possible because of the opportunities that Galliford Try has provided and is testament to the way that Galliford Try fosters talent by investing in people.
Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 41 Considerate construction Our sustainability activities Across the UK, Galliford Try interacts with thousands of people Community who live near our projects.
We take our responsibility seriously to make a contribution to the communities in which we are working.
We are an Associate Member of the Considerate Constructors Scheme CCS and follow its Code of Considerate Practice.
The CCS independently assesses our sites.
Each division reports its scores at its monthly board meetings, with Group scores notified in the monthly Executive board Corporate Responsibility report.
We have a Group target for our average score of 35 50 and exceeded this score with 37 50 in the first six months of 2013.
Listening to our communities Galliford Try creates sustainable communities through the 3,000 02 plus homes and numerous schools, hospitals and infrastructure 01 03 projects we deliver every year.
To do this, we must listen to and 06 04 respect the views of local communities and other stakeholders.
05 This allows us to develop projects sympathetic to local needs and minimise the risk of planning delays or refusal.
Making a positive Giving something back Our operational sites contribute to their communities.
They boost the local economy, create employment in our supply chain, raise impact.
awareness of careers in construction via school engagement and national events, and directly support good causes.
Supporting young people through apprenticeships The construction industry relies on skilled trades but the economic downturn has made apprenticeships less common, contributing to Donations to good causes a worsening skills shortage amongst young people.
To address this, This is direct contributions and also in kind from time and materials donated.
we aim to provide 500 subcontractor apprenticeships by 2016 and together with our subcontractors have recruited over 100 to date.
It is also vital to encourage the next generation of recruits to join the industry.
We participate in Open Doors, the UK Contractors Group 108,000 initiative.
It aims to attract talent into the industry by raising its profile, challenging stereotypes, encouraging greater engagement Considerate Constructors Scheme with the public and local communities, and making construction Improved performance sites accessible to the public.
We are also sponsoring the new South Devon University Technical Actual 37 50 2013 College which will offer a new way of learning for up to 600 young Target people aged 14 to 18.
Its focus will be on engineering, water and 35 50 2013 the environment reflecting both the natural environment in Devon and the needs of local employers in these industries, including Actual 33.7 40 2012 Galliford Try, as there is a lack of technicians available.
Locally, Target apprenticeship numbers in science, engineering and 2012 32.0 40 manufacturing are half the regional average and nationally the At the end of 2012 the Scheme scoring was revised from base 40 to base 50. technician deficit is estimated to reach 450,000 by 2020.
Supporting good causes Galliford Try is a patron of CRASH, the homelessness charitycreated by the construction industry which prevents hundreds of people having to sleep without shelter across the UK.
We encourage our employees to volunteer and this year supported CRASH at Ecobuild, which provided a platform to promote the charitys work in partnership with patrons and supporters.
42 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Business review Delivering results for our diverse customers Our sustainability activities Galliford Try has two customer types, people who buy our homes Customers and those who use the buildings, infrastructure and other projects we deliver.
We apply the same values to all our work and aim to deliver high-quality products.
Housebuilding The 2012 Building Awards recognised Linden Homes as the BestHousebuilder of the Year but the real test is whether our customers would recommend us to a friend.
Last year, 93% said they would.
We have targeted 90% satisfaction and launched The Linden Way, a major initiative to improve customers experience and the quality of our homes, increasing satisfaction and allowing us totarget five-stars in the National House-Building Council NHBC survey.
02 01 03 We are also working to reduce defects per plot.
Our aim is a rate 06 04 of0.25 defects per plot by the end of 2013, in line with the NHBC 05 average.
We are committed to responding to issues within ten working days.
We have also newly targeted a net promoter score of 65% and achieved 47% in the financial year.
We builtapproximately 3,000 homes during the year, of which 52% complied with Level 3 of the Code for Sustainable Homes, orequivalent.
We adopt a fabric-first approach to designing and building energy efficient homes and research the most costeffective ways to do so, including post-occupancy monitoring.
Construction Our construction businesses have differing client bases, project Repeat Business for delivery models and sustainability plans.
Each business contributes Construction clients to our Group Corporate Responsibility Plan and also has more specific measures in place to address the needs and concerns of ourdiverse customer base.
We have two main measures of success within construction: customer satisfaction and the conversion rate from work tendered to work won.
52% The benefits of our collaborative approach to working with clients and other partners were recognised when the Hive in Worcester, Customer Satisfaction Linden Homes Percentage who said they would recommend us to a friend the UKs first fully integrated public and university library, was crowned Sustainable Project of the Year at the Building Awards.
Actual 93% 2013 Target To guarantee quality, our construction division has an ISO 9001 90% 2013 certified Business Management System.
This is vital, given the Actual 94% 2012 diversity and complexity of our projects.
We are developing our Actual approach to Building Information Modeling BIM, an increasingly 95% 2011 common requirement on public sector funded schemes.
We see Actual 97% 2010 BIM as a major advantage in delivering more complex and efficient projects more quickly, while reducing waste.
Survey conducted by an independent company.
Excellence through collaboration The Hive is an iconic building which, for the first time in Europe, combines a public and university library under one roof, while alsooffering council and conference facilities.
In accordance with our clients specification, it is built fromlow environmental impact materials with excellent performance specifications, leading to its BREEAM Outstanding rating, and is temperature controlled using an innovative system relying on water from the River Severn.
It achieved a BREEAM score of 86.4%, the highest ever for apublic library.
Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 43 t n e m e r u c o r P e l b a n i a t s u S V a l u e C r e a t i o y t n Managing supply-chain risk Our sustainability activities Galliford Try manages numerous supply chain risks.
These include Supply Chain ensuring we receive the right materials, that our subcontractors are financially stable and deliver safely, and that our projects meet the required standards and functions.
Ourapproach is about managing these risks, selectingsuppliers who are aligned with ourbusiness principlesand identifying efficiencies.
As this risk profile constantly shifts, we need to review our approach.
During the year, we made the following changes: Introducing a preference for purchasing responsibly and ethically sourced products and materials.
Ensuring all timber meets Forest Stewardship Council or 02 Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certification standards.
01 03 In 2012 89.4% of timber was procured with full chain of custody in 06 04 compliance with our policy.
05 99.5% was legally and sustainably sourced in line with the UK Contractors Group UKCG policy and as defined by the UK Government Central Point of Expertise on Timber.
We selectsuppliers Working with our Preferred Group suppliers PGSs to develop an enhanced sustainable product and services offering.
Commenced benchmarking ofall PGSs against our sustainability and subcontractors matrix, to identify PGSs with values consistent with ours and where we need to work together to improve performance.
that align with our Encouraging suppliers and subcontractors to work together We encourage subcontractors to use PGSs for materials, ensuring business principles.
they maintain the agreed standards.
When a subcontractor uses another supplier, we expect them to demonstrate that the required standards are being achieved.
Maintaining two-way relationships Once we have agreed standards with our suppliers, the best results come from stable relationships and regular communicationthat allow us to work better together.
We have a Group team of supply chain managers responsible for our strategic relationships with all PGSs.
Each business unit also has a procurement team, to administer the central trading agreements and local purchasing.
These teams host several procurement forums each year, involving our technical, commercial and construction staff and our supply Our chain partners.
To encourage engagement, our supply chain partners often host these forums.
This allows senior management Supply from both sides to discuss adding value to the relationship and Chain improves business process and communication.
Principles Supporting small and medium-sized businesses We spend more than 59% of our turnover with subcontractors, most of which are small and medium-sized enterprises.
They benefit significantly from our business, just as we benefit from our close working relationships with them.
A UK Contractors Group study showed that every 1 spent in construction generated 2.84 in economic activity.
Supporting local supplychains Our investment stretches beyond bricks and mortar, our projects provide homes for families, jobs for local businesses and opportunities for new apprentices.
To demonstrate what this means for communities, a residential scheme in Ogwell Brook, South Devon provided a significant boost to the local economyas two-thirds of the subcontractors were based within 30 miles of the site, three-quarters of the suppliers were based within the region and the project created 73 jobs on site during construction, and 11 apprenticeships.
We estimate that the development represents a total investment in the local economy equivalent to 19.4 million.
44 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 e f a S & h t l a e H s o h t E Business review Our sustainability activities Key Performance Indicators 2013 For more information visit www.
co. uk Target Achieved Comment and Future Targets 1.
Health & Safety Accident Frequency Rate 0.17 0.13 Our KPImeasurement is more stringent than RIDDOR guidance and hence captures more accidents.
Under RIDDOR guidance our target reduces to 0.10 next year Accident Incidence Rate 3.93 2.33 The target reduces to 3.73 next year Executive Led Safety Assessments 80 77 Maintain performance 2013 14 Safe Behaviour Discussions 10,000 55,654 2013 performance reflects successful delivery of site based safety initiatives Safety coaches trained 600 530 We will continue to provide training to maintain the number of coaches Employee Survey Health & Safety question: 95% 95% Maintain performance 2013 14 My business gives Health & Safety a high priority.
Employee Survey Health & Safety question: 80% 82% Our target for the employee survey in 2013 14 is 85%.
We I understand the Groups initiative Challenging continue to prioritise Health & Safety Beliefs, Affecting Behaviour and my part in it.
Environment and Climate Change Waste diverted from landfill 90% 92.3% Maintain performance above target 90% in 2013 14 Waste tonnes per 100,000 turnover 20 tonnes 11.5 tonnes Maintain performance below target 20 tonnes in 2013 14 100,000 100,000 Carbon footprint tonnes per 100,000 turnover 15% reduction 26% We have reduced emissions to 2.83 tonnes 100,000 since relative to reduction 2008, a 26% reduction.
Maintain performance in 2013. turnover relative to Preparenew divisional targets for 2013 14 turnover Number attending environmental training No target 56 We will continue to support our employees and partners by providing specialised environmental training 3.
Our People Employees attending Chief Executives Roadshow 33% of 38% of Maintain performance in 2013 14 workforce workforce Training days 8,000 per 11,142 We aim to deliver the equivalent of two days per employee per annum annum.
The days delivered represents an investment of 2.4 equivalent million Trainees graduates In 2012 the 147 The target is recast annually but is calculated as 2% workforce.
target was 80 3.7% achieved Churn rate 10% 11.45% We review this target annually 4.
Community Number of subcontractor apprentices recruited 500 by 2016 100 in We remain on course to deliver our target 2013 Charitable and good cause donations No target 108,000 Includes time, in kind and donation of resources Considerate Constructors Scheme score 35 50 37 50 Replaces 32 40 which was the target under the former scoring regime.
Customers Linden Homes Defects 0.25 0.46 Achieve NHBC Reportable Items average per plot of 0.25 Linden Homes Net promoter score 65% 47% We are targeting Five Star status for futureNHBCsurveys Linden Homes Customer satisfaction 90% 93% Target 90% of our customers would recommend us to a friend as assessed by an independent survey Construction Client satisfaction 80% 83% Construction Forward order book No target 1.7 billion Construction order book was 1.65 billion in 2012 Construction Repeat work No target 52% 6.
Supply Chain Timber supplied with FSC PEFC 100% 89% 100% of all timber procured was legal and sustainable as defined by CPET Engagement process to identify best performing Beginprocess Under way To identify and encourage performance in lines with our values Preferred Group suppliers in 2013 against a range of environmental and social criteria Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 45
