Our PeOPLe Canada CREATING THE FOUNDATIONS Lindsay case Genus Pic Genetic servicesManager FOR GROWTH Lindsay has a doctorate in genetics and has worked for Genus PIC for two years.
The opportunity for a PhD to contribute beyond a strictly to develop our marketing function technical role, generating In 2013, we aligned the business across species and subsequently genuine appreciation and behind our strategy and recruited excitement about what we do took on the role of acting Chief high-calibre people to lay the from both our customers and Operating Officer, Genus ABS.
Genuss technical foundations for growth.
Tom Kilroy, our new Group General leadership and customerCounsel & Company Secretary, centricity makes it unique.
aligning the Business Behind brings intellectual property thestrategy expertise and global experience.
We briefed our 2,400 staff on our vision, values and strategy, We also recruited talent across so they are clear and confident the global teams, strengthening about our future and their part in our supply chain function in Genus it.
Our new structure, aligned to ABS and our European leadership our customers and species, has set and product development in and networked global standards Genus PIC.
In Asia, we invested in Genus PIC and Genus ABS, significantly in the China team.
We and has been a key contributor to recruited local heads for operations Genus Asias accelerated growth.
in China dairy and porcine, and PIC Genetic Services, which works in Genus ABS India, as well as a with all our PIC businesses, is new finance director for Asia.
recognised as an internal beacon of best practice, setting standards Towards the end of the financial and delivering training, so we year, we completed our first talent continually raise performance.
plan, focusing on our top 100 leaders and their successors.
Our talent We introduced performance plan takes into account diversity management for our leaders, of gender and backgrounds.
setting stretching objectives and having high quality performance Our Priorities for 2014 conversations and performance We will continue to resource for ratings, to help employees calibrate growth, extending the talent and their achievements.
This has succession plan to around half management development ensured that leaders are clear on our employees and focusing on programmes for our leaders: and their accountabilities and goals.
individuals with potential, to deliver tailored development for our senior Changes to remuneration for the on our commitment to develop more leaders and people with long-term Genus Executive Leadership Team leaders from within the business.
Our potential in the business.
GELT have been cascaded online performance management to managers rewards, aligning tool has also been extended, and We will perform our first inthem with strategic delivery.
will cover more than 2,000 staff house employee survey, this year.
We will continue to creating action plans based on We have also defined and shared recruit, with investment in product the feedback.
We also aim to the competencies we need in development and sales in dairy, and improve internal communication, two vital areas, key account additions to our marketing, technical with each business sharing its management and technical service, services and Chinese teams.
customer successes and financial and are using them for recruitment, performance, and networking performance and development.
Personal growth is important to the teams through technology.
our staff, so we will deliver key resourcing for Growth programmes through Genus We have had a very solid year of Genus is committed to recognising, University.
These include: delivery, with full commitment from developing and recruiting new talent.
Key Account Manager and the management team to delivering Technical Service Academies our key initiatives.
We embark on During the year, we strengthened for Genus ABS and Genus PIC, the second year of our people plan GELT with high-quality recruits.
networking the communities, with much more experience behind Stephen Wilson replaced John sharing best practice and us and a clear understanding of Worby, who retired as Group Finance raising the bar through global the priorities needed to continue Director.
Saskia Korink Romani joined benchmarking and standard setting: to support our strategic delivery.
44|Genus plcAnnual Report 2013 strateGic cOrPOrate FiNaNciaL review GOverNaNce stateMeNts United States Germany China raymond Karls Kerstin reiners angel antonio c. Manabat GenusaBs Livestock Genus Pic western europe Genus asia Pic china Manager, DeForest Madison commercial Director technical services Director Raymond has a degree in Kerstin has a doctorate in Angel has a doctorate in Business Mid-Management agriculture and recently veterinary medicine and and started working for ABS rejoined Genus, having recently transferred from the while still in high school.
worked for PIC from 2007 to Philippines to China.
What Ive stayed because theyve 2011.
I want to build a team excites me is the leaderships treated me well, Ive been that offers the best customer determination that we will be able to progress my career service and the best results always better, year after year, and, most of all, because for Genus.
Collaborating with and that Genuss values are Ive had good people to colleagues internationally is practiced at all levels of the work with and for.
It helps us to organisation.
Here in China, excited to play my part in better understand our markets these values are important making our vision a reality.
and to adapt innovative as what we do will determine strategies locally, backed by Genuss future in the region.
Mexico Italy China Luis Gonzlez Martnez Pierpaolo Dordoni Jer Geiger Genus aBs Mexico Genus aBs italia Genus asia Pic china GeneralManager GeneralManager health assurance Director Luis has a masters degree Pierpaolo has a masters Jer is a doctor of veterinary in dairy management.
He degree in dairy science.
medicine and grew up on a founded ABSs Mexican Since he became general family farm in Illinois.
Ive business unit and turned manager in 1998, Genus been involved with breeding it into the market leader.
ABSs Italian business has stock sales all my life and It is very satisfying to quadrupled in size and PICsvalues are exactly those work for a global company become market leader.
With our interested in feeding the joined because I wanted to commitment to technology world, in collaboration with work for an international and professionalism, why highly skilled professionals.
company and get a broader would I work anywhere Forming teams focused on view of the industry that has else?
People with PEP solving customers needs always been my passion.
passion, enthusiasm has been a priority for me Its inspiring to contribute and professionalism are and has shown results.
New to nourishing the world.
challenges make us look for innovative solutions.
Genus plcAnnual Report 2013|45 Providing the Highest Standards ofCare Our animals are our business, so we take excellent care ofthem.
The housing at our bull stud facility in Dekorra, Wisconsin, is designed to provide the best animal welfare and protect our employees safety.
The barns are globally qualified, so they meet the highest standards for international trade, animal health and bio-security.
Side-curtain ventilation allows maximum air Bull stud facility in flow and the animals are freely housed in individual pens, Dekorra, Wisconsin giving them the greatest freedom of movement.
We clean and rebed the pens three times a week.
All feed is grown in fields free from animal waste and we store the feed securely, eliminating bio-security threats from wildlife.
The livestock workers at Dekorra average 27 years of service and the facilities are led by Darel Smith, who has worked for ABS for more than 30 years.
To protect their wellbeing, we provide continuous training in safety, including bull handling, working in confined spaces andfirst responder training.
46|Genus plcAnnual Report 2013 Our vaLues ResPOnsiBle 27 Average years of service atDekorra facility Genus plcAnnual Report 2013|47
