s e e y o l p m e c o m m y u t n e i t f y a s d cOrPOrate resPONsiBiLity A RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS Corporate Responsibility Objectives 2013 14 Health and Safety Employees Roll out our health and Give every employee the safety framework and opportunity to develop principles their career, with an annual Improve internal discussion and a communication and commitment to first look engage employees internally to fill a role Visit all facilities to ensure Develop all staff by equal compliance with standards access to training, and regulations including life skills, IT and communication Ask staff how they feel about working for Genus and act on their feedback Provide interesting, valuable and secure work within local communities Environment Increase the proportion of Genus PIC farms that have their waste management Animal Welfare systems independently Roll out Pork Quality checked Community Assurance style training Obtain baseline soil test to all production staff in data for Genus PICs Develop the pool of Genus PICs owned locations outside North potential employees, by facilities America helping local populations Begin construction of a Consider processes to use to improve their education bio secure bull admittance manure from Genus ABS and skills facility and vehicle as a compost that could be Work with local disinfection station at resold or recycle it through communities to support Genus ABS a bio-digester specific social initiatives As the global population grows, It will be chaired by Tom Kilroy, our assessment, training, communication Group General Counsel & Company and aligning for the future.
We food security will become Secretary, and include health and developed a new Health and Safety increasingly important.
Genuss safety, environmental and animal General Policy Statement, detailing role is reflected in our vision welfare representatives from responsibilities at all levels.
A andmakes enhancing food around the world.
The Board has further 17 policies, which set out overall accountability for corporate our health and safety framework affordability, safety and quality, responsibility and the committee will and principles, will be rolled out improving animal welfare and report to the Board twice a year.
worldwide in the coming year.
reducing the environmental impact of protein production health and safety We look to continuously improve.
Health and safety is critically In PIC Spain, for example, we keypriorities for us.
important and we continue to enhanced our systems for develop our approach.
We have a confined space entry, while in To ensure we operate in the right global team of health and safety Europe, we launched a campaign way and derive the business benefits, advisors and are working to align to highlight common hazards.
we are establishing a committee our efforts and share best practice.
It will set our The chart on page 49 shows our strategy and objectives, ensure During the year, our first Global minor incident rate over the last three we implement them around the Health and Safety Conference years.
The increase in 2013 was due business and monitor performance.
focused on incident trends, risk to greater staff awareness of our 48|Genus plcAnnual Report 2013 n a a n h i t m l a a l e w h e l f a r t e n e m n o r i v n e strateGic cOrPOrate FiNaNciaL review GOverNaNce stateMeNts Safety Management System SMS, Monitoring and reporting our an online tool used to monitor, environmental performance is evaluate and report incidences and integral to our operations and our Case study trends worldwide.
When incidents risk management programme.
are reported, we look to resolve the causes and to put corrective action We assess the environmental risks in place, such as more focused associated with existing and new training and communication.
facilities, and establish controls to keep risks at acceptable levels.
We train employees at our facilities Rate of Minor Incidents in environmental compliance and Per 100 employees have comprehensive environmental 2.5 protocols at our facilities, which are subject to independent checks.
2.0 During the year, we had independent 1.5 checks at PICs farms in North America and the Besun farm in China.
1.0 0.5 Genus ABS is required to comply with local legislation governing manure 0.0 supporting Our Local community storage, and the rate and timing of 2011 2012 2013 manure application to land on which Incidents that resulted in lost time, restricted In the Philippines, poverty is a we grow feed crops.
We complete work, or major medical treatment.
Children as young annual audits and file reports with as four are forced to make a living the relevant authorities as required.
by rooting through festering rubbish dumps to find recyclable items.
PIC Our strategy for the coming Our employees Philippines supports the work of year is to build a uniform internal Genus aims to be valued by its PCF, a charity that improves the lives communication approach, to employees and its local communities.
of thousands of Filipino children and engage employees in health and We work hard to provide interesting their families.
Monthly management and valuable jobs, with the training, daily meals, health and reports will allow us to measure opportunity to develop careers spiritual care and employment success and to quickly resolve and nationally and internationally.
We for adult family members.
prevent issues, while quarterly place considerable emphasis on employee newsletters will explain attracting, recruiting and developing PIC has created an annual health and safety successes and the people we need, and no matter Scholarship Programme, to allow opportunities.
As we roll out our their educational background, give a PCF beneficiary to obtain a global policies, we will bring the all the opportunity to be considered college education in agricultural business.
We also run fundraising principles alive through training.
We offer fair events, encouraging employees, and market competitive pay and customers and partners to donate, In 2014, we will also use our global benefits in every country we operate to support PCFs vital work.
SMS to track facility audits and in, and make compliance with our their outcomes.
We have more than standards and local laws a priority.
50 facilities, ranging from offices More details can be found in the Our to production units.
Our goal is to People section on pages 41 to 42. visit every facility at least once, to ensure we meet the highest animal welfare local communities and to pursue standards and follow regulations.
The Genus Animal Welfare Code programmes that will improve In most locations, a site-level safety of Conduct ensures we provide the education and life chances, with committee reviews the facility highest level of care for our herds.
All a view to boosting our pool of audit reports, the actions required employees who handle our animals potential employees.
The case study and the results of those actions.
are trained and qualified, and we on this page shows one example design and maintain our facilities to of our work in the Philippines.
Genuss best practice farm and ensure best practice.
Fully qualified animal handling protocols reflect inspectors also provide regular our industry leadership.
All staff are we will focus on incorporating required to report any incidents of all protocols into one uniform animal mishandling and we require structure and making them regular written statements that more readily available to staff.
no incidents have been observed.
The case study on page 46 gives the environment one example of how we put our Genus is committed to conducting approach into practice, at our bull business in ways that are sensitive to stud facility in Dekorra, Wisconsin.
the environmental needs of our local communities.
Our locations therefore community integrate environmental management We actively encourage our into their systems and procedures.
businesses to engage with their Genus plcAnnual Report 2013|49 2.17 0.63 1.02
