SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ENSURING OUR BUSINESS THRIVES IN THE FUTURE Message from the Chief Executive At GKN, being a sustainable business means operating in an ethical, efficient and safe manner.
By doing so we can help ensure we are a successful business both today and in the future.
This section focuses on the policies and processes that will help us do that.
It covers our strong culture of operational excellence, based on innovative engineering and GKN Lean manufacturing skills.
Through our continuous improvement processes, we aim to deliver exceptional quality and customer service.
At the same time, we aim to be an employer of choice with a high-performance culture, motivated people and outstanding leaders.
Our goal is to have a positive impact on our communities as we continue to grow for many years to come.
NIGEL STEIN CHIEF EXECUTIVE Our Values GKNs Values guide our day-to-day 6 PROMISES FROM GKN TO EMPLOYEES activities and in doing so pave the way for We will support you through investment and training so we can build 1 the long-term development of the Group.
a high performance business by delivering superb customer service.
In support of our Values, the GKN 2 We will help you develop your full potential and we will not Code and policies set out standards tolerate any discrimination.
of behaviour that ensure the business We will care for you by providing a safe working environment.
3 continues to be run in an ethical, socially responsible and sustainable We will do what we can to minimise our impact on the environment.
Our Values and the main principles 5 We are all part of a wider society and we will contribute positively to the of the GKN Code are represented by 12 communities of which we are part.
promises, six from GKN to our employees and six from employees to the business.
If you have a problem we will listen in confidence.
6 6 PROMISES FROM EMPLOYEES TO GKN I share GKNs commitment to build a high performing business with 1 a strong customer focus.
I show that commitment through my work.
I always respect the rights of other team members.
2 3 I do not put other team members at risk of injury and will counsel anyone I see working unsafely.
I believe in honest and proper conduct at all times.
4 I know I am free to report behaviour which is wrong and I will do so.
5 6 I will help protect the environment and support local communities.
52 GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION At GKN we aim to do the right thing as a business, by our people and in our world.
OUR BUSINESS Every day we drive the wheels of hundreds of millions of cars, help thousands of aircraft to fly and deliver the power to move earth and harvest crops.
Our high standards of business ethics and governance have helped us to become a global engineering leader, delivering high quality products and services that touch peoples lives around the world.
One of GKNs strategic objectives is to lead in our chosen markets and we do so by striving for continuous improvement, while ensuring that safety is paramount in all GKN locations.
Pages 54 and 55 for more information on health and safety OUR PEOPLE We employ 49,700 people across five continents.
We have relationships with thousands of customers, suppliers and contractors around the world.
Our people are key to those relationships.
As a business we can only operate successfully if we foster teamwork within GKN, enable employees to reach their potential and inspire them to take pride in the Groups achievements.
We aim to do this in a safe and fair environment that reflects the diverse communities in which we work.
Page 57 for more information on employee engagement Our focus on people allows us to maintain a strong business by developing engineers of the future, recruiting the very best talent and creating an engaged and committed workforce.
OUR WORLD As a global engineering company we strive to have a positive impact on our world from the sites we work in, to the communities in which we operate and the planet on which we live.
Our sites aim to play a positive role in their communities and we are proud of the charitable and community support provided by thousands of GKN employees each year.
Our technology enables us to create products that are lighter, more efficient or made with less waste than before.
By doing Page 59 for more information on community activities so, we aim to reduce the impact that we and our customers have on the environment.
com 53 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT CONTINUED OUR BUSINESS As a business with a high standard of ethics we strive for continuous improvement in all areas.
Our priority is to ensure all employees return home safely each day, in line with the Groups promise to employees: We will care for you by providing a safe working environment.
GKNs Values are at the heart of our business.
Health and Safety They guide the day-to-day behaviour of our GKN has a goal of zero preventable accidents.
employees, whatever their job and wherever they To support this we have a number of GKNwork.
Employees are required to maintain the developed and globally applied behavioural highest standards of integrity, honesty and fair safety programmes.
Our leadership has an important role to safety issues, share best practice and help to play in providing a strong sense of direction that minimise hazards at our sites.
Led by our Groupdemonstrates how we value the importance of wide communications and awareness programme, behaving in a way that will sustain GKN over the thinkSAFE!, this consistent approach helps us long term.
All GKN leaders are required, on an work towards our strategic objective of annual basis, to confirm that they understand operational excellence.
the behaviours expected of them as leaders thinkSAFE!
was expanded in 2013 to include in promoting the right behaviours within GKN.
dont WALK BY!, an awareness programme GKN is committed to a culture in which people feel developed by GKN to encourage employees to comfortable speaking up when they see behaviours identify and resolve safety and environmental which are inconsistent with the GKN Code and concerns.
Following the initial success of this policies.
A confidential and independent Employee programme, it is being further deployed across Disclosure Hotline is available to employees 24 the Group during 2014. thinkSAFE!
has contributed hours a day, seven days a week, through which strongly to the ongoing reduction in accident they can raise concerns, on an anonymous basis frequency across the Group and by expanding if they prefer.
Matters reported are investigated the programme we are striving for even and feedback is always provided to the caller.
A respect for human rights is implicit in our Values Total Plant Risk Management TPRM techniques and the policies which underpin them.
We support have also been integrated into key operations.
the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and do TPRM uses screening tools to identify risks within not tolerate the use of child labour or forced labour.
manufacturing sites and take appropriate corrective actions.
Through our supply chain management policy we require equivalent standards in our supply chains.
We require all our plants to achieve certification Group companies must avoid engaging suppliers to the international health and safety standard that offer inadequate health and safety standards OHSAS 18001, and all sites have obtained or are for employees, infringe internationally accepted working towards certification.
standards of workers rights, use child or forced We measure our health and safety performance labour, unsound environmental practices, have through two metrics: accident frequency rate AFR poor standards of social responsibility or that is used to track the number of lost time accidents fail to comply with relevant laws and regulations.
and accident severity rate ASR records the number Group companies must use contractual terms of days lost due to accidents and occupational ill and conditions that support the implementation health.
In 2013 there was a strong improvement in of this policy.
the Groups safety performance, with AFR reducing from 2.1 in 2012 to 1.6, and ASR reducing from 51 in 2012 to 40.
54 GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION 40 51 59 68 71 1.6 2.1 2.3 2.7 2.1 Accident frequency rate Accident severity rate Number of lost time accidents Number of days shi s lost per 1,000 employees due to accidents and occupational ill health per 1,000 employees 1.6 40 09 10 11 12 09 10 11 12 13 13 2009-2010 figures include employees only 2011-2013 figures also include agency workers Continuous improvement Employees and leaders apply GKNs Lean Enterprise In March 2013 a contractor at the GKN Driveline A safety briefing for model in all areas of the business to help create employees at GKN Land India plant in Dharuhera suffered a fatal injury when Systems in Woodridge, a more efficient and sustainable organisation that another contractors equipment failed mechanically Chicago, US is better able to succeed in competitive markets.
We deeply regret this loss of life and have provided support to the contractors Health, safety and Flow of information and products are mapped to environmental audits family.
A full investigation was carried out and identify bottlenecks and remove waste.
Employees carried out in 2013 lessons learned have been communicated across identify barriers which impede the flow of value the Group.
By applying problem solving techniques, team members identify and eliminate During 2013, 76 health, safety and environmental Number of languages root causes, ensuring that we work to ever-higher audits were carried out using external audit in which safety standards.
All of these processes help us deliver expertise, and through our internal Health, Safety information is operational excellence across GKN.
communicated and Environment HSE audit function and HSE peer audits.
The audits assess performance against 26 This focus on continuous improvement helps broad-based and wide-ranging criteria.
Audit ensure sustainable operations around the findings are analysed and corrective actions are Group.
By improving efficiency and eliminating taken.
We also share best practice examples waste, we minimise the use of resources and the across the Group.
environmental footprint of our business.
In addition to streamlining existing processes, we aim to During 2013, there were four incidents in respect design our products and processes to be the most of which a safety enforcement action was issued: efficient possible.
two in the US with a penalty of $7,140 and one in both the UK and Sweden without penalty.
Safety Supply chains are carefully planned and monitored.
enforcement actions from prior years were finalised We align our resources and capacities to our and resulted in the following penalties: 2011 customers demands, ensuring timely delivery $1,875, 2012 $122,900 and 35,056. of high quality products with minimum disruption and waste.
Employee involvement is at the heart of GKNs Lean Enterprise model.
Employees are able to submit improvement ideas and implement many of these ideas in the workplace.
Leaders are encouraged to coach their teams at every opportunity, allowing team members to grow and thrive.
Together these form a culture in which improvement is encouraged and delivered.
com 55 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT CONTINUED OUR PEOPLE By recruiting the best people from around the world and creating a well trained workforce, we enable our business to lead in our chosen markets and deliver shareholder value.
To remain sustainable in the future, we believe it is vital to encourage the next generation of engineers.
Young people Developing careers at GKN Our aim is to recruit young people with the Training and career development are a focus for the potential to become future leaders.
We have business and in 2013 more than 80% of employees developed a range of apprenticeship and internship had performance and development discussions with programmes, student sponsorship schemes and their functional leader.
Employee progress is charted university partnerships to identify talented young through managerial and technical career paths, engineers.
These enable us to build our employer supported by focused assessment and training.
brand and attract high quality employees into Our online training support tool, GKN Academy, the business.
enables employees to access development options In 2013, GKN recruited more than 100 graduates from their workplace or from home.
These are sought after posts attracting library of 3,600 courses available in 10 languages, high quality candidates.
The Group also maintained in support of our growing global workforce.
In 2013, its recruitment and retention of high quality employees completed more than 18,000 courses apprentices and currently has nearly 800 globally.
a 50% increase on the previous year and the GKN Academy site experienced an average of 25,000 hits per month.
The Group has an organisation-wide succession planning and development programme to ensure our people develop the capabilities required to deliver the business plan.
In 2013 the Group internal recruitment rate for management roles was 83%.
Voluntary employee turnover of subsidiary employees, which excludes compulsory redundancies, terminations and retirements, was 4.3% 2012: 3.8%.
Although slightly higher, this remains within the expected range.
STUDENT SPONSORSHIP PROGRAMME Over the past four years GKN China has provided sponsorship worth 874,000RMB around 87,000 to 211 students in China.
It has also held 10 campus jobs fairs and as a direct result recruited 18 graduates and provided internships YOUNG ENGINEER DESIGN CHALLENGE to 109 students.
GKN Driveline helped a team of students from North America design their version of the car of the future in 2013.
The Deep Orange student team from Clemson Universitys prestigious International Center for Automotive Research ICAR in the US unveiled the prototype in August, complete with GKN Driveline one-speed eTransmission.
Joe Palazzolo, Chief Engineer for eDrive, explained: We feel that inspiring the younger generation is very important and will help secure the future of our industry.
56 GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Employee engagement Employees by business Engagement is a leadership priority within GKN.
49,700 We believe that engaged employees are essential GKN Aerospace 11,700 for future business success.
GKN Driveline 24,000 To monitor engagement levels we carry out a GKN Powder Metallurgy 6,600 biennial Employee Engagement Survey across our GKN Land Systems 5,400 subsidiary companies worldwide, which focuses on Other Businesses 2,000 four indicators of business health: Business Story, Employee Voice, Engaging Leaders and Integrity.
The process ran from September to November 2013 including subsidiaries and joint ventures and included almost 2,000 employee sessions in over 200 locations.
In total, more than 37,000 employees took part, at a participation rate of 87% Subsidiary employees Diversity and inclusion of subsidiary employees.
The results against all four in more than 30 As a global organisation with operations in more countries took part in drivers of employee engagement improved on an than 30 countries, we respect and value the the Employee aggregate Group basis compared with those from Engagement Survey individuality that each employee brings to our the 2011 survey.
Each site feeds back to employees 2013 and all four key business.
Our objective is to have a positive and indicators of employee the results for their site and improvement plans are engagement increased.
inclusive working environment free from any kind developed and implemented.
of discrimination and in which employees are motivated to maximise their contribution.
GKNs Between each global survey, a mini survey Employee policies require all Group companies to treat tool the Positive Climate Index PCI Engagement Survey employees fairly and with respect, recognising is used to monitor employee engagement.
This sessions their abilities, differences and achievements.
uses a sub-set of questions from the Employee 1,927 Engagement Survey: results are gathered Our aim is to ensure that the workforce is immediately and discussed with participants Participation representative of the countries and markets in during monthly site sessions.
On an aggregate in Employee which we operate and the communities in which Group basis, the PCI results also showed Engagement Survey we are located, including an appropriate gender improvement from 2011. mix.
Women make up 13% of total subsidiary 87% employees see table below and 4% of the senior A key element of employee engagement is executive population.
As an engineering group we ensuring employees understand the Group face particular challenges in increasing our gender strategy, and realise how their business and diversity, especially amongst the senior executive their own activities contribute towards it.
We recognise that we have much to do Engage with our Strategy programme, delivered to increase gender diversity and actions to improve face-to-face in GKN sites around the world, this in the medium term will be a focus for 2014 is a series of interactive presentations explaining and beyond.
the Groups strategic objectives to employees, and discussing the role of individuals, teams As at 31 December 2013 Male Female and sites in achieving these.
The success of GKN plc Board 8 1 this programme contributed to an improvement Senior managers 360 28 in the Business Story indicator within the Total employees 37,613 5,515 Employee Engagement Survey.
Comprises senior executives and, as required by s414C of the Companies Act 2006, subsidiary company directors.
com 57 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT CONTINUED OUR WORLD GKN is committed to improving our world, from creating innovative technologies to investing in the environment and communities in which we operate.
By integrating these social concerns with our business operations we can create a healthy environment in which to grow.
Environment Energy consumption per unit of production The Group is committed to continuous improvement kWh tonne in all areas of environmental performance, in line with 3000 our promise: We will do what we can to minimise our 2500 impact on the environment.
2000 1500 We apply GKN Lean Enterprise techniques to energy 1000 efficiency and waste reduction programmes, both 500 in offices and at manufacturing locations.
Sites 0 Aerospace Driveline Powder Land are required to develop energy efficiency targets Metallurgy Systems and plans, which are reviewed regularly, and best CO emissions per unit of production 2 practice is rewarded in the Environmental category kg tonne of the annual GKN Excellence Awards.
ISO 14001 is 1000 our mandated environmental management system 800 and all sites have either achieved this or are in the 600 process of obtaining certification.
400 Environmental performance in 2013 was in line 200 with expectations, with most divisions achieving 0 improved results, as illustrated in the charts.
Group Aerospace Driveline Powder Land Metallurgy Systems energy efficiency improved by 4.7% over 2012, and Waste generation per unit of production by 18.6% over 2009.
This met our goal of improving kg tonne energy efficiency by 15% in five years from 2009, 250 one year ahead of target.
200 150 GKN calculates greenhouse gas emissions 100 using the Greenhouse Gas Protocol.
The greenhouse gas intensity of the Group 50 i. e. operations included in the consolidated 0 Aerospace Driveline Powder Land financial statements decreased by 3% in 2013.
Metallurgy Systems Expressed as tonnes of CO equivalent per 2 Recycled waste million sales, emissions intensity reduced % of total waste from 176 in 2012 to 171 in 2013.
The absolute 100 emissions of the Group were 1,228,000 tonnes 80 of CO equivalent in 2013.
This includes: Scope 2 60 1 direct emissions of 245,000 tonnes and 40 Scope 2 indirect emissions of 983,000 tonnes.
It represents an overall increase 20 of 7% from 2012, and was largely due to 0 Aerospace Driveline Powder Land the acquisition of the aero engine division Metallurgy Systems of AB Volvo, as well as increased production Water consumption per unit of production in GKN Driveline and GKN Powder Metallurgy.
3 m tonne 6 Note: Scope 1 emissions do not include 5 CO equivalent emissions resulting from 2 4 process and fugitive emissions from most 3 of the Groups facilities as individually these 2 are not deemed to be material.
Emissions 1 from the operation of arc furnaces at two 0 Powder Metallurgy plants are included Aerospace Driveline Powder Land Metallurgy Systems in Scope 1 emissions.
58 GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION During 2013 there were 13 environmental enforcement actions, all in the US.
Nine resulted in financial penalties totalling $10,576.
Superior technology As a global engineering company, technology development and differentiation is an important driver of success.
To encourage innovation we bring together teams of engineers on cross-divisional development projects, while using Lean processes to ensure products are manufactured as efficiently as possible.
This combination promotes operational excellence throughout the business.
The Group Technology Strategy Board, chaired by Chief Executive Nigel Stein, brings together the key technologists and leads the development and deployment of our technology plans.
The GKN Engineering Fellowship Scheme, TWO AWARDS FOR COMPOSITE REAR created in late 2012, is now firmly embedded within WING SPAR GKN.
This group of highly experienced individuals GKN Aerospace received two industry awards provides technical leadership and expertise during for the A350 XWB rear wing spar in 2013.
The research and development projects.
Fellows also innovative design was recognised with the share best practice through internal communication UK Composites Industry Award for Innovation and videos.
in Composites Design and the Horners Award for Plastics Innovation in 2013.
At an operational level, 2013 saw an increase in cross-divisional engineering working groups.
Joint projects on electrification and additive manufacture, both of which have potential Group-level implications, were successfully initiated.
GKN also sought external partnerships to enhance its low-carbon product development.
Communities For GKN, being a responsible company means going beyond legal requirements and compliance, and investing time and money to support the communities in which we operate.
We focus these activities on two main areas: preparing young people for the world of work, in particular inspiring the next generation of engineers by promoting science, technology, engineering and mathematics STEM subjects: and enhancing local communities through social projects and charitable donations.
SUPPORTING A COMMUNITY PROJECT In the UK, annual support continued for the IN CANADA Engineering Development Trust and Young Community-spirited volunteers from GKN Enterprise programmes.
GKN also took part in the Powder Metallurgy in Canada took part in a Government-backed See Inside Manufacturing house-building project in November to help tackle initiative in 2013, which saw local schoolchildren homelessness.
GKN Sinter Metals St Thomas visit seven GKN Aerospace and GKN Driveline sites.
site donated $3,000 to Habitat for Humanity, which helps build and renovate houses around We are extremely proud of the charitable work, the world to provide accommodation for fundraising and community projects carried out homeless people.
Ten employees also donated by our businesses and employees every year, many hours of their time at weekends to help support examples of which are given on the GKN website.
We celebrate this each year through our Hearts of Gold awards.
This is just one of many employee-led community projects across GKN.
