Governance & remuneration Corporate governance Board diversity Corporate Responsibility Committee Report The Committee is responsible for developing measurable objectives to support the implementation of the Boards diversity policy, including gender, and for monitoring progress towards the achievement of these objectives.
In May 2011, we announced our aspiration to increase the female representation on the Board to at least 25% by 2013.
We were able to report in the 2011 Annual Report that encouraging progress had been made towards this target, with 20% of the Boards Directors being women at that stage.
As part of the continued refreshment of the Board, both Lynn Elsenhans and Jing Ulrich were appointed as new Non-Executive Directors in July 2012, taking the cadre of women on the Board to 33%.
We were pleased to have delivered early and exceeded the target we had set ourselves and have maintained this level of female representation at Board level throughout 2013.
We also have a good representation of women in management positions which is illustrated on page 55 as part of the gender diversity of GSKs global workforce.
We will continue to support Sir Christopher Gent efforts to further increase the pipeline of women into senior positions Corporate Responsibility Committee Chairman within GSK.
We also support the engagement of executive search firms, such as MWM and Egon Zhender, who have signed up to the Membership Voluntary Code of Conduct on gender diversity and best practice.
The membership of the Corporate Responsibility Committee the Committee, together with appointment dates and attendance at Committee evaluation meetings, is set out below: The annual evaluation of the Committees effectiveness was undertaken by the Committee Chairman.
The responses were shared Attendance at full meetings with the Committee and it was concluded that the Committee Members Committee member since during 2013 continued to operate effectively.
It was agreed that the process the Sir Christopher Gent Committee used to identify new appointees was much improved.
Chairman from 1 January 2005 9 December 2004 5 5 Dr Stephanie Burns 6 December 2007 5 5 Lynn Elsenhans 1 October 2012 5 5 Dr Daniel Podolsky 1 July 2006 5 5 Hans Wijers 10 October 2013 0 1 Sir Robert Wilson 1 May 2013 3 3 Hans Wijers was unable to attend one Committee meeting due to prior business commitments.
Other attendees at Committee meetings include: Regular Attends Attendee attendee as required Chief Executive Officer Chairman, Global R&D & Vaccines General Counsel Head of Governance, Ethics & Assurance Head of Global Communications Head of Global Corporate Responsibility Company Secretary Other Executives Independent External Corporate Responsibility Adviser Independent external corporate responsibility adviser To augment GSKs engagement with stakeholder opinion, in May 2013, Sophia Tickell was appointed as an independent external adviser to the Committee, a position that she had held previously from March 2009 to July 2011.
Ms Tickell has extensive experience in the pharmaceuticals industry in improving health systems productivity, sustainability in energy supply and distribution, climate change policy and short-termism in financial markets.
