Strategic report Responsible business Responsible business Being a responsible business is central to our strategy and mission, and how we deliver success is just as important as what we achieve.
Operating responsibly and ensuring our values the transparency of our clinical research and are embedded in our culture and decision-making modernise our commercial practices and the way helps us better meet the expectations of society.
we interact with our customers, and passed a significant milestone in the development of In 2013 we continued to take bold steps to modify a potential vaccine against malaria.
Specifically we made further progress on driving access to our medicines in We continue to invest in our people and are the poorest countries, took action to increase working hard to reduce our environmental footprint.
Progress summary We made good progress in 2013 towards our Announced plans to evolve the way we sell and forward-looking commitments that we announced market products to healthcare professionals to in 2012.
These commitments are reported across further align the companys activities with the our four areas and they aim to address unmet global interests of patients.
health needs and are aligned with our strategic priorities and values.
Our people Began the roll-out of preventative healthcare Health for all benefits through our Partnership for Prevention Increased the volume of medicines supplied to Least programme which will be available to employees Developed Countries since 2010 by 60%.
and their families worldwide by 2018.
Achieved a major milestone in the development of our Launched a new performance management system malaria vaccine candidate, RTS, S, which will lead us to better link employee reward with our values.
to submit a regulatory file in 2014 to make the vaccine available at a not-for-profit price in sub-Saharan Africa.
Our planet Our Scope 1 and 2 carbon emissions from our Formed an innovative new partnership with Save the operations grew slightly by 0.6% in 2013, although Children to help save the lives of one million children these have declined by 7% since 2010. over five years.
We became the first company to be awarded global Our behaviour certification to the Carbon Trusts Water Standard Became the first pharmaceutical company to enable in recognition of our year-on-year reductions in external researchers to access detailed anonymised operational water use globally.
patient-level data from our clinical trials through a new online system.
50 GSK Annual Report 2013 Malaria milestone Last year, malaria killed an estimated 627,000 people and more than three quarters of these deaths occurred in children under five.
The malaria parasite endemic in sub-Saharan Africa, Plasmodium falciparum, is also the most serious type of malaria where acute infections can rapidly become life-threatening.
Working in partnerships with others, we have been carrying out research into a vaccine to fight malaria for more than 30 years.
In 2013, we achieved a major milestone in the development of the worlds first vaccine against P falciparum.
Phase III data showed that our vaccine almost halved the number of cases in young children aged 5-17 months at first vaccination in the 18 months after vaccination.
Based on this data and previous studies, we plan to submit a regulatory application to the European Medicines Agency in 2014 and the vaccine could be available as early as 2016.
Nahya pictured, a paediatrician, has been involved in the RTS, S malaria vaccine trial at the Ifakara Health Institute in Tanzania.
Its our hope that the malaria vaccine could help many, many children.
It could help reduce the burden of malaria as a disease.
Nahya Salim, paediatrician and research scientist in Tanzania, Africa References World Health Organization Fact sheet on the World Malaria Report 2013.
int malaria media world malaria report 2013 en index.
html Wellcome trust Plasmodium falciparum http: malaria.
html Our priorities In 2014, we will continue to challenge our business model at every level to ensure we are responding to the needs of patients and meeting the wider expectations of society.
Next year we will begin a two-year process to end the practice of paying health care professionals to speak on our behalf.
This move will help put patient interests first.
GSK Annual Report 2013 51 Strategic report Strategic report R Re es sp pon ons siible ble b bu us siine fines ss s Responsible business Our approach How we conduct our business is just as important to us as the financial results we achieve.
We strive to put our values at the heart of every decision we make and to meet or exceed the expectations of society Our commercial success is directly linked to To improve access, we employ innovative Our most significant contribution to this is in operating in a responsible way.
We report our funding mechanisms and use a flexible pricing the elimination of lymphatic filariasis LF and approach and the progress we are making approach that is based on a countrys wealth control of soil-transmitted helminths intestinal across four areas: and ability to pay.
Our Developing Countries worms through the donation of albendazole and Market Access DCMA operating unit tablets.
In 2013, we shipped 763 million Health for all seeks to increase patient access to our tablets, bringing the total donated to more Our behaviour medicines and vaccines for around 800 million than 4 billion tablets since 1998. people in the Least Developed Countries Our people We are also researching new treatments for LDCs, as defined by the United Nations.
other diseases such as sleeping sickness, Our planet Since the DCMA unit was established in 2010, Chagas disease and visceral leishmaniasis.
In 2012, we developed longer-term the volume of medicines we supply to LDCs has Approximately 627,000 malaria-related commitments across these four areas.
increased by 60% from 55 million units in 2010 deaths were reported last year and GSK is They reflect global health needs and are to 89 million in 2013. committed to tackling this disease.
We have aligned with our strategic priorities and our The price of our patented medicines in the invested $350 million in the development of values of transparency, respect for people, LDCs is capped at no more than a quarter our malaria vaccine candidate RTS, S, including integrity and patient focus.
of our developed world prices.
Since 2009 collaborations with the PATH Malaria Vaccine This year we will be reporting on our progress we have also re-invested 20% of our profits Initiative and support from the Bill & Melinda against these commitments in our 2013 in the LDCs into local healthcare capacityGates Foundation.
This year, our clinical trial Corporate Responsibility Report available building projects in those countries.
In 2013 reported further data on the vaccine see on gsk.
this amounted to 5.1 million and since 2009 page 34 and we intend to submit a regulatory we have reinvested 15 million.
We are also developing The following pages provide an overview tafenoquine for the treatment and relapse of our approach.
We aim to make our established, off-patent prevention of P vivax malaria.
products available to developing countries through our catch up programme.
Through this We remain committed to supporting the World Health for all programme, we have been seeking approvals Health Organization objective of eradicating Our mission is to improve the quality of human for our medicines in these markets, and have polio completely by 2018 by providing vaccines life by enabling people to do more, feel better, received approvals for 26 products in 2013. to UNICEF.
In 2013, we provided 412 million live longer.
The main way we can do this is doses of oral polio vaccine to the Global Polio In vaccines, we have used a tiered pricing model through developing new medicines, vaccines Eradication Initiative.
for over 20 years and, in 2013, we updated our and consumer products and increasing access approach to better align with a countrys ability to these products for those who need them, Innovative science to create to pay.
For the least well-off countries, we work regardless of their ability to pay.
At the same value for all closely with GAVI and UNICEF to improve time, we need to generate returns so that we Our approach to R&D includes our strategy access to vaccines.
These organisations, which can be a sustainable business that invests in for open innovation for the diseases of the purchase large volumes of vaccines for the research for the new treatments of tomorrow.
developing world, which seeks to stimulate worlds poorest children, always benefit from innovation and enhance the productivity of To achieve this, we have been evolving our our lowest prices.
This research has business model and implementing novel We aim to take a responsible approach to transformed our approach to intellectual approaches such as flexible pricing structures.
It is important that prices property and external partnerships.
We have also been accelerating our innovation reflect the value our medicines bring to patients processes by opening up our research findings While our current open innovation models but we are also very mindful of the burden of and resources to others, and working in new focus on diseases of the developing world, healthcare costs.
For example, we have priced ways with partners.
we are also exploring ways to extend these our newly launched products at or below the models to solve other significant health prices for those currently available, despite their Access to healthcare challenges where the traditional business positively differentiated profiles.
For example, model is inadequate, including anti-microbial We are committed to improving access in the USA we launched Tafinlar, our BRAF to patients who need our products irrespective resistance and non-communicable diseases inhibitor, last year with a price around 30% such as Alzheimers disease.
of their ability to pay, by focusing on product lower than an existing BRAF inhibitor.
affordability and availability, and investing In early 2014, we joined the Accelerated in stronger healthcare systems in developing Diseases of the developing world Medicines Partnership AMP a new countries.
Neglected tropical diseases NTDs like leprosy partnership between the National Institutes and intestinal worms affect billions of people in of Health NIH, ten pharmaceutical companies the worlds most vulnerable communities.
As and three non-profit organisations.
The goal of a leading member of the London Declaration, the AMP is to transform the current model for GSK is working with the Bill & Melinda Gates developing new diagnostics and treatments in Foundation and 12 other pharmaceutical challenging disease areas and make the data companies to control or eliminate ten of the generated available to the broad biomedical 17 NTDs by 2020 that affect 1.4 billion people.
We will be participating in and providing funding for the Alzheimers pilot.
52 GSK Annual Report 2013 We also believe that by sharing our research In this context we were concerned and Programmes supported by findings both positive and negative we can financial giving in 2013 disappointed by allegations of fraudulent stimulate innovation and help others to build behaviour in our China business.
We are on our existing research.
Our aim is that this taking this matter extremely seriously and are will accelerate the drug-development process co-operating fully with the Chinese authorities.
to produce new medicines for patients.
19% We have taken a number of actions, including commissioning an independent report from Health and well-being in our international legal firm Ropes and Gray, who communities have extensive experience in anti-corruption We are committed to improving the health and 58% and international risk.
23% well-being of our communities by supporting We are committed to learning any lessons programmes that improve healthcare required as a result of the Chinese infrastructure, enhance science and health investigation and will take all appropriate education and assist in humanitarian relief.
steps as necessary at its outcome.
We In 2013, GSK donated medicines valued at remain fully committed to China, supporting 146 million at cost and 54 million in cash.
the governments healthcare reforms and Health and well-being Product donations worth 3.8 million were to supplying our products to patients.
Education provided to our partners AmeriCares, Direct Other In 2013, we simplified the policies underpinning Relief, IMA World Health, MAP International our Code of Conduct and completed our annual and Project HOPE for humanitarian aid.
The Ethical partners distributed donated medicines to Leadership Certification requires managers 87 countries in 2013.
This included providing and designated employees to certify their supplies of antibiotics and basic medicines Our giving in 2013 awareness, understanding, and compliance to those affected by conflicts and natural with GSKs values and policies.
Over 65,000 disasters, including the earthquake in Pakistan, 2% designated employees had completed the the typhoon in the Philippines and the certification process in 2013.
24% We continue to support the Guiding Principles GSKs annual IMPACT Awards have on Business and Human Rights, as endorsed channelled more than 8 million to over by the United Nations Human Rights Council 450 outstanding healthcare charities in in 2011.
In recognition of these principles, we the UK and the USA over the past 16 years.
undertook a systemic assessment in 2013 to identify our human rights impacts and Our behaviour prioritised seven areas to further examine 66% GSKs policies and processes.
We also We aim to put the interests of patients and updated our GSK Human Rights Statement consumers first and to have our decisions m based on the findings of our assessment.
guided by our four values of transparency, Cash 54 Cash 54 million respect for people, integrity and patient focus.
Research practices Product and in-kind 146 million We have policies, guidance and codes of Product and in-kind 146 Time 4 million We seek to ensure that our research practices conduct in place for our people, our partners T Management 17 million ime 4 meet high ethical standards and patient safety and our suppliers.
Management 17 remains our first priority.
Living our values and principles Our clinical trials are conducted in accordance with Good Clinical Practice GCP guidelines.
Ethical conduct is a priority for GSK.
We need to operate with integrity around the world, in our All employees complete training on GCP before undertaking any roles related to GSKinteractions with patients, prescribers, payers and governments and we must live our values.
In 2013, there were 44,685 GCP-related training activities.
Failure to uphold high ethical standards could impact our companys success.
We also conducted 323 clinical-quality assurance assessments.
Our zero tolerance approach to bribery In addition, we conducted 51 investigations and corruption applies to everyone at GSK of suspected irregularities and took corrective as well as third parties who act on behalf of action where appropriate.
regulatory authorities also performed 112 inspections of GSK sites and the investigators we used to conduct clinical trials.
GSK Annual Report 2013 53 Strategic report Responsible business Responsible business continued In 2013, we built on our long-standing In 2013 we began a programme that will We will strengthen our own dedicated medical commitment to clinical trial transparency.
modify nearly 200 packaging lines across 25 and scientific capability to appropriately lead To facilitate further research that can help manufacturing sites internationally, allowing engagement with HCPs.
We will improve our advance medical science or improve patient us to provide unique serial numbers on nearly multi-channel capability, including use of digital care, we launched an online system to enable 7,000 stock keeping units.
technologies, to ensure appropriate product researchers to request access to detailed and disease area information can be provided We greatly value the relationships we have anonymised patient-level data from our clinical to HCPs conveniently.
Finally, we will support with our many suppliers and understand the trials.
We also began publishing Clinical Study fair, balanced and objective medical education pressures on cash flow and financing faced by Reports CSRs once the medicines have been for HCPs through provision of independent smaller companies.
Following a change to our approved or terminated from development.
standard payment terms for suppliers in the UK This will extend back to the formation of GSK and USA in 2012, we offered to review these We will continue to offer appropriate fees in 2000, starting with the most commonly payment terms for smaller suppliers identified to HCPs who provide services for GSKprescribed medicines.
We also support the as micro, small and medium size enterprises sponsored clinical research, advisory activities AllTrials campaign, which calls for full reporting in Europe or diverse suppliers in the USA.
These activities are of methods and results of all trials.
We also offer a range of supply chain finance essential to provide us with insights on specific In early-stage research, we use a number of options to both our UK and US suppliers.
diseases, identification of symptoms and methods for drug discovery work, including in diagnosis, application of clinical trial data Several companies have taken up these some cases research involving animals.
We or medication dosage and administration, opportunities already and we are planning use alternatives to animals whenever we can.
and on how to effectively and appropriately increased communications to make more However, in some studies animal research is the communicate the benefits and risks of its of our smaller suppliers aware of the only method that can be used to demonstrate medicines to help meet patient needs.
the effects of a potential new medicine in a living body before it is tested in humans.
When Sales and marketing with integrity Our people animals are used in research, we are committed GSK has an important role to play in supporting to acting ethically and practising good animal Our people are essential to our success.
We education for healthcare professionals HCPs welfare and minimising the number of animals focus on building their individual capabilities and in providing accurate information about used.
In 2013, the number of animals we used and aim to support and empower them to be our medicines to help them make the best declined by 10% and was 33% lower than in the best they can be.
treatment decision for their patients.
Most animals in our research including we announced plans to evolve the way we research carried out by contractors are mice.
Talent and leadership development interact with HCPs to further align our activities Less than 0.3% of the animals we use are nonWe aim to attract and retain the most with the interests of patients.
talented people by investing in training and In 2014, we will implement a new compensation development that is tailored to individuals Manufacturing and supply system that will apply to all GSK sales needs and recognises the potential of our employees who detail our prescription products Efficient and responsible manufacturing and employees.
We expect suppliers In 2013 over 3,500 leaders completed our will mean sales professionals being evaluated to uphold the same high standards we set for Leading Delivery programme, which helps and rewarded for their technical knowledge, ourselves, which is based on our Code middle-level managers translate the strategic the quality of the service they deliver to of Conduct.
ambition of our business into meaningful support improved patient care, and the overall We conduct audits on governance, risk action.
We also enrolled over 140 leaders performance of our business, replacing management, environmental, health and onto Leading Business, which is designed to individual sales targets.
safety and sustainability issues on a subset of develop the capabilities of those managing This follows the success of our actions in the suppliers, which have been identified as critical a business function.
For people who are USA where we decoupled reward for our sales to our supply chain.
new to management positions, we launched representatives from the number of prescriptions Management Essentials, which teaches basic GSK is also a member of the Pharmaceutical issued, focusing instead on demonstration of our management skills.
Supply Chain Initiative PSCI, which audits values and on the patient.
suppliers on their labour practices, and their During the year, we continued to support In addition, we intend to phase out the practice environment, health and safety performance.
entry-level students through internships, of paying HCPs to speak on our behalf about industrial placements, apprenticeships and Moving to an end-to-end supply chain operating our products or disease areas to audiences graduate schemes.
In 2013, we increased model for our Pharmaceutical and Consumer who can prescribe or influence prescribing.
our graduate intake to 334 from 303 in 2012 Healthcare products will standardise and as part of our aim to recruit 450 graduates a We will work to implement these changes improve controls across our entire supply chain.
year by 2015. effectively in line with local laws and During 2013 we continued to address the regulations across our global business Coaching was a global focus in 2013.
One effective by the start of 2016. reached over 6,500 leaders in 30 countries measure, initially adopted in China, is to through our coaching programmes to use serial numbers on product packages to strengthen leadership capabilities.
enable electronic monitoring for the purpose of patient safety.
54 GSK Annual Report 2013 Our PULSE volunteer partnership programme gives employees the opportunity to work full-time for three or six months with a nonprofit organisation or charity to help address global healthcare challenges while developing their leadership skills.
In 2013, 99 employees volunteered with 47 organisations, including Save the Children, as part of our new global partnership with the charity.
Inclusion and diversity Our focus is to enable gender diversity in management and senior roles.
In 2013, we introduced targeted individual and group coaching and sponsorship for emerging diverse talent.
In 2014, we will invite employees to join dialogue sessions to discuss and address hidden barriers that could hinder gender diversity.
At the end of 2013, 57% of our global workforce were male and 43% were female.
The percentage of women in management continued to rise in 2013.
Women in management positions % Partnership with Save the Children 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 to help save 1 million lives SVP, VP 25 25 26 27 28 Director 36 37 38 39 40 We aim to help save the lives of 1 million One of our first life-saving projects is the Manager 42 42 42 43 44 children through our partnership with reformulation of chlorhexidine, an antiseptic Total 38 38 39 40 41 Save the Children.
By combining our found in our Corsodyl mouthwash, into a R&D capabilities and on-the-ground gel for umbilical cord cleansing to prevent Women represent 21% of our Corporate expertise, we will bring much-needed infection in newborns.
Executive Team and we have exceeded our medicines and vaccines to some of the We are also registering a child-friendly, goal to achieve at least 25% female board worlds poorest children, train thousands powder-based antibiotic in the DRC to help representation by 2013.
Female Non-Executive of healthcare workers, and seek to alleviate fight pneumonia, one of the biggest killers Directors make up 33% of the Board.
These interventions ranked joint third in the 2013 Female FTSE This new partnership builds on our are two of the 13 recommended in the 100 Board Report, a study of womens collaboration with Save the Children over report of the UN Commission on Life-Saving representation on the boards of the UKs the past eight years, including as part Commodities.
of our 20% reinvestment programme in We also teamed up with Save the Children Employees by gender number Least Developed Countries and our to award US$1 million in recognition of Africa Malaria Partnership.
Male Female Total healthcare innovations originating in the We are investing at least 15 million in this developing world designed to reduce infant Board 10 5 15 initiative and encouraging our employees mortality.
In 2013, the award was split Management 9,483 6,705 16,188 to contribute 1 million a year through fund between five organisations.
The largest Total employees 56,621 42,830 99,451 raising.
We are establishing two signature portion was awarded to Friends of Sick programmes to demonstrate interventions Children in Malawi, for their development Management: senior managers as defined in in the Democratic Republic of Congo DRC of a low-cost device to help newborn the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and and Kenya, while a joint paediatric board infants breathe.
Directors Report Regulations 2013, which will look at new or repurposed products includes persons responsible for planning, directing to tackle the causes of newborn and or controlling the activities of the company, or a strategically significant part of the company, other infant death.
than the Board, including directors of undertakings included in the consolidated accounts.
GSK Annual Report 2013 55 Elissa Bogos Save the Children Strategic report Responsible business Responsible business continued Making sure that people with disabilities have access to career opportunities and capturing Setting the standard their talent is a global focus for us.
In 2014, we will establish a Global Disability Council in employee healthcare within GSK to agree priority areas for improving opportunities for disabled people, develop objectives to drive our disability agenda forward, We are putting our values into practice by and monitor and report on our progress.
offering competitive benefits packages, including preventive healthcare for The rich cultural diversity of our employees is employees and their families.
a key strength in helping us meet the diverse needs of patients and healthcare providers Our Partnership for Prevention P4P in countries in which we operate.
Staff programme offers all eligible employees and based in our Emerging Markets, Asia Pacific their family members access to up to 40 and Japan regions represented 43% of our preventive health services at little or no cost.
Six nationalities are P4P will be available to employees across represented on the Corporate Executive Team GSK by 2018.
To date P4P benefits are in and Board.
place for over 5,200 employees and family members in 11 countries.
We monitor and benchmark the proportion of ethnic minorities in our workforce against As part of the P4P pilot, which ran in 2012, industry averages and the national population we focused on encouraging employees to do in countries such as the UK and USA and more exercise and improve their diet and have engage with groups representing diverse since developed a global physical fitness communities.
programme that will be launched in 2014.
Engaging our people Our CEO and members of the Corporate Executive Team deliver live broadcasts and Our Energy for Performance programme helps Health and safety and well-being messages to keep employees updated about employees remain focused and energised As a progressive healthcare company, we the companys progress towards its strategy and productive.
By the end of 2013, 44,500 believe that helping our employees be healthy, and commitments.
employees in 55 countries had participated resilient and productive is a priority and brings Our frequent global employee survey helps us in energy and resilience training since 2008. our mission to life for our people.
understand our performance as an employer.
Our Employee Assistance Programme offers To achieve our goal of zero harm to employees, During 2013, we have taken steps to address advice, information and counselling through we focus on preventing incidents before issues identified by the last survey, completed a confidential helpline and website and is they occur and in 2013 training activities in 2012, with a focus on training leaders to be available to employees.
focused on key risks such as driver safety better coaches, supporting employees through and machinery-related incidents.
We had two change and better recognising individuals Performance, reward and recognition serious incidents in 2013.
The injury and illness contributions.
rate in 2013 was 0.29 per 100,000 hours Incentivising behaviour that is consistent with In 2013, we introduced interim surveys for worked down from 0.33 in 2012.
This was our values is a priority in the way we evaluate, individual business units and functions and under-reported in 2013 and we are working recognise and reward performance.
Results to include data from a number of Commercial we announced a new performance system that showed that most businesses had made Operations business units.
This system is significant improvements in team leader designed to ensure our employees understand We also worked to increase reporting of near effectiveness, a priority area for improvement what is expected of them and help them miss incidents so that we can better understand based on the 2012 survey results.
connect their contribution to the delivery how and why such events occur and then share of our strategy and their reward.
GSK employees were again enthusiastic this knowledge across the business to help participants in our Orange Day volunteer prevent more serious incidents.
As a result, For our most senior people, we disincentivise programme, which gives staff one paid day in 2013, we reported 131,924 such events unethical working practices using a clawback a year for this purpose.
In 2013, we also an increase of 98% since 2012. mechanism that allows us to recover challenged employees around the world performance-related pay.
We also expanded our network of health and to work together to raise over 1 million safety co-ordinators who make sure our safety We are committed to supporting the health a year for five years for Save the Children.
programmes are on track, and expanded a and well-being of our employees and their driver safety programme to five continents.
families and during the year we began to phase in our global preventive healthcare We continued to implement risk reduction initiative, the Partnership for Prevention initiatives and further improved process safety programme see Setting the standard in in manufacturing and R&D to prevent serious employee healthcare.
events such as fires, explosions and releases of hazardous substances.
56 GSK Annual Report 2013 Carbon emissions Our planet Tonne CO2e 2010 2011 2012 2013 To ensure we can continue to deliver highScope 1 emissions 1,011,180 1,035,856 1,018,014 1,037,288 quality products to patients and consumers in the future, we must protect the natural Scope 2 emissions 964,215 881,101 804,253 796,034 resources we need to make them today.
Total scope 1&2 emissions 1,975,395 1,916,957 1,822,267 1,833,322 Carbon We have set ambitious targets to achieve a carbon-neutral value chain by 2050.
Intensity ratios 2010 2011 2012 2013 Our operational emissions remain lower Sales Revenue 000,000 28,392 27,387 26,431 26,505 than our 2010 baseline and we are engaging Scope 1&2 tonnes CO2e sales 69.6 70.0 68.9 69.2 with employees, suppliers and customers revenue millions to address carbon emissions in our value FTE 96,461 97,389 99,488 99,451 chain from sourcing of raw materials and transport, to use and disposal of our products.
Scope 1&2 tonnes CO2e FTE 20.5 19.7 18.3 18.4 We are using carbon footprint analyses of our top 35 products to target the most The scope 1 and scope 2 carbon emissions are calculated according to The Greenhouse Gas Protocol: effective reductions.
A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard Revised Edition see table.
We were certified to the Our scope 1 & 2 carbon emissions from our Carbon Trust Carbon Standard in 2012 which certifies that we are making year-on-year overall reductions operations grew slightly by 0.6% in 2013, in emissions associated with operations and transport and will be applying for recertification in 2014.
These emissions are not materially important to our carbon reduction strategy.
although these have declined by 7% since 2010.
The investments we made in 2013 will start to deliver further carbon emission reductions in 2014 see Carbon emissions Being named in the CDP Performance In the UK, we installed equipment at our site table.
Scope 1 emissions refer to all direct Leadership Indices as a global leader in in Ware to dismantle spent respiratory inhalers greenhouse gas emissions, including burning tackling carbon emissions and for our so we can recycle the components.
fuels for energy, emissions from sales force transparent reporting.
In 2013, we repeated our survey of suppliers cars, emissions during manufacture of metered of packaging and leaflet paper and used dose inhalers and other process emissions Water this information to help us in our purchasing from our manufacturing operations and waste In 2013, we achieved a further 2% reduction decisions.
Scope 2 emissions include indirect in water use from the previous year, keeping greenhouse gas emissions from consumption us on track to meet our target to cut Other impacts of purchased electricity, heat or steam.
operational water use by 20% by 2015 from We manage a range of other important our 2010 baseline.
Our scope 3 emissions excluding raw issues to reduce our environmental impact.
materials increased by 1.5% in 2013 across We mapped water usage across our value For example we use green chemistry, which the value chain due to strong sales of HFA chain in 2013 and identified that the production aims to reduce the use of hazardous chemicals propellant-based inhalers, and have increased of the raw materials we use accounts for an and processes from drug development by 11% since 2010.
Scope 3 emissions are all estimated 84% of our total water footprint replacing them with those that have a lower the other indirect emissions, not included in and our own operations represent just 1%.
scope 2, such as embedded carbon dioxide In 2013, we became the first company to be Our Green Chemistry Performance Unit, in purchased raw materials, the propellant awarded global certification to the Carbon established in 2012, researches ways to released when patients use and dispose of Trusts Water Standard.
As part of the replace hazardous or unsustainable chemicals our metered dose inhalers, as well as business assessment, the Carbon Trust audited sites with better alternatives.
travel by air and logistics.
To support research into sustainable chemistry, Materially important emissions such as the we are investing in a new centre of excellence emissions from the use of our metered dose Waste for green chemistry at the University of inhalers are detailed in our value chain In 2013, we generated 11% more waste than Nottingham in the UK and have pledged carbon footprint performance data, published in 2012 as a result of business growth, but annual funding until 2024 for a second Centre in our 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report.
we reduced our waste by 6% compared to of Excellence for Sustainable Chemistry Important achievements in 2013 include: our 2010 baseline.
Only 6% of total waste in So Paulo, Brazil.
In Singapore, we are was sent to landfill and 37 of our sites have funding research into green and sustainable The Best in Continuing Carbon Reduction now achieved zero waste to landfill up from manufacturing as part of our partnership with Award 2013 from the Carbon Trust for year- 34 in 2012.
By 2020, we aim to halve our the Singapore Economic Development Board.
on-year overall reductions in emissions.
operational waste compared to 2010 and Collaborating in the launch of a tool to help have zero waste to landfill.
companies calculate the carbon footprint of tablet medicines that are distributed in blister packs.
