Strategic priority: Grow a diversified global company.
Anti-bribery and corruption Risk definition Mitigating activities Failure to foster a culture within the Group in which bribery and Our Code of Conduct, values and behaviours and commitment to zero corruption are unacceptable: adopt measures and embed procedures tolerance are integral to how we mitigate this risk.
The Group has an to prevent bribery and corruption by employees, complementary enterprise-wide ABAC programme designed to respond to the threat workers and through third party interactions: investigate allegations and risk of bribery and corruption.
It builds on the Groups values and of bribery and corruption and remediate issues identified: and comply existing standards to form a comprehensive and practical approach to with applicable anti-bribery and corruption ABAC legislation.
compliance in this complex risk area.
Our ABAC programme is supported by: top-level commitment: a Risk impact global policy and proportionate procedures including a Speak Failure to comply with applicable local and international ABAC Up procedure : ongoing training and communications including a legislation could expose the Group and associated persons to confidential reporting line : ongoing risk assessment: monitoring and governmental investigation, regulatory action and civil and criminal investigations: and third party due diligence including contracting liability, as well as damage the Groups reputation, shareholder value, requirements and monitoring and oversight.
In addition, the programme and our licence to operate, all of which could materially and adversely mandates enhanced controls over interactions with government officials affect our financial results.
and when undertaking business development transactions.
Programme governance is provided by the Groups ABAC Oversight Committee Context which includes representation from key functional areas.
Like other large organisations, the Group faces the risk of fraud by Additionally, we have a dedicated ABAC team responsible for driving members of staff.
The nature, scale and geography of our international the implementation and evolution of the programme in response to business activities increase the possibility of this bribery and corruption developments in the internal and external environment.
Additionally, the healthcare industry is highly regulated, and some includes an ABAC investigations team empowered to review bribery and of our overseas markets, such as our operations in emerging markets, corruption allegations and make recommendations for remedial action are more susceptible to bribery and corruption risks.
They are supported by a network of functional experts from our Legal, Compliance and Audit & Assurance groups.
We continually benchmark our ABAC programme and use external expertise to review and help improve elements of the programme.
