Investor information Principal risks and uncertainties Strategic priorities: Grow a diversified global company.
Environment, health and safety and sustainability Risk definition Mitigating activities Failure to ethically manage environment, health and safety and Management of EHSS risk is fundamental to our performance and sustainability EHSS consistent with the Groups objectives, policies reputation.
We are committed to appropriately managing EHSS risk and and relevant laws and regulations.
have embedded its importance into our mission to improve the quality of human life by enabling people to do more, feel better, live longer.
Risk impact We operate rigorous procedures that help us eliminate hazards where Failure to manage EHSS risks could lead to significant harm to people, practicable and protect employees health and well-being, but the right the environment and communities in which we operate, fines, failure to culture is our essential starting point.
Our employment practices are meet stakeholder expectations and regulatory requirements, litigation designed to create a work place culture in which all employees feel or regulatory action and could materially and adversely affect our valued, respected, empowered and inspired to achieve our goals.
Through our continuing efforts to improve environmental sustainability we have reduced water consumption, hazardous waste, and energy Context consumption.
We actively manage our environmental remediation The Group is subject to health, safety and environmental laws obligations to help ensure practices are environmentally sustainable and of various jurisdictions.
These laws impose actual and potential compliant.
obligations to remediate contaminated sites.
We have also Our EHSS performance results are shared with the public each year in been identified as a potentially responsible party under the US our Corporate Responsibility Report.
Comprehensive Environmental Response Compensation and Liability Act at a number of sites for remediation costs relating to our use or ownership of such sites.
Failure to manage these environmental risks properly could result in litigation, regulatory action and additional remedial costs that may materially and adversely affect our financial results.
See Note 44 to the financial statements, Legal proceedings, for a discussion of the environmental related proceedings in which we are involved.
We routinely accrue amounts related to our liabilities for such matters.
Strategic priorities: Simplify the operating model.
Information protection Risk definition Mitigating activities The Group has a global information protection policy that is supported Risk to the Groups business activity if critical or sensitive computer systems or information are not available when needed, are accessed by through a dedicated programme of activity.
To increase our focus on information security, the Group established the Office of the Chief those not authorised, or are deliberately changed or corrupted.
Information Security Officer to provide strategy, direction, and oversight while enhancing our global information security capabilities.
Risk impact Failure to adequately protect critical and sensitive systems and We assess changes in our information protection risk environment information may result in our inability to maintain patent rights, loss through briefings by government agencies, subscription to commercial of commercial or strategic advantage, damage to our reputation or threat intelligence services and knowledge sharing with other business disruption including litigation or regulatory sanction and fines, Pharmaceutical and cross-industry companies.
which could materially and adversely affect our financial results.
We aim to use industry best practices as part of our information security policies, processes and technologies and invest in strategies Context that are commensurate with the changing nature of the security threat We rely on critical and sensitive systems and data, such as corporate landscape.
strategic plans, sensitive personally identifiable information, intellectual We are also subject to various laws that govern the processing of property, manufacturing systems and trade secrets.
There is the Personally Identifiable Information Pll.
To help ensure compliance potential that malicious or careless actions expose our computer with cross-border PII transfer requirements, the Groups Binding systems or information to misuse or unauthorised disclosure.
Corporate Rules BCRs have been approved by the UK Information Commissioners Office for human resource and research activities data.
BCRs make it possible to transfer PII internationally between the Groups entities without individual privacy agreements in each European Union country.
