Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information Sustainable development We are committed to upholding good business practices, We believe that a diverse workforce is essential for our meeting or exceeding applicable laws and applying other sustainable business growth.
We value diversity and external requirements.
We strive to adopt a safe and treat employees and contractors fairly, providing equal sustainable approach to our operations, and to contribute opportunities throughout the organisation.
We aim to to the socio-economic growth of the communities in which appoint the best candidates available and recognise that it we operate.
is important to maintain the right mix of skills, experience and viewpoints.
Glencore Xstrata Values and Code of Conduct underpin our approach to sustainability and state our expectations During 2013, our workforce was made up of 18,306 17% ofour employees, our contractors and our business female employees and 92,072 83% male employees.
Our approach is further detailed through the Glencore Xstrata Corporate Practice GCP.
GCP underpins Health and safety our number 1 priority our approach towards societal, environmental and Our most important responsibility is to protect our people compliance indicators, providing clear guidance on from injury.
We believe that we can operate as a zerothe standards we expect all our operations to achieve.
Through the reporting function within GCP, our Board receives regular updates and has a detailed oversight We are committed to continuous improvement in all on how our business is performing across all of the areas of health and safety management.
assess our workplaces to ensure that we are best placed to protect the health and wellbeing of our people.
We collect We publish an annual sustainability report, which and share across our businesses examples of best practice meets the requirements of Global Reporting Initiative from each of our assets, from across the industry and from GRI LevelA.
This report covers in considerable detail externally recognised leaders in health and safety.
our approach and our performance across all of the sustainability topics.
Our 2013 sustainability report We take a proactive, preventative approach towards health willbeavailable on our website towards the end of the and safety, working hard to instil a positive culture in firsthalf of 2014: www.
com sustainability which everyone fully integrates our values towards health and safety into their working lives.
In 2013, Glencore Xstrata achieved membership of the DowJones Sustainability Index, as well as participating It is with great sadness that we report the loss of 26 lives inthe Carbon Disclosure Project for Carbon and Water.
We recognise that the loss In 2013 we also initiated the application for membership of of any life is unacceptable.
During 2013, in addition to our the International Council on Mining & Metals, an industry existing procedures, we initiated the SafeWork programme trade body dedicated to sustainability.
specifically targeted at enhancing safety in the workplace.
SafeWork focuses all of our assets on the elimination of Our people fatalities and serious injuries through the implementation Our people are fundamental to our success.
Weare of fatal hazard protocols and life-saving behaviours.
committed to upholding the International Labour SafeWork seeks to bring about a long-term, permanent Organizations ILO Declaration of Fundamental change in our safety culture.
Principles and Rights at Work and ILOs Core Labour Standards.
We do not condone any form of child, forced Environment orbonded labour at any of our operations and do not We recognise that our global operations can haveboth tolerate discrimination or harassment.
a direct and indirect impact on the environment.
Protecting the environment is one of our most significant We treat our people fairly and with respect.
and uphold the rights of our people to a safe workplace, collective representation, just compensation, job security and opportunities for development.
Glencore Xstrata Annual Report 2013 16 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information We seek to conduct our business in a way that minimises These reasons include the scope and diversity of our any negative impact on the natural environment.
We are products, making a single production figure impossible committed to identifying, understanding and mitigating to calculate, the impact commodity prices and foreign our environmental impact with environmental exchange rates, which are outside of our control, have responsibility integrated into our strategic planning, on our financial performance and that, due to the nature management systems and day-to-day operations.
of the exploration, development and the production During 2013, our assets did not record any environmental cycle, GHG emissions do not correlate to our employee incidents that were classed as serious disastrous.
Further information on this will be available inour Sustainability Report.
We are aware of the increasing regulatory pressure and societal demand for a low-emission economy to address Community the global climate change situation.
We work with The communities surrounding our operations are governments and key stakeholders in the jurisdictions in our neighbours, employees, business partners and which we operate to understand the impacts of policy and future workforce.
We recognise that maintaining regulation.
We are working to integrate this consideration a two-way dialogue with our local communities is into existing resource efficiency programmes across essential for maximising the positive impacts of our our assets.
Our engagement helps to secure broad-base support forour activities, which we recognise as being We divide greenhouse gas emissions GHG into three essential tothe long-term sustainability of our business.
different scopes, in line with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol.
During the year, we contributed $180 million to initiatives During 2013, we measured both the direct and indirect that benefit the communities living close to our assets.
emissions generated by the operational activities, entities Our investments fund projects that support community and facilities in which we have a controlling stake.
While a development, enterprise and job creation, health, education pro forma combined figure has been provided below, it and environment.
should be noted that during the year, the former Glencore and Xstrata assets collected GHG-related data using Human rights different indicators.
Further information on the definitions Respecting human rights is fundamental to our activities.
used will be available in our sustainability report.
We are committed to the United Nations UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights.
We support the UN Guiding During 2013, we emitted 26.0 million tonnes CO e of Scope Principles on Business and Human Rights.
2 1 direct emissions, which includes emissions from the fuel we consume, methane emissions from our operations During 2013, we developed a Group human rights policy and reductants used in our metallurgical smelters.
We used the UN We emitted 13.3 million tonnes CO e of Scope 2 indirect principles as a guide during the development of the 2 emissions, that is emissions arising from our consumption policy and standards.
Together, these will strengthen of purchased electricity, steam or heat.
Data relating to our approach to protecting  our Scope 3 emissions, which relates to emissions from human rights and the fundamental freedoms of our people the end use of our products and those from outsourced and stakeholders.
activities such as shipping and land transportation, is still being finalised and will be available in our 2013 We are committed to achieving membership of the Plenary Sustainability Report.
Group of UN Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights and have rolled out a number of supporting We do not provide normalised figures for our GHG initiatives in our high risk operating geographies.
emissions nor ratios of GHG to production, financial These steps are underpinning our commitment to uphold results or employee headcount.
This is due to a number human rights and to manage the human rights risks of factors that mean the reporting of such data for GHG associated with the use of security.
emissions would not meaningfully contribute to an understanding of our performance.
