Corporate social responsibility SUPPoRTING CoMMUNITIES ANd CHARITIES We are proud to report that last year we donated over 416,000 for causes close to our hearts.
We recognise the importance of the communities in which we operate, and we work in partnership with national charity Macmillan CancerSupport, and with Focus 12, anindependent charity based near our head office in Bury St Edmunds.
We also support local charities across the UK, which our employees most care about, by facilitating their giving in a variety of ways including product donations, payroll giving and volunteering.
BUSINESS REVIEW Corporate social responsibility As the leading UK pub retailer and brewer, it is vital that we operate a Our focus sustainable and responsible business.
This year, our focus is on our impact Wetake the maintenance and delivery onfour key stakeholder areas: our customers, our communities, people ofan effective social responsibility andour environment.
We continue to programme very seriously.
make good progress in our corporate social responsibility CSR goals and fornext year we have set even more challenging targets.
Details of our CSR policies and practices can be found in the social responsibility section of our website www.
oUR CUSToMERS Pubs continue to play a vital role for checks all the way back to the raw ingredients electricity and fire safety, which are carried customers, families and communities of every dish.
We are also implementing a out before the new licensee takes over the acrossthe UK and provide safe, affordable new system for the management of our pub.
Licensees are now also required to hospitality, especially in this difficult menu specifications.
passan online Safe Start exam before financial environment.
Healthy eating Our commitment to delivering industryThis is now an embedded behaviour across This year we have increased our range leading value, service and quality to our our leased and tenanted estate and continues ofhealthier dishes in our Premium Local customers is supported by our strong retail to be an essential part of our letting procedure pubs.
These include broad bean risotto, brands and innovation, which drives us to with 409 new tenants undertaking the online bulgar wheat salad, skinny burger, oven deliver the best experience possible for training and benefiting from the complete baked fishcakes, haricot bean dip, vitality ourcustomers.
set of statutory checks during the year.
The salad and frozen yoghurt.
In conjunction Belhaven estate was successfully integrated with this, we have also expanded our range into the same process during the year.
Food authenticity of super food salads across our menus, horsemeatscandal incorporating ingredients such as pomegranate We know how important it is that our Quality standards for our beers and avocado, which are key indicators customers can trust the food that they forhealthier food choices.
Our Bury St Edmunds brewery site has been eatinour pubs, hotels and restaurants.
awarded the highest quality grade for the Assoonas we heard the news of mislabelling Our lower calorie menu sections have now third consecutive year of unannounced ofmeat products, in addition to the strict been extended to our Old English Inns OEI audits with the British Retail Consortium.
tests already carried out on our supply and Eating Inn menus, offering an increased Our Belhaven brewery also has a similar chain, we immediately began a series range of healthier dishes.
With lunchtime level of award with pre planned visits.
being an important dining occasion, we have award confirms that our beer is produced to also introduced a gluten-free bread option the highest quality and food safety standards.
The horsemeat scandal highlighted the into OEI, Eating Inn and our mainstream need for changes within the global food high street menus.
This has been received We have introduced new quality measures supply chain to enable customers to eat with well, with 2% of our mainstream high street to track quality in glass with cellar inspections, confidence.
All of our meat is from fully customers choosing this as an option.
beer tasting for customers, as well as traceable sources and our customers can be customer feedback surveys.
assured that we take the quality of the food As part of our on-going commitment to we serve very seriously.
Greene King has reduce the levels of salt within our supply Responsible retailing always had robust measures in place to chain, we have made further progress in We strive to ensure that alcohol produced ensure that our suppliers and products meet meeting the governments 2012 salt targets orsold by Greene King is consumed our exacting standards and we were pleased and are continuing to review our products responsibly.
Greene King has invested in, to be in a position to reassure our customers in line with the current recommendations.
launched and maintains the website that no horse meat was found in any of our This year we have already seen a 7% reduction http: enjoyresponsibly.
This was dishes following a full programme of tests.
in the levels of salt in back bacon across created to offer free and practical advice on ourestate.
all aspects of alcohol use, with guidance on We will not become complacent and we are health safety levels and even has practical introducing additional measures to ensure Stay safe with Safe Start advice on where to go for support for people the on-going integrity and quality of our Last year saw the introduction of a new Safe who feel they have a problem with alcohol.
We have engaged an international Start initiative in our leased and tenanted The Enjoy Responsibly logo is on all our risk assessment specialist company to carry division.
The Safe Start pack comprises a bottles and cans.
out a full risk assessment of our suppliers to complete set of statutory tests including gas, determine integrity and traceability, including 32 GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2013 www.
co. uk oUR CUSToMERS continued Responsible retailing continued Our promotional materials carry clear andconcise messages encouraging sensible drinking and all our bottles, cans and outer packaging specify the number of units of alcohol in them, the NHS guidelines and the drinking whilst pregnant advisory logo.
Greene King also supports the principles laid out in the Portman Code of Practice onresponsible retailing of alcohol.
All retail managers and our bar staff are trained upon recruitment and on-going to ensure they understand their role in promoting the responsible consumption of alcohol by ourcustomers.
Stephen Hammond MP right, Department for Transports minister forroad safety withGreene King house manager, Kieron Murphy, at the Masons Arms Pub, London W1 Tackling under-age sales forthelaunch of theDesignated Driver Campaign.
All of our directly managed premises operate challenge 21 or challenge 25 programmes This year, Greene King established and Limit awareness and free of charge notices areavailable to all ledacoalition of similarly minded industry We support the governments anti-drink of our premises.
Our premises are regularly stakeholders who have called on the UK drive Christmas campaigns.
In 2011 and audited both in-house and externally to ensure government to remain committed to its 2012, we also supported the Designated that notices are displayed in prominent stated aim to introduce MUP.
Driver Christmas Campaign in conjunction positions advising customers that a challenge with Coca-Cola Enterprises Limited, 21 orchallenge 25 policy is in force.
Not only could such a step significantly throughout our managed pubs estate, where improve public health, it would also we offered free soft drinks at Christmas Best Bar None and Pub Watch schemes reinforce the family experience, which our fordesignated drivers.
pubs and restaurants aim to create, quite 172 of our managed pubs belong to recognised apart from the broader societal benefits.
Pub Watch schemes and a further 42 have Minimum unit pricing for alcohol or are currently signed upto Best Bar None In order to tackle the misuse of alcohol, which award schemes, withanadditional 32 awaiting causes ill health and can lead to anti-social Public Health Responsibility schemes currently onhold to commence.
behaviour within communities, Greene King Deal progress on our pledges has long advocated the need for a minimum Over the last year, our focus has centred Last year, 18 of our pubs were accredited unit price MUP for alcohol, throughout the onanumber of priorities including pledges with Best Bar None status, some of whom UK, as a targeted approach to tackle the easy made in connection with the governments were awarded best in specific categories.
availability of cheap alcohol in the off-trade.
Public Health Responsibility Deal PHRD.
Teams at the Blue Anchor, Aintree and This, plus a range ofassociated measures, such The PHRD taps into our potential to Rudds Arms, Middlesborough were Best as better alcohol-education for adults and makeasignificant contribution by taking Pub Runners-up within their individual children, and a ban on multi-buy deals, are acollaborative approach to tackling the schemes.
The Frog & Parrot and Museum, essential for the future health and wellbeing challenges caused by lifestyle choices.
Details Sheffield both received a Distinction for ofoursociety.
of our signed pledges and our progress is set their efforts.
Baldwins, Great Barr won out on the Department ofHealth, PHRD BestSuburban Bar and The Turf Tavern website: https: responsibilitydeal.
inCarlisle won the overall Best Pub award in their scheme.
oUR CoMMUNITIES Local communities are fundamental to support key organisations that address the Our funding supports Pub is the Hubs theUKs unique identity and, within such inequalities in our society.
Community Services Fund, established communities local pubs play a vital and inApril 2013 to help UK pubs to diversify central role.
They are, quite literally, the into new services provision for their Pub is the Hub hub of the community and the place where owncommunities.
This year, we extended our community everyone comes together to relax and to support by providing 15,000 of central discuss issues that affect that community.
With its track record of rural project funding to Pub is the Hub.
This is a development and delivery over the last not-for-profit organisation offering Greene King recognises the value of that tenyears, Pub is The Hub has worked with independent, specialist advice on rural role within the social fabric of our society licensees to open 100 post offices, 125 shops, services diversification or community and how, for everyone, maintaining the 30 computer training centres, provision for ownership of pubs, so they can continue presence of a pub in a community is essential.
allotments, play areas, libraries, school meals, toprovide viable local services at the Beyond that core social role, butlinked to it, local cinemas, and in the region of30pubs heartof the community.
Greene King has developed a programme to being run by their own local community.
co. uk Annual report 2013 GREENE KING PLC BUSINESS REVIEW Corporate social responsibility continued oUR CoMMUNITIES continued Macmillan Cancer Support In May 2012, Greene King launched itsfirst national charity partnership, committing toraise 1m, over three years, for Macmillan Cancer Support.
Thanks to the enthusiasm and support of our employees and our customers across thebusiness, we have already raised 300,000 in our first year.
This great cause has united our customers andemployees and we have been overwhelmed by the enthusiasm for the partnership, the goodwill, and the contribution we are demonstrating within our local communities and we are confident we will attain our long-term objective.
By supporting Macmillans Worlds Biggest Coffee Morning on Friday 28 September, not only did we raise over 100,000, we Macmillans Worlds Biggest Coffee Morning.
alsosaw a growth in sales and footfall over that period.
This is a clear example of the mutualbenefit both parties enjoy from ourpartnership... apart from the fun such people affected by cancer, ensuring that Focus 12 noone has to face cancer alone.
As the 1m initiatives bring to our communities.
Greene King continues to support thework target gets closer, I am looking forward of the charity, Focus 12, based closeto our tothe next exciting and successful year Our colleagues have, unsurprisingly, proven head office and brewery inBury St Edmunds, themselves to be enthusiastic and creative.
Focus 12 provides treatment for Examples of ideas from our teams include the clients with drugsand alcohol dependency, offer to ale fans of a new and limited edition ale In our first year, we have laid the foundations as well asguidance and counselling for for a truly successful partnership.
With the Caritas Latin for charity, with 5p from every affected family members.
pint sold donated to Macmillan.
We have been money our teams have raised, we are helping Macmillan to provide practical, emotional, selling Not alone wristbands: six of our gutsy In May, the Greene King Charity ball raised employees ran in the London Marathon and financial and medical support to people over 20,000 for Focus 12, thereby enabling diagnosed with cancer, and their families.
there has been a plethora of other activities them to continue to support the local across the group as employees and customers community and tackle the effects ofalcohol have embraced the programme.
Community outreach As part of Loch Fyne Restaurants Lynda Thomas, director of fundraising, Focus 12s chief executive, Chip Somers, said: community outreach initiative to build Macmillan Cancer Support, said: A huge We are always grateful for any fundraising closer links with local communities, thank you to all Greene King staff and but feel especially that Greene King has taken LochFyne in Guildford and in Loughton customers for the wonderful support they a brave stance insupporting a charity such have been hosting class visits from local have given Macmillan during the first year as ours.
Themoney raised will enable at least schools.
Children are taught about the of our partnership.
Raising 300,000 is a fivepeople to go through the three-month importance of health and hygiene, general fantastic achievement, and will go a long programme which will hopefully change the fish facts and they also get the chance to way towards helping Macmillan support lives of them and all their family members.
Case study raising funds for Macmillan To mark the opening of our 200th Hungry Horse pub, The Royal Horse, Leamington Spa, in May, we challenged our Hungry Horse pubs to each raise a minimum of 200 for Macmillan Cancer Support, through a number of fundraising activities.
34 GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2013 www.
co. uk oUR PEoPLE Our people are our lifeblood and our forimprovement and we will be taking practices in our Brewing & Brands division: greatest asset.
With over 22,000 employees, these forward.
it is vital that we attract and retain the best Greene King awarded Gold Medal for people and developing and nurturing talent Occupational Health and Safety from RoSPA Alcohol education is essential to our continued success and the Royal Society for the Prevention of As part of our programme to support future growth of our business.
Accidents ninth consecutive gold award.
andeducate our employees, we are working onaprogramme to develop and implement Achieved Silver award for MORR Employee engagement alcohol education for our 22,000 employees, Management of Road Risk.
We take very seriously the engagement to ensure a full understanding of how to enjoy andwellbeing of our employees.
Last year alcohol responsibly and to offer advice on the we set ourselves a challenge to improve on dangers of over-consumption binge drinking Developing our talent our employee engagement, demonstrated by and the impact it has on our health and our Greene King recognises the wider benefits our annual attitude survey.
This education training will be rolled out of developing internal talent and career that not only did we see an improvement, in personal meetings with management and via paths that support increased employee from 71% to 75%, but we also achieved that on-line training tools.
As part of the training, retention, employee engagement and score with a response rate of 85%, representing we will also reinforce Greene Kings policy provide long-term career opportunities.
some 18,000 people and a 20% increase in towards alcohol and responsible consumption.
responses on our last full survey.
Apprenticeships As a leader in hospitality, employing over Health and safety awards We will use the data collected to improve 22,000 people across the UK, it is important Once again, we continued our good record the business and our working lives.
The to us that we attract, train and retain the ofreceiving awards for our health and safety survey results identified specific areas very best people.
Greene King signed up to the governments Case study Apprenticeships apprenticeship scheme in February 2011, leading with Level 2 NVQ qualifications that are available to all employees as part of awider Greene King apprentices Alister Halbert, 17, employee development framework.
The aim is pictured right and Kevin Davis, 38, from to support genuine career opportunities and Loch Fyne, Shrewsbury helped the Deputy learning from entry-levelpart-time members Prime Minister launch a new campaign to ofstaff to area management, and culminating celebrate the productivity ofapprentices in degree level learning with Birmingham during National Apprenticeship Week, at CityUniversity.
anevening event in London in March 2013.
To date, over 3,000 Greene King employees Alister and Kevin were undergoing kitchen skills training and were chosen as two of four from across our business have joined the Greene King apprentices to make canaps apprenticeship programme, with 1,587 forthe event at Admiralty House in London, completing their training.
Our apprenticeships as the Deputy Prime Minister Nick Clegg programme is providing job opportunities officially launched the made by apprentices in local communities, and, where Greene King campaign to showcase the talents of isacquiring, refurbishing or building new apprentices across the UK.
businesses, new jobs are also being created, my apprenticeship to such a high profile aswe work closely with Job Centre Plus to event has shown me just how far the right Talking about his experience, Alister, training really can take you.
provide opportunities through pre-employment who has since transferred to a professional training for the long-term unemployed cookery apprenticeship, said: When I Deputy Prime Minister, Nick Clegg, said: andyouth unemployment.
started my training with Greene King Apprentices not only make an invaluable Inever imagined it would take me so far.
contribution to their employer, but to the Support for our tenants Bringing the skills I have learnt through economy as a whole.
Greene King has been helping people to run their own pubs for over 200 years.
The level of support we provide for our tenants and lessees is central to attracting the best Case study Developing management talent licensees for our pubs.
As part of our commitment to develop Our support is tailored to meet the individual fromwithin, 12 of our Business needs of our licensees from industry-leading Development Managers BDM, who training for them and their staff, to online studied for a post-graduate degree in business support providing easy access from Multi-Unit Leadership and Strategy a wide range of marketing support, all of atBirmingham City University, have which is underpinned by our professionally graduated.
With a focus on multi-site qualified BDMs, who work to ensure every leadership and retail management, the licensee is making the most of their business.
programme takes a year tocomplete and was developed exclusively for Greene King.
Licensee profiling This year Pub Partners introduced a licensee Twenty-six managers have now completed profiling tool to assist us with our licensee this qualification, with four completing recruitment, helping to ensure we recruit aMasters degree.
the right person for the right pub.
co. uk Annual report 2013 GREENE KING PLC BUSINESS REVIEW Corporate social responsibility continued oUR ENVIRoNMENT We are committed to reducing the Work continued throughout the year to companies to encourage them to help us in environmental impact of our business improve our energy efficiency.
34 sites had this area as more accurate records are vital wherever we can, and focus, in particular, voltage optimisers installed, while 16 sites to us.
onenergy and water consumption and on the were fully fitted with LED lighting.
We amount of waste produced by the business.
installed new cellar cooling systems in We also worked hard to reduce waste across 30sites, using outside air to cool ground the business, and the amount of waste that was Overall use of both gas and electricity level cellars, in a system designed by our recycled increased by 25% during the year.
increased during the year, driven primarily own cellar service team.
We also installed We now have 220 pubs, restaurants and hotels by the cold winter and especially cold spring, new boilers in 45 sites during the year and that divert all of their waste awayfrom landfill, which meant that the heating was kept on in reduced the emissions from our boilers in while 74% of our sites are diverting at least our pubs, restaurants and hotels for much the Bury St Edmunds brewery by over 10%.
80% of their waste away from landfill.
Carbon emissions additional 42% more cooking oil was recycled from vehicles also increased, although we Although water usage was up during the during the year, and in our brewing business, have improved our record keeping in this year, we now have water monitors installed over 2,800 tonnes of spent yeast was sent to area during the year and have more accurate in 15% of sites, doubling the number we had Marmite.
As signatories to the voluntary data than we did last year.
As a result, the last year and giving data on the daily usage of Food Service and Hospitality Agreement, we ratio of CO emissions to 100k of revenue water so we can detect higher than average have worked closely with WRAP on a number 2 in our Retail and Brewing & Brands divisions usage and leakages much more quickly.
of initiatives to reduce food waste, optimise increased to 14.9 tonnes.
Wecontinue to work closely with water packaging and increase recycling rates.
co. uk Our priorities for 2013 14 Food assurance In July 2013, we will appoint a technical and quality manager within our food buying team, to review our current reporting and measurement of quality and to make recommendations on areas for improvement and to monitor implementation.
Healthy eating This year we will continue our focus on healthy eating and will work on developing more lower calorie and healthier options for our customers.
We will also ensure all of our menus indicate lower calorie dishes.
We are also planning to trial full calorie labelling on our Eating Inn core menus.
Salt targets This year we will be looking at reducing salt on gammon, which will impact positively on our top ten dishes.
With technical solutions currently being a focus point for manufacturers, we anticipate that salt levels will continue to improve.
Responsible retailing We will extend our support in local communities for schemes to address issues around social and health harms, and will act together to improve joined up working between schemes operating in local areas.
We are investigating the possibility of participating in a Suffolk-wide Best Bar None scheme next year.
Charitable support We will continue to organise activities across the business to raise 1m for Macmillan Cancer Support by May 2015.
We will also support our businesses in their local charitable fundraising activities for causes close to their hearts.
Community pubs We will continue to help UK pubs to diversify into new services provision for their support own communities.
Improve employee When we next conduct our employee engagement survey we aim to achieve an improvement engagement in employee engagement to achieve even more engagement across ourteams.
Apprenticeships We will link apprenticeships to the career ladder, drive catering-led apprenticeships, introduce pre-employment training particularly in our new-build sites, further develop apprenticeships across the rest of our business, introduce innovative learning methods, and maintain a base of 10% of employees completing apprenticeships.
Health and safety We will continue to strive to identify and reduce health and safety risks and to improve the safety of our premises.
Macmillan a two-way A natural progression of our partnership with Macmillan Cancer Support is to embed partnership their cancer awareness services among our employees and roll out a programme ofcancer awareness throughout Greene King.
Alcohol education While we have had an alcohol policy for some time, and we support treatment foremployees who have dependency issues, in the coming year we will focus on implementing alcohol education and awareness, to help prevent issues occurring and to highlight the impact of over-indulgence in alcohol.
Reduce CO We will aim to reduce CO emissions in our existing estate and specifically aim to improve the 2 2 ratio of CO emissions to revenue in our Retail and Brewing & Brands divisions to around 2 14.4 tonnes.
We will continue to install energy saving systems in our Retail estate and propose to move the main boilers in the Bury St Edmunds brewery from light fuel oil to gas.
Reduce water usage Our focus this year will be on continuing to introduce more water monitors across the estate, with a view to having around 30% of the estate fitted with them by the end of this financial year.
Reduce waste We will continue to aim for improvements in our waste recycling programme during the year, with a view to increasing the amount of waste not being sent to landfill, and for even more of our pubs, restaurants and hotels to divert all of their waste away from landfill.
co. uk Annual report 2013 GREENE KING PLC
