CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Governance and commitment to Corporate The environment We have an excellent long-term record and a clear strategy for Responsibility addressing environmental issues that affect our businesses and for Halma companies are involved in the manufacture of a wide range of developing products that protect the environment and improve safety products that protect and improve the quality of life for people at work and in public places.
Therefore, safety is critical to the Group and is a major priority for management.
Reduction of the Groups carbon footprint Our products has received increased attention since 2007 with the initial objective Many of our innovative products play a very positive role in monitoring of a 10% reduction in relative carbon usage in the three years to and improving the environment.
Halma brands lead the world in a March 2010, renewed for the subsequent three years to March 2013 number of technologies which help to minimise environmental and again for the three years to March 2016. damage.
Our principal environmental technologies are water leakage detection and wireless monitoring, gas emissions monitoring, water Our core values are Achievement, Innovation, Empowerment and and efuent analysis, UV water treatment and optical sensing.
These core values have been selected promote the use of UV water sterilisation which eliminates the need to following extensive surveying of employees across the Group.
Our use dangerous chemicals, as well as products that minimise the culture is one of openness, integrity and accountability.
encourage our employees to act fairly in their dealings with fellow employees, customers, suppliers and business partners.
We Our commitment to the development of equipment for measuring recognise that our employees determine our success and therefore and monitoring environmental changes and controlling the damaging continue to invest in and encourage their development more and impact of industrial activities is long term.
We are the major world more each year, not only with a suite of Halma development supplier in several of these areas.
programmes, but also through clear leadership and decisive action.
Carbon policy By ensuring that our team has the approach and skills required to The Groups policy on carbon is published on our website and has succeed we are better placed to meet the challenges of the future.
been distributed and explained to all Halma business units.
A senior We recognise the necessity of safeguarding the health and safety of executive in each of our higher impact business units is responsible our own employees while at work and operate so as to provide a safe for implementing the carbon policy at local level.
Our Finance Director, and comfortable working environment for employees, visitors and the Kevin Thompson, has principal responsibility for coordinating and public.
Our policy is to manage our activities to avoid causing any monitoring the policy.
unnecessary or unacceptable risks to health and safety and the Environmental Management System environment.
We are committed to developing and implementing an environmental Halma has an excellent health and safety record and a culture of management system EMS throughout the Group to measure, safety is deeply embedded within the Group.
We have continued to control and, where practical, reduce our environmental impacts.
We actively promote our safety culture throughout the year through a have developed performance indicators that assist local management series of independent Health and Safety reviews covering each in implementing the policy and ultimately developing an EMS.
requirement for an EMS and the related reporting has been rolled out to all UK business units, which represent approximately 36% of We support the concept of sustainability and recognise that, in Group production facilities in terms of external turnover.
common with all businesses, our activities have an environmental impact.
Our strategy is not to have capital-intensive manufacturing All Group companies are encouraged to undertake ISO 14001, the processes and to operate close to our end markets in terms of international environmental accreditation, where warranted.
The geography, so the environmental impact of our operations requirement to implement an EMS will be extended to the rest of the is relatively low compared to manufacturers in other sectors.
We also Group in the medium term.
In terms of revenue, currently 20% 2012: recognise that we can improve our own environmental performance 22% of the Group has ISO 14001 approval.
and so resources are deployed to actively reduce our own carbon footprint.
Our impact The environmental effect of our operations is relatively low compared Halma has been a member of the FTSE4Good UK index since its to manufacturers in other sectors.
Our manufacturing model is establishment in July 2001. decentralised permitting our operations to be located close to their A summary of our progress and performance for all areas of customers.
Manufacturing operations are established across the corporate responsibility follows.
Halma has developed meaningful key world for this very reason rather than to save labour costs.
The ethos performance indicators KPIs that reect the importance the Group of being close to our customers reects the importance we place on places on corporate responsibility and enable the Board to monitor the quality of our products and the service levels we provide to our the Groups progress in meeting its objectives and responsibilities in customers.
It also makes our operations more exible and responsive these areas.
Details are given on pages 16 and 17. to their markets and customers.
With operations spread around the globe, our supplier base is understandably fragmented.
Therefore, responsibility for vetting and managing suppliers is devolved to local management while meeting the Groups ethical standards.
56 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Overview 02-09 Busi Business ness re revie view w 1 10 0- -5 59 9 Governance 60-86 Financial statements 87-147 Nevertheless, Group companies are encouraged to improve energy Health and safety efficiency, reduce waste and emissions and reduce the use of Halma companies are involved in the manufacture of a wide range of materials in order to minimise their environmental impact.
The Group products that protect and improve the quality of life for people established baseline data in 2004 05 on emissions to air and water, worldwide.
Therefore, safety is critical to the Group and is a major water and energy consumption, and waste production, the results of priority for management.
which are updated on the Halma website each year.
The data The Group manages its activities to avoid causing any unnecessary collected for the past five years has enabled the Group to set or unacceptable risks to health and safety to our employees in the comprehensive and quantiable objectives for reducing its work place or to the public as a result of our activities.
The policy is environmental impacts in those areas and to set and monitor targets understood by all Group companies and was reinforced in 2010 11 for reduction in key areas.
The collected data confirms that the main through improved guidance and reporting following a comprehensive area of impact on the environment is energy consumption.
review led by an external expert.
The Group does not operate a eet of distribution vehicles although To ensure each Group company has appropriately embedded the we do own a number of company cars.
From May 2007, we updated Health and Safety procedures in their business, we required implemented a cap on permissible CO emissions of all UK company 2 independent Health and Safety reviews to be performed and these vehicles and have extended an equivalent requirement to the USA will be completed by July 2013.
These reviews are conducted with a and Europe.
This limit is reduced each year so as to consistently view to ensuring a consistent approach in quality of reporting, internal reduce our vehicles environmental impact.
processes, integration in operations, appropriateness of company We are committed to reducing our carbon footprint.
We set a target policies, culture of Health and Safety and also as a means of in 2007 to reduce the Groups total carbon emissions relative to identifying any patterns or underlying causes of reported incidents.
As revenues by 10% over three years.
We have worked hard to reduce a result, reporting of Health and Safety incidents and corrective action the energy impact of our facilities and maintained that target for 2010 where needed has been given an even higher prole.
Given the autonomous structure of the Group, operational We are pleased to report that consistently over three years we responsibility for compliance with relevant local Health and Safety reduced our carbon emissions resulting in an overall reduction of 10% regulations is delegated to the directors of each Group company.
We continue to support a number of carbon reduction believe Health and Safety training is important and it is carried out initiatives, particularly in the UK, which are designed to help us meet within companies as appropriate.
Adequate internal reporting exists in our targets.
order that the Groups Finance Director can monitor each companys compliance with this policy.
From April 2010, we have worked with a provider of energy efficiency and carbon reduction solutions to ensure compliance with the new Injuries recorded 2013 2012 2011 Carbon Reduction Commitment Energy efficiency Scheme CRC which is the UKs mandatory climate change and energy saving Days lost due to reportable scheme administered by the Environment Agency.
We are in full work-related injuries 382 301 455 compliance with the CRC requirements.
Already we have rolled out Automatic Meter Reading AMR technology to the majority of UK Total recorded injuries sites.
All major UK sites have received an energy survey and set an to all employees 320 362 505 action plan for improved energy usage.
This initiative is backed up by specified major injury incidents and reportable incidents which result in more than specialist carbon management software and comprehensive training three working days lost.
The Groups environmental performance will continue to be reported both in the Annual Report and on our website.
The Group collects details of its worldwide reported Health and Safety incidents, and these are available on our website at www.
We have plans to step up our activities internationally to comply with halma.
We are also pleased to report that there were no fatalities the incoming mandatory carbon reporting requirements which UK in 2012 13 or prior years.
public listed companies are subject to under the UK Governments forthcoming Greenhouse Gas Emissions Directors Report Regulations 2013.
We are in the process of reviewing service providers who will assist us in establishing the next stage approach for monitoring our environmental performance and future external reporting requirements.
The Group is committed to examining the establishment of green procurement policies and increasing our use of recycled materials.
Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 57 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED Our people DIVERSITY POLICY The Group has a policy of equal opportunities and preventing Halma believes that the diversity of our staff is a significant harassment, which applies in relation to recruitment of all new contributor to our success: employees and to the management of existing personnel.
This gives us access to the widest labour market and enables us to secure the Diversity in our organisation attracts talented people to join the best employees for our needs.
We offer all of our staff training relevant Group and to develop to their full potential.
to their roles and we believe that this contributes to an increase in employee motivation and job satisfaction.
The culture alignment Diversity within our leadership improves decision making survey results mentioned below support our efforts.
Diversity encourages fresh thinking and challenges the status Periodically we complete a survey of employees to determine whether quo and boosts innovation.
our core values are authentic in our organisation.
The survey establishes the values individual employees wish to see in our Our policys objectives are: operating culture and to what extent they exist in our current culture.
To build a culture that encourages talented people of all In 2006, our survey of senior managers showed that five 50% of the backgrounds, beliefs or any form of personal identity to want to values they wanted to see in our business were actually present.
2012, our survey of senior managers showed that six 60% desired values were present in our business.
This indicated that there was a 2.
To use recruitment, training, development, promotion and healthy level of alignment between the culture we aspire to have and compensation to increase diversity in our organisation.
the culture we actually have.
For 2013, we increased the participation 3.
To ensure that our procedures, systems and behaviours are not in the survey by 76% by making it available in paper format as well as discriminatory.
This years survey still showed a good level of alignment with five 50% matches.
Each year our Board of Directors reviews these policies and our implementation to ensure that they create and maintain a diverse No survey is capable of capturing all the appropriate sentiments, but and inclusive organisation.
our executives, who regularly visit all Group companies, agree that observable and valuable improvements in the Group culture have occurred over recent years.
The Group will continue to monitor the Disabled employees survey results to enable us to better support our people in bringing Applications for employment by disabled people are always fully these values and strengths to work so that they and we may derive considered, bearing in mind the aptitudes of the applicant concerned.
In the event of members of staff becoming disabled, every effort is made to ensure that their employment with the Group continues and Diversity that appropriate training is arranged.
It is the policy of the Group that Gender diversity the training, career development and promotion of disabled people The Board of Directors responded to the consultation document that should, as far as possible, be identical to that of other employees.
the UKs Financial Reporting Council issued in respect of Gender Diversity on Boards.
Employee consultation The Group places considerable value on the involvement of its Our experience is that throughout Halma, women are underemployees and has continued to keep them informed on matters represented at manager and executive levels and we aim to increase affecting them as employees and on the various factors affecting the the proportion of women in senior roles and on the Board of Directors performance of the Group.
This is achieved through formal and by refreshing our policies and behaviours from both a top down and informal meetings, the Group intranet and the annual Financial bottom up approach.
To that end, we issued a Diversity Policy statements.
during the prior year which is available on our website.
We appreciate the task ahead of us in sectors where relevant graduates are more Employee representatives are consulted routinely on a wide range of than 80% male, so part of our strategy will involve ensuring that matters affecting their current and future interests.
An employee share Halma has a culture and working practices that make it more plan has been running successfully since 1980.
It is open to all UK attractive to women.
The diversity of the current year intake of employees and aligns the interests of all UK employees to those of graduates into the HGDP is already demonstrating our success in shareholders.
People development Racial and geographical diversity People development is a key part of our organic growth strategy.
Our efforts are directed towards increasing the proportion of We run a number of people development programmes.
The Halma individuals with experience in the business and geographic markets Executive Development Programme HEDP, which is based on our in which we see our operations trending.
recognition of the fundamental part our people play in the success of Our strong preference is to develop policies and actions which the Group, continued to strengthen in recent years.
HEDP is an support our aims rather than establishing measurable targets.
We integrated development plan for our senior people including the believe the former evolves into part of the corporate culture more next generation of Managing Directors and Divisional Chief readily than simply setting a target.
Our objective is to provide these individuals with the tools and training they need to achieve more in their existing role and potentially to advance through the organisation if their achievements merit it.
58 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Overview 02-09 Busi Business ness re revie view w 1 10 0- -5 59 9 Governance 60-86 Financial statements 87-147 Responsible investment Training 2013 2012 2011 Investing in Halma shares meets the criteria of many professional and Cumulative number of private investors who base their decisions on environmental, ethical candidates that have and social considerations.
The Group is a world leader in several key completed HEDP 221 194 166 environmental technologies and has a reputation for honesty and Cumulative number of integrity in its relationships with employees, customers, business candidates that have partners and shareholders.
completed HMDP 471 392 319 Social conditions can be improved for all through the creation of Cumulative number of wealth.
Halma creates wealth responsibly allowing our employees, candidates that have customers, business partners and shareholders to determine where completed HCAT 51 36 19 this wealth is best distributed.
Halmas policies reect the core requirements of the Universal HEDP is aimed at employees already serving on subsidiary boards Declaration of Human Rights and the ILO Declaration on but we also encourage applications from senior functional managers Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work.
We do not tolerate who can demonstrate they already have equivalent responsibilities practices which contravene these international standards.
Regulatory and will benefit from the programme.
demands upon us vary considerably around the world, so Halma There are approximately 272 such eligible employees in total.
establishes the core structure to ensure that Group companies fully comply with legislative and regulatory requirements while permitting The programme has been developed from a proven course structure them to tailor their approach to their particular needs.
and is specically and continuously tailored to suit Halmas needs, aligning the content to the Groups four core values of Achievement, Ethics Innovation, Empowerment and Customer Satisfaction.
It focuses The Group culture is one of openness, integrity and accountability.
strongly on strategic and leadership capabilities and developing Halma requires its employees to act fairly in their dealings with fellow personal attributes commitment, determination and resilience.
employees, customers, suppliers and business partners.
Halma There is an emphasis on performance management and team introduced a new Code of Conduct during 2011 12 which applies to development.
It includes skill based elements such as sales and all Group employees and our external business relationships.
We marketing management, project leadership, corporate governance, require suppliers to be of high quality and to operate to accepted finance and innovation, but all are presented in a strategic context.
Halma operates a condential whistleblowing policy with an external call centre, which enables all Group employees Sixteen programmes have been successfully completed.
to raise any concerns they may have.
Once a significant proportion of executives completed HEDP, a follow Halma has a zero-tolerance policy on bribery and corruption which up programme, HEDP, was introduced to provide updated training extends to all business dealings and transactions in which we are and to reinforce the original course contents, and four such courses involved.
This includes a prohibition on making political donations, were held in the year.
offering or receiving inappropriate gifts or making undue payments to Complementing the HEDP is a programme for subsidiary managers inuence the outcome of business dealings.
Our robust policy and and supervisors the Halma Management Development Programme guidance in this area, which was updated during the prior year in line HMDP.
During the year, four HMDP and two HMDP programmes with best practice, are routinely reviewed.
Programmes were held in the USA, Europe and Asia.
In 2011, we introduced a new programme, Halma Certicate of Applied Technology HCAT, targeted at our technical engineers to equip them with a broader understanding of Halmas technology, improve their productivity and provide specic skills training in areas such as project management.
Three such programmes, with 51 participants, have been completed with great success.
The Halma Graduate Development Programme HGDP was introduced during 2011 12 and the first participants started working with us in Summer 2012.
HGDP is targeted at engineering, science and technical graduates with the potential to become future leaders of our companies, or next generation specialists driving our technology.
The programme lasts 18 to 24 months and is based on placements in our various operating companies.
Through project work participants quickly assume responsibility and learn in detail how businesses operate.
We support participants through residential training modules to help develop communication and teamwork skills alongside a mentoring programme for personal development.
Cautionary note: This Business Review has been prepared solely to assist shareholders to assess the Boards strategies and their potential to succeed.
It should not be relied on by any other party, for other purposes.
Forward-looking statements have been made by the Directors in good faith using information available up until the date that they approved the Report.
Forward-looking statements should be regarded with caution because of the inherent uncertainties in economic trends and business risks.
Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 59
