SECTOR REVIEW CONTINUED ENVIRONMENTAL & ANALYSIS Products and technologies for analysis in safety, life sciences and environmental markets Market-leading opto-electronic technology and gas conditioning products.
Products to monitor water networks: UV technology for disinfecting water: and water quality testing products.
42 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Overview 02-09 Busi Business ness re revie view w 1 10 0- -5 59 9 Governance 60-86 Financial statements 87-147 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 43 SECTOR REVIEW CONTINUED ENVIRONMENTAL & ANALYSIS Sector revenue 152m 1 % Sector profit 30m 4 % Market trends In the Environmental & Analysis sector our businesses serve a very Products and technologies for analysis in diverse range of end-user markets.
The underlying growth drivers are safety, life sciences and environmental rising demand for basic resources such as energy and water, increasing environmental monitoring and regulation and demand for markets.
Performance Water quality, water scarcity and the need to reduce water treatment Sector Group energy costs are the key drivers behind increasingly strict regulation KPIs performance target and growth in demand for our water analysis and water and 1 Revenue growth 0.5 % 5% wastewater treatment systems.
These drivers are assuming ever 1 greater importance due to population growth, urbanisation and profit growth 3.8 % 5% 2 climate change.
The market for water disinfection systems is Return on Sales 19.9% 18% estimated to be growing annually by 10% to 12% and water 3 ROCE 69.8% 45% monitoring demand is growing by 5% per year.
4 R&D % of Revenue 6.8% 4% Independent product validations are becoming increasingly important in water treatment.
We expect continued investment by industrial Contribution to Group customers, driven by legislation, but difficult market conditions in the m 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 municipal segment.
We anticipate significant sales growth in the Revenue 152 154 136 109 101 marine Ballast Water Treatment BWT market.
The BWT market is profit 30 32 26 18 15 forecast to grow by over 50% a year between 2009 and 2020.
5 1 Sector revenue and adjusted sector profit before finance expense are compared We anticipate continued steady growth from three core end-user to the equivalent prior year gure.
markets: environmental monitoring, biotechnology and chemical 5 2 Return on Sales is dened as adjusted profit before finance expense and analysis.
Worldwide growth in these markets is driven by increasing taxation expressed as a percentage of sector revenue.
environmental legislation and healthcare initiatives.
Rising concern 5 3 Adjusted sector profit before finance expense expressed as a percentage of over food safety, adulteration and contamination is creating growing sector operating net assets.
sales opportunities in both developed and developing economies.
4 Sector research and development expenditure expressed as a percentage of The global environmental monitoring market is predicted to grow by sector revenue.
Strong annual growth of 6% 5 Adjusted to remove the amortisation of acquired intangible assets, acquisition is also forecast for the laboratory analytical market over the transaction costs and movement on contingent consideration see Note 1 to the Accounts.
Concern over climate change is another driver of demand for our analytical instruments, water conservation and energy management Revenue % of Group profit % of Group technology.
Throughout the world governments are continually introducing new legislation and initiatives designed to improve energy efficiency and reduce carbon dioxide output.
25% 22% 44 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Driving innovation Overview 02-09 We acquired Sensorex, a manufacturer of Busi Business ness re revie view w 1 10 0- -5 59 9 electrochemical water analysis sensors, in April 2012.
The company supplies the Governance 60-86 growing environmental, drinking water, wastewater, life sciences and Financial statements 87-147 pharmaceutical markets.
Its products are used by OEMs making systems for water quality monitoring and control.
This transmitter analyser monitors industrial process uid parameters like pH, oxidation reduction potential and temperature and connects with process control or data logging systems.
Geographic trends Performance With such diverse end-markets, the geographic trends are diverse Environmental & Analysis had a relatively disappointing year as 1 too.
However, we see opportunities for growth in all global regions revenue declined by 1% to 152.4m 2012: 153.4m and profit although the ratio of growth in Asia, and China in particular, reduced by 4% to 30.4m 2012: 31.6m.
Return on Sales was is expected to be higher.
Organic revenue at constant currency was down 6%.
Reduced government research spending in the USA For example, China now has over 30 laws and 1,000 separate and lower investment by water utilities in the UK were the two regulations to prevent pollution and protect natural resources.
China recently introduced stricter air pollution monitoring standards which should increase demand for our products that monitor These market factors are clearly reected in the regional trends with sources of pollution and measure air quality.
organic revenue constant currency declines of 14% in the UK and 10% in the USA.
Organic revenue from Mainland Europe fell by 4%.
Like many countries, China faces the challenge of rising water Our companies continue to invest in growth in markets outside demand while available water resources are actually falling.
the UK, Mainland Europe and the USA with revenue from these The market for water treatment products in China is forecast developing markets being 27% of the total sector, contributing to grow at 10% annually to 2015 with the industrial market organic growth of 6%.
offering the largest growth opportunities.
Outlook Strategy Despite the challenges faced by Environmental & Analysis in the past We will maintain world leadership in systems which reduce loss of year, we are confident that the management and organisational treated water in distribution networks via technological leadership.
changes currently being made will improve performance in future.
This will be supported by newly acquired machine-to-machine communication technology which is in increasing demand for These include simplifying global sales channels and manufacturing environmental data collection and is built into smart meters for operations together with increasing senior management resources to remote data recording.
focus on accelerating growth in Asia and from recent new technology innovation.
It is expected that the total cost of this reorganisation will Our strategy for opto-electronic analytical products is to grow organic be around 1m in 2013 14. profit by extending our offering in the life sciences and environmental monitoring sectors.
To reduce the cyclical impact of US federal spending programmes, we are repositioning these businesses to service a higher proportion of end users in non-government funded markets.
We work closely with both academic and commercial researchers to develop innovative new technologies and solutions.
In China, for example, we are involved with 12 university science labs.
This basic science strategy reveals new product niches and revenue streams when research is commercialised.
Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 45
