40 HAYS PLC|ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013 OUR PATH TO CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE & SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT HOW WE DO BUSINESS Our aim is to build the worlds pre-eminent specialist recruitment business and to deliver well-diversied and profitable growth.
Our purpose is to solve the challenges of our clients in todays complex world of work, and in so doing deliver the best opportunities possible to our candidates.
Our values are to be Expert, Inquisitive, Ambitious and Passionate about People.
Only by truly understanding our candidates and clients needs and challenges, both locally and globally, can we help people and companies achieve lasting impact.
Our values aim to reect this commitment and underpin everything we do.
EXPERT INQUISITIVE As experts across 20 Were always curious, wanting specialisms and 33 countries, to understand more about we have a deep understanding the roles people are being of issues and challenges locally recruited for, as well as the with an ability to solve them world of work.
we build deeper knowledge into what makes people t culturally and how they can achieve their full potential.
DEAR SHAREHOLDER We are leading global experts in qualied, professional and skilled AMBITIOUS PASSIONATE ABOUT PEOPLE recruitment.
Every day we help clients and candidates understand As a results-orientated Hays is the ultimate people and navigate the ever-more complex and fast changing world company we are continually business.
We are passionate of work.
Our about creating valuable energy and dynamism make relationships with everyone We help clients all around the world nd the scarce talent they need us ambitious for our people, we work with.
Our enthusiasm to drive their own businesses forward.
We help businesses evolve clients and candidates, and compels us to nd the right and reshape their talent pools to reect todays global ow for the impact recruiting can person for the right role, and of labour.
help clients deal with whatever issues they face.
With our candidates, we help people understand changing ways of working and provide them with the advice and support they need to OUR WORKPLACE thrive in the modern workplace.
Employees As a people-centred service provider, our success is directly related We understand that the right person in the right role can transform to the quality and expertise of our employees.
Accordingly, we strive that individuals life and transform a business, and it is all made to recruit, train, develop and retain the best talent in our industry.
It is possible by the 7,800 people working for Hays across 33 countries.
imperative to our success that Hays is a company that people want That is what makes us the ultimate people business and means that to work for as well as do business with.
a responsibility for the world around us must be at the core of what we do every day.
Hays business is not divorced from society.
We Employees at all levels of our business are supported by structured, recognise that the two are interdependent and that society expects tailored, learning and development programmes.
This starts with a Hays to be a good corporate citizen.
This is central to our values and comprehensive induction on joining Hays and then at each level as how we do business.
When we are successful as a business, we our employees progress through the organisation.
Internal transfers contribute to the wider growth and success of the economies and and global mobility are critical to the organic growth of our business.
communities in which we operate.
This approach not only supports growth, but enables our employees to gain experience of working in different areas of the Hays business ALISTAIR COX around the world.
Chief Executive 29 August 2013 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 41 Learning and development GENDER DIVERSITY Our aim is to train and develop the best people in the industry.
Hays 2013 2012 encourages the ongoing learning and development of all employees to allow them to maximise their work performance, help them to Female employees 60% 61% achieve corporate objectives and reach their full potential.
Female senior leadership and management 21% 24% Training at Hays is a partnership between the employee, their line Female plc Board directors 22% 22% manager and the Company.
Recruitment consultants invariably join Hays at entry level and undergo a detailed induction programme.
This forms part of our Developing Experts programme which We are delighted that Hays has been granted the prestigious provides training to our recruitment consultants as they progress Employer of Choice for Women citation for 2013 by the Australian through each stage of their career at Hays.
Training is a combination Workplace Gender Equality Agency.
This is a significant achievement of online and classroom-based learning with practical coaching as companies awarded this citation are required to meet stringent provided by line managers and senior leaders.
criteria demonstrating policies and practices that support female employees across their business in Australia.
Strong leadership and management are essential to our business.
Executives are supported in their career at Hays through our Fast We also have a very diverse employee population in terms of Forward and Advanced Management Programmes, which deliver a ethnicity, with over 80 different nationalities represented in our broad executive curriculum.
Each year, the Board and Management global workforce.
Board review the succession planning needs of the Group with a view to developing the future leadership of Hays.
Employee welfare Our people are the key to our success and their welfare is important Employee engagement to us.
With ever-increasing pressures at work and home, there are Each year, we conduct TALKback, our global employee engagement times when we all need some extra support to balance the demands survey.
In 2013 we again saw good employee engagement with an of everyday life.
That is why we provide a free and condential 85% participation level and a reported engagement level of 84% employee assistance programme to everyone in the Group.
Based on the results of the survey, key drivers in employee engagement in Hays during 2013 continued to be learning We conduct our business in a manner which strives to safeguard and development, leadership and direction, culture and collaboration.
the health and safety of our employees and visiting clients and candidates.
A Health & Safety programme comprising a risk assessment, policy implementation and monitoring covers the EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT full range of workplace issues from accident reporting to home working.
This programme is reviewed and updated on an ongoing basis.
2013 84% OUR MARKETPLACE 2012 83% We are committed to dealing with clients and candidates openly, honestly and with integrity.
2011 81% Our recruitment consultants front the business and their role in any Diversity service encounter with candidates or clients, and the relationships People are at the core of what we do and therefore to us diversity that follow, are critical to our success.
All of our recruitment means understanding and reecting the community in which we consultants are trained in offering the best possible client and operate, building loyalty with our colleagues, candidates and clients.
candidate experience, details of which are provided in sector-specic Age, gender, ethnicity, physical appearance, religion, education and operation manuals and against which sector teams are assessed beliefs are all valued and everyone has the opportunity to contribute on a regular basis.
to our success as a business and full their potential.
Supplier Code of Conduct Our aim is to create an open, honest and unprejudiced working Hays is a people-to-people business and its supply chain is arguably environment and to ensure that all our colleagues feel part of Hays its candidate pool.
Where we do have traditional suppliers, such as and are respected as individuals.
utilities providers, we expect them to operate in an ethical, legally compliant and professional manner.
The standards that we expect from these suppliers are detailed in our Supplier Code of Conduct, a copy of which can be found on our website hays.
42 HAYS PLC|ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013 O UR PATH TO CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED CORPORATE & SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT CONTINUED OUR COMMUNITY AMOUNTS RAISED FOR GOOD CAUSES Local charitable focus Our involvement with the communities in which we operate goes beyond recruitment services.
We use our global strength to make 2013 217,754 a positive local impact wherever we can.
Rather than directing our employees philanthropic efforts from a corporate level, we 2012 298,000 encourage them to take part in volunteering, fundraising activities and to donate funds to charities nominated at country and local 2011 365,000 level.
This ensures that our charitable efforts are spread across a wide range of good causes and have maximum impact.
For example, in the UK, employees recently nominated the Brain Tumour Charity Including fundraising by Hays employees.
as their national charity of the year.
This replaced the Alzheimers Society which was the UK national charity of the year for the 2013 Fundraising activities financial year.
To raise money for our charities of the year, Hays employees take part in such activities as sporting events, pub quizzes, coffee Charitable giving mornings and bake-offs.
Some of our colleagues around the world Employees are encouraged to donate to charity in a tax-efficient have undertaken more ambitious fundraising challenges including manner through the Give As You Earn payroll giving scheme mountain climbing, sponsored runs, treks, abseils and cycle rides.
administered by the Charities Aid Foundation.
We support their ambition and desire to make a contribution to the community.
We operate a matched giving scheme where all UK employees are eligible, under which we match the employee contribution.
In the 2013 financial year, Hays employees in the UK raised 37,811 for the Alzheimers Society, which was matched by the Company.
Hays is extending the matched giving scheme into the 2014 financial year.
In the financial year ended 30 June 2013, charitable donations made by the Group amounted to 182,300 2012: 202,000.
OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 43 ENVIRONMENT Highlights for the year We recognise the need to reduce greenhouse gas emissions The global carbon footprint of Hays worldwide is 11,081 metric and support the UK Governments commitment in this regard.
As tonnes of CO e, which is a year-on-year decrease of 17% 2012 2 a recruitment services company, the direct environmental effects footprint: 13,358 tonnes CO e. This is mostly driven by a number 2 of our business largely relate to facilities management and travel.
of energy efficiency initiatives across the Group combined with We aim to reduce the environmental impact of our business through improved information gathering and analysis in this area.
a reduction in consumption and conserving resources.
Three countries were added to the carbon footprint calculations.
Without this additional scope, the footprint would have decreased Greenhouse gas emissions by 18% year-on-year.
For the fourth year running, we undertook an environmental review of our business operations and for the first time this review covered all of Hays offices globally.
In readiness for mandatory carbon reporting, we developed and rolled out an online carbon footprint reporting portal.
Data collected through the portal from Hays offices around the world, grouped by countries, included operational and vehicle use, electricity consumption and business travel.
From this data, the Groups greenhouse gas emissions were calculated, the results of which are detailed below.
GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS 1 TONNES CO e TOTAL EMISSIONS 2 2013 11,081 2012 13,358 2011 12,160 EMPLOYEE INTENSITY TONNES CO e PER EMPLOYEE 2 2013 1.48 2012 1.78 2011 1.68 1 Greenhouse gas emissions are stated in tonnes of CO e carbon dioxide 2 equivalent, comprising carbon dioxide, methane and nitrous oxide for each 12-month period ended 31 March.
GREENHOUSE GAS PROTOCOL 2012 2013 GHG Protocol Scope Resource Total GHGs tonnes CO2e Total GHGs tonnes CO2e Percentage change % Scope 1 Heating fuel 217 192 11.52 Vehicle fuel 2,962 2,631 11.17 Scope 2 Electricity 7,655 5,303 30.73 District heating 289 527 82.35 Scope 3 Air travel 1,743 1,782 2.24 Rail travel 511 645 26.22 Totals 13,377 11,081 17.16 Totals per employee 1.72 1.48 13.95 Totals LFL 12,325 9,675 21.50 Totals LFL per employee 1.71 1.38 19.30 LFL like-for-like gures represent comparable operations across each reporting year based on surveyed oor space.
44 HAYS PLC|ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013 G OVERNANCE IN THIS SECTION 46 Chairmans letter 47 Our Governance Framework 48 Our Board of Directors 52 Corporate Governance Statement 57 Nomination Committee Report 59 Audit Committee Report 62 Directors Report 66 Remuneration Report 79 Directors Responsibilities Hays are the largest specialist recruitment business in the UK, with market-leading positions across a range of specialist areas including Accountancy & Finance, IT and Construction & Property.
OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 45 CURRENT CORE PROFIT DRIVER: UK & IRELAND For a video review of our UK & Ireland business, please go to hays.
com investors 31% UK & IRELAND REPRESENTS 31% OF GROUP NET FEES 102 OFFICES 1,929 CONSULTANTS
