Ov Ov ver er ervi vi vie ew ew w Strategic report Go Go over five vern rn nan an anc ce ce e F Fiinancial s ina nanc n ia all st t tat at atem em emen en ents ts ts O O O Ot Ot ther i he her r in n nfo fo form rm rmat at atio io ion n n HellermannTyton Annual Report and Accounts 2013 17 The HellermannTyton Group faces a number of risks in its day-to-day activities.
Our responsibility is to mitigate these risks and uncertainties with a formal risk management process.
We have identied below the main risks that we believe can adversely affect our results, impacting our employees, operations, revenue, profits, cash ows ornet assets.
The Groups risk register is built up from individual Customer relationships contributions from the key manufacturing operations.
There has been a top-down review by members of the The Group enters into contracts or agreements of one year or Executive Committee and Board, facilitated by Internal Audit.
less with some customers, which do not guarantee sales of a Risk registers are maintained and periodically updated.
xed volume of products and typically have variable pricing.
As well as identifying the headline risks, emerging risks are Such agreements are generally non-exclusive and terminable also identied and members of management are assigned to upon minimal notice periods.
These customers may alter their monitor and oversee actions taken to mitigate them.
purchasing behaviour, seek to negotiate pricing levels or reduce or cancel orders with little or no notice to the Group, which The Board has overall responsibility for ensuring that our risks could lead to delays or cancellation of orders from one or more are managed appropriately and, either directly or through the of the Groups major customers, the loss of one or more major Audit Committee, reviews the effectiveness of the Groups customers, or the failure of one or more major customers to risk management processes and other internal controls.
Internal Audit provides the Audit Committee with a quarterly update of risk management activity and the risk register is a There is close monitoring and periodic review of strategy standing item in business performance reviews.
to determine the risks to the retention of major customers.
Efforts are also made in sales and marketing to attract new In the section below, we have selected from the risk register customers and to encourage existing good customers to those items we currently consider to have the greatest expand their business with us.
potential impact on the Group.
The order in which they arepresented is not significant.
Threat of lower priced competitors During 2013, a more consistent approach to reporting risks and how they are being managed has been applied by operating The Groups customers are active in competitive industries units, and this process will be developed further in 2014. and face constant pressure to lower their selling and production costs.
As a result, the Group has experienced Damage to reputation and could continue to experience increased pressure from its customers to reduce its prices or they could seek lower priced The Groups business depends to a significant extent on options from the Groups competitors.
Pricing pressure from its customers trust in its reputation for quality, its brand OEMs is a characteristic of the passenger vehicle industry, and product portfolios.
The Group relies on marketing to the commercial vehicle industry and other OEM industries.
strengthen its brand name, and its marketing initiatives may Management monitors closely the competition as well as prove to be ineffective.
The maintenance and protection of developing programmes and milestones to determine when the HellermannTyton brand, as well as the Groups ability to totake necessary actions.
There are also initiatives to manage enter new geographic markets and distribution channels and and reduce operating costs in order to maintain the Groups sell new products, are subject to express and implied warranty current margins and competitive position.
All levels of management are vigilant and attentive to customer satisfaction and the maintenance of product quality and monitor market activity and developments closely.
18 HellermannTyton Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Our risks continued Retention and incentivisation of key employees Dependence on third-party manufacturers The Group is dependent on its senior management team, The Group relies on third-party manufacturers, in particular including its regional managers.
The loss of members of their equipment such as moulding machines, for the senior or regional management or the inability to hire manufacturing of certain items, as well as for sourcing nished experienced personnel could harm the Groups reputation goods.
The Group also relies on third-party warehousing and and could negatively affect its business.
Furthermore, since logistics providers for some of the distribution of its products the Group is striving to expand its business in a competitive and services to customers.
The Group does not have control market, it is important for it to attract and retain highly over the management or business of these third parties, except qualied employees, particularly in the areas of sales, indirectly through terms it negotiates in its contracts with marketing, product development, operations, engineering, them.
Management strives to obtain multiple source suppliers finance and management.
There is a constant review of for these products and seeks to maintain strong relationships remuneration methods including the employee share plans.
These suppliers are regularly reviewed and HellermannTyton maintains a positive work environment and evaluated to ensure that the highest quality service is provided encourages original thinking and innovation.
to our customers and that we optimise our operating margins.
Risk of contraction in Automotive market Raw materials supply Demand for the Groups automotive products is dependent on The Groups business is heavily dependent on the availability general economic conditions and industrial output and more and cost of raw materials, for example PVC and polyethylene sensitive to change than is the case in some other industries.
The producers of PA66 have, on For example, a substantial deterioration in vehicle production occasion, historically suffered from operational and weathersuch as experienced in 2008 and 2009 could have a significant related disruptions to the supply of their chemical feedstocks negative effect on the Groups sales and results of operations.
Any reduction in the availability The Group is susceptible to downturns in economies around of raw materials and periodic delays in the delivery of the world, including major economic centres such as the EU, certain raw materials could signicantly disrupt the Groups the US and Japan, as well as emerging markets such as China production.
In addition, the Group does not have in place any and Brazil.
This risk is mitigated by diversication of product arrangements to hedge its exposure to raw materials prices, range and increasing sales to other market segments as well partly because no market exists for it to be able to do so.
asby all levels of management monitoring activity carefully We mitigate this risk in a number of ways.
Multiple suppliers andkeeping up-to-date with developments in the sectors.
are sought out and volume limits from each supplier are managed.
Furthermore, if supplies are curtailed in one country, Failure to innovate and develop new products they can be imported from another country.
The markets in which the Group operates are characterised, Foreign exchange in part, by new product introduction and changing consumer preferences and demands, as well as changing industry The Groups reported results of operations and financial standards.
The Groups customers, especially OEMs, demand condition are affected by exchange rate uctuations.
complex and innovative solutions for their cable management The Group has historically been exposed to translation and, requirements and the Board expects this to continue.
toa lesser extent, transactional uctuations in foreign currency The ability to anticipate technological trends and respond to exchange rates.
The Groups reporting currency is the Euro, customer needs by developing innovative solutions in a timely although it generates significant revenue in other currencies.
manner is crucial to the Groups business.
The Group carefully For the year ended 31 December 2013, approximately 65% monitors all new products in development and invests in high of the Groups total revenues were denominated in currencies calibre employees.
Each manufacturing unit regularly reviews other than the Euro.
The Group is primarily exposed to its engineering and product development resources to ensure movements in the Euro against the Japanese Yen and the that they are sufficient to meet customer demands.
USDollar, and, to a lesser extent, Sterling, the Singapore Dollar and the Brazilian Real.
The exchange positions are regularly reviewed and forward exchange contracts entered into to reduce the risk.
Strategic reviews are also conducted todetermine if any further innovations are necessary to reducepotential exposure.
Ov Ov ver er ervi vi vie ew ew w Strategic report Go Go over five vern rn nan an anc ce ce e F Fiinancial s ina nanc n ia all st t tat at atem em emen en ents ts ts O O O Ot Ot ther i he her r in n nfo fo form rm rmat at atio io ion n n HellermannTyton Annual Report and Accounts 2013 19 HellermannTyton is committed to responsible corporate behaviour.
We recognise that our social, environmental and ethical t Conicts of interest must be avoided.
conduct has an important impact.
We therefore take our t We aim to be a responsible partner within our corporate social responsibilities CSR seriously and are local communities.
committed to advancing our policies and systems across the Group to ensure we address and monitor all aspects of CSR t Employees are encouraged and supported to report, in that are relevant to our business.
These include good ethical confidence, any suspected wrongdoings whistleblowing.
behaviour, concern for employee health and safety, care for the environment and community involvement.
Employees We strive to maintain a productive and open dialogue with all parties who may have an interest in our activities including The Group aims to attract, retain and motivate the highest customers, suppliers and employees.
We conduct regular calibre of employees within the context of an operating customer satisfaction surveys, monitor supplier performance structure that encourages them to contribute and develop.
and actively encourage feedback from our employees.
An environment that fosters innovation and supports a culture of entrepreneurship and partnership is critical to The Board takes ultimate responsibility for CSR and is HellermannTytons success.
committed to developing and implementing appropriate policies while adhering to a fundamental commitment to Appropriate career paths and internal recognition programmes create and sustain long-term value.
The Board does not believe are developed for technical, administrative and management that, to date, the activities of the Group have presented any staff.
Employees are provided with numerous learning and significant environmental risks.
development opportunities to full their potential.
A wide variety of both technical and managerial courses and training Ethics materials is available to employees.
These employment development opportunities are structured to align with both HellermannTyton expects that all of its business is conducted the Group and regional goals and objectives.
in compliance with high ethical standards of business practice.
Leadership development and succession planning are also We apply these standards to all dealings with employees, processes that are critical to the continued success of the customers, suppliers and other stakeholders.
These plans are regularly discussed and updated The Groups ethics policy has been developed to ensure as the competition for talented employees increases and the that the Groups business adheres to high ethical and legal leadership needs of our business grow.
Formal performance principles, and to set standards of professionalism and integrity reviews are conducted and are linked to the values of the for all employees and operations worldwide.
The Group is committed to providing equality of opportunity to all existing and prospective employees without The following is a summary of the ethics policy: unlawful or unfair discrimination.
Full support is given to the employment and advancement of disabled persons and this is t All employees have the right and responsibility to ensure reinforced through the Groups ethics policy.
thatHellermannTytons business is conducted according tohigh ethical and legal principles.
Breakdown of Directors and employees t Our policy is to operate within applicable laws.
Male Female t Discrimination or harassment of any kind will not be tolerated.
Directors 7 t As a matter of policy, we do not make political donations.
Senior managers excluding Directors 8 1 t No bribes shall be given or received and we comply with theBribery Act and the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act.
