Hikma PHarmaceuticals Plc annual rePort 2013 commit tee rePorts CompLianCe, responsiBiLitY anD etHiCs let ter from tHe cHairman Dear shareholder this has been the third full year of operation for the compliance, responsibility and ethics committee.
over the year we have continued to develop our programme for anti-bribery and anti-corruption aBc compliance and formalised our oversight of Hikmas corporate responsibility cr programme.
i am pleased to welcome Dr othman abu gheida as the new, full time chief compliance officer cco.
Dr othman has worked with Hikma for 10 years and brings to the department his in-depth knowledge of the company and significant international experience.
the committee and i are grateful for the important contribution of mr Henry knowles, the interim compliance officer.
Henry set in motion the steps for the creation of a formal compliance function and under his excellent leadership and oversight we developed the comPliance, resPonsiBilitY policies and processes that we have today.
He performed exceptionally as an interim group anD etHics rePort compliance officer, advising the committee and undertaking the risk assessment exercise, 82 letter from the chairman development of the compliance manager, the drafting of the aBc procedures and initiation 83 our Highlights ofthe compliance department.
83 membership and attendance Hikma has always prided itself on its ethical approach to business and i am pleased to 84 responsibilities report on the progress we have made in implementing our aBc processes and procedures 84 anti-Bribery and anti corruption aBc toensure aBc compliance and strengthen our marketplace activities.
the major developments 84 compliance architecture onthe aBc programme have been the: 84 aBc risk assessment f enhancement of the code of conduct communication exercise with a goal of ensuring that all 85 code of conduct employees have read and understood the code of conduct 85 aBc Policies and Procedures f further development of our aBc policies and procedures to ensure that they are fully adapted 85 training toour business.
this was undertaken following a full consultation with executive management 85 speak-up andwith the assistance of our external advisers 85 corporate responsibility f the creation of a resourcing model for the compliance department with fully dedicated compliance officers at the group level and appointment of regional compliance officers for europe and the us f continuing steps forward in the training and education of our employees enhancing both their understanding of aBc matters and our processes for the discussion of concerns.
the committee also overseas Hikmas corporate social responsibility programme, where the major achievements have been: f the full implementation of environmental data capture system, including carbon disclosure, acrossall our territories f the expansion of cr champions in each jurisdiction who are responsible for local charitable and environmental issues f the corporate responsibility teams regular presentation of developments in corporate responsibility initiatives to the crec f introduction of and training on a new sustainability software relating to quality, health, safety andenvironmental management, allowing Hikma to better manage its risks 82 corPorate governance in 2014, the crec will be focused on the on-going development and implementation of our compliance programme, and further training andeducation of our employees to build understanding of compliance issues across the group.
this will continue to give our people the tools and information they need to make good decisions when they are faced with ethical issues.
in april 2014 we will welcome Pat Butler as a new member of the committee.
Pat brings first-rate experience of ethical and compliance issues.
i would also like to thank robert Pickering, who has stepped down from the committee following his appointment as senior independent Director and member of the remuneration committee.
as an organisation Hikma is committed to clear and open communication.
i remain open to discussion with shareholders should there beanyconcerns that they wish to raise directly.
Dr ronald goode, Chairman of the Compliance, Responsibility and Ethics Committee our HigHligHts memBersHiP anD attenDance f appointed a new full time chief compliance officer and significantly the compliance, responsibility and ethics committee crec increased compliance resources consists of four members.
three are independent non-executive Directors: ronald goode committee chairman, Breffni Byrne and f completed our full management consultation on the standard Pat Butler with effect from 1 april 2014. the fourth member is the ofaBcpolicies executive vice chairman, mazen Darwazah.
robert Pickering served f reviewed and enhanced the group policies and developed the on the committee during the year, but has recently stepped down implementation plan across the group for 2014 due to the changes in his role.
the crec met seven times during the f translation and annual signing of the code of conduct in arabic, year, and full attendance was achieved.
english, french, german and Portuguese as the crec is not a committee mandated by the code, its membership is not subject to published requirements.
However, f established a new compliance training programme for 2014 Hikma believes that the requisite challenge to operational f enhanced compliance reporting process through monthly compliance effectiveness is achieved by having an independent non-executive updates and reports to the champions, committee and the Board Director membership majority.
the chairmanship of the crec is held by an independent non-executive Director, Dr ronald goode, and the f increased understanding and engagement with the aBc programme across Hikma chairman of the audit committee is a standing member.
Within the company, the executive vice chairman champions Hikmas antif further developed our externally facilitated speak-up hotlines bribery and corruption aBc and corporate responsibility cr toinclude our european entities programmes.
the crec first met in november 2010. f Direct oversight of the csr programme, with frequent reports members meeting attendance andupdates Dr ronald goode chairman 100% f reviewed the composition, diversity and balance of skills mazen Darwazah 100% on the Board Breffni Byrne 100% ALLOCATION OF TIME robert Pickering 100% Pat Butler n a 1.
Operational 23% internal aDvisers eXternal aDvisers 2 4.
CSR 22% f chief compliance officer f Pwc 5.
Corporate governance 16% f company secretary f vP of communications 4 3 f general counsel f group compliance manager 83 Hikma PHarmaceuticals Plc annual rePort 2013 committee rePorts comPliance, resPonsiBilitY anD etHics Continued resPonsiBilities comPliance arcHitecture the crec sets the overall strategy for the groups response to bribery During the year, we reviewed and enhanced the structure of the and corruption risks and is responsible for approving the contents compliance department and significantly increased the resources of all of the business policies in areas where ethical judgements allocated to the compliance function across the group.
the crec oversees the groups aBc compliance diagram outlines that structure.
programme, together with group policies on ethics and business conduct.
the crec reviews group policy in the area of cr at Board Board level and is supported in this work by the cr committee.
the crec is responsible for overseeing the development of the groups code CREC of conduct the code, on behalf of the Board.
it is the crecs responsibility to own the framework for aBc compliance within the group and to ensure that it operates adequately and effectively.
Chief Compliance officer the crec also oversees Hikmas speak-up process for employees to raise ethical concerns, and, where relevant, oversees their investigation.
Branded Injectables US & Generics Group the crecs terms of reference are reviewed by the Board on a regular Division Division Division Compliance Champion Champion Champion Manager basis.
the terms of reference are available on the Hikma website and by contacting investors@hikma.
Divisional Divisional Divisional Group Ofcers Ofcers Ofcers Ofcers anti-BriBerY anD anti-corruPtion aBc the group has created a new framework that sets out the structure Quality and excellence have been the heart of Hikma since its of leadership, delegated authority and ownership for Hikmas aBc foundation, and Hikma has always been committed to the highest compliance programme.
operational responsibility and oversight for standards of integrity and ethics in the conduct of its business.
compliance is assigned by the Board to the executive vice chairman, Hikma has communicated its zero tolerance of bribery and corruption who then delegates responsibility to his management team.
the cco to its employees and made sure they are aware that Hikma will not reports directly to the crec on compliance matters and his leadership penalise any individual for complying with the principles enshrined of aBc issues is overseen by the crec chairman and the executive in the code or in our aBc policies, even at the cost of foregoing vice chairman.
the heads of each business division have taken a business opportunity, losing revenue or profit or disobeying responsibility to be the compliance champion for their division.
Hikma will discipline staff for ethical breaches they set the tone for business integrity in their operations.
inorder to maintain its high standards of integrity.
our compliance champions are: f Bassam kanaan Branded f riad mechlaoui injectables f michael raya us and generics the cco is supported by group and regional compliance officers atthe operational level.
the legal, financial and company secretarial departments also advise and provide implementation support to the compliance department.
this new structure better aligns the ownership of good compliance behaviours with the day-to-day business operations.
aBc risk assessment in 2011 Hikma undertook a full aBc risk assessment.
this was performed by the good corporation, an independent body who have specialised in business ethics and integrity for over a decade.
good corporation visited each of our major areas of operation to perform this risk assessment.
the conclusion from the exercise was that Hikma has a strong ethical culture that is deeply embedded within its operations.
in order to support that culture, process enhancements were identified which the compliance department are addressing.
84 corPorate governance coDe of conDuct since the risk assessment, Hikma has undertaken a full review of the the compliance team also attended inseaDs Healthcare compliance existing code of conduct, which led to significant enhancements.
formal Board training on aBc We benchmarked this code against good industry practice and a peer compliance issues was also performed during the year.
this training group of international companies.
We also undertook a full internal and communication continues to enhance employees understanding consultation, encompassing a broad cross-section of management of bribery and corruption risks, and increases the penetration of and benefitted from the input of an external compliance consultant.
compliance issues into the decision making process for business the updated code was reviewed by the crec and proposed to the departments as they consider existing and new business structures.
Board, where it was fully supported.
the new code has now been translated into the major functional languages of Hikma: arabic, sPeak-uP english, french, german and Portuguese.
the Board understands that it is critical for employees to be able each year Hikma employees are required to confirm that they to raise concerns on issues of integrity without retribution and that have read the code, have understood it and will abide by its terms.
appropriate methods of voicing such concerns be available to them.
employees also confirm in writing that they understand their therefore, Hikma has an open-door policy regarding communication obligations to report events of suspected non-compliance with code.
so that it can hear from those who have any questions or concerns the training plan for the code includes face-to-face training for top about the ethics and integrity of the business.
Where employees managers, training and discussion sessions at department level for believe that it is not possible or appropriate to report to line employees and lower management.
the code is available onour management, they may make reports confidentially to any senior website: www.
additionally, Hikma has anonymous reporting lines in place across the us and european operations, aBc Policies anD ProceDures whichreport directly to the compliance team, vP of corporate Hr During 2012 we created the aBc policies as a result of the work for andthe general counsel.
as part of their commitment to the code employees the risk assessment exercise.
During 2013, the compliance department undertook a full review of compliance policies and procedures with the understand that they have a duty to report any suspected violations.
Hikma investigates all reports of non-compliance and takes support of our external adviser, Pwc, who assisted in identifying areas of policy and existing practice that need to be adjusted in order to fully appropriate action.
the review also included an extensive consultation with executive management, encompassing corPorate resPonsiBilitY the advice and support of the compliance champions, and senior the executive vice chairman champions Hikmas corporate functional and line management within each business division and responsibility programme within the company and is chairman each significant geography.
this process has been undertaken in order of Hikmas corporate responsibility committee.
the vP of to ensure that the policies can and will be applied consistently at every communications is responsible for cr at an operational level.
the crec chairman, Director of communications, divisional the focus of the compliance department and the compliance and functional heads and company secretary are members of the champions for 2014 will be to finalise the implementation across cr committee.
the cr committee reviews, supports and promotes the group.
Hikmas cr activities and reports directly to the crec.
the cr team, lead by the vP of communications, regularly present training developments to the crec.
Please see pages 42 to 49 for the groups corporate responsibility report.
the development of our policies has been undertaken in conjunction with our on-going focus on education and dissemination of aBc for and on behalf of the compliance, responsibility and ethics committee compliance information across the business.
During the year, our employee induction programmes have been updated to ensure that each new employee can clearly understand ronald goode, Committee Chairman the groups ethical expectations.
in addition, increasing awareness 11 march 2014 has been built within the business for the processes and issues of aBc compliance, with awareness sessions given to functional and geographical teams across the group, with a particular focus on the mena region.
