hikma pharmaceuticals plc annual report 2013 sustainaBility Continued Supporting people and communitieS why this is important us we have a long history of engaging supporting local with a number of universities to provide community projects we believe that the ultimate goal of any college students with supervised, practical business is to improve the community and a significant school rehabilitation work experience in areas directly related to advance society, and we instil this belief across project took place in the impoverished their education and career goals.
as a core element of our sudanese al-Bagair area, surrounding we continue to offer local students the our manufacturing plant.
the hikma sustainable approach to business, we invest team helped in providing vital assistance opportunity for internships to meet their in supporting the people and communities in to the school, including building a graduation requirements and gain critical the markets where we operate.
this enables new classroom and installing water work experience.
By engaging with students us to build sustainable local businesses, which supply units.
and universities in programmes such as can deliver strong growth over time and these in algeria, germany, italy, jordan, help to improve the lives of patients through portugal and the us, we help to develop improved health.
within hikma, our people a candidate pool of qualified and highly are our most valuable asset.
we make to continuously develop the skills, as in previous years, hikma made a talents and motivation of our people is what number of medicine donations during 2013 moves our business forward.
to help people in the countries where we what were doing operate.
as well as providing medicine for across our businesses we work closely patients in dire need of care during times with local schools and universities and we of crisis, we want to ensure that patients offer internship placements in a number suffering from chronic conditions do not lose our markets.
educating the youth and access to critical medications.
For example, youth employment are high on hikmas in2013 we gave medicine donations sustainability priorities.
For example, in the following a severe flood in the east nile area.
volunteering day in the spirit of team building and instilling the spirit of volunteerism in our employees, hikma held its annual global volunteering campaign.
this year saw an active participation of employee volunteers in jordan, egypt, portugal, saudi arabia, uk and the us.
volunteers teamed up with underprivileged school children, coaching them in community service and educating them on health and safety, while others focused on the environment, school renovations and fundraising.
