strategic report minimiSing our environmental impact greenhouse gas inventory why this is important we consolidate our organisational boundary according to the operational control approach we recognise that human health is linked to category emissions intensity the wider environment in which we live and and the requirements of section7 of the combustion of fuel 2.92 tco2e uk companies act 2006 strategic report that climate change is one of the greatest scope 1 direct 16,817 tco2e Fte employee challenges facing nations, governments, and directors report regulations 2013. electricity purchased this approach includes all hikma subsidiaries for our own use businesses and citizens over future decades.
8.65 tco2 scope2 indirect 49,779 tco2 Fte employee pharmaceuticals manufacturing can be an and corresponding facilities assets.
jvs with less than 50% holding, however, have been energy-intensive business and it is therefore segment scope 1 scope 2 our responsibility to understand our related excluded from our ghg disclosure as it is considered that we do not have operational environmental impacts through effective mena 8,059 tco2e 32,266 tco2 measurement, monitoring and reporting control over these emissions sources.
united states 7,697 tco2e 12,761 tco2 in addition, non-manufacturing facilities with over time.
europe 1,061 tco e 4,752 tco 2 2 disclosing the greenhouse gas ghg less than 100 staff at the end of the reporting period are not included within our emissions emissions of our organisation helps us to reporting boundaries and exclusions address a key pledge of our environment disclosure on the grounds of materiality.
segment ghg source 2013 disclosure emissions from our manufacturing facility in policy: to reduce our impact on climate scope Facility included change.
we aim to uphold this through morocco have also been excluded due to lack 1 direct diesel combustion of any established process for data capture in continuous development and improvement Facility natural included of energy conservation and efficiency this reporting year.
it is our intention to report gas combustion on material emissions from this location next initiatives, as well as employee engagement Facility included and product process innovations throughout year.
Furthermore, we are implementing lpg combustion processes in order to be able to capture data our business.
vehicle excluded, due to from ghg sources excluded from this years fuel combustion data collection issues what were doing disclosure in future reporting years.
Facility excluded, due to during the period 1 january 2013 to to streamline our reporting across the wastewater data collection issues 31 december 2013, hikma emitted 16,817 group, in 2013 we began implementing treatment tco 2e from the combustion of fuel scope software which will improve our ability Fugitive emissions excluded, due to 1 direct and 49,779 tco from electricity 2 from rac data collection issues to monitor and reduce emissions, waste, purchased for our own use scope 2 indirect.
equipment energy consumption and water usage.
this is equal to 2.92 tco e per full time scope purchased included 2 this programme will be implemented across 2 indirect electricity for equivalent Fte employee and 8.65 tco 2 the group during 2014. own consumption per Fte employee respectively.
across our businesses we are assessing hikma has quantified and reported ways to reduce our environmental impact, the emissions according to the defra most significant of which as a pharmaceutical environmental reporting guidelines 2013. manufacturer, is water usage.
our ability utilising solar energy we have used the latest uk government to reduce this impact through reduced conversion Factors for company reporting in jordan, we have begun introducing water consumption will also enable us to in order to calculate emissions from our first photovoltaic system, converting deliver meaningful costs savings.
in 2013, sunlight directly into electricity.
this is one corresponding activity data.
results are we installed a number of systems in our of a series of renewable energy projects reported in tco e for scope 1 emissions 2 production processes that increased the across the group, expected to deliver and tco 2 for scope 2 emissions, as uk efficiency of our water usage in jordan substantial cost savings.
government emission factors for overseas and portugal.
electricity currently account for carbon dioxide emissions only.
a materiality threshold of 10% has been applied for emissions reporting purposes.
