strategic report promoting good BuSineSS etHicS why this is important in 2013, we issued an updated code of conduct.
in our role as a responsible and it is embedded in the culture of hikma to ethical company with no tolerance for promote good business ethics across our corruption and bribery, we will train the top businesses and geographies.
ensuring the management in anti-corruption practices in integrity of our people and business practices accordance with the code of conduct and is critical to maintaining our long-term cascade the training to reach all employees success.
in particular we focus on marketing ofhikma worldwide.
hikma has a strong reputation Being a signatory of the united nations for business ethics and quality.
our culture global compact ungc has been vital of ethical behaviour has established a stable for aligning our operations with the pillars of work environment which employees are business ethics.
we sustain our membership proud of and a name our stakeholders in the ungc annually, demonstrating how can trust.
hikma aligns its strategies and operations what were doing with the ten universally accepted principles in 2013, we launched an induction of the ungc that cover four key ethical programme for our mena sales teams.
areas: human rights, labour, environment our aim is to create a quality standard and anti-corruption.
in doing so, we that will ensure a visible and strong image demonstrate how we respect and protect of our sales professionalism, enhance the internationally proclaimed human rights, confidence and abilities of our sales people and are not complicit in matters of human and motivate them to grow in their roles and rights abuses, child, forced and compulsory responsibilities within hikma.
across our sales labour and take proactive measures to force, we endeavour to provide our patients eliminate them.
in addition, we perpetuate with accurate, comprehensive and relevant environmental responsibility throughout our medical information about our products.
business and manufacturing processes and these practices ensure ethical and credible use environmentally friendly technologies.
we also work against corruption in all its through corporate compliance, we you are hikma forms, including extortion and bribery.
ensure responsible marketing and antiwe actively instil ethical behaviour across corruption practices and in 2013, this was the organisation.
the Board has received communicated through training of our a number of awards in transparency, sales and marketing team in an induction openness and good governance over programme for new joiners.
in 2013, hikma received the Building public trust award for executive remuneration reporting in the Ftse 250. our annual employee welfare week, you are hikma, was held across our global locations.
the campaign reflects hikmas dedication to improving its employees quality of life through personal empowerment, encouraging corporate citizenship among hikma employees and improving their wellbeing and quality of life through positive and valuable educational activities to raise awareness on health, safety and environmental issues.
