Corporate responsibility The partnership has been recognised by Health & Safety two prestigious industry bodies: it has been We are committed to health and safety short-listed in the Third Sector Business excellence through a process of continual Charity Awards in the category of health and safety improvement for all Employee Engagement and the Institute employees, contractors and the communities of Fundraising has nominated it for Best in which we operate.
We actively focus on Business Charity Partnership.
providing a safe working environment for our office and mobile workforces.
We recognise In March 2013, our UK business also that everyone must play their part in the supported the Comic Relief media appeal achievement of health and safety excellence for the ninth consecutive year by taking calls and we promote and support staff in their in our Walsall call centre.
250 volunteers efforts to achieve zero work related injuries answered over 4,000 donation calls while and illnesses.
the live show was broadcast by the BBC and 130,000 was raised to help vulnerable Risks people in the UK and in Africa.
We have a variety of physical and psychological health and safety risks to In the USA, we have continued to work manage.
All our businesses have suitable and with Habitat for Humanity which seeks to proportionate health and safety management eliminate poverty housing and homelessness systems, reflecting the risks within each by building houses in partnership with particular business.
In addition, a Hurricane Sandy Relief Fund was established using Our services are often delivered via social media sites and employees also raised partnerships with contractors, franchisees $10,000 for colleagues who had sustained and other suppliers.
We work with these significant damage to their homes as a result partners to ensure that our health and of the hurricane.
safety expectations are understood and met, and that the work they undertake on In France and Spain, we have continued to our behalf is managed as safely as is support local charities both by fund raising reasonably practicable.
Activities have included cooking Christmas lunch for disadvantaged people, painting walls in a school for disabled children and toy and food collections.
