Community Employees Use our core skills to give something Our values and behavioural characteristics back to the community continue to underpin our focus on delivering Support more vulnerable members consistently good customer service and are of the community by helping them in embedded in our recruitment, selection, their homes development and reward arrangements.
Develop partnerships with charitable Using our behavioural characteristics and other organisations which are effectively has ensured that individuals hired closely aligned to our business activities or promoted possess the right attitude and and therefore maximise our contribution core behaviours, as well as the necessary Support and encourage employee commercial and technical skills.
We continue involvement in charitable giving and to review both performance and potential volunteering, using relevant employee against the characteristics as a key part skills to support the community.
of our annual performance management, career development and succession 4.
Reduce our carbon emissions per employee Our Group Leadership Development Use resources efficiently Programme, delivered in conjunction with Support and educate customers Cranfield University, has run throughout the and employees to reduce emissions, year and received strong endorsements from specifically in their homes.
both participants and senior management.
In addition, our operating businesses have These corporate responsibility principles are continued to provide focused management part of the way we operate on a daily basis and customer service training and and reflect in the way we deal with customers, development to colleagues, supporting employees, partners and the community.
the delivery of consistently good customer service across the Group.
Customers In 2012, our UK business introduced a We attach considerable importance to Customer Charter which outlined our ensuring that all our employees benefit commitment to our customers: well from effective communications and make things easy for customers and treat engagement, using regular business customers fairly, every step of the way.
updates, senior management lunches The charter has been committed to by all of and surgeries, question and answer our colleagues, from the management team opportunities and constructive relationships to our front line.
Similar charters are now with employee representatives.
A group-wide being developed in our other established employee survey is run each year, with results businesses.
reported to the Board and action plans devised and implemented locally.
Employees are actively involved in the creation and delivery of these plans.
