Performance In France, Domo and SFG received During the year, we strengthened our health favourable reports from the three and safety performance across the Group.
Government Inspectors the Medecins There has been a reduction in the number du Travail who are statutorily obligated of accidents reported and there were no to visit each business multiple times each regulatory interventions following accidents year.
Each business also invites the relevant anywhere in the Group.
Martin Bennett, Chief inspector to their joint management and Operating Officer, continues to be the Board consultative committee meetings.
French Champion for health and safety.
performance is strong: particularly as they have to record employee accidents that occur We have redeveloped our Group Health from the minute they step out of their homes & Safety Policy Statement to provide 10 commuting to from their place of work is key guiding principles to underpin our considered a work activity and report all arrangements.
accidents to the safety regulator.
In the UK, our employed network was The German and Italian businesses continue successful in achieving RoSPAs Gold to be accident free.
Award for occupational health and safety performance for the third year running.
Accidents incidents This prestigious award follows a rigorous Reporting of accidents and incidents has self-assessment and submission of a continued to improve allowing us to monitor portfolio of evidence against the judging trends, anticipate issues and cascade criteria.
This third Gold Award follows a knowledge across the Group.
2013 2012 2011 Our US business has a firmly embedded No of accidents 141 148 144 health and safety management structure with Accident incidence rate 3,471 3,496 3,531 consultative committees providing oversight The accident incidence rate is the number of accidents divided by the of the delivery of their health and safety number of employees, multiplied by 100,000. improvement plan.
The plan has progressed in the face of a very challenging winter and There have been no prosecutions or other serious adverse weather events in the North enforcement actions taken in respect of our East with Hurricane Sandy.
With a strong businesses by any of the national health and focus on incident reduction, a comprehensive safety regulators for breaches of health and driver safety scheme was successfully safety laws.
Environment Reparalia in Spain continues to utilise We take our environmental responsibilities specialist third party auditors to undertake seriously and recognise that sustainable and inspections and make recommendations to responsible performance is important to the local management in respect of health and future growth of our business.
Annual Report & Accounts 2013 40 Corporate responsibility Performance UK waste reduction During the year we strengthened our We have reduced the volumes of general environmental performance and there waste leaving our UK sites, reducing the were no regulatory interventions anywhere amount of waste that ends up in landfill: in the Group.
2013 2012 2011 We have launched a Group Environmental UK recycling rate 95% 94% 83% Policy Statement to provide 10 key guiding principles for all of our businesses.
We have audited direct and indirect greenhouse gas Carbon Footprint emissions in preparation for formal reporting The carbon footprint for our UK operation in the UK from FY2014.
In the UK, our employed network continues to Carbon Footprint monitor MPG and aspects of driver behaviour through telematics in each vehicle.
A car 3% share scheme was successfully launched 4% in our Walsall head office and to reduce our 4% 2% energy consumption further, LED lighting is under live trial in one of the call centres.
6% Our US business has established a project team to drive forward third party Energy Star accreditation.
Energy Star is a voluntary programme that helps businesses and individuals save money and protect the climate through superior energy efficiency.
48% 33% In France, an innovative recycling programme has been launched for office paper.
Working in conjunction with La Poste, the national Commercial fleet Air Rail mail carrier, waste paper is collected by Electricity Paper postal workers when they deliver the mail Gas Business transport Waste Water reducing empty vehicle journeys and is sorted by offenders as part of a community service scheme.
Throughout the year we have given our customers tips and hints on how they can reduce costs whilst reducing their impact on the environment.
