Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual report & accounts 2013 Corporate social responsibility report INTRODUCTION Our international supply base our use of wood: of over 200 suppliers provides Howden Joinery Groups business how we manage our waste: and opportunities and employment is centred on the manufacture in a wide range of trades.
and sale of kitchens and joinery our ability to offer energy to trade customers.
With 559 efficient products to consumers.
Responsibility to local communities depots throughout the UK, we These KPIs, which are discussed in are a local business with national Each of our sites is an integral scale and therefore have unique detail below, help us to ensure that part of the community in which the action we take to reduce our responsibilities to all of the it operates, and helping those communities in which we operate.
environmental impact is targeted communities to flourish is where it will have most benefit, and Our business is built on the important to everyone who relationships our depots have with that our progress is measurable and lives and works in them.
motivational for all those involved.
their customers but we recognise Responsibility to future generations that we have wider responsibilities RESPONSIBLE MANUFACTURING with regard to our product, our Through apprentice environment and how we operate.
We remain committed to UK programmes and college manufacturing and continued to support schemes, we aim to As such, we continue to focus on invest in our two manufacturing help both our own staff and our five key responsibilities which facilities Howden, East Yorkshire also the next generation of we have cited in previous years: and Runcorn, Cheshire during 2013. builders and tradespeople.
In July 2011 we announced that we Responsibility to supply safe and As our business grows, we have to would be investing some 20m in sustainable product be mindful that we act to minimise new facilities at these locations over a the impact of our actions.
To that Our kitchens must not only two year period.
We completed these end, the 2013 CSR report shows function properly and comply investment projects during 2013 how we have been committed to with regulations and legislation which means that we can maintain maintaining our relationships with all but they must be produced in the quality of our product, protect of our stakeholders, improving our a way which is mindful of the the long-term competitiveness of our products and reducing our overall wider environmental impact business, improve the technical skills environmental impact.
Through the both of our own operations of our employees and benefit our setting of rolling and extended KPIs, and the product we sell.
During 2013, in addition it also demonstrates our long-term to our other investment projects, new Responsibility to our staff commitments in these areas.
lines for the production of painted skirting board, a product previously With over 6,600 employees, For ease of reading and comparison, bought in, came into operation.
we recognise the importance the report is in a similar format of our business to our staff to previous years, and, unless During 2013, our UK-based and their families.
otherwise stated, the report covers manufacturing teams the entirety of our business.
produced around: Responsibility to customers and suppliers 3.5 million cabinets: MEASURING ACHIEVEMENTS Our more than 300,000 trade The Group continues to measure 800,000 kitchen worktops account holders rely on our its performance in respect of and breakfast bars: products and services to ensure environmental issues through the 2 million kitchen frontals: and the growth and prosperity of use of a number of Key Performance 25 their own businesses.
These relate to: 1.4 million painted skirting boards.
Corporate social responsibility report continued MANAGING OUR IMPACT and over 99% of all products we since February 2008.
At the end of ON THE ENVIRONMENT manufacture in-house are FSC 2013, 25 of our 39 kitchen ranges compliant 2012: 99%.
64% of our kitchens were fully Wood compliant with FSC requirements Manufactured product Bought-in product compared to 55% in 2012 and Given that wood based products are Ethical and environmental 50% in 2011.
We aim to maintain central to our business, we continue sourcing continues to be an a similar proportion in 2014. to set challenging targets for the important factor when we responsible use of these products determine which suppliers we Energy and paper products.
In order to ensure consistency Our efforts to reduce energy use to monitor the provenance of our with our manufactured product, across the business are recognised wood-based product is: we aim to source from suppliers by our accreditation under the who have similarly high standards Carbon Trust Standard, which we To ensure that 100% of our and international accreditation.
have held for three years.
For over wood-based product used in 10 years prior to the introduction our manufacturing processes As part of our continuous of the Carbon Trust accreditation, comes from certified sources.
improvement programmes all our the Groups manufacturing facilities key suppliers are regularly audited.
In 2013, we used 195,000 cubic had enjoyed accreditation under the The audit programme operates metres of chipboard and 22,000 standards predecessor, the Energy across some 18 countries and cubic metres of MDF in our Efficiency Accreditation Scheme.
incorporates measures relating manufacturing process.
As has to Quality, Environment, Health & As well as assessing the Groups been the case every year since Safety, Employment and Business overall reduction in energy usage 2006, all of this came from Continuity.
Our audits also test over a three-year period, the certified sources.
the human rights credentials of all Standard also looks at general We set similarly challenging targets of our suppliers in relation to their energy management systems for our use of cardboard packaging, employees.
To date, there have across the business and the with our KPI being that all packaging been no reported instances where ways in which energy reduction is should be sourced from recycled audited suppliers failed to satisfy, encouraged across all sites.
In 2013 we or have been in contravention of, Carbon Trusts assessors also noted used 2,500 tonnes of cardboard our strict requirements.
our commitment to supply energy packaging all of which came from efficient products to our customers The EU Timber Regulations in recycled sources.
The reduction in where possible.
March 2013 were introduced our cardboard packaging circa 20% to reduce the risk of illegally Our Greenhouse Gas emissions from the 2012 figure was largely harvested timber entering the data is set out on the next page.
We due to a complete redesign of our EU marketplace.
Our internal are pleased to report that our total corrugation cartons, which now processes in this regard have Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions utilise less paper.
It is our intention been verified by the Timber reduced year-on-year, as did our to continue to look for design Trade Federation under their turnover ratio total CO emissions improvements and to achieve a 2 Responsible Purchasing Policy.
tCO e per m which continued its similarly high standard in the future.
We will continue to Howden Joinery has been certified All of the kitchen ranges which adopt measures aimed at reducing by the FSC and the European are manufactured at our factories both total CO outputs and as a 2 Programme for the Endorsement are certified by the UK Forest percentage of turnover.
of Forest Certification PEFC Stewardship Council UK FSC 26 Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual report & accounts 2013 Greenhouse Gas GHG Emissions: Total CO Emissions Tonnes Total CO Emissions Tonnes 2 2 2013 2012 Scope 1 Direct: Gas 2,110 2,019 Scope 1 Direct: Diesel 23,790 25,414 Scope 1 Direct: Other fuels 1,250 1,073 Scope 1 Direct: Total 27,150 28,506 Scope 2 Indirect: Electricity 27,357 27,780 Scope 2 Indirect: Total 27,357 27,780 Total Scope 1 and 2 54,507 56,286 Turnover m 956.5 887.1 Turnover ratio tCO e per m 57.0 63.4 2 S cope 1 relates to direct emissions released into the atmosphere from activities owned or controlled by the Group.
This includes the consumption of gas and vehicle fuel.
Scope 2 relates to indirect emissions associated with the consumption of purchased electricity.
These emissions are a consequence of the Groups activities but occur at sources which the Group does not own or control.
The methodology used follows the principles of the GHG Protocol and or ISO 14064.
80.0 Total Carbon usage 000s tCO e 2 Turnover ratio tCO e per m 2 Turnover ratio inflation adjusted tCO e per m 2 70.0 60.0 50.0 40.0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 27 Corporate social responsibility report continued Manufacturing All our Supply division sites Over a two-year period we One of our key metrics for energy manufacturing, distribution would reduce the electricity usage in the factories is the or warehouse related have consumption of our own-brand electricity we consume per cabinet maintained compliance with Lamona dishwashers by 5% produced.
We started measuring their ISO 14001 standard for on a kWh basis.
this in 2008 and we are pleased Environmental Management as To that end, in Q4 we launched the that this figure has significantly well as helping the Group retain latest version of our bestselling decreased over the last five years.
its certification under the Carbon dishwasher with a 6% reduction in During 2013, we continued to Trust Standard.
both energy and water usage.
We will make significant improvements in Truck Fleet continue to work towards achieving our energy management through In 2013, we reduced the number of this KPI for our other own-brand the efforts of our employees and trailers in our fleet from 104 to 90 dishwashers as well as extending the application of new technology.
this KPI to look for a further 5% Our achievements in 2013 resulted Post-reconfiguration, we reduced improvement in water consumption in the figure dropping from the number of kilometres travelled over the next three years.
In addition, 2.84kWh per cabinet in 2012 to by 6% and as a result both diesel we have also introduced an additional 2.65kWh per cabinet in 2013, a consumption and CO emissions KPI in relation to our bestselling 7% reduction from the previous 2 were also reduced.
We managed to achieve this reduction in our consumption per We continued to see improvements To reduce the energy cabinet by implementing controls in miles per gallon MPG following consumption on our that ensure energy is used upon the implementation of a new bestselling Lamona fridgedemand within our processing tracking system across the truck freezers by 5% over the next lines, continuing our programme fleet in 2012.
All of our trucks three years on a kWh basis.
of lighting system upgrades in remain Euro 5 compliant.
the factories and the national In previous years, we have distribution centre, implementing Car Fleet also stated our commitment to further compressor efficiency In our Trade division, the latest fuel gaining Energy Savings Trust improvements and continuing efficient models continue to be EST certification for some of our energy saving awareness introduced and we have agreed appliances.
Unfortunately this campaigns being delivered on all a new contract with our vehicle scheme came to an end in 2013, sites to further raise employee supplier to replace 65% of our fleet at which point we had 19 certified awareness of reducing energy with vehicles with CO emissions appliances.
This contract will be of the scheme, we remain committed benefited from the commissioning rolled out over two years.
to improving the design and of the new manufacturing lines at efficiency of our products.
Products both Howden and Runcorn.
As part of our ongoing programme Waste Given the progress made in 2013, of energy and water reducing KPIs, Our employees are encouraged to our target for 2014 is to maintain in last years report we stated that: consider how we can improve our the consumption per cabinet level environmental performance in all achieved in 2013. areas by reducing consumption, reusing materials and recycling wherever possible.
28 Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual report & accounts 2013 In 2013, our Supply division reduced The remaining 11,823 tonnes of human rights throughout its supply overall waste by 18% and continued milled sawdust went to a local chain.
All suppliers are subject to to recycle waste in line with their manufacturer of animal bedding rigorous audits prior to commencing rolling KPI which is: where the sawdust is recycled business with us.
Details of which for use in bedding for horses, can be found on page 26.
To recycle more than 95% of all cattle and other livestock manufacturing waste produced.
The Howdens board will keep the 2012: 4,700 tonnes.
need for a specific human rights Of the 28,100 tonnes of waste We continue with the initiative policy under review.
repair pallets which would SUPPORTING OUR WORKFORCE otherwise have been scrapped.
TO ACQUIRE AND PRACTISE Our focus on absolute waste in Last year we recovered or CORE SKILLS our Supply division has delivered repaired more than 130,000 Employee responsibility a 2.5% improvement in yield, pallets 2012: 125,000.
We take our responsibilities as through the optimisation of our an employer seriously.
We aim to cutting patterns and board sizes.
During the year, our recycling provide a positive work environment This has resulted in more board programme in our Trade division, for all our staff, whether they work being turned into product rather introduced in 2012, has now rolled in factories, warehouses, depots than sawdust.
Any sawdust that out to all depots and is being or offices.
Our culture emphasises has been produced is either introduced to new depots as they the importance of individual converted into energy or open.
The results were better accountability, which means the recycled into animal bedding.
than anticipated with waste being personal responsibility of each of us sent to landfill being reduced by In 2013, we initiated a multi-million towards those we work with every more than 60%.
We will continue pound project to replace the five day.
We are proud of this culture, to work with our waste contractor ageing wood combustion burners which encourages openness and to identify further recycling that provide factory heating on transparency within the business opportunities in the depots.
the Howden site with new wood and has been vital to its growth and burners that are highly efficient and development since 1995.
This culture HUMAN RIGHTS will have lower emissions.
The first is reinforced by our commitment to Howden Joinery promotes the stage of this upgrade came on-line certain core principles: observance of internationally in January 2014 and all factory recognised labour standards, Recognising by reward the hard heating burners will be upgraded in particular human rights.
Our work of all employees: during 2014.
As we are midway employment contracts and CSR through this project, the sawdust investing in training and policy provide that the Group will we consumed declined dramatically development across the business: promote these standards and all our compared to 2012.
In 2013, we and employees must adhere to a code of converted 4,853 tonnes of sawdust ethics in order to achieve the highest into energy at our Howden and ensuring that recruitment, career possible standard of integrity in our Runcorn sites 2012: 14,700 tonnes success and progression are solely business relationships.
This equates determined by an employees to approx.
26,000 MWh of energy abilities and achievements.
Given the number of international generated from sawdust in 2013. suppliers with which we do We expect our consumption of business, the Group also considers sawdust to increase once our the impact of its activities on 29 new burners are online.
Corporate social responsibility report continued Supporting learning and apprentices in the wider community.
As well as donating discontinued development in the community In partnership with CITB the Sector products on which students can Howden Joinerys heritage and Skills Council and Industry Training practise, depots also sponsor end culture means we place a high Board for the construction industry, of year awards and prizes.
In 2009, value on the whole range of we continue to offer the Howden we started a separate programme skills technical, commercial and Joinery Bursary for new apprentice of support for colleges that offer interpersonal that are practised joiners.
The scheme was the first NVQ Diploma courses that include by local tradespeople.
We are keen of its kind in the country, its aim a module on kitchen installation.
to promote the use of these skills in being to fund first year wages for We provide each college with a the workplace and interest in them apprentice joiners in companies supply of equipment tailored to their in the wider community.
which would otherwise feel unable to individual requirements for both afford to fund an apprentice.
Developing apprenticeships than stipulating that the money be in-house We have continued to cultivate strong used specifically to fund apprentice During 2013, we continued relationships with local schools and joiners, Howdens has no involvement our partnership with The Real colleges and have provided various in choosing either the apprentices or Apprenticeship Company to further work experience placements in both the companies involved.
promote the use of apprenticeships office and operational environments.
The Group Having funded 20 places over the Our Supply division has recently currently employs 12 modern first two years of the scheme, in linked up with CREATE Studio Goole, apprentices in our Supply division, September 2012 we agreed to a school established by the Studio all of which are apprenticed in extend the funding to accommodate Schools Trust, a Government initiative engineering, and 293 modern a further 20 places, creating which sets up Studio Schools.
apprentices within the depot opportunities for 20 more young These schools seek to teach through network who are practising a people across the country.
We are enterprise projects and real work.
broad range of skills within the pleased with the feedback from the We have committed to provide work depot network.
A further 110 scheme to date not only from the placements and work projects for apprentices are currently being newly qualified joiners themselves students in this area.
During 2013, the business but also from the companies who Training at Howdens saw 98 apprentices gain their now see the value of apprentices Our commitment to training does apprenticeship qualification.
and are committed to employing not stop with apprenticeships.
Our more of them in the future, this At the end of 2013, as well as training team in our Trade division time without the help of a bursary.
ongoing BTEC see below, we saw continue to deliver the BTEC the launch of the Apprenticeship Partnerships with schools and Level 2 Award in Trade Business in Trade Business Services.
Our Further Education colleges Services and the BTEC Level training team were instrumental in In addition to running the bursary 3 Certificate in Trade Business driving the development of this new scheme, we also support trainee Management through internal framework, designed specifically for builders and joiners in their local job-related training.
This course the trade sector.
community as they go through is unique to Howden Joinery.
their courses and develop their During 2013, 518 employees were Pioneering bursary scheme skills.
To do this, we continue to successfully awarded certificates for apprentice joiners encourage our depots to build on through the programmes.
We also As well as helping promote the value their relationships with construction deliver management and leadership of apprenticeships in-house, we also departments in local colleges of development to support the future continue to help the next generation Further Education.
growth of the business, with our 30 of builders and joiners by supporting Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual report & accounts 2013 Supply division having achieved Our defensive driving course, During 2013, there were four accredited centre status with Driving for Safety and Economy, reportable health & safety incidents the Institute of Leadership which runs for those staff across 2012: 7.
This continues a downward Management during 2012. the depot network who are trend in reportable accidents which required to drive as part of their have declined by 92% over the past As well as supporting staff to gain day-to-day role: this year a total of five years.
With average time lost accreditations, our staff have also 376 drivers completed this course.
per incident falling by 74% over the benefited from our investment in Car accidents were reduced by same five year period.
internal courses, with over 127,500 8% during 2013. training hours completed during Across the Group there were no the year.
Courses are offered in Management of safety in a depot, prosecutions, prohibitions or subjects ranging from HR skills to where managers continue to be improvement notices by either the manual handling, from diversity & trained every three years.
During Health & Safety Executive HSE or inclusion to health & safety, from 2013, 173 managers and 157 the Environment Agency EA.
environmental awareness to LGV assistant managers completed and fork-lift truck driving.
PLAYING AN ACTIVE ROLE IN to continue to invest in training OUR COMMUNITIES Handyman safety and tool training and development in 2014 as well As a locally driven business it is course, which was completed by as maintain a strong in-house our policy to encourage staff at all 34 handymen.
delivery capability as we continue each of our sites to support and to encourage staff to achieve engage with local community IOSH Managing Safety for training qualifications themselves.
Cash and stock Executives course, which was donations together with employee completed by 25 senior managers, Health & safety depots, fund raising activities typically ensuring their skills are kept upmanufacturing & distribution supported a broad cross section to-date every three years.
In the depots of local causes including: sports There were 32 reportable health & In our manufacturing, warehouse clubs, schools, colleges, scouts safety incidents in our 559 depots and distribution sites guides, youth groups, hospices, during 2013 2012: 23.
Whilst this All three sites have again achieved care homes, village halls and many represents an increase on the the prestigious International Safety other community activities.
This previous year the overall trend over a Award given by the British Safety year our staff were responsible for five year period remains downward.
Worldover 1,990 donations to local good With the majority of accidents due to wide there were 38 distinctions causes 2012: 2,126, amounting manual handling, in 2013 a specific awarded in 2013, Howdens to some 704k across the Group training programme was put in received three of them.
Given the reduction place to further reduce the number in spend during the year, we have of injuries and remind staff of best Additionally, all three sites retained increased the capacity of each practice in this area.
their OHSAS BS 18001 certification depot to make contributions to and maintained 5-Star status its local community.
To ensure we encourage and in the British Safety Council maintain a health & safety culture in 5-Star audit, achieving over the Trade division, we continue to 90% compliance.
run a number of courses including: 31 Corporate social responsibility report continued Ten years ago we formed a Our joint training kitchen project Every year our staff take-up partnership with Leonard Cheshire with LCD at their care home, Bells various fundraising challenges Disability LCD.
Like Howdens, Piece, in Farnham, Surrey opened to benefit LCD.
This year, these they put local communities at the last year, and has continued to activities included: heart of their work.
Founded in provide healthy eating and cooking Entry in the Great North Run, 1948, with over 200 services across courses to many participants from with 27 runners from across the the UK, this inspirational charity the Can Do project.
The success business taking part: and supports thousands of disabled of this concept has opened up the people every year, both in the UK possibility of developing similar the Dambusters 700 mile relay and internationally.
They work for centres in several other locations marathon, a fundraising event: a society in which every person over the next few years.
Such is the marking the 70th anniversary of is equally valued, believing that interest in this area that 34 carers 617 Squadrons bombing raids disabled people should have the from LCD services across the during World War II, under the freedom to choose the way they country attended courses at Bells leadership of the charitys founder, live their lives.
Volunteers play a vital role in helping Inspired by working with their More of our charitable activities LCD to provide their services and residents, our inclusive kitchen can be found in our Truly Local over the years we have funded research with the charity continues book, which is available online at many areas of their work to recruit to enable us to offer affordable http: www.
com about-us and train them.
In 2011, we began kitchen solutions to people of .
This provides supporting and funding LCDs all abilities.
In 2013, we installed a snap-shot of just some of the innovative Can Do project as and donated three further activity activities in which we are involved a continuation of this policy.
The kitchens and revisited three but are not necessarily documented project gives young adults who have from previous years to carry out in this report.
disabilities themselves the chance to modifications and or improvements volunteer in their own communities, following feedback from residents Matthew Ingle as well as providing group support and staff.
Chief Executive and individual mentoring.
In 2013, we also decided to take 26 February 2014 In many cases individuals take on on a joint LCD Howdens exhibition relevant accredited courses and stand at Naidex 2013 to showcase for some this can even lead to our partnership and product.
Last year Can Do helped over 1,300 young people to take on volunteering positions across their four existing regions: London & the South East, Leeds & West Yorkshire, Bristol and the North West of England.
The initiative continues to grow in these regions and into other areas of the country, helping more young adults with disabilities to realise their full potential.
