Strategic Report Corporate and Social Responsibility As an international services provider, Hunting relies on its reputation within the energy industry.
The relationships developed with stakeholders are critical to our business success and in order to ensure the continuing growth of the Group we constantly evaluate ways to strengthen our links with investors, customers, suppliers, employees, governments and the communities in which our businesses operate.
The responsibility for building and Human Rights maintaining our reputation with Hunting is committed to upholding the stakeholders extends from the Board, to our Human Rights of all individuals and in executive management and to those March 2014 published its global Human employees working at an operational level.
Rights Policy which is incorporated within Hunting continues to update and introduce the Groups Code of Conduct.
policies on governance, business conduct, bribery and corruption and most recently This policy extends to: human rights.
providing a safe working environment for all employees and contractors: Further details on the Groups governance respecting the rights of the individual framework can be found within the with a zero tolerance to any form of Corporate Governance Report on pages discrimination, harassment or bullying: 50 to 53. providing training and development programmes to our global workforce: The Board believes that the combined not employing child labour: policies covering these areas continued to promoting good relationships with the remain effective during the year.
The Board communities in which we operate: also believes that the policies in place operating in an environmentally aware covering other key areas such as human manner.
rights, bribery and corruption and compliance with laws and regulations Investors remained effective in the period.
Communicating performance and future strategy with the Groups shareholders is of Code of Conduct key importance to the Board of Directors.
Through the Groups Code of Conduct Communications include press releases Hunting has published the basis on which issued to the London Stock Exchange, our employees interact with our customers industry analyst and institutional investor and suppliers around the world.
Our presentations and webcasts and interacting commitment to do business in an ethical with shareholders at general meetings of and transparent way enables Hunting to the Company.
Other communications occupy a position of trust with our partners.
include an in-house corporate publication, As part of our established procedures, the the Hunting Review, which is published Code of Conduct is sent to all major trading twice a year.
38 Hunting PLC 2013 Annual Report and Accounts Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Other Information Strategic Report Regional training centres Our commitment to training in support of a world class workforce is essential for individual personal development, teamwork and to ensure that we develop the right skills for the next generation.
Attracting high quality candidates to the oil and gas industry means having the right resources to create an environment that values continued learning, advancement and fulfilment.
A looming skills gap is evident within the industry and the Group has a responsibility to ensure that the right skills sets are not just maintained but raised for future success.
Amongst a strategic mix of programmes designed to engage employees in their respective workplaces, the Group has also opened three dedicated Regional Training Centres in Singapore, Houston, and Oklahoma City to reinforce training standards across the Group.
Training programmes and modules have been developed to meet the Groups specific needs.
Classroom instruction for theoretical grounding is complemented by practical hands-on training in the centres workshops.
The emphasis was initially to train the trainers who could coach and Classroom, workshop and e-learning are part of a offer on-the-job, site specific guidance.
Further e-learning modules have been customised to meet key industry standards and along with company assessment and qualifications, provide industry accepted accreditation.
Hunting PLC 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 39 Strategic Report Corporate and Social Responsibility continued The Company is quoted on the London Geographic split of employees 20122013 Stock Exchange and has a premium listing status, indicating its commitment to the 3,990 2013 UKs highest standards of regulation and 3,866 2012 2,275 2,273 corporate governance as published by the Financial Conduct Authority.
The Company is also required to comply with UK Company Law and the laws and regulations of the jurisdictions in which it operates.
805 Customers and Suppliers 673 578 539 255 244 Huntings customers and suppliers are an 71 65 45 33 integral part of the success of the Group.
UK USA Canada Rest of Asia Pacific Other Developing our relationships with these Europe partners is essential to our long-term growth.
The Hunting way of doing business is summarised in the Code of Conduct, Thirty years service is not an uncommon The demographic of our employees reflects with openness and transparency being key attribute.
The Group believes that providing the global nature of the oil and gas industry components of our reputation with additional benefits to staff encourages the and the geographic diversity of the Groups long-term business partners.
best performance from our people.
majority of employees are offered Hunting PLC is a signatory to the UK participation in schemes which provide At 31 December 2013, the Group had governments Prompt Payment Code and is healthcare and post-retirement benefits 3,990 employees 2012 3,866 with the committed to making timely payments to and, in certain instances, participation in geographical split shown in the chart our suppliers, providing transparency and bonus arrangements when outperformance above.
certainty to our business partners.
in terms of operational excellence has been achieved.
Hunting has share award Hunting believes that employing the right In order to promote its standing within our schemes in place as a longer-term incentive people is only the start of the relationship industry sector, Group companies hold and to encourage employees to participate between an employee and employer.
memberships with a variety of organisations in the ownership of the Company.
The Group seeks to adhere to all relevant including: local and jurisdictional laws covering American Petroleum Institute.
The Board has an established whistleemployment and minimum wage Society of Petroleum Engineers.
blowing procedure for any employee legislation.
As a responsible employer, full The Intervention and Coiled Tubing wishing to raise, in confidence, any and fair consideration is given to Association.
concerns they may have about possible applications for positions from disabled Leading Oil and Gas Industry financial improprieties, or other matters, persons and to their training and career Competitiveness.
with the Chairman or Senior Independent advancement.
Every effort is made to retain Investors in People.
During 2013 an independent and in employment those who become confidential whistle-blowing reporting disabled while employed by the Group.
Employees service operated by Safecall Limited was Our people are our most valuable asset and commissioned with contact details It is important for the Group to retain key the Group recognises that its success and communicated to all employees.
employees and to recruit high quality reputation depends upon their efforts, candidates.
This remains a major challenge integrity and commitment.
Our people Diversity for the oil and gas industry.
Hunting has create Huntings competitive edge and Huntings diversity policy is detailed within cultivated a supportive environment that ensure that our customers expectations are the Corporate Governance Report.
The promotes development, learning and met.
Responsibility for employees lies with Group adheres to these principles to ensure advancement to ensure that its employees local management, which allows local equal opportunities are given to its global realise their potential.
Long service is a cultural issues to be appropriately managed workforce across the whole spectrum of feature of the Groups employment profile and the necessary development diversity areas, including gender.
and recognition is given through service programmes to be structured accordingly.
award programmes across the Group.
40 Hunting PLC 2013 Annual Report and Accounts Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Other Information Strategic Report The Groups gender diversity is represented manufacturing facilities and 34 service and Huntings customers and in the table below.
distribution points across the globe and all suppliers are an integral are committed to achieving and maintaining Huntings senior management is defined the highest standards of safety for its part of the success of the as those employees who have influence in employees, customers, suppliers and the Group and developing our the daily running of the Groups major public.
relationships with these operational businesses and activities, including the number of persons who were Hunting has a proven culture of aiming for partners is essential to our directors of the undertakings included in best practice and employs rigorous health long-term growth.
Health and Safety policies include: Huntings Gender Balance Huntings Board currently comprises a small Regular audit and maintenance reviews and all-male Board of six Directors with no of facilities, equipment, practices and Total number Number Number of of officers of males females female representation.
As noted in the procedures to ensure compliance with employees % % Corporate Governance Report, the Board of prevailing standards and legislation and Senior Hunting will appoint a female Director as a safe environment for all those who Management 162 92 8 soon as is practical taking into account the work within and around our facilities.
need to periodically refresh the Board.
Seeking accreditation and aligning long Whole standing company programmes and Workforce 3,990 83 17 Community procedures to internationally recognised Huntings commitment to the communities Quality Assurance standards.
in which it operates extends on many Monitoring, which is a management fronts.
The Group participates in a number task, documented and reported at of initiatives and events which raise money Board level.
for charities and community projects Appropriate training and education of around the world.
In 2013, many Hunting all staff.
employees participated in local charitable A detailed combined policy on health, events with associated corporate support.
safety and environmental matters, which can be found on the Companys website The Hunting Art Prize is an annual event www.
hosted in Houston which supports local community organisations.
In 2013, the Art Huntings Director of Health, Safety and Prize supported the charity New Danville, a Environment reports directly to the Chief self-sustaining community dedicated to Executive and a report is considered by the providing adults with intellectual and Board of Directors at each meeting.
The London corporate office participates in local development disabilities an opportunity to charitable activities, supplemented by charitable donations given by the Chairmans Charitable Trust.
live, work, and grow with their nonThe Groups target is to achieve zero disabled peers.
In 2014, Huntings chosen recordable incidents.
Each local business is charity is Patriot PAWS Service Dogs.
required to develop tailored policies to suit Patriot is dedicated to training dogs to assist their environment.
These incorporate the disabled service veterans and others with Groups approach to putting safety first and, mobile disabilities.
at a minimum, to comply with local regulatory requirements.
Training is given to The Group also makes donations to various every employee, throughout the Group.
UK charities through the Chairmans charitable trust committee, which During the year, there were no fatalities comprises the Chairman and former across the Groups operations with Hunting employees.
In 2013, assistance was 63 recordable incidents 2012 82.
incident rate, as calculated from guidance issued by the Occupation Safety and During 2013, the Group donated $0.5m Health Administration in the US, was 1.54 2012 $0.3m to charities.
The industry average incident rate in 2013 was 7.0 Health and Safety 2012 5.6.
The Group operates from 41 principal Hunting PLC 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 41 Strategic Report Corporate and Social Responsibility continued In 2013, the Group continued its programme to introduce lean manufacturing processes into global operations.
This resulted in efficiency gains in a number of key business units.
The Group continuously strives to gain leadership in areas of technology relevant to the Groups products and at the year end had 338 active patents.
Environment The Group is committed to the protection of the environment and developing manufacturing processes and procedures, which ensure that any adverse effects on the environment are kept to a minimum.
The Groups environmental policy is to Marshall Harris is announced as the winner of the look for opportunities and adopt practices annual Hunting Art Prize for his work Round Up.
Quality and Manufacturing Excellence that create a safer and cleaner environment.
The Group is committed to enhancing its It is particularly sensitive to the challenges production and operational quality with a for the industry in which it operates.
The number of facilities being certified ISO Group has programmes in place to monitor 9001 quality, 14001 health and safety the environmental impact from its ISO Accreditation and 18001 environmental compliant, operational activities and remains focused % of manufacturing facilities indicating that globally recognised on ensuring environmental consideration is standards and systems are in place.
at the forefront of its business practices.
54 More facilities across the Group are Key aspects of our environmental policies working towards these accreditations, include: continuing the Groups commitment to Keeping any adverse effects on the 20 monitoring and reducing the environmental environment to a minimum.
impact of its operations and increasing Encouraging the reduction of waste and 7 HSE standards.
emissions and promoting awareness of recycled materials and use of renewable Operational and production excellence is a resources.
18001 14001 9001 key feature of our relationship with Each operating unit developing and customers, therefore quality assurance for implementing their own procedures each component manufactured is a key while conducting regular reviews to indication of our drive to be an industry ensure that they are maintained and leading provider of critical components and refined.
Encouraging employees to pay special regard to environmental issues and requirements in the communities in which the Group operates.
Incorporating health, safety and environment considerations into the design of new facilities.
42 Hunting PLC 2013 Annual Report and Accounts Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Other Information Strategic Report The Group monitors and collects data relating to its greenhouse gas emissions from across CO emissions tonnes its operations and submits data to the UKs Carbon Disclosure Project.
2 In compliance with the Climate Change Act 2008 each business unit across the Group 41,853 has reported scope 1 and 2 emissions to provide a consolidated total of each source of 39,180 greenhouse gas emissions for the year ended 31 December 2013.
Scope 1 emissions result from direct sources such as fossil fuels consumed onsite.
Scope 2 emissions are indirect emissions such as electricity consumed by a business.
The reporting basis for emissions has been presented on an operational control basis, with data collected on the six greenhouse gases highlighted by the Kyoto Protocol.
Total emissions are converted to a carbon dioxide equivalent figure, using the methodologies and conversion factors detailed in the UK governments Environmental Reporting Guidance as published by DEFRA 2012 2013 www.
The following table details Huntings scope 1 and 2 emissions: CO equivalent emissions tonnes 2 2013 2012 % change Scope 1 8,309 9,061 8 Scope 2 33,544 30,119 11 Total controlled emissions 41,853 39,180 7 2012 emissions have been restated following publication of revised factors by DEFRA.
The Group also collects mains water usage data and in 2013 consumed 195k cubic metres 2012 169k cubic metres of water.
The Groups emissions are primarily a function of the production activity within its operating facilities, therefore the Groups facilities square footage has been adopted as the basis of the intensity factor presented below: 2013 2012 % change Total controlled emissions tonnes 41,853 39,180 7 Facilities footprint 000 square feet 2,763 2,705 2 Intensity Factor 15.2 14.5 5 2013 has seen the Group continue to develop and enhance its relationships with all stakeholders with a commitment from all levels of the Group to deliver value for its partners in the long term.
Dennis Proctor Peter Rose Chief Executive Finance Director 6 March 2014 Hunting PLC 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 43
