Corporate social responsibility report The Group recognizes that it has responsibilities to all stakeholders which include the interests of employees and their families: the need to foster the Groups business relationships with partners, customers, suppliers and others: and the impact of the Groups operations on the local communities and the surrounding environment where it operates.
Employees are highly regarded and valued, and their employment and other rights are respected.
The Group is committed to the important principle of equal opportunity which is reflected in the Groups recruitment, graduate recruitment, disciplinary and grievance policies.
The Group is dedicated to supplying products of top quality to meet its customers requirements in a manner that is consistent with high environmental and ethical standards.
The Group makes a contribution to local charities and communities in areas where it operates its business.
Energy use As a Group we feel our environmental impact on the whole is low, with our main business being the development of intellectual property which helps customers develop the most power efficient products possible.
Our emissions come mainly from the use of electricity in our offices.
In the UK we currently have eight offices, four at Group headquarters in Kings Langley, one data centre in the process of construction and three offices at other locations in the UK.
We also have a number of overseas sites.
The Group has been reviewing the supplies of its electricity and the tariffs and during the year two buildings have moved to a green renewable energy tariff.
Further buildings will move over to this tariff as current contracts expire.
The intention is that all electricity used is from renewable tariffs by 2015.
The Group are aware of our reporting obligations from October 2013 under the Companies Act 2006 Strategic and Directors Reports Regulations 2013 to report our annual greenhouse gas emissions in our annual report 2013 14.
We understand the importance of these new provisions and are taking the necessary advice to comply.
Redevelopment of site and environmental impact The Group began redeveloping its headquarters site in Kings Langley, with the first of the four buildings completed in November 2012.
The second building is now in the process of construction as is a new data centre.
All of the buildings are being designed along the principles of sustainable design and will exceed the building regulations requirements for buildings of this nature: the first build has achieved a BREEAM rating of Excellent and the intention is that the remaining new buildings will too.
In addition to reducing each buildings energy consumption a sustainable approach has been adopted when handling other issues which will contribute towards a truly sustainable building.
Such issues include the selection of materials: construction technologies: and the operation, management and maintenance of the completed building.
The main methods by which a fully sustainable building with the aspired BREEAM rating of Excellent will be achieved are: Intr oducing the sustainable aspects of the construction process at an early stage of the design and collaborating as a team to achieve the sustainability goals.
Consider ed and intelligent design of fenestration.
The main emphasis in the design and specification of the glazing and solar shading devices will be to reduce operational energy usage in terms of heat loss and solar gain whilst maximizing levels of daylight within the office space, thus reducing reliance on artificial lighting.
The provision of facilities such as secure bicycle storage and changing facilities to encourage staff to use sustainable modes of transport.
W ater saving technologies such as flow restrictors, low flow rate water fittings, etc.
will be applied to the building to minimize portable water demand and to achieve further CO emissions reductions while saving a precious natural resource.
2 Selection of construction materials and technologies that minimize site wastage.
Using locally sourced materials where possible.
Responsibly sour cing materials used in structural and non-structural elements.
Third-party certification will be required to show that the timber has come from a sustainability managed source, e. g. Forest Stewardship Council FSC.
Using the Green Guide to Specification to ensure that where possible materials have A rating.
Recycling construction waste using off-site sorting including a dedicated space for recyclable materials on site.
The provision of dedicated recyclable waste storage facilities.
Aiming to improve the sites ecological impact through considered landscaping treatment.
Incorporating SUDS Sustainable Urban Drainage such as permeable paving on the surface car parks and water attenuation to cont rol surface water run-off and minimize water course pollution.
55 New data centre development To meet the Groups considerable IT requirements in the future a proposal to construct a dedicated data centre was approved.
The energy efficient nature of the data centre was fundamental to the brief provided by the Group to the contractors.
The new facility once constructed will contain two highly efficient data halls, the first of which will be available for use in July 2013 and the Group will start to populate it from September 2013.
The second hall will come online in the future to meet business needs as the Group grows.
The data halls are supported by a highly efficient electrical distribution system that utilizes state of the art static UPS systems that have multiple modes of operation to maximize energy efficiency and minimize the energy used.
A low energy cooling solution is also being adopted that provides both a water and air cooled solution that makes use of free cooling when ambient conditions allow.
Pure division Our Pure division has spent considerable time looking into ways to reduce their environmental impact and it remains committed to ethical and environmentally sustainable design and manufacture as encapsulated within EcoPlus www.
Pure recognizes that its main environmental impact comes through the products themselves in manufacture, transport and predominantly in use by consumers, and so it continues to reduce the power consumption of its products, with a programme in place to exceed the requirements of the tightened Energy-Using Products EuP Directive which came into force in January 2013.
The Pure division also ensures that through its own due diligence programme that all third-party factories comply with the following Health, Environmental and Ethical requirements: EC Regulation on chemicals and their safe use EC 1907 2006, known as Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemical substances REACH.
Use of Certain Hazardous Substances in Electrical Equipment Regulations 2005 RoHS.
SEDEX or SA800 Pur e is committed to the ethical treatment of its staff and contractors, and to that end all third-party factories are audited via the SEDEX or SA8000 programmes to ensure compliance with local and national laws, particularly on: working hours and conditions, health and safety, rates of pay, terms of employment and minimum age of employment.
Eur opean Union Timber Regulations EUTR ensures timber used on products comes from legally sourced forests and has full tractability and evidence throughout the supply chain back to the original forests.
The Pure division through their own functions ensures compliance with the following: The EC Dir ective on Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment WEEE this is aimed at minimizing the impact of electrical and electronic goods on the environment.
REPIC this is to meet obligations as a producer of WEEE.
the EC Dir ective on Batteries and Accumulators and Waste Batteries and Accumulators 2006 66 EC through their membership of the compliance scheme eBatt.
The Pure division use a compliance solutions company to meet their obligations under the Packaging Waste Regulation obligations.
Recycling We encourage our employees to recycle their day to day waste.
We do this by ensuring there are recycling bins for cardboard and nonconfidential materials and separate confidential bags in every office, all of which will be recycled.
There are also recycle bins in each kitchen area.
Energy saving measures are also in place for recycling components, such as printed circuit boards, toner cartridges, surplus packaging and paper.
Imagination House, the head office at Kings Langley has an on-site canteen and we are working to ensure that as much waste as possible is recycled.
All cardboard, wooden boxes, drink cans and plastic bottles are currently recycled.
The plan for the upcoming year is to have separate bins in the canteen kitchen for each type of waste allowing the composting of food waste and the recycling of tins and glasses.
