Our people As stated in our introduction we believe our most critical asset is our people.
In 2012 13 the Company recruited 482 people to support the growth of our business, of which 26% were graduates.
The Group have implemented a number of programmes to encourage the development and retention which are detailed below.
Development and training A new three day Management and Leadership development programme was launched in the year.
With the rapid growth of the Group we need to ensure we maintain a core culture that embraces our values and enables employees to perform at their best.
The programme will focus on developing our managers so that they are able to provide the best management environment for their teams.
The programme is an interactive, experiential one where small groups of up to 12 employees get involved in leading teams, managing performance and providing feedback and coaching to help each other develop.
The three day course since its inception has reached more than 50 managers with plans in places to reach 110 by December 2013.
Training modules focussed on enhancing employees soft skills are also in the early stages of being developed to commence in 2014.
One to one meetings annual reviews There is an annual formal appraisal process in place for every employee.
The appraisal process is made up of two parts which include line managers providing comprehensive feedback on performance for the prior year and secondly working with the employee to set objectives for the future.
Employees are urged to provide input when assessing performance and setting future objectives and are also encouraged to raise any issues or concerns they may have about any aspect of the job.
This process is not the only opportunity for employees to give input, there is very much an open door culture throughout the Group where employees can discuss any issues at any point.
Graduate recruitment programme The Group runs a graduate recruitment programme with universities and colleges throughout the UK, having developed strong relationships with a number of universities including the University of Southampton, Imperial College London, the University of Bristol and the University of Manchester.
We sponsor PhD studentships, undergraduate and Masters of Science projects as well as running an active recruitment calendar at our top universities.
As a direct result of our graduate recruitment programme we have had approximately 50 undergraduate interns this year.
We have linked up with universities which reflect our technical skillset and are supporting and developing these into centres of excellence for students in line with our intellectual property activities around the Group.
One of our key objectives is to encourage academic institutions in the UK to support the research requirements of UK industry.
In addition to this, we are also building collaborations with other European universities outside the UK.
Scholarships, sponsorships and apprenticeships The Group offers a wide range of other incentives to young people varying from the sponsorship of electronic courses at local schools: giving scholarship awards to students at University to promote career opportunities at our Group and financial awards to successful internships with the intention that the students come to work for the Group in the future.
The Group continues to run an apprenticeship programme for 16 year olds, and also invites around 20 young people annually for structured work experience to learn more about and experience some of the careers available in our sector.
The Group is in the process of building regional hubs at its four UK sites to promote electronics to the school age population.
Share awards Share awards are regarded as a key retention tool and all employees regardless of location or seniority participate in share arrangements and receive awards bi-annually.
The Board considers that without the share plans it has adopted for employees, the Group would not have achieved the great success that it has achieved to date.
On joining every new employee at the Company gets a share plan presentation.
All of the Companys share plans are open to all employees, who do not need to have been at the Group for any material qualifying period of time to be able to participate.
Due to the widespread participation in the Companys share plans, employees are now well educated in the benefits of share ownership.
The Company also works with external advisors to devise plans that not only offer the best arrangement for employees but also have performance conditions that align the interests of employees with shareholders.
The Company was recognized for its efforts by ifs ProShare in 2012 as joint winners in the category of Best overall performance in fostering employee share ownership for companies with 1,001-15,000 employees.
This was a significant achievement given the relatively small size of the Group with approximately 1,200 employees at the time in relation to much larger competitors.
In the same year the Company also received a commendation from The Employee Share Ownership Centre ESOP which applauded the granting of share awards on a Group wide basis and the strong and competitive share plan culture within the Group.
57 Health and fitness It is becoming increasingly important for the Group to ensure it is doing what it can to assist staff to stay fit and healthy.
The Company encourages employees to do this by paying 50% of gym membership.
Currently 17% of employees are members of fitness clubs supported by the Company.
Also in place is a Ride2Work scheme which was launched in 2010 where the Company works in partnership with a national cycle retailer to promote sustainable transport and the health of its employees.
The scheme allows the Company to offer bicycle and related safety equipment to employees to be used to commute to work up to a maximum spend of 2,000 with a 12 month repayment period.
There are considerable tax savings for the employee as well as health benefits.
Currently 19% of employees participate in the scheme.
Healthier staff restaurant Our new headquarters provides superior catering facilities and the comments from employees have been overwhelmingly positive with people enthusiastic about the quality, freshness and variety of produce.
The catering firm operating the canteen also ensures they use only sustainable fish and farm assured meats as standard which is in line with Group principles.
Our aim in the upcoming year is to ensure quality and the innovation of the canteen team is maintained and further improves.
Local community and environmental sustainability As part of its commitments to the local community and environment the Company is engaging a local community charity to help turn multiple areas of Group owned green spaces that have been left derelict and overgrown into a maintained landscaped area.
The focus initially will be on overgrown woodland set behind our office in Chepstow.
The aim is to create an attractive area for employees to enjoy along with associated habitat improvements.
Charitable work in the community The Group gives charitable donations both locally and nationally.
Every year employees are consulted to ensure that the donations given by the Group represent all the interests and locations where employees are based.
A list of charities are selected by the Group and employees are then asked to vote on which percentage of the Group charitable donation pot is to go to each of the charities.
If employees raise money for a charity on the Group selected charity list the Group will double the amount of money raised by the employee.
Sports and social club This was set up in 2000 with the aim of bringing together employees to participate in a variety of activities.
Employees for a nominal 2 monthly contribution can gain membership which provides a 50% discount on all events.
The club is seeing considerable growth in popularity with membership rising to 83% of employees.
The Sports and Social Club Committee has also grown to 12 active members responsible for organising events.
In the financial year there has been a wide range of events, such as visits to the opera, Ascot family days, cross-country running events, marathons, mountain biking, combat boxing and rock climbing activities to name but a few!
