Our Responsible Approach Our reputation for acting responsibly supports our sustainable growth aspirations.
John Downing Company Secretary Operating responsibly is integral to the way we do business: its A rewarding workplace is one where employees are inspired what our stakeholders rightly expect of us and it supports our to do their best work.
That doesnt just mean creating a safe long-term success.
and pleasant working environment: its about engaging with our people, building their capabilities and providing exciting Our people are central to the success of our responsibility opportunities for career progression.
agenda and take great pride in doing things the right way, living our values and respecting our Code of Conduct to drive In respecting natural resources were minimising our environmental responsible performance.
impact by reducing waste and water consumption and improving energy ef ciency, which includes addressing carbon emissions.
Code of Conduct By reinvesting in society were making positive contributions to Our Code of Conduct sits at the core of our governance the communities in which we operate.
practices, which includes the policies, internal controls and risk management processes that underpin our sales growth strategy.
These priorities are aligned with our sustainable growth strategy and each year we set new objectives to improve our performance.
The Code sets out the high standards of responsible behaviour Engaging with stakeholders, including employees, consumers and that employees are expected to follow and provides practical our community and environmental partners, is embedded in the guidance on how to deal with important ethical and legal issues.
way we develop our responsibility agenda.
The Code applies to everyone in Imperial Tobacco, as well as Our Values, Our Responsibility our business partners, and is published in full on our corporate This year we launched Our Values, Our Responsibility, an website.
We have a rolling training programme to ensure ongoing internal drive to further enhance employee engagement around engagement with the Code throughout the business, including responsibility issues.
e-learning courses and face-to-face sessions.
The initiative was launched by the Chief Executive, supported Responsibility Framework by the Operating Executive, the senior management team that Our values embody the individual and collective behaviours we implements our sales growth strategy.
expect from everyone who works for us and, like the Code of Conduct and other governance practices, theyre embedded Each member of the Operating Executive champions speci c in the business and support our responsibility framework.
responsibility activities in the business, including environmental sustainability, employee well-being and eliminating child labour.
This framework focuses on four key areas: being responsible with products, creating a rewarding workplace, respecting natural Not only does this reinforce the importance of responsibility resources and reinvesting in society.
across the business, its also enhancing employee engagement on responsibility issues, which is something that our people have Marketing our brands responsibly, supporting our consumers and told us they want to see more of.
taking action on important issues, such as illicit trade, are central to the responsible approach we take to managing our products.
An increasing number of employees are volunteering to get involved in projects that are linked with our responsibility framework, ranging from helping the homeless in Belgium, giving blood in Slovenia, river maintenance in the Philippines and reforestation initiatives in Vietnam and Greece.
18 Imperial Tobacco Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2013 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS s t R c e u i n d o v e r p s t i h n t i g w i e n l b s i s o n c o i p e t s e y R External Recognition Were proud of the contributions that our people make and were delighted that our responsibility credentials continue to be recognised externally.
79% Business in the Community has again awarded us Gold status in the 2013 Corporate Responsibility Index and we achieved our highest ever score of 79 per cent in the RobecoSAM assessment for the Dow Jones Sustainability Index.
You can learn more about our achievements in the Corporate Responsibility Review section of this report, which also sets out our priorities for the future.
Our Values, Our Responsibility Goals Focus Areas To create a To support great legitimate workplace markets and consumers Our Values We can I own I am We surprise I engage We enjoy Code of Conduct To make To reduce our positive societal environmental contributions impact Imperial Tobacco Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2013 19 R e s e p c e a c l t p i k n r g o n w a t g u r n a i l d r r e a s w o e u r R c e s
