Corporate Responsibility The responsible way we run our business supports our sales strategy and is fundamental to our long-term sustainability.
Our priorities are clearly set out in our responsibility framework and highlight the areas that matter most to us and to our stakeholders.
These are: being responsible with products creating a rewarding workplace respecting natural resources reinvesting in society.
During the year we commissioned an external stakeholder review of this framework and the constructive feedback we received gives us con dence that we are focusing our energies on addressing the right issues and priorities.
Our Corporate Responsibility Review sets out the key progress were making in all four areas.
More detailed information on our achievements can be found in the Responsibility section of our corporate website www.
Our website also contains the detailed objectives and targets weve set ourselves for 2014, which are aligned to our responsibility framework.
28 Imperial Tobacco Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2013 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS Responsible With Products We manufacture, market and sell our products responsibly and take A signi cant engagement focus for us in 2013 was the revision great pride in the fact that millions of people around the world enjoy of the EUTPD, which includes a number of proposals that would our brands every day.
Our consumers are of paramount importance standardise the appearance and taste of cigarettes and ne cut to us and we will continue to stand up for their right to enjoy tobacco.
This would affect our portfolio, our consumers and the level of illicit trade, which already accounts for well over Product Standards 10 per cent of all cigarette consumption in the EU.
We take a rigorous approach to testing and analysing our products.
Its important that we understand our products in order to ful l our Weve been discussing the implications of what are clearly duty of care to consumers and meet legal requirements for scienti c disproportionate and unreasonable measures with all EU member disclosures and submissions.
states and expect the final EUTPD text to be published at the end of 2013.
The range of smoke constituents measured in our products adheres to the testing requirements and guidelines provided by regulatory Fighting Illicit Trade authorities.
This year weve made good progress in enhancing We continue to highlight how this type of extreme regulation drives our testing and scienti c analysis of e-vapour and smokeless illicit trade.
Standardising tobacco products impacts consumer tobacco products.
choice and inevitably makes counterfeiting easier, a point weve been making to regulators, governments and other authorities for Were transparent about what we do and continue to engage with many years.
Weve also increased the number of scienti c papers and presentations that are publicly available on Our partnership approach to tackling illicit trade has resulted in a our scienti c website http: www.
com number of successes in the year, particularly in the EU where the intelligence we supplied to authorities resulted in the seizure of We apply a product quality rating system across all our factories.
Consumer research about our brands and products undertaken in the year has provided us with valuable information to support our In the UK, we were pleased to recently sign an enhanced drive for further quality improvements.
We were pleased to see a Memorandum of Understanding MoU with HM Revenue and six per cent rise in our Global Quality Index rating, which measures Customs, which reiterates our joint commitment to drive down the annual average quality performance across our factories.
Engaging with Regulators We have a total of 22 MoUs with authorities around the world and We work hard to ensure our voice is heard in the many debates that continue to invest in our long-term anti-illicit trade partnership are ongoing about tobacco regulation.
We have extensive knowledge agreement with the European Commission.
and experience to share and its incumbent on us to represent our Strong Retailer Partnerships own interests and those of our stakeholders.
We have long-standing partnerships with retailers around the world, The key drivers of regulation are the World Health Organisation from large multinational supermarkets to small independent shops.
WHO, through the Framework Convention on Tobacco Control, This focus on retailer engagement supports our sales strategy and the FCTC, the European Commission through the EUTPD, the our responsibility framework.
European Union Tobacco Products Directive, and the FDA, the Tobacco products are for adults: we do not want children to Food and Drug Administration in the USA.
use tobacco and actively encourage retailers to sell responsibly.
During the year we took part in a number of workshops and Our International Marketing Standards reinforce these points and meetings involving the FDA to discuss a range of issues, including are published on our corporate website.
We also support youth illicit trade and cigarette testing and reporting.
Regrettably, the WHO access prevention initiatives, including campaigns that highlight continues to block our efforts for similar constructive engagement the minimum age at the point of sale.
on the development of the FCTC.
Nevertheless, we attended the Our efforts to build partnerships and improve collaboration with biennial Conference of Parties in Seoul last November to gain more retailers continue to be recognised.
During the year we were insight into how the FCTC is progressing and will keep championing delighted to receive awards for excellent retailer service in a our right to be part of the debate.
number of markets, including Germany, Finland and Greece.
Counterfeit Rizla Stamped Out Collaborating with authorities and law enforcement agencies to rid Senegal of a serious counterfeit problem was a major success in the year.
Rogue importers of fake Rizla papers had been increasingly targeting Senegal.
The counterfeit booklets, originating from China and priced considerably lower than genuine Rizla products, had become widely available in major towns and cities.
However, a string of raids on illegal Chinese operations, coupled with tough and consistent enforcement action against rogue retailers, have virtually eliminated the problem.
This reinforces the importance of our partnership approach in combating illicit trade.
Imperial Tobacco Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2013 29 Corporate Responsibility Rewarding Workplace A rewarding workplace inspires people to excel at what they do In manufacturing, our Global Safety Pin challenge, which tests and we strive to create a safe and pleasant environment that lets employees on their safety, quality, environmental and product talent ourish.
We embrace diversity, encourage development and knowledge, continues to go from strength to strength.
This years take time to listen to our people.
final was won by a team from our Manisa factory in Turkey.
In total, more than 2,200 employees from manufacturing Engaging a Diverse Workforce locations around the world took part in the competition.
We bene t enormously from our diverse workforce: our people come from different backgrounds and cultures, creating a vibrant Were also installing world class management systems that working environment that thrives on new ideas and fresh thinking.
are aligned to the international occupational health and safety management standard OHSAS 18001 across our manufacturing The importance of diversity, equality and non-discrimination is operations.
A further two factories were independently certi ed highlighted in our Code of Conduct and underpinned by our to have reached this standard during the year.
values, which guide the respectful way we behave towards each other.
Developing our People Encouraging our people to achieve their highest potential supports We employ 35,000 people in over 60 countries.
40 per cent of our workforce is female with some 14,100 women employed.
At a senior leadership level 22 per cent two out of Weve enhanced the breadth of face-to-face and e-learning nine of the Operating Executive and 18 per cent two out training courses to further embed our Code of Conduct and of 11 of the Board are female, as of 30 September 2013. to help support the development of our people.
Development courses are designed to build capabilities and range from Engagement encourages people to do their best work.
This year improving negotiating skills to effective change management.
we were pleased to complete a global engagement survey and were delighted with the 85 per cent response rate.
This level of Weve also been improving our annual performance management employee feedback is vital for shaping initiatives to address key process, which has included the launch of a new online appraisal issues and support the strategic development of the business.
The system supports our robust approach to talent We look forward to even more people sharing their views in our calibration, enabling us to identify high performers and their 2014 survey.
Employee Health and Safety Were pleased to see how our graduate recruitment programme Keeping our people safe is of paramount importance to us.
continues to attract talented people into the business.
We ensure Although we were pleased to have further reduced lost time all graduates are given stretching opportunities to make their mark injuries in the year, we regret that an employee died in a car in demanding roles around the world.
accident in Russia and a contract cleaner suffered a fatal fall in Morocco.
We are deeply saddened by these events and have assisted the relevant authorities with their investigations.
Our local management teams have also undertaken their own investigations and are assessing what additional safety measures should be put in place.
No enforcement actions have been taken against the Company.
We are committed to reducing road safety risks and continue to provide enhanced driver training.
Weve also developed a new initiative called S-factor to promote a world class safety and well-being culture within our global sales team, which will be launched in Eastern Europe.
Global Corporate Challenge We were pleased to take part in the 2013 Global Corporate Challenge GCC, a 16-week initiative that encourages people to form teams and complete a personal activity thats equivalent to 10,000 steps a day.
Our involvement was supported by Helen Clatworthy, Group Supply Chain Director, and our champion for employee well-being.
Helen also took part, along with almost 1,000 of our employees including these graduates.
The GCC website converts step counts into kilometre mile distance and is able to plot each teams progression along a virtual tour of the world.
As well as promoting physical tness, the GCC encourages people to interact and have fun, and many of our participating employees enjoyed getting involved in additional local activities, including charity events.
30 Imperial Tobacco Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2013 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS Reinvesting in Society Were a leading international business and take pride in being part Supplier Standards of many different communities around the world.
Were particularly Our leaf and non-tobacco material suppliers are expected to meet focused on supporting our supply chain stakeholders to address the high standards we set for employment practices, health and issues of joint concern such as leaf sustainability and child labour.
All suppliers are also expected to adhere to our Code of Conduct.
Human Rights Over the past year there has been continued external attention and Our leaf suppliers are required to participate in our Social debate on the role of business and human rights.
We welcome this Responsibility in Tobacco Production SRiTP Programme.
focus as respect, fairness and integrity are an important part of the This provides speci c guidance for improvement against a responsible way we run our business.
Were committed to doing variety of criteria covering good agricultural practices, things the right way and this is re ected in our values and our Code environmental management, health and safety, employment of Conduct, which is available on our website.
SRiTP is supported by external consultants who undertake assessment visits, provide training and help to A respect for human rights is implicit in our employment practices share good practice.
and within the high standards we expect from our suppliers.
We continue to be guided by the International Labour Organization SRiTP performance is a key feature of the supplier visits ILO core conventions and the recommendations of Professor undertaken by our leaf sustainability managers and leaf buyers.
John Ruggie, the UN Special Representative for Human Rights.
Pleasingly, our overall leaf supplier performance against the In some areas, such as the elimination of child labour, our direct demanding SRiTP criteria has increased from 68 per cent to in uence can be limited and in these situations our focus on 71 per cent.
partnerships is of critical importance.
We have a separate supplier quali cation programme for Farmer Livelihoods and Child Labour non-tobacco suppliers who provide us with materials such as Child labour is a risk in agricultural supply chains where papers, lters and packaging.
During the year we enhanced communities are subject to a greater prevalence of poverty, training for our internal auditors and improved the guidance the impacts of infectious diseases and lower levels of materials we provide to non-tobacco suppliers.
Supporting Community Livelihoods We are a board member of the Eliminating Child Labour in Tobacco We make a positive economic contribution through wealth ECLT Foundation, which works with communities in tobacco creation and employment opportunities throughout our supply producing regions to address the underlying causes of child labour.
We also choose to fund projects that are connected to This year we increased our financial support of the ECLT.
the communities in which we operate, with a particular focus on supporting the most disadvantaged communities around We also increased our focus on improving farmer livelihoods our factories, of ces and tobacco sourcing activities.
through a number of new supplier partnership projects in Africa, which are designed to promote improved ways of working in Our Altadis Foundation supports initiatives to improve livelihoods farming communities.
in areas where we have operational sites and our Leaf Partnership Committee supports tobacco farming communities.
The objective is to increase farmers yields and their income, so they can afford to send their children to school.
Improving income A wide range of community initiatives receive support from local and providing access to labour saving equipment tackles the root markets across our footprint and this is complemented by the cause of child labour.
funding we provide centrally, which increased to 3.2 million in 2013.
Were also actively involved in ECLT initiatives outside of Africa, including in Kyrgyzstan where there is a focus on raising the living The voluntary support our employees give to enhancing community standards of farmers by setting up credit unions and providing livelihoods is additional to the funding we provide and we were direct financial support to the poorest families.
delighted to see many of our people once again give their time to help important local initiatives in the year, ranging from working on reforestation projects to litter picking and helping the homeless.
Literacy in the Dominican Republic Were pleased to be supporting a project in La Romana in the Dominican Republic, home to one of our cigar factories, which is helping to enhance peoples prospects and quality of life.
The project aims to improve adult literacy by funding specialist teachers and associated community activities.
This initiative is being funded by the Altadis Foundation and is supported by our Premium Cigar Director, Fernando Dominguez, who is also chairman of the foundation.
Imperial Tobacco Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2013 31 Corporate Responsibility Respecting Natural Resources Respecting natural resources is vital for ensuring a sustainable further progress over the coming year.
Were delighted with our supply of materials and we remain committed to reducing our own progress and during the year we achieved our highest ever environmental impact, minimising waste and improving energy CDP score of 83 per cent.
Good environmental management strongly aligns Independent energy audits at all our main manufacturing facilities with our focus on cost optimisation and operational excellence.
have helped us to prioritise further opportunities for energy Resource Ef ciency reduction.
In 2013 we achieved new certi cations of energy Our approach is to reduce, re-use and recycle.
Getting the most management systems to the international standard ISO 50001 from the materials and natural resources we use makes sound at our factories in Nottingham in the UK and Tarnowo and Radom environmental and business sense.
In manufacturing we use environmental management systems Were particularly pleased with the performance of our Radom that are independently certi ed to the environmental management facility: an energy ef ciency pilot scheme at the site exceeded standard ISO 14001. the target savings by 20 per cent and is now being rolled out to other factories.
In 2013 we were pleased to have delivered an overall 3 per cent reduction in the amount of waste sent to land ll.
Our recycling Addressing Reforestation activities are helping us make progress towards our target of a Were helping to protect forests, which are critical for supporting 10 per cent reduction in waste to land ll by 2020, as measured the supply of water, timber, agricultural products and good against our 2009 baseline.
We also commissioned a global environmental impact study of Tobacco growing may use wood either as a fuel for curing our operations and supply chain so we can better direct our tobacco or as construction material for barns.
This year we efforts to minimise environmental impacts.
enhanced our approach to forestry preservation by launching a tree growing initiative with our suppliers, with the aim of The operations of our suppliers have more impact on the achieving wood sustainability in Africa by 2020. environment than our own and we will continue partnering with suppliers to help them minimise waste and to reduce In Malawi, Madagascar and Laos weve been enhancing fuel their environmental impact.
ef ciency by reducing the level of wood use.
This has been achieved by supporting improvements to curing barns, furnace Climate Change and Energy design and curing technology.
We are pleased with the progress Were committed to further reducing our carbon footprint were making and are now focused on delivering similar results and continue to work towards reducing our energy usage by in Tanzania.
Water Management As original members of the Carbon Disclosure Project CDP We also further reduced our water consumption by 5 per cent we have long encouraged our suppliers to make their own and aim to build on this good progress over the next year.
commitments to reduce carbon emissions.
As tobacco is an agricultural product, the main water impacts During the year we were pleased to see the level of supplier are in our supply chain.
In our factories we apply environmental involvement in the CDP Supply Chain project increase.
The project management systems under the international standard ISO 14001 assesses the performance of suppliers and enables us to to reduce water use and manage waste water.
more effectively work with them in developing and prioritising consistent goals.
We were pleased to take part in the CDP water disclosure project, which has provided additional insight into measuring our water The initiative has highlighted that our suppliers are performing use.
Its also helped us to identify further risks and opportunities above average in terms of the actions theyre taking to reduce in water management within our own operations and across our carbon emissions and we will be encouraging them to make supply chain.
Eco-friendly Corporate Centre Our new energy ef cient global head of ce opened in Bristol during the year.
As well as providing a safe and inspiring workplace for around 550 of our employees, the building was designed to meet the BREEAM excellent rating and features a number of sustainability measures, including solar panels, a biomass boiler and rain harvesting.
Andrew Newall, Group HR Director and our sustainability champion, has been encouraging employees to further enhance the environmental credentials of the new head of ce by cycling to work and supporting car-share schemes.
32 Imperial Tobacco Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2013 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS Environmental Reporting from combustion of fossil fuels and refrigerant gases.
Emissions We have adapted our environmental reporting to re ect the associated with other greenhouse gases and with land ll waste requirements of the Companies Act 2006 Strategic and Directors were considered immaterial to our total emissions.
We do not Report Regulations 2013.
With only three months to respond, currently include immaterial emissions associated with the JR 800 we have addressed our Greenhouse Gas GHG reporting to the Cigar US retail outlets and small sales of ces or our Habanos extent reasonably practical.
joint venture and the recently acquired Cambodian distribution operation, which are beyond our current reporting capabilities.
We have used the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard methodology to identify our greenhouse For a total Group perspective we also provide separate information gas inventory of Scope 1 direct and Scope 2 indirect CO on Logista, the logistics part of our business.
We have considered the six main GHGs and report sensitivities this entity is managed remotely and does not report in CO equivalent.
For Logista we also disclose Scope 3 2 emissions.
This covers the other indirect emissions such as Scope 1 covers our own emissions from the fuels we use in our transport related activities in vehicles not owned or controlled factories and main contributing of ce buildings.
Scope 2 relates to by our business.
the indirect emissions resulting from the generation of electricity, heat, steam and cooling that we purchase to supply our factories In the table below we state the unveri ed absolute Scope 1, 2 and of ces.
and 3 emissions associated with Logista.
The relative CO 2 emissions gure for Logista Scopes 1 and 2 is 132.1 tonnes of Our data for GHG emissions and energy consumption shown CO equivalent emissions per million pounds of logistics distribution 2 in the graphs below includes all manufacturing sites and main fees.
Whilst some routes and return shipments are operated of ces over which we have operational control as guided by directly, Logista also uses third party hauliers.
We have classi ed the methodology.
We include Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions, all third party haulier emissions as Scope 3.
The Logista data is leakage of refrigerant gases, process emissions from expansion unveri ed for the financial year 2012.
We are working to improve plants in Cadiz and Reidsville and our of ces in Bristol, Hamburg, reporting capabilities to enable more timely data in future.
Currently Paris, Spain and Casablanca.
We have added the emissions the CO equivalent emissions relate to the combustion of fossil 2 arising from our eet fuel consumption Scope 1 based on the fuels and land ll waste.
Refrigerant gases are not included due to data from 2012, which represented 92 per cent of our global sales current reporting capabilities.
We plan to include these in future cars eet.
We have extrapolated the 2013 fuel consumption and when weve conducted a review of our reporting boundaries.
for completeness have restated our baseline to 2009.
Logista Whilst reporting unveri ed data in the latest financial year, we FY12 Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 report veri ed data 12 months in arrears.
This is to allow for the CO equivalent emissions internal checking, validation and then external assurance process.
2 Tonnes 95,157 20,042 185,688 Our disclosures are focused on CO equivalent emissions arising 2 ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 1 1 CO Equivalent Emissions Tonnes million Absolute CO Equivalent Emissions Tonnes 2 2 CO equivalent 2 53.9 emissions 52.1 50.8 49.1 48.6 Scope 1 excl eet fuel CO equivalent 2 emissions Scope 2 CO emissions 2 Scope 1 eet fuel sales 42,958 42,958 42,958 42,958 42,958 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Baseline Baseline 1 1 Energy Consumption kWh million Absolute Energy Consumption GWh 172 172 172 172 172 990 996 984 Energy 939 914 consumption eet fuel sales Energy consumption manufacturing and ofces 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Baseline Baseline 1 See footnotes on page 34.
The monetary value million is for tobacco net revenue.
FY12 data has been assured by PwC: please see website for more information.
Unveri ed FY13 data is estimated based on data from the last six months of FY12 and the first six months of FY13.
Veri ed data for FY13 will be published next year.
2 Veri ed accident and absence data is reported 12 months in arrears to allow for data collection and veri cation.
Sickness absence includes non-work related and work related absence.
Provisional unveri ed FY13 data is provided.
3 All our tobacco suppliers participated in the SRiTP programme in 2012, which provides speci c guidance for improvement against a variety of criteria.
See our website for more information.
We report 12 months in arrears to allow for the reporting and analysis of data.
Key data reported in the annual report and accounts for the year to 30 September 2013 has been independently assured under the limited assurance requirements of the ISAE3000 standard by PwC.
They have also been engaged to look at our alignment with AA1000AS 2008 principles of inclusiveness, materiality and responsiveness.
Some of the selected data covered by this assurance is clearly highlighted within the Corporate Responsibility section of the annual report and all of the selected data is included in the Corporate Responsibility section of the website www.
com cr where their limited assurance statement can be found.
PwC has provided Imperial Tobacco with CR assurance services from FY10.
Earlier data was assured by another provider.
34 Imperial Tobacco Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2013
