Shaping Our Environment We work with our partners to combat illicit trade and encourage constructive dialogue on regulatory issues.
Matthew Phillips Corporate Affairs Director The work we do to shape our external environment supports our This adversely affects us all: children can more easily obtain sustainable sales growth strategy and focuses on regulatory and tobacco, adult consumers are exposed to products that have no excise engagement and combating illicit trade.
quality controls, retailers and tobacco companies lose legitimate sales and governments are deprived of valuable tax revenues.
We take a responsible, proactive approach in both areas, seeking dialogue and partnerships with a broad range of The only bene ciaries are the hardened criminal gangs, often with stakeholders including consumers, retailers, governments links to terrorist organisations, who orchestrate and pro t from the and law enforcement agencies.
Focus on Reasonable Regulation Raising awareness of the relationship between regulation, We advocate reasonable regulation thats based on sound excise and illicit trade continues to be a focal point of our evidence and respects the rights of people who choose to regulatory engagement.
We also think its important that regulation The Importance of Evidence is developed in an open and transparent manner.
We champion the need for regulation to be underpinned Too often tobacco isnt regulated in this way resulting in by sound evidence and it was encouraging to see the UK disproportionate measures, such as display bans and Government recognise the importance of this in relation to excessive excise increases, which can have dangerous the issue of plain packaging.
unintended consequences, particularly in terms of illicit trade.
The Government has currently halted plans for plain packs, Illicit trade, or smuggling and counterfeiting, is common across recognising theres insuf cient evidence to support the notion that many fast moving consumer goods sectors and tobacco is removing branding from tobacco products will reduce smoking.
This has long been our view and its one thats shared by a broad Regrettably, the problem is growing and excessive regulation range of stakeholders, including a number of countries who have and excise increases only serve to further fuel the trade in led legal complaints with the World Trade Organisation against illegal tobacco.
plain packaging legislation in Australia.
The packaging debate will continue and well stay actively involved to protect our valuable intellectual property rights and defend further attempts to denormalise smoking and our consumers.
14 Imperial Tobacco Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2013 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS Tackling Illicit Trade Balanced Debate Our engagement activities are supported by the considerable In the coming year well be focused on continuing to work with investments we make in initiatives to tackle illicit trade.
our partners in the ght against illicit trade, whilst seeking further constructive dialogue on key regulatory issues.
These include the stringent controls we apply to our global network of distributors, including track and trace technology, and We will continue to resist attempts by some non-governmental further building our dedicated team of specialists who partner with organisations to exclude us from discussions.
Their misplaced governments and customs and excise authorities internationally to efforts threaten to undermine the calibre of debate thats seriously disrupt the supply and sale of illicit product.
needed for the effective long-term regulation of tobacco.
We have a number of anti-illicit trade agreements in place around Its vital that debates are balanced and transparent and that all the world that set out clear frameworks for how we can best work relevant stakeholders have the opportunity to share their views.
together to combat these criminal activities.
Only by working together can we best serve the interests of governments, retailers and consumers by developing reasonable Some notable successes were achieved in the year, including regulatory solutions that bring order to markets and keep the the seizure of a proli c cigarette counterfeiting machine believed criminals at bay.
to be responsible for producing seven billion illegal cigarettes, most of which were sold in Western Europe.
The machine was operated by a major criminal network and was seized in Hungary following a joint international surveillance operation, reinforcing the importance of taking a partnership approach.
Regulating e-vapour products The global market for e-vapour products is expanding All other types of e-vapour products should fall under an rapidly and this is one area where well soon be launching independent uniform regulatory framework on the basis our own exciting offerings through our new standalone of scienti c product evaluations.
E-cigarettes are the most common e-vapour products, but there are many others including e-cigars, e-cigarillos and e-shishas.
The e-vapour sector will continue to grow and requires a clear regulatory framework to govern the way these products are made and sold.
A priority for us over the coming year is to continue engaging with stakeholders to support the development of effective regulations.
We believe e-vapour products that make smoking cessation claims should be covered by pharmaceutical legislation so theyre regulated in the same way as other nicotine replacement therapy products.
Imperial Tobacco Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2013 15
