Developing Our People Our success is driven by the ideas, energy and dedication of our talented people.
Andrew Newall Group HR Director We focus on recruiting, developing and retaining a diverse, high Recruiting the Right People calibre pool of employees who are motivated to do their best Our values underpin everything we do.
This is crucial to our future success: its our people who Imperial Tobacco means welcoming people into the business who make things happen to bring our sustainable growth strategy embody our values and have the right skills and capabilities.
Skills and capabilities on their own are not enough.
Were not Our energetic people not only thrive on challenge, they thrive on looking for people who want a job: were looking for people turning challenge into opportunity.
Sometimes this is achieved who want a career and who are willing to work hard to make by collaborative teamwork: on other occasions it will be strong their aspirations come alive.
In return we offer competitive individual contributions that unlock solutions.
remuneration, a vibrant, dynamic working environment and every encouragement to grow and develop.
The importance of both approaches is reinforced in our values, which capture the essence of what its like to work for Imperial We attract talent into the business through our graduate Tobacco.
The combination of the We values and the I values recruitment programme.
Over a two-year period, our graduates re ect the way we operate, providing a common bond that guides will get first-hand experience of working in demanding roles in the way we do business and in uences the way we behave.
locations around the world and will receive development and mentoring support from senior managers.
Our Values I own See it, seize it, make it happen I am We can My contribution counts, think free, Everything is possible, together we can speak free, act with integrity 16 Imperial Tobacco Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2013 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS Talent Development Engagement Focus Building the capabilities and leadership skills of our people is Engaged employees take pride in doing their best work and aligned with the strategic transition of the business and is critical developing careers with the same company, so its important for to our long-term success.
us to keep building our engagement activities.
Central to this is our global engagement survey, which gives employees the On a day-to-day basis employees are set stretching objectives opportunity to have their say and drives local and global initiatives and have opportunities to work on projects that are often based on their feedback.
We also offer a wide range of formal training programmes.
The feedback from last years survey was instrumental in helping us progress a new e-learning system.
This provides employees Im particularly pleased with the success of our in-house with quick and easy access to a broad range of learning and Manufacturing Academy, which is honing the skills and development resources and is currently being rolled out across expertise of a talented pool of young manufacturing employees.
Further academies are being set up to provide training and development opportunities in other functions.
Maximising Potential The actions were taking to maximise the potential of our people Our annual performance management process evaluates the are just as important as the actions were taking to maximise the contribution of each employee and drives individual development potential of our portfolio and market footprint.
In addition, our talent review process identi es the very best performers and drives succession planning.
Enhancing our commercial performance and continuing to successfully manage the transition of the business relies on the In the coming year well be enhancing our talent pipeline with the ideas, energy and dedication of our people.
They are critical to our launch of a new leadership programme that will strengthen our sustainable growth strategy and we will continue to invest in our focus on identifying candidates for the most senior positions in people agenda to create an environment where talent can ourish the business.
and people are motivated to do their best.
We surprise We enjoy New thinking, new actions, exceed Thrive on challenge, make it fun whats possible I engage Listen, share, make connections Imperial Tobacco Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2013 17
