CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT As a global industry leader, we seek to make a positive impact in the way in which we operate around the world In 2013 we further developed our activities in line with our ANDR LACROIX, GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE Corporate Responsibility CR mission to promote Mobility with Passion and Care.
We aim to achieve our mission by adopting a global approach to embedding responsible behaviour into the way we operate and growing a sustainable business for the benefit of all our stakeholders our people, our customers, our brand partners, the communities in which we operate and of course, our shareholders.
This approach helps us to capture the spirit and energy of our incredible people and achieve our wider goals.
Ultimately it inspires us to become a better company.
We know that the best CR initiatives come from individual passions.
Across the world, our peoples commitment to their local communities has inspired life-changing initiatives.
For example, in Ethiopia, where we operate a highly successful Toyota business, our people have supported the Mother and Child Rehabilitation Centre since 2002.
This inspirational project provides shelter, food, education, medical care and therapy for the most disadvantaged children and education and support for their parents to help them overcome trauma and build promising futures.
This is just one example of the many inspirational initiatives that our colleagues are involved in around the world.
In 2013 we ran our Green Baton programme, designed to highlight these initiatives by giving every Inchcape market the opportunity to showcase the CR activities they are implementing in their communities.
It has proved highly successful, providing inspiration and motivation amongst our employees.
Delivering differentiated customer service is the overarching strategic goal for the Group and, as such, Customers are a core area of our CR strategy.
More information can be found on pages 8 and 9 of the Strategic Report and on page 42 of this report.
2013 HIGHLIGHTS INCLUDE: Our Values are living, shared beliefs within our business that Successful global roll out and completion of the Green inform our day to day behaviours.
These Values empower our Baton programme which highlights local CR initiatives culture, drive our business and enable us to contribute from across our markets around the world.
responsibly and sustainably to society.
Continuation and strengthening of the Incredible Inchcape We believe that our colleagues spirit, passion and enthusiasm, programme designed to mobilise our colleagues to take the combined with our mission to promote Mobility with Passion and Company to new heights.
Care, underpinned by our Values, means that we will continue to 2013 CO data was collected for all markets in accordance 2 make a positive impact on the lives of our people, our customers, with DEFRA standards.
our brand partners and in the communities in which we operate, while managing our impact on the environment.
OUR CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY MISSION IS TO PROMOTE MOBILITY WITH PASSION AND CARE www.
com responsibility who we support ANDR LACROIX, GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE 38 Inchcape plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION OUR VALUES PASSIONATE ABOUT INTEGRITY WITHOUT COMPROMISE MAKING A DIFFERENCE We have an uncompromising commitment to transparency and We feel empowered to make a difference and have the courage, determination ethical principles.
We believe in straight talking and taking responsibility for what and commitment to do so.
We are committed to giving growth opportunities we say and do.
to our people, delivering performance for our brand partners and creating magic moments for our customers as we take our Company to new heights.
RESPECT AND CAMARADERIE CARING FOR OUR SOCIETY Our people are at the heart of who we We are aware of our responsibilities as are as a Company.
We celebrate diversity, the global industry leader.
We seek to learn from each other and are proud to make a positive impact on the lives be working with the best.
We rise to any of our People, our Customers and the challenge together: our friendship, respect Communities in which we operate for each other and sense of Inchcape around the world.
Our Corporate family make us incredibly strong and we Responsibility mission is to promote have fun along the way.
Mobility with Passion and Care.
BEING ALWAYS AHEAD TREATING EVERY AS OUR OWN A pioneering spirit is the very essence Each one of us feels and acts like an of the Company.
We liberate talent, owner of our Company.
We see cost as prize bold innovation and are passionate a good thing as long as it creates value.
about seizing opportunities ahead of We hate waste and therefore think before our competitors.
We leverage our scale to achieve a cost and speed advantage over our competitors.
WINNING TOGETHER We are strong as individuals but were even stronger when we work together as a team.
We are proud to be part of a rich global network of incredible Inchcape people.
com 39 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED CO data collection Throughout the year the Committee GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT 2 reviewed the CO2 data collection process including: monitoring the integrity of the data, the assurance process, the intensity CORPORATE ratio and the relevant key environmental impacts.
The Committee RESPONSIBILITY also reviewed the guidance issued by the Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs.
The disclosures required COMMITTEE under Schedule 7 of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations in respect of greenhouse gas emissions are detailed on page 41.
Green Baton The Committee received regular updates on VICKY BINDRA, the global Green Baton initiative.
Further details are given on COMMITTEE CHAIR page 41.
Communications strategy The Committee reviewed and This report sets out the key principles of our CR programme.
approved the 2014 CR strategy including the appropriateness It provides insight into the development of our people, our of the five core areas and the CR communications programme.
st Customer 1 approach, our relationships with our brand Terms of reference The Committee reviewed its terms partners, the impact on our environment and highlights of reference and confirmed that it had been compliant our achievements in the communities in which we operate.
The Board is responsible for the strategic direction of Corporate Responsibility, however it has delegated certain responsibilities CODE OF BUSINESS to the CR Committee.
It is vital that our businesses throughout the world operate in an organised and compliant manner with consistent and robust Only members of the Committee are required to attend controls being applied.
Doing so will ensure that our reputation Committee meetings however, other individuals such as the is preserved and that we can pursue: Group Communications Director and external consultants are able to attend by invitation.
Our Core Purpose to create an incredible customer experience for the best car brands in the world: and KEY RESPONSIBILITIES st Develop the Group CR strategy and monitor Our Vision our Customer 1 journey will create incredible growth for our people, our brand partners and our shareholders which will external developments enable us to deliver our strategy and achieve our goals.
Review the Group CR policy Monitor the Group CR risk exposure OUR PERSONAL BUSINESS Review annual Corporate Responsibility Report COMMITMENT INTEGRITY INTEGRITY The terms of reference for the CR Committee can be found TO INTEGRITY Conflicts Bribery on the website www.
com about us governance Our Values of interest Money Whistleblowing Gifts and laundering ACTIVITIES DURING THE YEAR entertainment 2012 Corporate Responsibility Report The Committee reviewed Competition and approved the Corporate Responsibility Report for the year ended 31 December 2012.
40 Inchcape plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION OUR FIVE CORE AREAS COMMUNITIES ENVIRONMENT CUSTOMERS PEOPLE BRAND PARTNERS We support our We manage our We drive constantly We attract, train and We partner with local communities CO footprint by improving levels motivate by engaging brands that are 2 to make positive understanding of customer service our people in the at the forefront of impacts where our impact every day, every strategy and vision green technology we operate time, everywhere of the Group developments Our brand partners are at the forefront of technological COMMUNITIES advances to improve fuel efficiency.
With our extensive international businesses, we firmly believe in supporting the many different communities and cultures within ENVIRONMENT which we operate, often through sponsorship and support for Environment is a core area of focus within our CR programme.
local charities for local people.
These inspirational activities are During 2013 we refined our CO data collection process and decided on and driven by our people, who are passionate 2 completed a full years data analysis.
about the causes and charities they support.
Our colleagues around the world also took part in In 2013 we successfully completed the Green Baton programme, environmentally focused initiatives to support their local which was designed to highlight incredible local CR activities communities and wildlife.
from across our markets on our intranet site.
The Green Baton circulated the globe over 12 months and gave every Inchcape GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS market the opportunity to showcase the fantastic CR activities Under Schedule 7 of the Large and Medium-sized Companies they implemented in their businesses and communities.
and Group Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 the On receiving the baton, each market had a two week window Regulations quoted companies are required to report their to share and promote their CR activities on a dedicated section greenhouse gas emissions GHG in the Directors Report.
As of our Group intranet site.
There, colleagues could learn about the environment is a core area of focus, the information required the charities and communities we support and read about under the Regulations is given in this report, which forms part of the environmental and customer initiatives our people are the Strategic Report.
passionate about while picking up a wealth of other information and tried and tested best practices.
ORGANISATIONAL BOUNDARY We have reported on all material emissions for which we deem Some truly incredible CR initiatives were carried out in 2013. ourselves to be responsible and which fall within our operational More information about these initiatives can be found on the CR and control boundaries.
section of the corporate website www.
REPORTING PERIOD BRAND PARTNERS Our GHG reporting year is 1 January 2013 to 31 December 2013 Our brand partners are carefully selected for each market in and is aligned to our financial reporting year.
This will form the which we operate.
They have each developed comprehensive baseline data for subsequent years.
sustainability programmes and the automotive industry in general has made significant progress in reducing vehicle emissions.
com 41 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED KEY ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS CUSTOMERS st Data is collected for three core key performance indicators: Our Customer 1 strategy is at the heart of everything we do and creates incredible growth for our people, our brand Energy our global electricity and gas usage.
Our strategy is to strengthen the Transport movement of cars and parts from the point of business through delivering a superior customer experience.
ownership which means legal or contractual ownership ST to the point we cease to have legal ownership.
This includes CUSTOMER 1 HIGHLIGHTS IN 2013 test drives.
We carried out over 3,600 mystery shop exercises in 208 retail showrooms and service centres globally Business travel the movement of our people.
We talked to 19,600 customers for our vehicle sales and METHODOLOGY aftersales Net Promoter Score NPS programme The methodology used to calculate the Groups GHG emissions The NPS has improved again across the Group.
is based on the Environmental Reporting Guidelines, including mandatory greenhouse gas emissions reporting guidance June PEOPLE 2013 issued by the Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs DEFRA and includes DEFRAs 2013 conversion factors.
SENIOR EMPLOYEE MANAGEMENT BOARD DATA COLLECTION DIVERSITY DIVERSITY DIVERSITY Data has been collected from the following markets: Australia, Belgium, Brunei, Bulgaria, Chile, China, Estonia, Ethiopia, Finland, Greece, Guam, Hong Kong, Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Macau, New Zealand, Peru, Poland, Romania, Russia, Saipan, Singapore and the UK.
The level at which we report is business unit for each market.
This covers our retail operations, distribution operations and business service operations.
Female 10 12% Female 1 11% Female 3,716 26% Male 75 88% Male 8 89% Scope Description Male 10,718 74% Scope 1 direct emissions Transport of vehicles and We know that it is our people that make all the difference and parts including test drives throughout 2013 we continued to develop our people strategy Scope 2 energy indirect Electricity and gas used of engaged people in winning teams by focusing on the Right by the Groups operations People, Right Learning, Right Reward and Right Culture.
In 2013 Scope 3 other indirect Employees business travel we also continued to embed Incredible Inchcape: our Group by air, car or train wide engagement programme designed to mobilise our colleagues to take the Company to new heights.
INTENSITY RATIO RIGHT PEOPLE The Groups intensity ratio is revenue per tonne of CO.
This allows 2 As a global company, we are able to leverage the benefits for a fair comparison over time of CO2 emissions, given the growth of a diverse workforce.
We have strong processes which are trajectory envisaged by the Company and cyclical variations in aimed at constantly improving the quality of our hiring and business activity.
our talent planning and reviews.
As a consequence, we are GLOBAL GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS DATA able to offer exciting development opportunities for our talent, including international transfers.
Global GHG emissions data for period 1 January 2013 to 31 December 2013 RIGHT LEARNING Tonnes of CO2e We aim to create and promote a rich environment of learning Emissions from 2013 for everyone.
Through programmes such as Grow with Inchcape Combustion of fuel and operation of facilities 66,165 we ensure that internal development happens for everyone.
This can be on the job training or through a variety of development Electricity, heat, steam and cooling purchased options, including job rotation or stretching new roles.
By doing for own use 62,325 this, we are creating a pipeline of talent that has been internally Total footprint 128,490 nurtured and developed.
Our Executive Committee is a great Intensity ratio: k revenue per tonne of CO 51 2 example of this, where most of the current Committee members have been developed within the Group before being appointed into their current role.
Biographies of the Executive Committee can be found on pages 46 to 48.
42 Inchcape plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION RIGHT REWARD THE EH&S ORGANISATIONAL STRUCTURE We have several schemes across the Group which are designed to ensure that our people feel valued and are recognised for their contribution to the business.
Our recognition and rewards policy INCHCAPE PLC BOARD is geared towards reinforcing the right behaviours in keeping with our Values and the interests of our shareholders.
RIGHT CULTURE Group iPOM Committee We recognise that it is the engagement of our colleagues st around the world that brings our Customer 1 strategy to life.
We proactively develop employee engagement through a EH&S Steering Committee Market iPOM Committees variety of programmes, including workshops designed to align each colleague with the strategic plan as well as give them toolkits to help them unleash their own potential as well as the potential of their colleagues.
Local EH&S Local EH&S Local EH&S Local EH&S Champions Champions Champions Champions ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH & SAFETY NUMBER OF ACCIDENTS 2013 The Committee is made up of regional EH&S co-ordinators and Location 2013 2012 2011 external experts and will meet at least three times a year to review Australasia 22 16 7 progress against targets, develop tools and techniques which address any process or capability gaps and allocate resource Europe 12 19 9 where required to support implementation of the required North Asia 25 26 32 standards across the Group.
The Committees key tasks are: South Asia 8 4 2 develop and maintain the Group EH&S Policy Statement UK 85 82 74 identify and deliver priority areas for the development of Russia & Emerging Markets 23 8 5 Group wide minimum standards and the roll out plan for these standards Our approach to safety aims to manage risks effectively by ensuring that our employees are fully trained and our businesses review EH&S Audit results self audit reviews comply with safety regulations.
During 2013, we have seen a maintain EH&S organisational structure and allocate 12.9% increase in the number of accidents reported.
This is due relevant resource to markets to help with EH&S embedding to an increased awareness in Emerging Markets and there have been no specific trends or areas of concern.
develop and implement market EH&S Audits We are committed to providing a safe environment for our develop and conduct market training employees and in 2012 we created a Group EH&S Steering identify key issues trends for senior management action Committee.
The Committee will provide the leadership to deliver a clear Policy Statement, maintain an effective organisational structure and provide systematic tools which will allow the Group to significantly and consistently improve its focus on delivery of EH&S.
PROGRESS AGAINST GOALS Objective 2013 progress Goal attained Green Baton programme The Green Baton programme was completed in 2013 Attained EH&S best practice Drive to report all accidents to ensure that policies and procedures are reviewed Attained and any issues raised addressed by the Group EH&S Steering Committee CO data collection The 2013 CO data was collected for all markets in accordance with DEFRA Attained 2 2 standards and the first GHG report published www.
