STRATEGIC REPORT Corporate Responsibility in research publication.
Our Business EMMA BLANEY Intelligence division operates an editorial GROUP HR DIRECTOR and content code, to which all editorial staff must adhere.
Our event production process is strongly research driven and some of our major events employ independent advisory Boards to shape the agenda and ensure original content.
In addition to our formal codes, we regularly share insights on editorial practice and content production across the Group.
INNOVATING FOR THE LONG-TERM We continue our migration towards digital platforms and delivery methods.
Symptomatically, Lloyds List, starting its life as a printed notice pinned to a coffee shop wall in London, became a digital-only 2013 saw the implementation of new service at the end of 2013.
We also created reporting requirements for UK companies.
Louder than Words is headed up by the new role of Chief Content Officer for We welcome the inclusion of social and Emma Blaney, Group HR Director, with Informa Business Information to help us environmental issues into mainstream support from a small dedicated CR team realise our digital ambitions.
Our view is that our longand external advisers.
The CR team reports side, we acquired the company EBD term success depends on our ability to directly into the Group Chief Executive.
Group, providing us with cutting-edge effectively manage these issues and we Local ownership of Louder than Words software tools to enhance participants appreciate the opportunity to share our is located with a network of 21 CR leaders experience at conferences and events, approach and performance with our from across the Group with whom the CR virtually and offline.
stakeholders in the financial community.
The CR team also We are committed to being at the works closely with Group Marketing, Human As a result, we have invested a lot of effort forefront of industry developments Resources, Investor Relations and Facilities this year in measuring our global carbon within Open Access OA publishing.
footprint to meet the new requirements.
Following consultations with key university Likewise, the mandatory reporting on Louder than Words is fully aligned stakeholders, authors, funders and diversity reminds us that we always had a with the Groups strategic priorities and librarians, we have significantly developed very balanced workforce, both across the we disclose relevant information to our our capabilities in this area.
Virtually all of business and at senior levels.
We see this as stakeholders through our own reporting our journals offer an OA option, up from one of our strengths in a fiercely competitive and through third party initiatives such two-thirds at the end of 2012.
The drive towards greater as FTSE4Good, Dow Jones Sustainability launched Cogent OA in 2013, an innovative transparency is a good thing and we fully Indices DJSI and CDP.
new OA publisher offering publications intend to turn it into a business advantage.
across a diverse set of fields.
Cogent OA This is only a summary of our activities.
stands for the highest standards of peer A detailed overview of our priorities MANAGING OUR ISSUES review and online presentation, benefitting and performance can be found in our We refer to our Corporate Responsibility from the resources and experiences of a CR Report.
CR activities as Louder than major publisher, but otherwise operating Words and our strategy rests on four MAINTAINING TRUST IN OUR CONTENT autonomously to spearhead the next priorities.
Three of our priorities stand wave of developments in scholarly As a business, we strive to bring news, for responsibilities we share with other communications.
Having embraced OA analysis and thinking together in a form industries, namely People, Community and as a strategic opportunity, we are excited that resonates, challenges and informs our Environment.
However, our key priority about serving the research community in audiences.
Although the ways in which Content relates uniquely to our role as a yet more ways.
we do this vary greatly between the many trusted provider of knowledge.
Summarised formats and fields we work in, it is material EMPLOYING AND DEVELOPING briefly, our priorities are as follows: for us to deliver high quality, trusted THE BEST PEOPLE TO MANAGE content across the Board.
Our publication OUR CONTENT Our Content refers to our ability to Lloyds List has been providing reliable deliver knowledge that is always Since knowledge is our lifeblood, we are information since 1734: an object lesson in professionally produced, rigorously only as strong as the people we employ.
quality assurance and continued innovation researched and properly disseminated: Hence, we do everything we can to that we seek to emulate across our attract the best employees, giving them portfolio of services and products.
Our People refers to creating a flexible, the opportunities to develop their skills, inclusive workplace, developing the Within our Academic Publishing progress within their specialisation and skills and passion of employees: division, we believe that peer review is work flexibly where possible.
Informa more relevant than ever as the system Academy, our internal training centre, Our Environment refers to managing for evaluating the quality, validity and noted an increase of 15% in webinar and our key environmental impacts across relevance of scholarly research.
We have in course attendance in 2013. our operations: and place rigorous peer review and screening Freedom to succeed is a defining processes to this effect and we continue Our Community refers to our direct principle of our workplace.
We to work with the Committee on Publication and indirect community impacts.
pride ourselves in maintaining an Ethics COPE to promote integrity INFORMA PLC 32 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2013 e l p o e P 80% entrepreneurial mind-set and avoiding boasting a stimulating and supportive bureaucracy where we can.
We offer workplace with well-motivated, well 70% flexible working arrangements in most of trained employees.
We are also supporters of 60% We believe that well-being in the workplace the UK Governments Think, Act, Report 50% translates into good business.
During 2013 scheme to promote gender equality in we ran the inaugural, company-wide fitness the workforce, particularly in relation 40% challenge, February Fitness, which saw to recruitment, retention, promotion 100 teams from across the world competing 30% th and pay.
In 2013, we were ranked in 5 to support their favourite charity.
Just over place in the large company category of 20% 50,000 miles were covered by employees Britains Top Employers, being recognised over the month through running walking, 10% for providing excellent employee swimming or cycling.
We also extended our conditions and nurturing and developing 0% wellness activities with the launch of 21 talent at all levels.
Informa Middle East Directors Senior Employees Days of Nutrition, helping our employees Managers also received the Employer of the Year make the best dietary choices.
award at the 2013 Middle East Event Male Female Awards.
The award recognises employers MANAGING OUR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS As a large company, we have direct environmental impacts through our operations.
Primarily, these impacts relate to the greenhouse gas GHG emissions stemming from the electricity and gas we consume at our offices.
GHG emissions contribute to climate change and, in response, we seek to understand and minimise our energy usage.
As we have over 140 offices in 24 countries, this remains a challenge.
We have stepped up our data gathering efforts, though, and our coverage is significantly higher than it was last year.
We focus on driving down emissions in the bigger offices where we control the energy bill and have facility managers in place.
2013 global GHG emissions data tonnes of CO e 2 Intensity tonnes Emissions from Tonnes CO e CO e employee 2 2 Scope 1 Gas, Fuel and Car Mileage 2,845 Scope 2 Electricity and Steam 8,409 Total Scope 1 and 2 11,254 1.73 The chosen intensity measurement is PROTECTING HUMAN RIGHTS Our approach to maintaining high labour tonnes CO e per employee, based on the and environmental standards in the supply 2 We support the principles laid out in the average employee number in 2013 6,594. chain is guided by our membership of Universal Declaration of Human Rights and PRELIMS, a collaboration between 13 continue to assess the impacts we have on We are also managing our impacts leading UK and US publishers.
Together communities and individuals through our associated with the journals and books we with our peers in the sector we have direct operations and indirectly.
Overall, we are moving towards developed a code of conduct, setting digital rather than print formats across The right to privacy is business critical to out the standards we expect our suppliers our publications, while, in our day-to-day us.
We continue to respect the privacy of to adhere to.
Suppliers may be asked to operations, we have continued to reduce our employees, customers and business undertake an audit against the code and these impacts through: partners and are committed to handling can then share the audit results with as personal information responsibly and in many members of PRELIMS as relevant.
better forecasting of journal print compliance with all relevant privacy and data This prevents suppliers from having to runs and increasing use of print on protection laws.
Our view is that privacy is do multiple, similar audits for individual demand POD : as much a social challenge as it is a legal members as was common practice in biodegradable packaging for journals: challenge.
In October 2013, we launched our the past.
Global Information Protection Governance reducing the standard paper weight FURTHER INFORMATION ON and Compliance Framework which is for our journals: and LOUDER THAN WORDS designed to ensure that we meet our printing more of our publications on global obligations relating to the treatment Our stand-alone CR Report contains either FSC or PEFC certified paper.
The Framework additional information on all the activities launch was accompanied by a Group-wide described above and more.
The report awareness campaign designed to promote is available on the Group website at the importance of observing good standards www.
of information protection and to encourage employees to take personal responsibility for the information they use and produce.
Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2013 INFORMA PLC 33 67% 33% 64% 36% 43% 57%
