Corporate Social Responsibility Our Code of Ethics policy states that Directors, officers and employees are expected to conduct business in accordance with the highest standards of personal and professional integrity.
The Code of Ethics is published on our website.
We comply with local laws where we operate and across our Group, we ensure our employees comply with the UK Bribery Act and the US Foreign & Corrupt Practices Act.
A summary of our anti-bribery policy can be found on our website.
As part of our commitment to preventing bribery and establishing a culture that does not tolerate corruption wherever and in whatever form it may be encountered, we ask our Directors, employees and contractors to confirm annually that they understand the restrictions outlined in the policy and the implications for breaching the policy for the business and them as individuals.
Our anti-bribery policy operates in line with guidance provided by the Ministry of Justice and Rupert Pearce complies with current legislation.
The policy also incorporates Chief Executive Officer guidelines on dealing with gifts and accepting and giving hospitality.
We have separate policies in place dealing with ethics, fraud, the The Board believes that corporate use of inside information and whistleblowing.
Directors, employees and contractors are asked once a year to confirm that they and social responsibility is an understand these policies and how they are applied.
important part of the Groups Employment We recognise the importance of diversity amongst our employees culture and that the adoption of and are committed to ensuring that employees are selected and good practice will have a positive promoted on the basis of merit and ability, regardless of age, gender, race, religion, sexual orientation or disability.
The gender impact on the business.
Ensuring split across the Group as at 6 March 2014 is illustrated in the table below: we act in an ethical manner, taking Description Male Female account of our responsibilities Board 77% 23% socially and environmentally is Managerial: approximately 25% of employees 76% 24% All employees 71% 29% important in the way we operate We have a policy of promoting employees internally where and interact with our stakeholders, possible.
We will consider moving employees to different office locations where it makes sense for the business and the individuals including investors, employees, personal development and career enhancement.
We have established policies which address key corporate objectives in the management of employee relations, communications and employee involvement, training and personal development and equal opportunities.
Employees are assisted in their career development through an annual appraisal scheme, and training is provided to support this.
We do not discriminate against anyone who has a disability when considering career development opportunities.
If an employee becomes disabled whilst working for us, we would review the requirements of their working environment to accommodate practical changes as far as possible to allow them to continue in their daily work routine.
If such changes were unrealistic to implement, we would review alternative employment options for the individual within the Company.
INMARSAT PLC 34 Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Strategic report 01-37 Governance 38-71 Financial statements 72-124 We have elected employee forums in the UK and Batam in Community Indonesia, a Works Council in the Netherlands and an Enterprise Our maritime heritage plays a key reminder to us of how we have Agreement in Perth, Australia.
These groups extend two-way supported mariners and the wider maritime community for over communications between employees and management and 30 years and remain focused on doing so in the future.
Our key allow the views of employees to be taken into account in making activities are: decisions which may affect their interests.
In the UK, the Staff We remain the only approved provider of satellite Forum is an elected body constituted in accordance with prevailing legislation to provide the formal means of consultation on communications services for the Global Maritime Distress contractual matters, as and when required.
In the Netherlands, and Safety System GMDSS and we continue to invest in the Works Council is constituted according to local requirements, the development of maritime safety services.
as too are the arrangements in Perth.
Our Inmarsat C SafetyNET service continues to be used to provide vital updates on reported pirate activity.
The service The Inmarsat plc Board receives an annual update on Health and enables ship masters to access reports of pirate movements, Safety activity across the Group.
Rupert Pearce, CEO, has been giving them information on which regions to avoid with high identified as the Director having responsibility for health and pirate activity and allowing them to re-route if necessary.
safety issues at Board level.
We have a dedicated Health & Safety Our safety services supported over 1,250 calls made from Manager who is located in our headquarters office and our vessels with safety, distress or urgency requirements, providing subsidiary operations have identified individuals responsible for a very real reminder to us of the value of what we provide to health and safety across their operations.
Our goal is to encourage those in need.
strong leadership in championing the importance of, and a Gerry Hughes, gerrysmhughes.
com, the first deaf person common-sense approach to health and safety in the workplace.
to sail single-handedly round the world relied on our We recognise the need to provide a safe working environment for FleetBroadband services to stay connected throughout his our employees, contractors and any visitors.
Regular health and eight-month challenge.
safety audits are undertaken at operating sites across the Group, We supported Guo Chuan guochuangsailing.
com in his with inspections during 2013 at premises in the UK, Canada and successful record-breaking solo, non-stop circumnavigation the US.
Across the Group, less than 15 accidents were reported, which is lower than in 2012, and we had no fatalities.
Using FleetBroadband, FleetPhone, Inmarsat C received very positive feedback from our employees to our global safety services and an IsatPhone Pro satellite phone, Guo healthy wellbeing programme which is run annually in November.
maintained contact with his support team, family and provided We believe our healthy wellbeing programme has a positive regular photos and videos for his website and press coverage.
impact on staff productivity and effectiveness of the business: the programme aims to improve the general health and In addition to maritime safety services, we also promote safety wellbeing of the working-age population and support staff services to the aviation industry for use in the cockpit.
We remain with health conditions.
committed to the provision of International Civil Aviation Organisation ICAO approved satellite safety services.
We We have identified five continuing health and safety priorities recently invested in and upgraded the ground infrastructure that based on business activities and the potential harm to staff: supports our Aero Classic safety services, successfully transferring all traffic onto the new network progressively through the year.
DSE display screen equipment related ill health Maintaining our leading-edge approach to service offerings in musculoskeletal disorders all markets is important in this high-tech industry and so we are Working at height introducing SwiftBroadband safety services to bring priority IP Work related stress connectivity to the cockpit for the first time.
This service will Manual handling undergo industry approval flight testing with airlines and business jet operators in the coming months.
We remain committed to Lone working investing in enhanced aviation safety services through our We provide training and awareness materials to staff providing SwiftBroadband service.
them with information on how to deal with these specific areas During the year, we made no political donations.
we donated US$667,573 2012: US$367,458 to charities worldwide.
This amount included a donation of US$400,000 to the telecommunications relief aid organisation, Tlcoms Sans Each time TSF deploys so does Frontires TSF and a payment of US$228,000 to the World Inmarsat.
Through Inmarsats cuttingMaritime University as part of our support for the education of maritime specialists.
In addition, Inmarsat Global provides satellite edge technology and unwavering telecommunications services and equipment, in conjunction with commitment, TSF has been able to support offered by our partners and manufacturers, to service providers and customers in support of disaster relief management provide lifelines to hundreds and in affected areas of the world.
Our subsidiary companies also make contributions to many local charitable causes.
thousands of people who have fallen victim to devastating natural disasters and debilitating civil conflicts.
Jean-Franois Cazenave President and Co-founder of Tlcoms Sans Frontires INMARSAT PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2013 35 Corporate Social Responsibility continued Our core charitable support is for TSF.
TSF runs programmes on which is the first disabled team ever to complete the Dakar Rally.
disaster relief and preparedness, training other relief organisations We provide terminals and phones so they can stay in touch while and regional and national disaster response agencies about the they race through some of the most remote environments on the available capabilities for emergency telecommunications.
TSF planet, including the Atacama Desert and the Andes.
We also helps these organisations respond to an emergency knowing sponsored two team cars in the World Solar Challenge, which they have the necessary training to use BGAN terminals and is a biennial solar-powered electric vehicle race from Darwin to IsatPhone Pro, our handheld satellite phone.
We believe the Adelaide in Australia.
The challenge highlighted global efforts work TSF does is vital in emergency situations and we are to harness natural sources of energy.
For a third year, we have delighted to continue to support them.
During 2013, TSF supported Bhubesi Pride with back-up communications.
Bhubesi responded to seven emergency missions, recorded 365 days Pride is a charity aiming to unite underprivileged boys and girls deployment, opened five community centres and supported across 10 countries in Africa by addressing health education and more than 100 NGOs.
Some of the emergency missions included life skills as well as empowering local teaching staff by providing support when Typhoon Haiyan hit the Philippines, response when equipment, resources, training and knowledge.
a cyclone hit Mexico, and providing communications services for Our global offices support local causes at a corporate and refugees many of them children in Syria during the conflict.
employee level and we encourage staff to get involved in Our Universal Service Obligations seek to support the use of our local community initiatives.
Employees across our offices are services, normally payphones, in rural villages in remote regions of encouraged to support individual charities of their choice, and for the world, where terrestrial voice services are poor or non-existent.
employees in our principal UK office, this is encouraged through We maintain our support for the International Telecommunications the UK Governments tax approved contributions scheme.
Union ITU in various ways.
These include our participation in Environment report preparation for a Smart Sustainable development project, The activities of the Group are judged to have a low environmental our commitment to support a project in the Pacific Islands to warn impact and are not expected to give rise to any significant, inherent of potential tsunamis and our continued provision of donated environmental risks over the next twelve months.
terminals has been maintained for use in disaster areas.
We are not a satellite modem manufacturer.
We only type approve In addition to our corporate sponsorship of TSF, our business units satellite terminals accessing our system by manufacturers who identify specific charities and sponsorship opportunities.
Examples provide health and safety guidance as to how terminals should of some of these are: our continued support of Race2Recovery, Working with NGOs and aid agencies in the initial days after a disaster Inmarsat often delivers the only possible communications link between survivors and the outside world providing an essential and reassuring connection to friends and family.
INMARSAT PLC 36 Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Strategic report 01-37 Governance 38-71 Financial statements 72-124 be utilised.
Controls are in place to ensure that antennae do not We acknowledge that we have an impact on the local and global radiate any power at low elevation angles.
We manufacture our environment, however in terms of our size, we are low generators handheld satellite phones, IsatPhone Pro and IsatPhone 2.
The of carbon due to the nature of our business operations.
design and manufacturing processes have met all the relevant We continue to monitor our energy consumptions and comply with safety standards and disposal requirements are included in the our social and legal responsibilities in terms of carbon emissions.
Across our Group companies, we Please see our summary of carbon emissions within the Directors operate a number of ground earth stations, VSAT and telemetry Report on page 41. and tracking facilities where there are satellite dishes which generate radiation.
Access to these sites is restricted and there Energy efficiency is one of the key considerations when replacing are regular health and safety checks to ensure that they are in obsolete and inefficient machinery.
We continue to review protected areas away from access by the general public.
new technologies and control building operational strategies, Personnel who work at these sites are provided with relevant which may include using energy efficient lights to reduce training as to health and safety issues.
As a satellite operator, we have adopted the highest industry We continue to be committed to our waste management and standards in terms of space debris mitigation, including end-of-life recycling scheme with volume at the same levels.
graveyard manoeuvre plans for the disposal of satellites when they reach the end of their commercial life.
We disposed of a third Video conferencing VC and other collaborations tools allowing Inmarsat-2 satellite in 2013: the previous disposals were in 2012 visual connectivity are being used to reduce the dependency on and 2006.
Its disposal was undertaken in full compliance with air transport and are popular means of communication with staff the relevant ITU standards.
There are no near-term plans for working in different locations and across different time zones.
decommissioning any of the remaining satellites.
We operate our satellites in geosynchronous orbit which is approximately Education 36,000km 22,500 miles above the earth.
This orbit has significantly We continued with our funding of the Inmarsat Chair of Maritime less debris than in a low earth orbit which is approximately 700km Education and Training at the World Maritime University which above the earth and where several MSS operators have their supports the education of maritime specialists.
We are also a founding member of the internships with schools and universities to provide students with Space Data Association SDA established in 2009.
Along with the opportunity to experience first-hand the engineering and Intelsat, SES and Eutelsat we aim to improve the satellite safety technical aspects of satellite operations.
of flight and make operations in space safer and more reliable.
We are a sponsor of the National Space Academy, created to teach We have over 1,600 staff worldwide represented by more than 45 space science subjects to students and their teachers.
Due to the size and nature of these activities, Inmarsat intends to participate in a Higher Apprenticeship we acknowledge that we have a degree of environmental impact in space engineering programme, being organised by the on the local and global environment.
This is a route for students to enter into a vocational degree-type scheme, designed to promote growth in Some of these environmental impacts include the use of natural the sector.
resources, the consumption of energy and water, the production of a variety of waste, in addition to staff and visitors travelling for Partnerships business purposes around the globe.
Please see details of our The work our partners undertake with local companies and Environmental Performance and Strategy on pages 40 and 41. charities are examples of the wider influence of our services and were delighted how these can have an impact socially Our objective is to ensure that the Group does not have any and environmentally.
detrimental effect on the environment through our business operations.
Our mission is to adopt and support the following principles: to provide first class energy and environmental management practices: to comply with all relevant global environmental legislation and regulatory controls: to identify significant environmental and social impacts and establish objectives and targets for improvement: in our main UK site, to recycle a minimum of 90% of generated waste and constantly to review the opportunity to use recycled products: to actively encourage the conservation of energy, water and natural resources through the increased efficiency and introduction of new and modern technology: to separate their waste into dry and wet waste receptacles UK office : to ensure that printer cartridges are recycled: to switch off lights, computers, phone chargers and any other electrical items when not in use: and to reduce business travel and using more site-based technology such as video and audio conferencing.
INMARSAT PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2013 37
