Corporate Governance continued Corporate Responsibility Key issues discussed in 2013 meetings The Committee discussed, amongst others, the following matters: Committee Report Date Key issues discussed 15 February Discussed performance against 2012 delivery plan and set 2013 priorities Discussed the Corporate Responsibility Report approach for 2013 Received a deep dive update on the IHG Shelter in a Storm Programme 24 May Received an update on the key achievements across core corporate responsibility programmes: IHG Green Engage, IHG Academy and IHG Shelter in a Storm Programme Considered the integration of responsible business into the IHG corporate brand Committee membership Reviewed the 2013 to 2017 corporate responsibility external targets Jennifer Laing Chairman Evaluated the corporate responsibility work undertaken with owners and developers in key hotels Members Luke Mayhew, Dale Morrison, Richard Solomons, Ying Yeh 18 June Received a deep dive update on IHG Green Engage and considered proposals for the implementation of IHG Green Engage as a brand standard across the For full biographies see pages 57 to 59.
IHG system Considered the corporate responsibility communications plan and progress made Dear Shareholder on delivering it Discussed the Groups approach to and policy Roles and responsibilities on human rights The Corporate Responsibility Committee advises the Board on the Groups corporate responsibility objectives and strategy and 26 September Received a deep dive update on the IHG Academy Discussed the corporate responsibility Investor ensures that IHGs responsible business priorities deliver against Breakfast and Media Briefing and subsequent our core purpose, Great Hotels Guests Love.
press releases announcing IHGs external corporate responsibility targets Terms of reference ToR Received an update on the integration of responsible Our role and responsibilities are set out in the ToR which can be business into the IHG corporate brand found on the Companys website at www.
com investors Considered the corporate responsibility work under corporate governance committees or from the Company undertaken with owners and developers in key hotels Secretarys office on request.
Governance 2013-2017 Corporate responsibility targets All members have the experience and expertise necessary to On 26 September 2013, the Group announced its corporate meetthe Committees responsibilities.
During the year, a majority responsibility targets for 2013-2017, which are focused on our ofthe Committee members were Non-Executive Directors, core Corporate Responsibility programmes: IHG Green Engage, asrequired under the ToR.
IHGAcademy, and IHG Shelter in a Storm Programme.
Our five-year targets are set out on page 32 and include: reducing For further information on IHGs approach to Corporate Responsibility the carbon footprint per occupied room by 12% across our entire matters see pages 32 and 33. estate: reducing water use per occupied room in water-stressed Committee meetings areas by 12%, providing skills and improved employability to 20,000 In 2013, the Committee held three scheduled meetings and one people through the IHG Academy: and contributing a total of additional meeting to discuss the corporate responsibility targets.
$10 million to communities through monetary donations and in-kind Regular papers were received on corporate responsibility support, including through the IHG Shelter in a Storm Programme.
performance as well as deep dives into IHGs core corporate We will also track and report supply chain diversity and integrate responsibility programmes: IHG Green Engage, IHGAcademy corporate responsibility criteria into the selection and evaluation and the IHG Shelter in a Storm Programme.
The Heads of Corporate Responsibility and the Chairman Patrick Key priorities for the Committee in 2014 Cescau also attend the meetings.
Corporate responsibility continues to be an area of great Effectiveness of the Committee importance to IHG and I, as Chairman of the Committee, The Committee is monitored and assessed annually as part of am committed to promoting this as a significant part of doing the Board and Committee evaluation.
During 2014 the Committee will continue to focus on making the best use of our key corporate Further details of this process can be found on page 65. responsibility programmes around the world and ensure responsible business remains synonymous with IHG.
Jennifer Laing, Chairman of the Corporate Responsibility Committee 17 February 2014 68 IHG Annual Report and Form 20-F 2013
