36 INTERSERVE ANNUAL REPORT 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW OUR VISION CAN ONLY BE REALISED THROUGH A COMPLETE AND COMMITTED APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY.
TIM HAYWOOD FINANCE DIRECTOR & HEAD OF SUSTAINABILITY Our vision is to redefine the future for people and places.
That vision can only be realised through a complete and committed approach to sustainability in its widest scope, to include not only our impact on the natural environment, but also our influence on people and society.
We believe that this wider social purpose is an inherent part of how we deliver growth and value for both investors and stakeholders.
We have long been aware of our responsibilities in the field of sustainability and have a strong record of delivering excellent projects and initiatives in this area.
In the period since 2012 we have sharpened our focus, raised our ambition and sought to demonstrate our leadership credentials.
This culminated with the launch of SustainAbilities in March 2013, our single, unified plan to embed sustainability as a key element of how we operate and which commits us to an ambitious and stretching programme.
Further information is available at www.
Our progress with SustainAbilities continues to gather pace, with strong governance and data capture systems, established to guide and measure our operational activities and enable us to collate performance metrics as set out on page 21.
In the process of defining and refining the many targets in our plan, we have also forged mutually beneficial partnerships with organisations such as Business in the Community, the International Integrated Reporting Council, Social Enterprise UK and Groundwork, the national environmental regeneration charity.
OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INTERSERVE ANNUAL REPORT 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 37 We are seeking to measure our performance, not only In the education sector, we have been able to meet in traditional financial terms, but also in terms of our exacting demands of our local authority clients by creating contribution to three other forms of capital value: social schools that perform to the highest standards of energy capital the value of people and communities: natural efficiency, dramatically reducing long-term life-cycle costs.
capital the value of the natural environment: and Our ability to tackle energy efficiency of offices and schools knowledge capital the value of know-how and learning.
was recognised in the 2013 Construction News Awards for In designing our SustainAbilities Plan, we took a different our innovative use of Passivhaus building techniques to perspective on the operations of the Group, identifying not create the most efficient building envelope for thermal just the activities that we undertake, but the overarching performance and air-tightness.
This was showcased in our outcomes that we were seeking to achieve in meeting our Richmond Hill Primary School project which was completed objective in creating sustainable shareholder value.
on behalf of Leeds City Council and uses 80 per cent less energy than a conventionally-built, equivalent-sized facility with 60 per cent lower carbon emissions.
Create places that Generate a positive We have also been working hard to improve the benefit people environmental impact environmental performance of our own operations by: Deliver public service Achieve sustainable introducing a wide range of measures intelligent air in the public interest growth conditioning and lighting systems and Bionest water and waste recycling to the accommodation camps for our businesses in Qatar that reduced CO e emissions by 2 Build more skills, 30 per cent compared with 2010 levels: more opportunities trialling the use of electric vehicles and introducing incentives to lower emissions in our car fleet: and These outcomes mean that our buildings and the services extending the use of video conferencing to reduce our we deliver meet users expectations and benefit wider business travel.
Also, we create more opportunities for learning, innovation and sharing experiences: we take Monitoring environmental performance on board environmental impacts and opportunities and We have identified the following core impacts for deliver growth, efficient operations and new employment the Group: opportunities.
greenhouse gas CO e emissions from our use of energy, 2 Our plan, which stretches out to 2020, includes 15 distinct including electricity, gas, fuel in vehicles, transport goals, with clear deliverables against each, all aimed at and travel: supporting these outcomes.
use of natural resources such as water and timber: and 2013 has been our baseline year, identifying and capturing relevant and reliable data to establish the benchmarks for generation, treatment and disposal of waste.
As a result, the first year of truly measurable, comparable progress towards our goals will We have also introduced improved systems to collect data be 2014.
However, we have taken many important steps in in support of our reduction targets in these areas.
the last year, in seeking to deliver a balanced performance across all four capitals.
For 2013 our total greenhouse gas emissions were 237,419 tonnes CO e. This includes the emissions from our 2 NATURAL CAPITAL international subsidiaries and associates and is the baseline We aim to generate a positive environmental impact, figure from which our SustainAbilities targets will be moving beyond compliance towards a positive and monitored.
The figure can be broken down as 61 per cent restorative contribution through our operations, including Scope 1 143,825 tonnes, 18 per cent Scope 2 42,048 design and build of facilities that are highly energy efficient tonnes and 21 per cent Scope 3 51,546 tonnes.
and our management and stewardship of estates and land.
Scope 1: All direct greenhouse gas emissions.
Scope 2: Indirect greenhouse gas emissions from consumption of purchased electricity, heat or steam.
Scope 3: Other indirect emissions, such as the extraction and production of purchased materials and fuels, transport-related activities in vehicles not owned or controlled by Interserve, electricity-related activities not covered in Scope 2.
38 INTERSERVE ANNUAL REPORT 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW CASE STUDY Generate a positive environmental impact REDUCING OUR CARBON FOOTPRINT IN THE MIDDLE EAST Across our business operations in the Middle East, We are also reviewing the decisions we make every reducing our carbon footprint is a significant step in day, including cutting down on non-essential travel and decreasing our overall impact on the local ecosystem, better use of technology such as video conferencing and which boasts its own irreplaceable species, plants and other online tools.
These seemingly small decisions are wildlife.
For instance in the United Arab Emirates we have cut annual fuel costs from 60 million AED circa In recent years we have made major steps in innovation 10 million to 35 million AED circa 6 million and we and sustainability, including the introduction of Bionest, continue to explore the use of technology that may a wastewater solution suited to local environmental offer long-term value.
conditions and solar-power ambulance shelters built recently in Qatar.
Across the region we have taken up the challenge of reducing emissions from energy use at construction sites by 30 per cent by the year 2016.
OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INTERSERVE ANNUAL REPORT 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 39 STRATEGIC REPORT SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW CONTINUED We have historically reported our UK bases emissions and for 2013 these amounted to 36,340 tonnes CO e 2012: 37,702 2 tonnes.
The reduction has been achieved through lower fuel use in our vehicle fleet and lower electricity use in our offices.
Our reduction targets for 2013 related to these emissions: Measure 2012 outcome 2013 target 2013 outcome Status 2014 target target Reduce carbon emissions from energy used at UK fixed 3.32 3.24 3.10 fully met tonnes m tonnes m tonnes m site locations tonnes CO e per million UK revenue by 2 2.5% per annum.
target Reduce carbon emissions from fuel used in UK fleet and cars 12.18 11.88 10.20 fully met tonnes m tonnes m tonnes m tonnes CO e per million UK revenue by 2.5% per annum.
2 target Reduce water consumption at UK fixed site 20.38 19.97 21.16 3 3 3 not met 3 m m m m m m locations m water used per million UK revenue by 2% per annum.
reduction Reduce waste generated at UK fixed site 40.74 39.93 40.07 but target kg employee kg employee kg employee locations kg of waste generated per UK employee not fully met by 2% per annum.
Our Construction division came top of a Cabinet Office SOCIAL CAPITAL survey of contractors spend with Small and Medium Sized Our wide range of operations and capabilities give us the Enterprises SMEs across central government projects, opportunity to create places that benefit people and to with 70 per cent of our supply chain spend awarded to deliver public service in the public interest.
SMEs when delivering work for central government clients.
This includes designing and building facilities such as leisure We have also continued our partnership work with two and commercial developments and delivering services in charitable organisations striving to use employment the public sector such as hospitals and schools that enhance opportunities to improve social cohesion: peoples lives, contribute to their wellbeing and are designed and built for the future.
We also provide our employees with Allia Future Business Centre, for whom we designed and the opportunity to experience a safe and healthy workplace.
built in 2012 a 35,000 sq ft innovation centre to support technology-related SMEs and start-up businesses in The services we provide have a wider social impact whether Cambridge.
We are proud to be one of the providers of they are helping offices and public-service facilities to operate seed capital to this social enterprise, investing 250,000 in more efficiently, providing healthcare in peoples own homes, their recently completed social impact bond.
improving the built environment or helping to get the longterm unemployed back into work 34,000 people.
Groundwork, a charity improving the environment, employment prospects and communities in disadvantaged Our joint venture, Landmarc, is helping the Ministry of parts of the UK, with whom we entered a number Defence MoD to forge closer relationships with the of formal partnerships for the welfare-to-work and communities close to where it trains.
The Landmarc 100 community work placement programmes.
Through our scheme was launched this year to provide 100,000 of Give A Day of Your Time initiative, Interserve employees financial support and practical one-to-one guidance to grass were also able to work with, and provide training and roots innovation in the rural communities around the MoD employment opportunities for, Groundwork volunteers training estate.
on a number of local projects, including a community As a large procurer of goods and services we recognise the allotment scheme in Wednesbury, West Midlands.
paramount importance of our supply chain and were pleased Our approach to social responsibility provides opportunities to receive two government-backed acknowledgements of our for our employees, focuses on their wellbeing and reflects efforts in this area: our involvement in the economies, markets and communities Our Support Services division achieved an NQC CAESER in which we operate.
score of 81 per cent 60 per cent is the average score.
We are playing a crucial role in delivering social This UK government system scores suppliers according to sustainability, economic regeneration and transformation by their performance in environmental, social and economic undertaking our work responsibly and engaging in matters of sustainability areas.
local, national and global interest.
Not applicable, new SustainAbilities targets will apply to 2014 40 INTERSERVE ANNUAL REPORT 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW CONTINUED Charitable giving During the year we continued to support Help for Heroes, providing direct, practical support to those wounded in UK military service.
Our three-year partnership with Help for Building more skills and more opportunities Heroes has to date raised more than 450,000.
The total CASE STUDY raised in 2013 was over 170,000, with staff taking part in a wide range of fundraising activities, including the Yukon River Quest and a charity ball.
GAINING SKILLS ON Beyond our chosen charity, Help for Heroes, we involve ourselves in other local and national charities with many A MAJOR PROJECT of our employees supporting causes that are close to them personally or to our clients.
Charitable activities initiated The scope of our Support Services division spans by employees have raised some 60,000 during the year a range of operations, such as our Industrial unit for Together for Short Lives, a UK charity for children with which has completed a major engineering project to life-threatening conditions, with a further 77,000 donated construct complex modules for the nuclear industry, to smaller charities across the business, including our annual the final of which was completed in the period.
corporate donation to Help for Heroes.
The size of the project opened up a number of Our charitable organisation, Interserve Employee Foundation opportunities for apprentices, such as 19-year-old pipeIEF continues to thrive.
The aim of the Foundation is to fitter Louis Atherton, Interserves Apprentice of the Year.
improve the quality of life for people in the communities Louis talked about his experiences: where we operate, enlisting the skills, capabilities, resources and enthusiasm of our employees.
Ambassadors from across Initially, I started off by attending college on an the business promote the aims of the Foundation and help industry training scheme and after an interview, publicise local projects, in particular through the Give a Interserve agreed to sponsor me to complete my Day of Your Time initiative.
The charities and good causes apprenticeship, which was fantastic.
Ive been with supported by IEF reflect the wide scope of our operations the Company three years now.
and of the interests and concerns of our staff.
Some examples of this support during the year include: Im currently working on the Tees Valley Gas Plant, laying carbon steel and stainless pipe work.
Before Our colleagues in the Philippines were impacted by this, I worked on the Evaporator D decommissioning Typhoon Haiyan and joined in the relief effort by using project, which involved high-specification fabrication their skills and equipment to set up temporary shelter and installation.
Pipe fabrication involves the creation for displaced people.
Fundraising to help people find of pipe in a workshop or in the field.
alternative accommodation took place across the Group raising more than 20,000 in just two weeks.
I have been on the NVQ level three apprenticeship training scheme, which involves nine months in a We also support the Children of Hope Tumaini Kwa Watoto training school, two months in a fabrication workshop charity in Nairobi which provides hope for children living and around 12 months on-site.
I am now progressing on the streets by working to return them from the slums to study for my Higher National Certificate HNC in back to their families by donating computers.
This will take me two years to complete and will allow me to progress in my IEF supports the Big Book Drop in support of Literacy for career within the industry and with Interserve.
Life, aimed at improving the life chances of disadvantaged children in the territories where we work.
To date, more than 50,000 books have been collected in the UK, which have been sent to schools in the Philippines, South Africa, India and Chile.
The Foundation also funded the building of a 25,000 cycle track for Pathways Primary School in Yorkshire, a school for children with special needs and which offers specialist resources for pupils with Autistic Spectrum Disorder.
Interserve employees helped sort and pack toys for families who would not have otherwise received Christmas presents at Reading Family Aid.
Not only was Interserves Headquarters a donation centre for the Reading Family Aid Toy Appeal but the IEF also granted 1,000 towards the appeal.
OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INTERSERVE ANNUAL REPORT 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 41 accredited programmes through organisations such as the KNOWLEDGE CAPITAL Royal Institute of Chartered Surveyors RICS and the British We understand that by providing more skills and Institute of Facilities Management BIFM for whom we opportunities for our employees and stakeholders they will are the first facilities management employer to become have opportunities for self-improvement, become more a Recognised Centre delivering the BIFM qualifications in productive and more able to make a positive contribution.
This is reflected in our focus on training and development, In total, we have more than 140 people across the Group contributing to the education and career development of serving apprenticeships, we have given work experience to our workforce and training offered to customers, as well as 100 school leavers through our employment boot camp through our work as a major provider in the Welfare to Work programme, and have delivered 6,841 days worth of training services market, helping to train and place the long-term to our people in addition to external courses and selfunemployed into jobs.
Career development In 2013 we joined forces with Leicester College to provide As a broad service provider, we are differentiated by the skills and development opportunities for our 2,000 staff quality of our people who demonstrate the skills, knowledge working in the hospitals and NHS estate in Leicestershire.
and attitude which makes a real difference to our customers needs every day.
The courses available include numeracy, literacy and languages plus opportunities for enrolment on to more Interserve has career development programmes throughout than 20 different apprenticeship programmes in relevant all levels of the Group.
We pioneered the Facilities areas such as facilities management, security, cleaning, Management NVQ and have well-established apprenticeship business administration, customer service, hard FM services programmes, literacy, numeracy and English language and management.
courses, nationally recognised certificates, awards and diplomas.
We also run a number of other professionally Create places that benefit people CASE STUDY JOINING FORCES TO SUPPORT COMMUNITIES Our drive to help people where we operate improve the The first project between Interserve and Groundwork environments they live in was further enhanced with involved creating a shared community and allotment the formation of a unique partnership with Groundwork space on a former derelict site in the town of to make use of surplus equipment and construction Wednesbury in the West Midlands.
Some 75 employees materials for community projects.
from across the business gave up their time to bring the project to fruition.
At the heart of the relationship is a commitment from both organisations to support the delivery of community projects using materials that can be recycled or are surplus to requirements throughout the Interserve business.
Groundwork Trusts across the country have access to a whole range of items, including everything from office furniture to new or recycled building materials such as timber, cement, bricks and concrete slabs.
Projects include building shared spaces where people can grow their own food: provide locations to learn new skills and places where communities can come together in safe,  settings.
Many of our own employees are involved in community projects through the Groups Give a Day of Your Time scheme.
42 INTERSERVE ANNUAL REPORT 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW CONTINUED Another good example of working with our customers and OUR PEOPLE enhancing the skills and opportunities available to local Health and safety people can be seen in the case study covering our projects Our Aim to be Accident Free campaign focuses on the in Yorkshire including our contract with West Yorkshire police individual behaviour that is critical to the effective on page 33. implementation of our well-established safety management systems.
Further afield, we donated surplus classroom furniture from Leeds East Academy to the charity Rehabilitation Response, for Although it is encouraging to report overall a year of use in a town in Punjab, Pakistan, recently affected by floods.
improvement in health and safety overall, we were saddened to experience three incidents in the Middle East in which six We supported a cross-party inquiry by the Skills Commission, people tragically lost their lives.
an independent body of senior leaders from across parliament and the education sector, into how the education Our overall reportable injury Accident Incident Rate AIR system meets the needs of the workplace.
The report showed a 16 per cent reduction to 201 with the total Lost Time published in November One System, Many Pathways sought Accident LTA incident rate reducing by 10 per cent to 474. to find consensus across the education and training sector and create a blueprint upon which future policy should 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 be assessed.
The report is available to view at All labour AIR 242 298 310 377 344 www.
subsidiaries only AIR including 201 239 260 326 n a FINANCIAL CAPITAL associates We are focused on delivering sustainable growth, building Target 224 240 302 310 386 a profitable business that recognises all of our impacts and delivers sustained value for all.
We acknowledge that Lost Time 474 524 n a n a n a economic activity consumes resources, but how we value Accident LTA those resources and the benefits obtained from them can Incident Rate influence how efficiently we use them and what we use them The Accident Incident Rate AIR is based on the number for.
Our SustainAbilities Plan requires us to think beyond of injuries meeting the RIDDOR reporting requirements per just the monetary value and consider the environmental, 10,000 workforce.
knowledge and social impacts of what we do.
By taking substantial steps towards the protection of natural, Employee consultation and participation social and knowledge capital, we will manage our risks more We believe in involving our people in matters affecting effectively and enhance our ability to manage financial capital them as employees and keep them informed of all relevant in ways that will generate a more sustainable business.
factors concerning the Groups performance, strategy, financial status, charitable activities and other issues.
We Economic success is an integral part of sustainable achieve this through formal and informal briefings, our Group development, enabling the sharing of wealth to benefit magazines and our intranet.
Employee representatives are society as a whole.
We are aware of our responsibilities consulted regularly on a wide range of matters affecting our in the locations where we work and are passionate about employees current and future interests.
nurturing the local supply chain and creating sustainable employment and training opportunities for local people.
In the period we carried out our biennial, Group-wide opinion survey to help us understand how our employees Details of the Companys financial performance are well view working at Interserve and what improvements we are documented elsewhere in this report.
However, as a pilot able to make at a local or central level.
The result of this member of the International Integrated Reporting Council comprehensive survey will be analysed and acted upon to IIRC, we have been working with leading companies and address any issues that arise.
advisers worldwide to design and begin to implement the IR framework, a radical redefinition of corporate reporting We operate two all-employee HMRC-approved share which fits very well with the thinking behind our own schemes in order to support our Employer of Choice goal SustainAbilities Plan.
and encourage our employees to share in the future of the Group.
In our Sharesave Scheme, employees save small With this Annual Report we are taking our first steps to amounts each month which can be then used to purchase refine how we integrate our financial and sustainability Company shares at a discount to the market price.
In our reporting in the future, to begin to address the recognition Share Incentive Plan, employees can purchase Company of the four capitals that underpin our thinking, and to shares through lump-sum or monthly payments which are demonstrate that sustainable business is good business.
deducted from their salaries before income tax and national insurance liabilities are assessed.
OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INTERSERVE ANNUAL REPORT 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 43 Building more skills and CASE STUDY more opportunities POSITIVE ENVIRONMENTAL Equal opportunities OUTCOMES ACROSS Interserve is committed to eliminating discrimination among our workforce in order that we may offer employees an environment where there is no unlawful discrimination and THE DEFENCE ESTATE all decisions are based on merit.
Landmarc, one of our subsidiaries in the defence sector, delivers a range of support services on behalf Our policy is to promote equality and fairness for all in of the Defence Infrastructure Organisation DIO our employment.
The Group aims to ensure that no job applicant or employee receives less favourable treatment or to provide safe and sustainable places for the UK is disadvantaged by imposed conditions or requirements that armed forces.
The contract encompasses 120 sites in cannot be shown to be justifiable, on the grounds of gender England, Scotland and Wales, covering some 200,000 including sex, marital or civil partner status, gender hectares, with many sites of Special Interest.
Much of re-assignment : race including ethnic origin, colour, this is located in national parks and in remote rural nationality and national origin : disability: sexual orientation: communities.
There is therefore, a drive to increase religion or belief: age: and pregnancy and maternity.
the economic, environmental and social value that Landmarc can generate.
We take every step to ensure working environments are free from harassment and bullying, where all individuals are The Landmarc Difference report, published in 2013, treated equally and fairly and that selection for employment, outlined the positive outcomes of the organisations promotion, training or any other benefit will be taken operations across the Ministry of Defences national solely on merit and ability against job-based criteria.
avoid discrimination in working conditions and terms of Highlights included: employment and are committed to making reasonable adjustments for disabled employees.
We oppose all forms of Over 63 million of additional financial value for the unlawful and unfair discrimination.
DIO and its tenants have been generated over the past ten years and profits of almost 2 million have Employee diversity been reinvested.
Diversity in all its forms is fundamental to our business 94 per cent of all waste on the estate was diverted and we have adopted a Company-wide Diversity Policy to from landfill in 2013, up from 70 per cent in 2012. promote the principles of inclusion.
We operate in a variety Emissions decreased by 7 per cent across Landmarcs of environments and geographies, in numerous roles, for value chain and, significantly, allowed the DIO to a wide range of clients.
To do this effectively, we need an reduce the output of CO on the training estate by equally diverse workforce that understands our customers 2 some 10,000 tonnes in 2013. needs and stimulates innovative solutions.
Landmarc forecasts that it will make a combined We respect and value the individuality and diversity that 750,000 investment commitment and estimated every employee brings to the Company.
We base our contribution over the next two years to rural relationship on respect, underlined by a set of values, communities through a number of initiatives, promoting common behaviours across the business.
which include: As at 31 December 2013, 20,765 of our global workforce of Landmarc 100 was launched, creating a 100,000 34,547 were male and 13,782 female.
Further information is fund to provide financial support and mentoring for provided in the table below.
up to 100 start-up rural enterprises.
Gender The Rural Enterprise Hub opened, offering a Male Female Total free touch-down office facility for rural-based entrepreneurs.
Number of persons who were 9 1 10 1 directors of the Company Landmarcs first Business in the Community BiTC Number of persons who were 87 4 91 Rural Business Connector was appointed to support 2 senior managers of the Group small business growth.
Number of persons who were 20,669 13,777 34,446 3 employees of the Group Total 20,765 13,782 34,547 1 Plc board directors at year end.
2 Subsidiary directors and Persons Discharging Managerial Responsibility PDMR at year end.
3 Employees of subsidiaries included within group consolidation at year end.
