Corporate Responsibility Our approach to sustainability Invensys is committed to the principles of economic success, environmental stewardship, diversity and social responsibility.
We believe that by acting as aresponsible global citizen, we will improve our performance, minimise business risk and enhance our reputation as a partner of choice.
CO2 emissions tonnes We continued to invest in the development of Introduction and summary  locations our people and we improved our organisation As Chief Executive, I am pleased to provide effectiveness by continuing to place greater asummary of our approach to corporate accountability upon our individual businesses.
2013 52,389 responsibility, governance and the progress 2012 53,990 we have made during the year.
Corporate Our Sustainability Report 2013, which responsibility, also referred to as sustainability, 2011 59,057 will be available for download from remains central to our value proposition, ourwebsite, provides further details 2010 56,552 in uencing the way we interact with our ofour activities and achievements customers, employees, communities and duringthe year.
We remain committed to reducing the -3% environmental footprint of our operations CO2 emissions within our manufacturing andto working safely at both our own facilities locations reduced by 3% in the year and those of our customers.
In the last year, we exceeded our 2% environmental key Energy consumption MWh performance indicator KPI reduction targets  locations at our manufacturing sites for energy use, carbon emissions, water use and waste generation.
In addition, we maintained our 2013 143,897 leadership position in safety performance 2012 148,804 withour injury illness incident frequency 2011 162,426 ratesre ecting the effective programmes wehave inplace.
2010 152,135 For the fourth consecutive year, Invensys waslisted on the Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes DJSI in recognition of our economic, -3% environmental and social performance.
Energy consumption within our manufacturing IntheUK, Invensys was again listed on the locations reduced by 3% in the year FTSE4Good Index Series, which identi es companies that meet recognised standards ofcorporate responsibility.
And once again, Total Recordable Case Incident Rate we reported our greenhouse gas emissions tothe Carbon Disclosure Project CDP 2013 0.18 voluntarily and renewed our participation in 2012 0.18 the United Nations Global Compact UNGC.
Furthermore, our UK operations continue to 2011 0.18 be certi ed for our reductions in carbon 2010 0.21 emissions under the Carbon Trust Standard.
nil% Our Total Recordable Case Incident Rate TRCIR remained at at 0.18 this year: over thepast four years, however, our TRCIR has fallen by 14% 28 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Business Review Environmental KPIs % change on 1 Year ended 31 March Unit 2013 2012 same site basis % total change Energy use 2 manufacturing MWh 143,897 148,804 1 3 3 non-manufacturing MWh 55,092 54,340 2 1 CO2 emissions 2 4 manufacturing tonnes 52,389 53,990 1 3 3 4 non-manufacturing tonnes 25,749 25,274 22 global eet tonnes 10,620 12,640 n a 16 business airline travel tonnes 23,041 23,937 n a 4 2 Water consumed cubic metres 295,611 323,820 5 9 2 Waste generated non-hazardous tonnes 6,344 6,805 4 7 2 Waste generated hazardous tonnes 881 1,234 28 29 1 Measured as the percentage change from a 2012 adjusted base at the same 31 manufacturing and 112 non-manufacturing sites in operation in 2012 and 2013.
2 Based on 34 manufacturing sites in 2012 and 31 manufacturing sites in 2013.
3 Based on 116 non-manufacturing locations in 2012 and 112 non-manufacturing sites in 2013.
4 CO2 emissions have been recalculated using newly published emissions factors for electricity purchases.
Further details regarding environmental performance can be found on our website.
All data is independently veri ed consistent with the Basis of Reporting and Veri cation and Assurance protocols outlinedin our Sustainability Report 2013.
Our strategy and approach to The principal risks which are speci c to and At our non-manufacturing sites, our energy may impact our businesses are set out in the use was up 1% and our CO2 emissions corporate responsibility Risks and Uncertainties section on pages 33 wereup 2%.
Our strategy encompasses the following to 40.
In addition to these risks, there are other We encourage our site and regional keyelements:  risks associated with our operations to seek external management business which are not considered to be Ef cient and safe solutions designing system certi cation and we have eight assigni cant as these key risks and are ourproducts and services responsibly, operations certi ed to the ISO 14001 therefore not discussed in this report.
improving our customers ef ciency and environmental management system standard.
 risks are covered enhancing the sustainability performance in more detail in our Sustainability Report Management continues to be briefed on ofour suppliers: 2013, which will be available for download Group environmental performance and Ef cient and safe operations reducing from our website.
receives regular reports on KPI reduction the environmental footprint of our progress and any violations or environmental operations, maintaining a safe and healthy releases that occur.
In the past year, there workplace and mitigating environmental Environmental performance were no environmental releases or fines impacts: For the past year, we set a 2% absolute related to environmental regulations.
In the Investing in our employees and reduction target at our manufacturing US, one notice of violation was received for communities developing the potential of locations for our environmental KPIs, which failing to register equipment under local air our employees, striving to attract and retain include energy use, CO2 emissions, water regulations.
All fide ciencies were corrected.
the best talent and engaging locally in the use, non-hazardous waste and hazardous communities in which we operate: and waste generation.
Energy use and CO2 Governance ensuring the highest emissions within our manufacturing sites standards of ethical and honest behaviour decreased by 3%, primarily as a result of the in everything we do.
implementation of KPI ef ciency projects and Building a successful and sustainable a consolidation of some of our operations.
business requires strong values, strong Ona same site basis, energy use was down governance and effective communication.
At our AsChief Executive, I am responsible for driving manufacturing sites, water consumption Invensys corporate responsibility strategy, decreased by 9%, while our non-hazardous which is implemented by the Group and hazardous waste generation rates Leadership Team with the support of key decreased by 7% and 29% respectively.
functions, including Environment, Health, Onasame site basis, water use was down 5% Safety and Sustainability, Legal and Human while non-hazardous waste and hazardous Resources.
waste generation rates decreased by 4% and 28% respectively.
Our approach to corporate governance is set out in the Corporate Governance section on pages 44 to 56.
Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 www.
com 29 Corporate Responsibility continued We continue to encourage our businesses Diversity and inclusion in the workforce Social performance and employees to engage with good causes Invensys seeks to recruit the best individual for to build relationships in the community and every position regardless of gender, ethnic or The health and safety of our employees enhance workplace morale and national origin, religion, sexual orientation or remains our highest priority.
any personal characteristic including disability, not relevant to their work.
Health and safety in the workplace Community and charitable investment We are pleased to report a strong health and Invensys fosters an inclusive culture where Our businesses provide a variety of safety performance, as reflected in our injury anyone with the skills and abilities to perform 1 programmes under our InvensysInvolved illness incident frequency rates.
From April is treated fairly.
We embrace the diversity of community engagement framework.
2012 to the end of March 2013, our Total our employees and the greater effectiveness InvensysInvolved combines employee Recordable Case Incident Rate TRCIR adiverse workforce allows us to offer our volunteerism and  remained flat at 0.18 and our Lost Workday customers.
We continue to respect and company resources to address essential Case Incident Rate LWCIR also remained flat support the principles of the European needs in the communities where we live and at 0.05.
Over the past four years, our TRCIR Convention on Human Rights and the UNGC work.
Under InvensysInvolved, our employees has fallen by 14% and our LWCIR has fallen by ensuring we comply with the labour laws are encouraged to participate in four distinct by38%.
ofthe countries in which we operate and by areas of community service: Education, Health creating an inclusive and respectful culture Our Safety and Sustainability Awareness & Safety, Civic Enrichment and the forour diverse workforce.
Metric SSAM is the model we use to drive Environment.
Based on a combination of and measure safety activities at an operational employee input and a review of our business Invensys is committed to equal opportunities level.
The SSAM, which is measured and focus, these four areas align with Invensys and supports the recommendations of Lord reported monthly, includes on-time closure of broader business objectives and offer the Davies and the Financial Reporting Council corrective actions, near misses, completion of greatest potential for positive local impact.
This is reflected in the safety training, safety tours inspections, and widerange of backgrounds and skills of the implementation of priority safety Some examples of projects with which we ourdirectors, as well as the appointment of programmes across our operations.
have been involved are included on the twofemale directors to the Board.
recognise the importance of diversity below We grant recognition awards to those sites Board level and have launched a number of and business operations that demonstrate diversity initiatives including an independent consistently strong safety performances.
As of diversity assessment intended to highlight 31 March 2013, 31 locations had reached the issues and opportunities across the business.
safety milestone of one million hours or more In addition, the Invensys Womens Exchange worked without a recordable incident.
is an established resource group that provides We continue to support external management support, education and networking certifications and four operations are certified opportunities within Invensys and with to the Occupational Health and Safety ourcustomers.
Assessment Series OHSAS 18001 safety Information on our levels of charitable management system standard.
Communication and engagement contribution is set out in the Directors Report withemployee representatives on page 74.
As Chief Executive, I review health and safety andemployees performance data, including any violations Regular and open communication is vital to We strive to make Invensys a place where ormajor incidents, on a monthly basis.
maintaining engaged teams and Invensys high-performing people choose to be, Inaddition, site leaders and management uses many media channels including regular where they can enhance their lives and teams review each recordable incident to fully updates from myself, an Invensys-wide careers and are motivated to perform at understand the root causes of accidents intranet, global All Hands calls and local theirbest.
andensure adequate corrective actions communications networks, including site-level areimplemented.
briefings, smaller face-to-face meetings and Invensys Values We are pleased to report that there were again employee newsletters.
The Invensys Values Agility, Innovation, no work-related fatalities during the year.
Integrity and Performance reflect the Invensys has established the use of blogging During inspections by government officials, we aspirations of our people and underpin the through initiatives such as iShare and received safety-related citations at six sites in way we work together.
Alignment with the isincreasingly using social networking five countries related to deficiencies in safety Invensys Values is considered integral to the technologies to facilitate fast and open programmes, emergency response, machine performance of our employees and they are communication between employees and guarding, electrical requirements and therefore embedded within our performance torealise the performance advantages of ergonomics.
No fines were incurred and assessment, internal communications and sharing knowledge and best practices corrective actions are being taken.
1 The injury illness incident frequency rates are for recordable or lost time in the workplace per 100 employees per annum consistent with US definitions.
Further details regarding health and safety performance can be found on our website.
30 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Business Review Makingadifference: Introducing students to engineering: Nationwide run for charity: Bangalore, India Foxboro, MA, United States Nuremberg, Germany Ourteam in Bangalore partnered with Overseveralyears, our team in Foxboro has Our team in Nuremberg participated in the theBridge School and the Concern India ledinteractive sessions that foster interest nationwide B2RUN run walk event raising Foundation to support the children of local inengineering asacareer at the local money for B2RUNs children-focused migrant workers with educational and highschool.
We also recognise our obligation and the Developing our leadership and our talent Investing in our leadership and bene ts arising from consulting through more We continue to focus on growing our deliverycapability formal channels such as the Invensys capability and enabling internal career moves Our Learning and Development Centre of European Employees Forum IEEF, which through our Organisational Capability Review Expertise CoE has become well established promotes dialogue between elected employee OCR process.
This process takes place and has delivered 119,153 hours of online representatives and senior management.
The across Invensys and over the past year has led training this year in seven languages.
This year annual meeting between IEEF representatives to the creation of robust succession plans for we launched a new development programme and senior management has been running for 50 senior leadership roles.
OCR has also for our senior leaders called Leading 14 years.
enabled the identi cation of key talent across Execution which supplemented our core the Group with 53 individuals considered to be programmes Leading Leaders and Aligning our people with the Groups High Potential or High Professionals.
This year, the CoE goals and objectives of these employees has an individual has focused increasingly on fundamental During the year we use our goal deployment development plan, completion of which is Invensys capabilities with the delivery of our and performance management tools and tracked and actively supported to achieve their new Project Management Development processes to help our employees understand potential through quarterly talent reviews with Curriculum containing over 60 learning Invensys goals and objectives and align them our Group Leadership Team.
We also launched an assessment of with their own.
Line managers are required to range of talent development programmes project management skills, which has resulted hold annual performance reviews with their including our Programme for Action Learning in a new suite of related programmes, with a employees in order to discuss their and Mentoring PALM and the Functional particular focus on commercial and contract performance, set personal objectives for the Expert to Business Partner programme management.
coming year and create personal development across our Finance and Legal functions.
Approximately 11,000 managerial, In 2010 we launched a new set of Invensys professional and technical employees competencies following extensive external participated in our online performance benchmarking and internal research drawing management processes last year.
Other on inputs from over 200 of our own highemployees, such as those in manufacturing, performing leaders.
These competencies participate in local performance management havebeen embedded into our performance processes.
management system and form the basis forthe assessment of our top talent.
com 31 Corporate Responsibility continued Employee engagement The Board is given regular updates on Looking forward We conducted an Invensys-wide Employee compliance issues by the Chief Legal Of cer This report demonstrates how corporate Engagement Survey in November 2012 which and Company Secretary.
The Chief Executive responsibility is embedded within our achieved a healthy response rate of 76%.
and Chief Human Resources Of cer receive business and our priority for the year ahead regular brie ngs from the Chief Legal Of cer We were pleased to see our employee will be to continue building on the good work and Company Secretary during which any engagement levels compare favourably with achieved to date.
Legal and ethical our global external benchmarks and that compliance is recognised as a priority As far as our most valuable asset is concerned overall our people feel increasingly positive forInvensys.
our people we will continue doing about their work with Invensys.
The results everything we can to create a work have been communicated transparently and The Code of Conduct is available on the environment that attracts and retains the best we are now implementing action plans to build Invensys website and can be read by any people and which motivates them to perform on the feedback.
customer, shareholder or member of the at their peak.
Their safety and well-being will, public.
Invensys has adopted a Supplier Code of course, remain our highest priority so we of Conduct based on our Code of Conduct Ensuring responsible, ethical and will continually be looking for new ways in and asks major suppliers to comply with it or honest behaviour which we can improve our performance in this have in place a similar code of conduct of their critical area.
We will also continue encouraging own as a condition for doing business with us.
Our corporate responsibility strategy is our people to reach out and bring their many underpinned by our business principles The Code of Conduct is supported by periodic talents to bear upon the communities in which andCode of Conduct which stress the training for all employees and the Board.
importance of responsible, ethical and new employees must complete Code of We will strive to reduce our environmental honest behaviour.
Conduct training within the first month of footprint and to highlight the environmental employment.
To promote the Code of bene ts that many of our products and The Invensys Code of Conduct Conduct and our Helpline, Invensys has services offer to our customers.
And nally, The Invensys Code of Conduct describes and produced a range of supporting materials wewill continue to operate to the highest represents our commitment to responsible including Helpline posters, abridged versions standards of governance and good corporate business and is the foundation of our broader of the Code of Conduct and other citizenship.
Under the terms of presentation materials which are displayed at the Code of Conduct, our employees Invensys facilities and are available in multiple undertake to work with integrity as languages on the Invensys intranet.
representatives of Invensys and in accordance The Code of Conduct, together with with both local laws and our own standards of supporting Group policies and associated ethical behaviour.
Where the Code of Conduct training, forms the core of the latest iteration of is more exacting than local laws or standards, the Compliance Programme.
During the year, the Code of Conduct must be followed.
Wayne Edmunds we ran training courses on speci c areas of Chief Executive compliance in our Learning Management System, highlighting critical areas of the Code of Conduct such as Anti-Bribery, Anti-Harassment Bullying and Helpline Awareness.
32 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
