Overview Strategic report Governance Financials Nominations committee Members The nominations committee leads The nominations committee comprises all the the process for identifying, and non-executive directors including the Chairman.
makes recommendations to the Thequorum for the committee is three members.
board concerning the appointment or Membership of the nominations committee Meeting termination of, any new director or the attendance John Connolly Chairman 2 2 Company Secretary and, in the case Linda Adamany 2 2 of non-executive directors and the Neil Carson 2 2 Colin Day 2 2 Chairman, the extension of existing Tim Faithfull 2 2 appointments.
It also considers and Simon Thompson 2 2 Chairman Non-executive director makes recommendations to the board on appointments to board committees Key responsibilities taking into account areas such as The committee considers the structure, size and composition of the board, including the mix of skills, diversity and succession planning.
experience, independence and knowledge of the directors.
In considering recommendations to the board, the committee considers the appropriate balance of skills Dear shareholder, andexperience to progress the groups strategy, and I have spoken elsewhere in this report about board takesaccount of the benefits of diversity, including but composition, board succession planning and our notlimited to gender.
commitment to diversity and inclusion.
I will not repeat The committee also reviews board succession planning, these comments here.
inconjunction with reports from the Chief Executive and As we look forward into 2014, we expect to see board Group HR Director on senior management succession renewal.
We will, of course, miss Tim Faithfulls experience planning, so as to ensure that an appropriate balance of and contribution.
We expect any replacement to bring skills is maintained both within the senior management international experience gained working within our core team of AMEC and on the board.
markets and experience of large projects.
Foster Wheeler Activities of the committee will be nominating two of their directors to join our board During 2013, the committee commenced a search on completion of the proposed acquisition.
fora new non-executive director using the executive As you can see from the charts on page 80, we have a good search firm, The Zygos Partnership Zygos.
With the mix of skills, experience and length of service amongst assistance of Zygos, the committee has prepared a your board of directors and I expect this to be maintained.
candidate specification setting out the key desired attributes, which include a background in oil & gas or natural resources and international material projects experience.
Zygos had previously worked with AMEC to assist with the search for a new Chairman in 2011 John Connolly and with the process that led to Linda Adamanys Chairman of the nominations committee appointment in 2012.
Other than this, they have not undertaken any other work of any kind for the board 13 February 2014 orthe company.
The committees terms of reference can be found at amec.
com aboutus culture corporategovernance or on request from the Company Secretary AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2013 57
