Our people What this means for ourstrategy Our people Our success lies in the success of our employees and theway in which they deliver to our customers.
Our customers Our employees are clever people: their skills are a scarce resource.
Our highly skilled engineers, project managers, Our global consultants and scientists deliver for our customers, Our expertise reach creating long term customer relationships and a strong reputation for excellence.
Our markets Our future success relies on us attracting, developing andretaining the best people, particularly those with experience in successfully delivering complex projects.
Ourpeople strategy is a core enabler of our 2015 and How we work beyond growth aspirations.
Our internal development activities are discussed in more detail in our sustainability report and on our website.
Theyinclude: Our people are AMECs principal AMEC Academy: improving the technical and asset as we do not own significant managerial skills of our people, with all programmes machinery or proprietary delivered in a consistent andintegrated manner across the globe technology.
Our continued success depends on our people and the way increasing the existing resource pool: graduate and trainee recruitment and development programmes in which they deliver for our improving the future supply pool: educating customers, every day, around schoolchildren about careers in engineering theworld.
accessing the best skills anywhere: using our global It is vital that we continue to attract, develop and mobility programmes.
We work hard to achieve thisand are successful.
For example, this year we Our growth will inevitably put further pressure on the availability of suitably qualified engineers, consultants havesuccessfully recruited to support our business inEurope including working on significant hook-up andproject managers.
andcommissioning work in the UK North Sea.
Despite Evidence of a skills shortage abounds.
In the UK, the Royal this, insome of our geographies our growth has been Academy of Engineering has warned that the current pool constrained by the availability of skilled people.
of science, technology and engineering experts is already stretched thin and ageing rapidly.
It estimates that the In 2013, we have increased our efforts to improve the effectiveness of our people in particular focusing median age ofchartered engineers rises by 10 years for every 14 thatpass.
onincreasing the collaboration between offices, between teams, between different sectors and between We select our projects carefully, ensuring we are using, geographies.
We are already seeing the benefits of and being rewarded for, the skills and experience of our thisapproach and it will continue to be apriorityin2014.
We need to think as One AMEC and use our people on the projects most likely to create long-term advantage for the company overall.
We increasingly make use of our common tools and systems to share work between offices.
This not only allows employees access toa wider range of challenging projects but also builds greater flexibility into our cost base.
14 AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2013 Overview Strategic report Governance Financials Our values are integral to how we do business and Won accolades, from best employer awards in Canada howwedeliver projects successfully for our customers.
to the top spot for People Development at Oil and Gas Wemaintain the highest standards of safety and ethics.
We were also recognised as one ofthe UKs top 20 most in-demand employers Our commitment to human rights is shown in our Code byLinkedIn ofBusiness Conduct.
We support the elimination of forced or child labour, respect the human rights of any individual Revamped, simplified and streamlined our global or community in which we work and are committed to policies and mandatory procedures, in support of our providing a workplace which is safe and secure, founded Code of Business Conduct.
Almost 21,000 of AMEC on mutual respect, free from harassment and offering employees undertook anti-bribery and corruption equal opportunity for promotion and advancement.
training in 2013 People, safety and integrity, together with environment, Launched our employer brand, Why AMEC.
provide the foundations to our sustainability strategy which Consultations with employees around the globe is explained in more detail in our separate 2013 established that people joined and stayed with AMEC sustainability report.
forthree main reasons: opportunity, excellence and belonging.
These concepts have now been incorporated Employees by business unit into internal and external communications and feedback has been very positive Growth Regions 12% Developed and refined our approach to diversity and Americas 50% inclusion in the workplace, recognising that our goal isdiversity of thought.
Gender is just one part of this.
Women now make up 26 per cent of our directly Europe 37% employed employee base, equivalent to 6,071 people: Investment Services Centre 1% 15per cent of our management professional grades 1,039 people : 13 per cent of our executives 42 people : 30percent of our group management team three 2013 achievements included: people : and 13percent ofour board one person.
Recruited successfully in resource-constrained markets.
1 1 For example, our business in Europe recruited almost Management professionals Total employees 6,000 people in 2013.
Many of these appointments were Female 15% Female 26% short term, in support of the significant hook-up and commissioning activity in the UK North Sea.
Success involved careful planning and targeted recruitment campaigns, to ensure the right skills were available, inthe right place, at the right time Male 85% Male 74% Refreshed our graduate recruitment website and 1 Directly employed workers only materials.
Over 400 graduates, trainees and interns joined AMEC in 2013 Almost 500 people were referred by our employees andmore than 120returned to AMEC because of our What didnt go to plan in 2013 alumniprogrammes Our average number of employees grew by just Continue to see about one-third of our people 1percent, reflecting the downturn in certain participating in share ownership schemes ofourmarkets Strong HSSE performance continued: the AIFR reduced We had 14 LTIs in 2013, equivalent to 0.038 per 200,000 to 1.56 per 200,000 exposure hours, and our TRCFR was exposure hours.
Our target is zero better than 2012 at 0.26 per 200,000 exposure hours Allegations of historic blacklisting were made against AMEC and a number of UK construction companies.
AMEC does not operate a policy of blacklisting individuals and the senior management of the company would not condone such a policy.
AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2013 15 Our people continued Managing the challenges The principal risks and uncertainties related to our people are: Staff recruitment and retention An inability to attract and retain sufficient high-calibre This is mitigated with a clear human resources HR employees could become a barrier to the continued strategy, which is aligned to the business strategy and success and growth of AMEC.
focused on attracting, developing and retaining the best people for AMEC.
It is underpinned by an employee framework which describes how we manage our peopleconsistently.
In addition, there is a continual review of compensation andbenefits to ensure sector and geographic competitiveness and there are localised recruitment teamscapable of recruiting large numbers into AMEC usingcommonsystems.
AMEC Academy delivers development activities to enhance delivery and prepare employees for more advanced roles.
Pensions AMEC operates a number of defined benefits pension This risk to AMECs pension schemes is mitigated by: schemes, where careful judgement is required in maintaining a relatively strong funding position over time determining the assumptions for future salary and pension increases, discount rate, inflation and member longevity.
taking advice from independent qualified actuaries and Thereis a risk of underestimating thisliability.
other professional advisers agreeing appropriate investment policies with thetrustees close monitoring of changes in the funding position, with reparatory action agreed with the trustees in the event that a sustained deficit emerges closure of key UK defined benefits pension schemes tonew entrants.
Health, safety and security AMEC is involved in activities and environments that In order to control risk and prevent harm, AMEC is focused havethe potential to cause serious injury to personnel on achieving the highest standards of health, safety and ordamage to property or the environment and damage security management.
This is achieved through setting toourreputation.
ofan effective policy and putting in place clear standards which underpin our health, safety, security and environmental management systems.
We put in place processes to assure that our systems work effectively throughout the organisation.
Health and safety performance is regularly reviewed against agreed targets to facilitate continual improvement.
m See also risks for: merger and acquisitions and ethical breach both page 26 m Our approach to the management of risk is shown on page 85 16 AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2013 Overview Strategic report Governance Financials Measuring success Priorities for 2014 Our people are our most important asset.
There are a wide range of KPIs we track in this area, reflecting the critical importance of our employees The recruitment, development and retention of our people tooursuccess.
Growth in employee base r Safety continuing operations emains critical to our success.
Number of fatalities at work In addition to the safety and employee growth KPIs plotted In 2014 we will once again be focused on supporting below, we also regularly monitor how engaged our employees our growth with new hires.
Many parts of our business are.
In 2013 we undertook a series of statistically valid pulse continue to grow.
For instance, we are looking to expand surveys, each asking around 2,000 employees a few simple our UK-based nuclearengineering team to allow us to chart to be removed Americas questions which are indicative of engagement.
Response capitalise on theopportunities in existing reactor Europe For the past six years 20082013. levels were high and engagement scores were at or above maintenance and newbuild.
Growth Regions We have the same target for 2014 0 70per cent throughout the year.
We will seek to embed our new commitment to diversity 2011 2012 2013 Further detail on these and the other KPIs we use can be and inclusion deep into the organisation.
found in our 2013 sustainability report.
We are planning an executive development programme Employee-instigated turnover tocomplement the existing junior and senior management per cent programmes currently offered through AMEC Academy.
11.0 10.8 10.6 We are reviewing our succession planning process to ensure we develop and retain the right people.
We already have a high degree of success in filling positions using succession plans, but we would like tomake this even better.
The safety and security of our people is essential to 2011 2012 2013 ourbusiness and we will focus on four key areas of performance improvement: Total recordable case frequency rate Leadership roles and responsibilities, benchmarking per 200,000 exposure hours ourselves against others and introducing a peer 0.38 0.37 feedback process Establishing a good practice guideline for HSSE 0.26 0.23 assurance Using the information generated by our incident management systems to drive more preventative 2011 2012 2014 actionand share learning globally 2013 target Fully implementing our Inherently Safe Design process across the organisation.
Lost time incident frequency rate per 200,000 exposure hours Further detail on each of these items is contained in our 0.04 0.04 sustainability report.
0.03 Assuming the acquisition of Foster Wheeler proceeds asplanned, we will need to plan and implement the integration of their employees into AMEC.
We see this as vital to achieving the full advantage from the combination zero of our two companies.
2011 2012 2013 2014 target m See our Code of Business Conduct on amec.
com to understand how we work at AMEC, in line with our values Fatalities We had zERO fatalities in 2013.
We have achieved zero fatalities for six years in a row.
AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2013 17
