Our customers What this means for ourstrategy Our people We have a wide range of customers around the world including large IOCs, utilities, industrial companies and Our customers government bodies.
Our diversified customer base limits our dependence on any one customer.
Our global We win business because of our reputation and our long Our expertise reach term relationships.
We want our customers to recognise our engineering, project management and consultancy expertise and to trust us to deliver their projects Our markets successfully.
Such a reputation does not come overnight, but is a key cornerstone of future growth.
Our history demonstrates the importance of the long-term How we work relationships we have built with many of our customers.
Only by understanding their business, their objectives and their values can we identify how best to use our expertise to help them deliver.
We have a wide range of customers Order book and work for some ofthe worlds as at 31 December 2013 Growth Regions 22% largest corporations and government bodies, designing and maintaining Americas 36% critical assets.
Our customers expect us deliver excellence every Europe 42% day.
Weare very proud of our 2013 achievements included: reputation and the high proportion New customers included: Sempra US Gas & Power of repeat business wegenerate.
andVale We work very hard to develop long-term and worldwide Broadened service to existing customers, including relationships with our customers.
GDF SUEz on the Cygnus field, UK North Sea The strength and longevity of our relationships also KOC renewed our 255 million five-year upstream reflects our shared values including integrity and engineering and project management services contract nevercompromising on safety.
for the second time We start each project with a new customer with Wales & West Utilities WWU renewed our five-year theexpectation that wecan develop it into a contract to replace the gas mains across its territory .
Horizon Nuclear Power awarded us a three-year We know that if we do good work for a customer, framework contract to provide environmental and wewillwin more good work.
technical services for the proposed new nuclear reactors in the UK We have developed a new, common, customer relationship management CRM system, for implementation in 2014.
What didnt go to plan in 2013 We were disappointed not to be awarded further work on BPs Mad Dog development in the Gulf of Mexico Our mining revenues have fallen in 2013.
Our business was affected by the industry-wide downturn as customers deferred capital spending plans.
18 AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2013 Overview Strategic report Governance Financials Managing the challenges The principal risks and uncertainties related to our customers are: Geopolitical and economic conditions AMEC operates predominately in the UK and North AMEC seeks to maintain a balanced geographic presence America and is therefore particularly affected by political and, through acquisitions and organic growth, will continue and economic conditions in those markets.
to increase its exposure to other attractive regions of theworld.
Changes in general economic conditions may influence customers decisions on capital investment and or asset The risk associated with economic conditions resulting maintenance, which could lead to volatility in the in a downturn and affecting the demand for AMECs development of AMECs order intake.
These may also lead services has been addressed, as far as practicable, to change in the customer base, competition and in the byseeking to maintain a balanced business portfolio way customers procure the services we provide.
interms of geographies, markets, clients and service offering business model.
In the mining and oil & gas markets in particular, pressure on capital expenditure is leading to a greater focus on In light of continuing global economic uncertainties, AMEC smaller projects and portfolios, potentially restricting the will additionally seek opportunities in new markets and opportunities for growth.
territories with a particular focus on mid-stream business Diversified customer base and broaden the offering to clients to selectively include 2013 revenue analysed by customer more lump sum work.
Top 5 m See also risks for: commodity prices page 34, expansion of global footprint page 38, mergers and acquisitions page 26, customers 25% project delivery page 23, health, safety and security page 16 and staff recruitment and retention page 16 Balance of customer base 55% 6-20 20% Measuring success Oil & gas customers by type Our diversified customer base is a major indicator of 2013 oil & gas revenue analysed by customer type oursuccess.
We also keep track of new customer wins, Independent 4% customer satisfaction and win-to-bid ratios.
National oil companies NOC 15% New customers added in 2013 included Vale, Sempra USGas & Power and Horizon Nuclear Power while BP, GDF SUEz, KOC and WWU were among those existing International oil companies I0C 81% customers providing new contracts.
Diversified customer base 2013 revenue analysed by customer Top 5 Priorities for2014 customers 25% Balance of customer In 2014 we will stay focused on our customers and how base 55% their requirements are changing.
We will continue to 6-20 20% enhance the AMEC Way and to improve the customer experience of working with AMEC.
We will also continue to expand the services we offer existing Oil & gas customers by type customers and look for new customers in our chosen 2013 oil & gas revenue analysed by customer type markets.
The acquisition of Foster Wheeler would Independent 4% National oil accelerate implementation of these priorities.
companies NOC 15% International oil companies I0C 81% AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2013 19
