Strategic report Governance Financial statements ENvIRONMENTAL IMPACT As a media services company, the During the year, the Group worked with of the data would not be sufficiently Group acknowledges that its business CarbonSmart, a carbon consultancy, robust for accurate reporting in has an impact on the environment, todevelop a GHG Reporting Protocol, theseareas.
albeit relatively minor, and ITE follows based on DEFRA and World Resource current best practice in each of its Institute guidelines.
The Group has identified GHG markets by observing industry and emissions per employee as the most country legislation.
The Group is aware The Group has decided to measure appropriate available KPI referred to that this is an area of increasing GHG emissions based on financial as the intensity ratio and the Group concern to employees, shareholders control boundaries so operations has set a target of reducing the and customers alike.
By identifying Groups GHG emissions per employee which are consolidated as subsidiaries environmental improvements, we in the Groups financial statements have in the next 12 months.
expect to see increased efficiencies been included in the measurement and with that reduced costs and the exercise.
Associates and joint ventures Measurement of environmental management of environmental issues is impact in 2013 of the Group have not been included as part of our business strategy to create the Group does not exercise sole The Group collected data from most longterm value for shareholders.
offices in the Group on the activities control over these operations.
As the Group does not exercise financial identified above for the year ended board level responsibility 30April 2013.
This is the first year of control over the properties in which The Group Finance Director has exhibitions are held, emissions arising collecting data on a Group wide basis directresponsibility for environmental and so will act as the benchmark year.
from these properties have not matters and chairs the Environmental beenmeasured.
This also means that no comparatives Matters Committee which monitors are presented below.
theGroups emissions, considers and The Company does not manufacture makes recommendations for Offices covering 97% of employees or sell any tangible products improvements and mitigations of the and has identified the following provided data.
In order to present a Groups environmental impact, and total emissions report for the Group, key activities as being within the commissions and reviews external GHG reporting requirements: results from similar offices have been reporting of the Groups environmental extrapolated based on the number of Scope 1: Natural gas: company cars: impact for regulatory or voluntary onsite fuel consumption and fugitive employees to estimate total emissions.
Scope 2: Purchased electricity and In some offices, electricity and heat The Groups new Reporting Protocol charges are included in office rental heat and steam.
For the past three years ITE has charges and information has not been reported material GHG Greenhouse provided by office landlords.
In these At present, scope 3 activities e. g. Gas emissions from its UK operations business travel: waste: freight shipping cases, an estimate has been calculated with the aim of driving efficiencies, based on similar offices usage and are excluded from the reporting scope.
reducing costs and improving It is believed that at present the quality office floor space data.
environmental management across its UK offices: and creating longterm Global GHG emissions data for period 1 May 2012 to 30 April 2013 value for shareholders.
Tonnes of CO e 2 This year the Group has expanded the Scope 1 444 scope of its reporting to cover GHG Scope 2 743 emissions at the global level covering Estimated emissions for offices that have not reported data 42 over 1,000 staff, based in approximately Total GHG emissions CO e 1,229 2 30 offices, in 17 countries.
Average staff number for period of measurement 1,058 Companys chosen intensity measurement: Emissions per staff member 1.16 ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 39
