Strategic report CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIbILITy Overview individual and the Company.
All staff The Company actively supports its The Board of ITE believes that are eligible to receive share options employees in their support of local corporate and social responsibility is an or awards under the Employees community projects.
Charitable important part of the Groups culture Performance Share Plan as the Board donations across the Group totalled and that the adoption of good practice feels that it is important for them to over 46,000 2012: 36,000. will have a positive impact on profits take an active part in the success and increase the longterm value of the Company and to share in the In Russia the Group supports a number for shareholders.
Due consideration longterm value they help to create.
of local charities particularly those is given to risks arising from social, involving childrens charities.
During ethical and environmental issues as The Board recognises the need to 2013 this has included providing part of an ongoing risk review process.
provide a safe working environment direct financial funding as well as for employees and exhibitors and providing volunteers to assist on Employees visitors at the Groups events.
Each specific projects and workshops.
The Board recognises the importance office is responsible for ensuring of diversity amongst its employees that their business operates in In August, the Novosibirsk office took and is committed to ensuring compliance with Group policies part in a charity campaign called that employees are selected and and the relevant local health and Getting Children from Orphanages promoted on the basis of merit and safety legislation.
Employees receive Ready for School.
Staff from the ability, regardless of age, gender, regular Health and Safety training.
local office collected stationery and race, religion, sexual orientation or Staff from all regions with lead other items to prepare children from disability.
The gender split across responsibility for the operation of the local orphanage for school, as the Group as at 30 September 2013 the Groups exhibitions onsite also well as raising money to take a child is illustrated in the table below: attend regular training courses.
from the orphanage to the shops in order to fully kit them out for school.
Male Female Social interaction Board 7 1 The Board of the Company is In St Petersburg, exhibitions organised Senior management 38 26 aware of both the benefits to its by the local office featured the 1 Good All employees 333 762 business of engaging with its various Deed charity programme.
This allowed constituencies in a sociallyresponsible a range of charitable organisations manner and the risks of failing to do to be present at the exhibitions for Includes Board and senior management.
As an operator of internationally volunteers to collect donations, sell focused businesses in emerging gifts and speak about their work.
The Group has a policy of encouraging markets, the Company ensures that employees, especially those from the it is culturally sensitive in its dealings In the UK, the London office held locations in emerging markets, to move with the local community and that charity auctions and sponsored around the offices of the Group, thus its employment and development activities, matching funds raised providing development opportunities policies are nondiscriminatory and by employee contributions.
In addition, employees are encourage the employment of local office continued its work with Hope assisted in their career development nationals at all levels in the Company.
for Children, raising more money through an annual appraisal scheme, for Namuwongo during the year.
and sponsored training is provided Namuwongo is a slum on the edge where there is a benefit to both the of Kampala, Uganda, which has been adopted by the UK exhibitions industry ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 40 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Novosibirsk getting children ready London BupA 10K uganda Hope for Children forschool to provide support and to work with The UK Bribery Act places obligations the community to help them achieve on the Group and senior management.
During Key management are required to the year ITE employees also had the complete an elearning course, opportunity to visit Namuwongo tailored to the requirements of to see how the money raised was the business and designed to train benefiting the local community.
and test the individuals on the UK Bribery Act.
The course covers the FTSE confirms that ITE group PLC The Group is looking to increase requirements of the UK Bribery Act has been independently assessed further the number of its offices which along with example scenarios and according to the FTSE4Good criteria, take part in charitable activities.
and has satisfied the requirements to become a constituent of the Ethics and human rights issues The Group is a member of UFI the FTSE4Good Index Series.
Created Integrity is core to the Groups values Worldwide Exhibition Organisers by the global index company which it actively promotes in its Association and through this, FTSE, FTSE4Good is an equity dealings with employees, shareholders, the attendance figures at our key index series that is designed to customers and suppliers and with the exhibitions are audited by independent facilitate investment in companies authorities of the countries in which services.
This helps to provide that meet globally recognised it operates.
The Group recognises assurance to our exhibitors and visitors corporate responsibility standards.
that reputation is a valuable and as to the standard of our exhibitions.
Companies in the FTSE4Good fragile asset gained over a substantial Index Series have met stringent period of time and is committed to The Group aims to provide high environmental, social and governance good practice in respect of human quality of service at all its events in criteria, and are positioned to rights.
The leadership position of the all locations.
The Group operates to a capitalise on the benefits of Groups exhibitions and the longterm strict minimum quality level to ensure responsible business practice.
growth of its core shows is a testament events are provided to exhibitors and to the success of its practices.
visitors at international standards, irrespective of where they are held.
All ITE staff are required to comply with the laws and regulations of the The Group ensures that all advertising country in which the Group operates.
and public communications avoid The Group promotes high ethical untruths or overstatements.
standards in carrying out its business activities and has clear guidelines ITE builds a relationship with suppliers for dealing with gifts, hospitality, based on mutual trust and undertakes corruption, fraud and the use of to pay suppliers on time and in inside information.
These are available accordance with agreed terms of to all staff on the Group intranet.
All information regarding the These standards are designed to relationship between the Group and avoid causing or contributing to a supplier must remain confidential.
ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 41
