Governance Corporate governance statement continued Corporate Responsibility Jean Tomlin, Chairman, Dear Shareholder, Corporate Responsibility Committee Corporate responsibility and sustainability remain an integral part of Sainsburys overall business strategy and an important part of our vision to be the most trusted retailer where people love to work and shop.
I joined the Sainsburys Board in January 2013, and was delighted to The years key highlights are noted on pages 8 and 9 within the become Chairman of the Corporate Responsibility Committee from Non-Financial KPIs and other examples are integrated across the my predecessor Anna Ford, having been impressed with Sainsburys Business review.
approach to sustainability in recent years.
This track record has once again been recognised by numerous awards Our five corporate values of Best for food and health, Sourcing with and sustainability indices.
A selection of these is listed on these pages integrity, Respect for our environment, Making a positive difference with others noted on our corporate website.
In particular, we maintained to our community and A great place to work remain as important our Global Sector leader status in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index, as ever to our ongoing success.
They frame the Companys work for the sixth year running, having first joined in 2003.
We retained our day-to-day and are part of our heritage.
With 23 million customer listing in the FTSE4Good Index, which we have been part of since its transactions each week and employing around 157,000 colleagues and inception in 2001. working with over 2,000 direct suppliers in over 70 countries, we need to manage our significant economic, social and environmental As the Chairman of the Corporate Responsibility Committee, I will value chain.
report to the Board twice a year on our plans and on the progress we have made against each of our values.
Sainsburys 20x20 Sustainability Plan is both ambitious and essential to the future health of our business.
In November, we updated on progress We will once again be providing a further public update on progress during the first year since its October 2011 launch.
Two innovative crowd in November for our customers, colleagues, partners and shareholders, sourcing events saw over 300 stakeholders provide detailed feedback as well as continuing our practice of providing a Corporate and advice to inform the agendas future direction and engage them in Responsibility and Sustainability update with every Trading Update.
The team has also been working with our own-brand and branded suppliers both individually and collectively to ensure they In the meantime, I encourage you to find out more about this important are playing their part and fully embracing the Plan.
aspect of our business at www.
Sainsburys is also engaging customers in the ideas and actions that 20x20 stands for.
The Companys overarching Live Well For Less mission chimes perfectly with this, and is underpinned by more specific campaigns such as Switch the Fish, Love Ugly Veg, Make Your Roast Go Further, Million Meals Appeal, Active Kids and of course Sainsburys involvement in the Paralympics and inclusivity.
Jean Tomlin Chairman, Corporate Responsibility Committee As a result, our customers now rate Sainsburys ahead of our peers for taking our responsibilities seriously.
In an environment where trust is an ever more precious asset for any business, the team are focused on ensuring Sainsburys values continue to make us different.
Our New Fashioned Values consumer insight report showed that more than ever people are looking to vote with their wallets and choose companies they trust to do the right thing and act on their behalf.
Sainsburys values and the 20x20 Sustainability Plan offer both an assurance and a roadmap in this regard.
J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 43 Governance Corporate governance statement continued Corporate Responsibility Committee J Sainsbury During the year the Committee was chaired by Anna Ford, and Justin King and Mary Harris are its members.
Jean Tomlin became Chairman plc Board of the Committee in January 2013 when Anna Ford stood down from David Tyler the Board.
David Tyler attends each meeting.
It met twice during the Chairman year.
These formal Committee meetings were supported by Corporate CR Committee Responsibility and Sustainability CR&S strategic meetings that were Established January 2007 hosted by Anna Ford and Justin King.
Each meeting is based around meets twice annually one of the five CR&S values and key external stakeholders are invited to attend.
During the year five such meetings were held, relating to each of Jean Tomlin, Chairman the five values, framed within our 20x20 Sustainability Plan which was Non-Executive Director launched in October 2011.
CR&S Steering Group Established 2001, The Committee is supported by an internal CR&S governance structure meets quarterly whereby members of the Operating Board have responsibility for each Justin King of our five values and sit on our CR&S Steering Group, which meets Chief Executive, quarterly and is chaired by Justin King.
The members of the Steering CR&S Chairman Group are shown opposite.
Best for food Health steering The terms of reference of the Committee are available on the website and health group at www.
Sarah Warby Marketing Director This years 20x20 Sustainability Plan update will be published in Brand November 2013.
Sourcing with integrity governance Mike Coupe steering Group Commercial group Director Respect for our Climate environment change steering Neil Sachdev group Property Director Making a positive Community difference to our steering community group Helen Buck Retail Director A great A great place to work place to work Angie Risley steering Group HR Director group Our 20x20 Sustainability Plan In many ways, the commitments encapsulated in our 20x20 Sustainability Plan are not new to Sainsburys.
We have sought throughout our 144-year history to lead in matters of business responsibility and sustainability.
Examples of our contribution over the past decade include transforming the market for fairly traded products and sustainable seafood, improving animal welfare, supporting British farming and championing community investment.
With our 20x20 Sustainability Plan, we formalise our action against our values, as well as recognising the new and changing issues which todays world faces.
In developing the plan, in 2011 we undertook a detailed auditing and materiality process.
This year, we continued to listen to our customers, suppliers and opinion formers to make sure we have the most relevant and effective agenda, leverage the knowledge and experience of experts and remain at the forefront of sustainability between now and 2020.
With the clarity of purpose that the 20x20 Sustainability Plan brings, we are focused on its delivery, whilst also ensuring we continue to engage and look beyond 2020.
44 J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Governance Corporate governance statement continued Awards Our CR&S achievements this year are recognised by a number of awards, including: Global Sector Most Sustainable Retailer Leader 2012 13 of the Year, Retail Industry Awards, 2012 sixth year running Held since its Retailer of the Year, inception in 2001 RSPCA Good Business Awards, 2012 Platinum Big Tick, BITC Leadership and Corporate Responsibility Innovation in Retail, Index, 2013 Compassion in World Farming Award, 2012 Gold accreditation Double winner, Carbon since 2010 and Energy, Guardian Sustainable Business Awards, 2012 Employer of the Year, Carbon Disclosure Project Oracle Retail Week score of 82 100, awarded Awards, 2013 B performance rating J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 45
