Strategic report Governance Financial statements James Fisher and Sons plc Corporate responsibility recruitment programme which focuses on recruiting Introduction talented graduates, developing skills and experience Corporate responsibility is central to the Groups and producing potential future managers.
business strategy and the Company is committed to conducting its business with honesty, integrity and We operate in a competitive marketplace and the fairness.
The Board believes that aligning corporate Board recognises the importance of rewarding responsibility linked to business strategy and objectives employees appropriately for the value they bring to is key to the Groups sustainability and success.
The the business and aims to offer rewards that attract Group has implemented a number of policies covering and retain key talent.
In addition, the Company anti-bribery and corruption, business ethics and whistleencourages employees to share in its success through blowing which support our approach to corporate share ownership and annually invites employees to responsibility.
We require all our people to conduct participate in its share schemes.
At 31 December 2013, themselves to the highest level of ethical conduct in their 251 employees were participants of the James Fisher business activities.
We do not permit bribery, illegal or Savings Related Share Option Scheme 2012: 188. corrupt business practices and we provide a procedure for employees to raise any malpractice concerns in an The Company is committed to equal opportunity and it appropriate forum without fear of recourse.
The continual is our policy to ensure that all employees and potential monitoring of the application of these policies across our employees are treated fairly regardless of their race, Group demonstrates our commitment to ensuring that our religious or political beliefs, gender, age, marital status business operates in an ethical and responsible manner.
We aim to ensure that people from any background or gender have equal access to employment, training and career progression Employees opportunities.
We strive to select individuals on The Board recognises that as a service business, merit and do not consider that targets or quotas are our talented and diverse workforce is our most appropriate.
However, the Board has agreed that the valuable asset.
The long term success of the issue of gender diversity should be addressed as part Group is dependent on the quality, skill, dedication of the Boards succession and development.
and commitment of our people.
Accordingly we are focussed on creating an environment where Set out below is a breakdown of the average number of performance is rewarded, people are respected for persons by gender and category: their contribution, diversity is encouraged and where 2013 2012 integrity is upheld in all aspects of our work.
The Group Male Female Male Female remains committed to seeking out, retaining and developing the highest calibre employees to maximise Main Board business growth and performance and is committed to Directors 7 - 6 - equal opportunity for all employees and job applicants Senior managers 37 6 34 6 free of discrimination.
1,691 434 Employees 1,406 375 We support our employees through training and onAll of our employees are treated with respect and going investment and seek to ensure that employees dignity and harassment or any kind is not tolerated.
are informed on matters affecting their employment and business developments in the Group through It is our policy and practice to give full and fair management briefings and newsletters, the Groups consideration to applications for employment by website and by the distribution of Preliminary disabled people.
If an employee became disabled and Interim Announcements and press releases.
during the course of their employment, wherever Copies of the Annual Report and Accounts are also practicable, the Company would make every effort to made available to the operating business and this ensure that arrangements and adjustments are made communication process enables employees to gain an to continue their employment and arrange appropriate understanding of the Groups objectives and their roles training for that employee.
Health and safety Key employee statistics 2013 2012 2011 The Group is fully committed to providing very high Average number of 2,190 1,823 1,646 standards of safety to its employees and to contractors employees and visitors to the Groups premises.
The Group promotes Females as % of total 21.1% 20.9% 20.4% a safety culture of continuous improvement.
The Chief Executive Officer, Nick Henry has overall responsibility To enable personal development, employees are for health and safety and the review of health and safety encouraged to participate in training and development performance is usually the first agenda item at each programmes and to obtain professional qualifications Board and business board meeting.
In accordance with relevant to their roles through the Groups training our decentralised management approach, accountability programmes.
In addition, in 2013 the Group broadened is with local management to comply with local laws and its management development and graduate regulations and specific needs.
19 James Fisher and Sons plc Corporate responsibility Nick Henry chairs the Group health and safety Emissions committee GHSC, which meets on a quarterly basis to tonnes discuss all health and safety issues including incidents, 000s mitigating actions and training requirements.
The GHSC 2 CO equivalent from electricity 1.7 ensures that recordable safety incidents are reported consumption in facilities to the Board and each Group operating company is 2 CO from combustion of fuel at 1.9 maintaining high standards of health and safety in its facilities and road vehicles business.
Through the GHSC, the Group shares best 2 practice and following any health and safety incidents, CO from combustion of fuel in vessels 79.1 including near misses, appropriate corrective action is 2 Total CO emissions 82.6 taken to mitigate the risk of their recurrence.
The Groups principal operating companies maintain Our GHG emissions have been calculated using internationally recognised Occupational Health and UK Government guidelines for conversion of fuels Safety Management Systems accredited to OHSAS and electricity.
The Groups Carbon intensity ratio 18001 and management systems which are accredited calculated against Group revenue is 0.02%.
Following to the international quality standard ISO 19001.
The 2013, our goal is to reduce our GHG emissions in Group has adopted the Reporting of Injuries, Diseases 2014, where possible.
To help do so we have identified and Dangerous Occurrences Regulations 2013 a series of actions to help reduce carbon intensive RIDDOR in the reporting of recordable incidents.
activities, including monitoring and reducing energy consumption, actively improving energy efficiency and A reportable incident under RIDDOR are work-related avoiding unnecessary travel.
In 2013 our Tankships injuries to workers which result in their incapacitation Division implemented a new Ship Energy Efficiency for more than seven days.
The number of reportable Management Plan to regulate shipping energy incidents across the Group in 2013 was 6 2012: 1. efficiency and to control our marine GHG emissions.
The most common incidents relate to trips, falls Waste management and recycling of materials, where and crush injuries.
The Group also records lost time practicable, is encouraged across the Group.
accidents LTAs to monitor performance and trends.
An LTA is where a worker is incapacitated for three Human rights or more consecutive days, not including the day of incident.
In 2013 the Group incurred 2 LTAs 2012: 6.
James Fisher is committed to supporting and respecting human rights.
Our everyday work practices In addition the Group monitors the overall RIDDOR and policies throughout the Group are designed to reportable frequency rate.
The RIDDOR reportable ensure that respect for human rights is integrated into frequency rate was 0.9 in 2013 2012: 0.2. the systems and culture of our business.
Environmental Business Ethics and AntiThe Group is committed to operating its businesses in Bribery and Corruption Policies an environmentally responsible manner, recognises that Our business ethics policy aims to instil the highest its operations have an impact on the environment and is standards of business behaviour across the Group committed to working within the appropriate regulatory and focuses on embedding a culture of ethical framework to minimise the environmental impacts of its compliance, so that all of our employees understand operations, so far as reasonably practicable.
the standards of ethical business practices that are expected from them.
As well as protecting Our principal operating companies are ISO14001 the reputation of the Group and safeguarding the compliant or are in the process of achieving investment of our shareholders, the business ethics accreditation.
This internationally recognised policy aims to protect the interests of every employee environmental management system enables a by ensuring legal and regulatory compliance as well as systematic approach to handling environmental issues promoting responsible behaviour across the Group.
The Group has an established anti-bribery and Energy consumption was measured across the Group corruption policy reflecting the requirements of by recording data on the combustion of fuel and the the UK Bribery Act 2010 and has introduced an use of electricity at its facilities.
The Groups total extensive compliance programme which has top greenhouse gas emissions GHG in 2013 was 82,600 level commitment from the Board and from senior 2 tonnes of CO.
This is largely made up of emissions management.
The programme includes communication from the combustion of oil and gas in vessels, which of the statement and policy, training, risk assessment, amount for 96% of our total emissions, although one monitoring and review processes.
Employees assessed 4,000 tonne vessel can carry over one hundred times to be at risk are required to complete the training and to the volume of fuel transported by a single petrol tanker, self-certify that they understand and agree to be bound significantly reducing congestion and emissions to air.
20 Strategic report Governance Financial statements James Fisher and Sons plc West Cumbria Fab Lab Project The economic development organisation, Britains Energy Coast BEC has received support from the Sir James Fisher Foundation which has given a 100,000 grant over two years and JF Nuclear which has provided technical support and equipment enabling BEC to bring Fab Lab fabrication laboratory technology to West Cumbria.
Fab Lab is a small-scale workshop laboratory equipped with the latest computer-controlled tools that can produce prototypes or bespoke items from a digital design.
The Fab Labs are designed to encourage an environment for innovation, design and making and to provide facilities to help students develop skills to support local business and provide training in the community.
On-going compliance is monitored by local compliance The Group encourages its trading companies to officers who are required to report to their local boards support local communities and charities within their and to the Group Compliance Officer on at least a operational areas and during the year companies and biannual basis.
The compliance officers are responsible employees throughout the Group have been engaged for ensuring that risk assessments, training and in and undertaken a wide range of activities, including: awareness are up to date and are required to monitor, record and report agency arrangements with third parties.
S even employees participated in the Keswick to Barrow 40 mile annual sponsored walk and run raising over 3,000 for charity: Customers A n employee completed the London Nightrider The Group aims to provide superior customer 100km cycle challenge raising 6,000 for charity: service through value added solutions combined J ames Fisher Everard employees participated in the with high quality products.
High class customer Battersea Park Corporate Challenge charity event service and product and service innovation are critical and made a charitable donation of 650 to the elements in helping customers to find solutions and Philippines disaster recovery fund: to be successful.
We have developed long lasting J ames Fisher Marine Services made a donation to relationships with customers over many years and have the Greenock Sea Cadets, which is one of the UKs followed a customer-led strategy to expand into the oldest nautical youth training charities: fast growing international markets.
We are proud to be J ames Fisher Defence raised 500 for Cancer a trusted partner of major corporations, government Research UK in the FreshnLo Pedal for Scotland agencies and customers around the world and charity cycle: understand that continued commitment to our existing J ames Fisher Nuclear JFN made a 675 donation and future customers is fundamental to our success.
to the Engineering Awareness Day at St Benedicts Accordingly, we strive to work hard to understand our High School, Whitehaven.
The event was supported customers needs, and to deliver client satisfaction.
by nine JFN staff who provided detailed advice and literature to students to encourage them to consider engineering careers in the nuclear industry: and Suppliers R MSpumptools participated in the 54 mile The Group has a wide range of suppliers and whilst Caledonian Challenge and raised over 6,500 for the Group does not operate centralised procurement, Foundation Scotland.
it continues to promote social responsibility, trade compliance and anti-corruption within its global supplier base.
Key suppliers are vetted to ensure that they adhere to our codes of conduct and where appropriate operate recognised international quality, health and safety and management systems.
Communities The Sir John Fisher Foundation is a charitable trust established in 1979 by Sir John and Lady Fisher and supports causes throughout the UK, but with special regard to those based in and working for the benefit of people living in and around Barrow-in-Furness and the surrounding area.
The Trustees of the Foundation retain a significant shareholding in the Company and support charitable causes, particularly in relation to maritime, RMSpumptools staff participating in the Caledonian Challenge on medical and disability, education, music, arts and 15-16 June 2013. community projects.
In 2013 the Foundation was able to make grants or commitments to charitable causes of 1.2m.
