Directors Report Directors Report Corporate Responsibility Expert advisors from DuPont continued to assist us in strengthening our safety management and performance.
For example, in 2013, Corporate DuPont helped us to further integrate health and safety into our management structure at every level, from the Board of Directors 5HVSRQVLELOLW LQ GHWDLO down.
This is increasing involvement in, and accountability for, health and safety management, and improving the information ow in both Responsible behaviour supports our business strategy by helping us directions.
Our website provides further details of organisational structures and accountabilities.
to manage reputational and regulatory risks, access capital, reduce operational costs, build good relationships with regulators and local communities, and attract and retain talented employees.
Acting Health and safety responsibly also helps to support social and economic development Improving our safety record remains our absolute priority.
In 2013, in the communities where we operate our taxes, employee we spent approximately $40 million in this area and continued remuneration, spending and social investment make a significant to integrate industry and international best practices into our contribution to the economy of Kazakhstan.
Improving our health production operations.
We remain focused on the six key areas of roof collapse, contact with energy sources, ventilation, personal and safety performance remains our first priority, as safe and healthy protective equipment, training and skills, and pedestrian safety.
working conditions are the minimum our employees and contractors We reinforce our safety culture at every opportunity.
All business units now carry out regular behavioural audits, The material health, safety and environmental HSE risks included which assess whether employees are wearing the correct in our Group risk management process are described on page 48. protective equipment and following the correct procedures This section summarises our performance and significant changes when performing their jobs.
The audits are designed to explain made to our approach to corporate responsibility CR in 2013. and encourage the correct behaviour, and to put in place Performance against our CR KPIs is reported on page 21, with an corrective action plans where necessary.
accompanying message about our priorities and progress from Eduard Ogay, Chief Executive Officer of Kazakhmys Corporation To provide visible results and make all employees accountable for LLC.
Our website provides further details of our approach and their safety, we encourage them to look for quick wins simple performance, including case studies, at www.
com actions that make the workplace safer.
Examples include storing corporate responsibility.
tools tidily and in the right location.
We continue to develop our internal reporting systems to improve Following a month-long pilot project at two sites in Zhezkazgan the management of data.
We are currently working with external and the East Region, we have begun the company-wide rollout of consultants to provide greater assurance over our CR reporting.
a hazard-spotting programme to make this activity routine for all employees.
After the pilot, employees were noticeably more likely Governance and management to spot hazards, and compliance with our safety standards improved.
Our aim is to run safe and efficient operations that meet regulatory Every employee is expected to assess risks in their immediate requirements as a minimum, and applicable international standards workspace at the beginning of their shift, and should not start work wherever possible.
We take a decentralised approach, with our if they identify a hazard that cannot immediately be made safe.
divisions and business units tailoring our corporate policies and All operational employees receive 40 hours of mandatory safety standards to meet local needs, with oversight from the Group.
training each year, which is a legal requirement in Kazakhstan.
We also Responsibility for aspects of CR including health and safety, continue to roll out more detailed training, developed with DuPont, environmental management and anti-bribery and corruption on our corporate safety standards.
This training focuses on line is integrated throughout our production operations.
Ongoing managers, so they can cascade their safety knowledge down to their training and communication programmes ensure that all employees teams.
Specialists from DuPont have assessed which of our facilities understand the policies, standards and working practices they are now fully capable of delivering the training without external help, must follow.
Our aim is to build a supportive culture that explains, so that DuPont can focus on sites most in need of support.
encourages and rewards safe and ethical behaviour.
We believe that the understanding of our safety principles and The Board of Directors has ultimate responsibility for CR, and implementation of safe working standards is core to the success of is supported by a Group Health, Safety and Environment HSE our health and safety programme.
In Zhezkazgan, we have begun Committee.
More information about the roles and responsibilities testing understanding of our standards to assess the effectiveness of the Board and HSE Committee is available on pages 72 and 73. of our training.
Employees have one month to prepare for the test, and those who fail are given ten days before resitting it.
Employees Implementation of our health and safety policies and standards is who fail twice face disciplinary action.
overseen by a Group Health and Safety Manager.
Each division has a dedicated health and safety department, and specialists are on site As well as supporting the roll out of safety training, in 2013, at each facility.
The Group Health and Safety Manager and a separate team from DuPont began to conduct site visits to Operational HR Director work together to strengthen our check compliance with our safety standards.
The compliance safety culture and training.
checks will continue in 2014. www.
com 53 Directors Report Corporate Responsibility continued Fatalities Occupational health We are sorry to report that 15 employees and three contractors Risks to workers health such as those from noise, vibration, died while working at Kazakhmys this year, compared with 15 and temperature, lighting and radiation are assessed carefully.
We continue to work hard to prevent working in an environment that puts them at greater risk of further fatalities and view every fatal incident as avoidable.
dust-induced lung disease, hand-arm vibration syndrome or circulatory disorders are monitored more closely.
All employees Our focus on reducing incidents involving rock falls is showing have a medical examination when they join the company and then improvement in this area.
Historically, this has been the most on an annual basis to prevent occupational diseases and to diagnose common cause of fatal incidents.
In 2012, seven out of 19 fatalities and treat any problems as soon as they occur.
in total resulted from rock fall.
In 2013, this gure reduced to three fatalities, or 17% of the total number for both our employees and Environment contractors.
This is the result of installing additional roof supports, In 2013, the Government of Kazakhstan announced its intention to as well as improved hazard awareness among our employees.
operate a green economy by 2050, with an initial focus on optimising Detailed inspections of roof conditions and identication of risks resource use and improving environmental performance.
As a result, upon entering underground areas is becoming common practice we expect a change of legislation over the coming years in areas at our operations.
including emissions to air, water resources, energy efficiency and Falls from height were the most common cause of fatalities in 2013. waste management.
We are strengthening our efforts to enforce our corporate safety Kazakhmys supports the Governments vision, and we are standard for working at height.
developing an environmental strategy for the next three years.
In addition to existing energy efficiency programmes and emissions Fatalities by cause reduction measures, the strategy will include new initiatives for Rock fall 3 managing water and resource consumption as well as reduction of Slips, trips and falls waste.
In 2014, we will join the Governments consultation process 1 Falling objects on a roadmap for implementing its new requirements and ensure our strategy is aligned to this.
3 Contact with machine parts 5 Electrocution 1 While the new measures are under consultation, we will maintain Traffic accident our existing programme of environmental risk assessment and 1 2 Self-moving equipment and pedestrians 2 management to ensure our performance continues to improve Work at height and that each business unit meets current regulatory requirements.
Energy use Incidents and injuries In 2013, we continued to implement our Group-wide energy 1 Our lost-time injury frequency rate LTIFR increased from 1.80 in efficiency plan to ensure we contribute to the Governments target 2012 to 1.84 in 2013.
The total number of lost-time injuries among of reducing energy use in Kazakhstan by 25% by 2020.
By the end our employees has seen a slight reduction from 174 in 2012 to 172 of the year, we completed detailed energy audits at our smelters in 2013.
However, total hours worked have reduced by a larger and implemented around 50% of the resulting energy efficiency amount following the suspension of operations at our Zhezkazgan measures.
These measures include installing or upgrading meters to smelter and the concentrator in Satpayev, resulting in an increase in enable more accurate reporting on energy use, as well as efficiency LTIFR.
We also continue to see improvements in incident reporting measures such as upgrading equipment and adjusting schedules to and investigation, which resulted in more cases being registered.
Audits and energy efficiency plans will be This is a positive development that we believe will underpin future fully implemented in 2015, with a view to be certied to the ISO improvements in our safety performance.
We will set energy saving targets for the business once all energy audits Reporting of minor incidents is still increasing as measures to are completed.
For example, a sealed first aid box is sent into every mine for every shift.
Breaking the seal prompts In 2013, Group-wide energy use was 5,800 GWh, 7% lower than in the reporting of an incident at the end of a shift.
This breaks down into reductions of 8% in the Mining Division and 6% in the Power Division.
The drop in usage is primarily the There has been an increase in traffic incidents in 2013.
Road result of lower production output at Ekibastuz GRES-1, and the transport is provided by a contractor and we have requested a suspension of one of our smelters and a concentrator in the second number of measures to reverse the poor performance.
We anticipate further reductions as our energy are now equipped with GPS devices that allow for centralised efficiency programme takes effect.
monitoring of driver speeds, and any driver breaking the speed limit is subject to disciplinary action, including dismissal in severe cases.
Power generated at Ekibastuz GRES-1 is sold to third parties and We also request for all cars to be equipped with studded tyres in is not used in copper production.
Due to reduced demand, the snowy and icy weather, and have made it mandatory for all amount of both gross power generated and power sold to third passengers to wear a seatbelt in the front and back of the car.
The captive power plants that supply our mining Drivers will be held responsible if their passengers are not operations also sell roughly half of the energy they generate to third wearing a seatbelt.
Operational energy use GWh 1 We have restated the LTIFR for 2012 to exclude contractor man-hours 13 4,219 1,581 at Ekibastuz GRES-1 12 4,580 1,675 11 5,218 1,599 Mining Division Power Division 54 Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Directors Report Greenhouse gas emissions In 2013, SO emissions for the Group totalled 214,123 tonnes, 2 compared with 258,877 tonnes in 2012.
We seek to maintain low 2013 2012 levels of SO by capturing emissions from our smelters in Balkhash CO e emissions 2 2 and Zhezkazgan and transforming them into sulphuric acid.
At Mining Division tonnes 2,382,672 2,731,319 68,573 tonnes, emissions from the Mining Division were 34% lower Power Division tonnes 23,330,496 25,139,619 than in 2012, which was largely driven by the suspension of the CO e emissions 2 smelter in Zhezkazgan from September 2013.
The Power Division Group total tonnes 25,713,168 27,870,938 produced 52,630 tonnes of NO, compared with 55,246 tonnes in x CO e emissions normalised to 2 the prior year.
NO output for the Mining Division decreased by x Group revenues tonne US dollar 0.007 0.007 6% from 2012 to 1,301 tonnes, largely due to warmer weather Total carbon dioxide equivalent CO e emissions for the Group conditions which resulted in lower fuel consumption.
2 totalled 25.7 million tonnes, 8% less than in the prior year.
The Total ash emissions for the Group fell by 32% in 2013, to 83,138 reduction is driven by the suspension of the smelter in Zhezkazgan, tonnes.
The Mining Division produced 2,770 tonnes, compared lower power output at Ekibastuz GRES-1 and more efficient fuel with 3,464 tonnes in 2012, largely due to warmer weather consumption at our captive power stations.
Total CO e output for 2 conditions which resulted in lower fuel consumption at our the Mining Division decreased 13% to 2.4 million tonnes, the Power operations.
The Power Division reduced ash emissions by 32% Division reported a 7% decrease to 23.3 million tonnes.
Emissions to 80,368 tonnes, from 118,519 tonnes in 2012. reported for the Power Division include those resulting from the generation of energy sold to third parties, as well as those arising Total ash emissions tonnes, Power Division only from operational energy use.
13 80,368 In 2013, we announced the disposal of Ekibastuz GRES-1, which 12 118,519 accounts for more than 50% of our CO e emissions.
Total emissions 2 11 141,304 from the Mining Division and our captive power stations amounted to 11.7 million tonnes.
This year, we are reporting emissions intensity for the first time.
Ash emissions continue to reduce in the Power Division as a Due to the very different nature of our Mining and Power Divisions, result of the installation of new electrostatic precipitators at we believe reporting emissions per unit of revenue, rather than Ekibastuz GRES-1.
In 2013, we installed two additional copper output, represents a more accurate measure.
Group precipitators, bringing the total in place to six.
revenue including 100% of revenue from Ekibastuz GRES-1 We have also installed two further emulsiers at our captive power amounted to $3,595 million in 2013 and $3,933 million in 2012. plants in Balkhash and Karaganda.
By 2017, the Karaganda power Group-wide emissions intensity was 0.007 tonnes US dollar of station will have emulsiers on all 16 boilers, each capturing revenue in 2013, in line with 2012 levels.
We collect and calculate Scope 1 emissions data based on the Water methodology approved by the Ministry of Environment of Kazakhstan as of November 2010, which is in turn based on the In 2013, the Group used 3.3 million megalitres of water in total, Revised 1996 IPCC Guidelines for National Greenhouse Gas in line with 2012.
Of this, 2.4 million megalitres was recycled process Inventories.
We have no material Scope 2 emissions as the power water, which is captured and reused multiple times.
A further used during mining and copper production is generated in-house.
863,055 megalitres was surface water that we draw directly from Global warming potentials are taken from the IPCC Second lakes, rivers and reservoirs.
This is an 8% increase on surface water Assessment Report.
withdrawal compared to 2012, which is driven by higher power generation at our captive power plants.
The remaining 53,806 In 2013, the Government of Kazakhstan piloted its greenhouse gas megalitres under 2% of our total usage came from potable water emissions trading scheme by requiring companies to monitor and sources such as groundwater, springs and municipal systems that report emissions, without trading.
Under the scheme, we are we share with the local community.
required to submit our annual emission reports for external verication, prior to delivering them to the regulator.
We expect Our new, three-year environmental strategy will include a water carbon prices and quotas to be set based on our greenhouse gas management plan, which we aim to roll out across the Group to emissions inventory for 2013, which we will submit in May 2014. increase accountability for water use at an operational level.
Trading is unlikely to begin until 2015.
Emissions to air Our operations produce substantial amounts of sulphur dioxide SO, nitrogen oxides NO, ash, as well as low levels of airborne 2 x dust, which contains traces of arsenic.
These emissions are one of the most direct impacts we have on local communities, and we continue with our programme of equipment upgrades to reduce them.
com 55 Directors Report Corporate Responsibility continued Waste Calls to Speak Up helpline by category The waste management plans we drew up in response to new Dishonest behaviour, 15% legislation introduced in 2012 to reduce waste and control its e. g. theft, lack of integrity disposal are currently under Government review.
We will Health and safety 12% implement these plans, which include measures to increase Human resources, 27% reuse and recycling and ensure responsible disposal of e. g. unfair treatment 46% remaining wastes, as soon as they are approved.
Other, e. g. policies, reputation In 2013, the Group produced 126 million tonnes of waste, of which 23% was reused or recycled.
The recycling rate dropped from the 30% we reported in 2012 due to less rehabilitation work Training and development at sites, where overburden is typically used for nished sections.
We provide training and development opportunities to all our The majority of waste produced at our operations is overburden, employees, to incentivise them to stay and progress within the tailings and ash from the Mining Division.
Most other waste streams business.
In 2013, our employees received 44 hours of training each are sent to contractors for recycling, and we also reuse some on average.
This includes regulated health and safety training, as materials internally.
For example, construction waste and well as additional professional development and further education.
overburden are currently being used to build dams and to We are improving the internal reporting procedures to include upgrade the land surrounding switchgear at Ekibastuz GRES-1.
other types of training and professional development, such as, for example, safety training provided by DuPont.
We hope to Employees include this data in future.
A skilled workforce is critical to the future of our business, and Following the completion of our High Potential Programme in 2012, we aim to offer attractive careers at all levels.
As a minimum, we we continue to monitor the progress of its participants.
Seventy two are committed to providing fair, safe and secure working conditions of the originally selected 100 candidates are still on the follow-on in line with the International Labour Organizations Declaration on programme, with many showing progress in their roles since taking Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work.
We are currently developing a new programme for mine The optimisation of our business has brought changes for many of supervisors and site managers.
The course will comprise a mixture our employees, and we are providing support for those who are of classroom and job-based training with a view to create a skilled affected.
The optimisation process focuses rstly on reducing other operational management reserve focused on modern and efficient operational costs, with headcount reductions only taking place production.
Areas of focus will include technical and health where necessary.
Where employee numbers are being reduced and safety skills, as well as finance, project and human in Kazakhstan, this is done based on industry benchmarks of the resource management.
number of people needed to perform an operation and in In 2013 we also piloted a programme of behavioural assessments to compliance with local regulation.
We have provided sufficient better understand how to ensure all employees follow the correct notice of changes to employment contracts, giving people whose working practices and safety standards.
A cross section of 454 jobs are at risk an opportunity to nd a different role.
Internal employees from different roles across the Group sat a computerised communications kept our employees informed about the test.
This comprised randomly selected multiple-choice questions in changes and the reasons behind them.
three areas: knowledge of our corporate safety standards, of legislation, and of safe working practices in their particular role.
Ethics and compliance We are using the results to assess where and how we can All employees in relevant positions have now received training provide greater support to help people work more safely.
on our anti-bribery and anti-corruption policy, and we are introducing further measures to embed an ethical culture.
Pay and benets In 2013, our internal audit team and ethical business specialists We aim to reward our employees fairly and have a competitive GoodCorporation conducted an audit in one region to assess remuneration system in place that incentivises safety as well as progress with our anti-bribery and corruption programme.
Mining professions are highly paid compared with results show improvement, with some areas that require further other industries in Kazakhstan, and benchmarks show that attention.
These include formalising a number of our procurement Kazakhmys offers competitive remuneration to operational staff.
Each operational employees monthly salary comprises 70% base pay Other plans for 2014 include requiring senior managers to sign and 30% bonuses.
Of the bonus payment, half depends on achieving up to our ethical policies, carrying out bribery and corruption risk health and safety performance targets, and the rest is based on assessments, and developing a clear government relations policy.
In addition, each bonus has a team performance also plan to revise the way we carry out due diligence on contractors.
element, to ensure employees work together to achieve high levels In 2013, there were 26 calls to our independently-run and of safety and productivity.
Bonuses for divisional heads are based on condential Speak Up helpline for people to report concerns about health and safety performance, compliance with Government-set unethical practices.
The largest number of these reports 31% environmental targets and the amount of environmental fines related to unfair treatment at work and four calls, or 15%, were incurred, as well as production efficiency and cost control.
In the concerns about dishonest behaviour.
All reports are investigated case of a severe accident or a fatality, bonuses are withheld for and appropriate actions taken where necessary.
everyone in the affected team.
56 Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Directors Report In accordance with Kazakh law the Group is required to make Economic development payments to employees and former employees for illness and In 2013, we sourced 67% of our goods and services from companies disability sustained at the Groups operations.
The financial impact based in Kazakhstan.
This amounted to spending of almost 1 of this is covered in the Financial Review and the Consolidated $1.3 billion with local suppliers.
We continue to help diversify the local economies and employment opportunities in Zhezkazgan and Balkhash by working with a supplier Equality and diversity association in each region.
The associations have 92 members The majority of our workforce in Kazakhstan is local, and we employ employing 4,500 people in total.
In addition to providing loans and international expertise only where necessary to transfer skills and guaranteed sales, we support association members in ways such best practice in the longer term.
In 2013, 99% of employees within as deferring loan repayments, or allowing loans to be repaid with the Mining Division were Kazakh nationals.
Our support for a uniform supplier has We maintain a high level of gender diversity for the mining industry enabled the company to expand into managed laundry services.
in 2013, 34% of our employees were women.
This proportion is In 2014, the company will take responsibility for Kazakhmys uniform particularly high in engineering and technical roles 58%, but is lower stock, laundering and replacing items as well as supplying them.
at management level, where 21% are women.
The appointment of Our efforts to boost the Kazakh economy were recognised with Lynda Armstrong as a non-executive Director of Kazakhmys PLC a national award for local content development for the second in October 2013 introduced the first woman to our Board, bringing consecutive year.
Gender diversity % Social investment All employees 66 34 The Mining Divisions total social investment, including voluntary Managers 79 21 spending and spending under licences, was $57 million in 2013, Directors 89 11 compared with $52 million in the previous year.
Our social Men Women investment programme prioritises projects in education, sports and culture, local infrastructure and public health.
Consultation and communication Projects carried out in 2013 include the ongoing construction of We respect the right to freedom of association and consult our a town square and monument in Satpayev and the construction employees and trade unions about changes to our business and of a new kindergarten for 100 children near our mine in Jambyl employment conditions.
province in southern Kazakhstan and a gift of 16 ambulance cars to the regional health service in Karaganda.
The majority of our employees are members of Kasip Kazakhmys, the union created in 2012 on the initiative of Kazakhmys workers.
The transfer of ownership of the social facilities the Group The union also has around 14,000 external members.
The Trade inherited with its operations is well underway.
In 2013, 23 Union of Mining & Metallurgy Workers of the Republic of assets were transferred in total.
Of these, 11 were sold, 10 were Kazakhstan and Dostoiny Trud also represent some employees.
transferred back to the Government and two were outsourced.
In addition, our Youth Union had over 20,000 members this year.
Ownership of around 90 further assets will be transferred in 2014 and 2015.
We seek to ensure that the transfer of these facilities In 2013, the trade unions consulted with management on the does not affect their use by our employees, and try to provide aspects of our business optimisation programme that affect preferential terms of use in cooperation with new owners where employees.
The unions also worked with employees to explain possible.
Sales of assets to third parties are conditional upon the the changes and help them nd and transfer to vacant positions new owners retaining the employees.
Other issues that unions were consulted on included the revision of some of our bonus structures.
The Breakdown of social investment by category unions also facilitate discussions with employees who have raised 2% Sponsorship and donations disputes over issues such as unfair dismissal or wages.
In 2013, 73% Public health there were 10 such cases.
The unions are also involved in Education monitoring our health and safety practices.
20% Infrastructure 4% 1% Sports and culture Communities Kazakhmys contributes to the economy and communities in Kazakhstan by creating jobs, paying taxes, investing in infrastructure, using local suppliers and supporting the development of small and medium-sized businesses.
We respect the rights of anyone coming Please visit our website for more details about social investment into contact with our business.
For instance, we consult local and all our other CR issues and activities: www.
com communities during project development, and about major corporate responsibility.
operational changes that may affect them, such as transferring ownership of social facilities to local governments and community groups.
We also respect and protect local heritage and culture.
com 57 Bozshakol Construction work on the primary crusher.
Governance Report Governance Framework 60 Remuneration Report 76 Other Statutory Information 89
