KCOM Group PLC Corporate responsibility Annual report and accounts 2012 13 The way we do business is as important in achieving our Group vision as what we do Our areas of focus for Corporate Responsibility CR Community People We use our resources and skills to We attract, develop, recognise and retain make a difference to the communities the right people by providing an environment in which we operate where everyone can achieve their potential Environmental Supply chain sustainability We work collaboratively with our suppliers We seek to minimise our impact and customers to achieve our goals on the environment through behavioural and build sustainable partnerships changeand the use of technology 28 2 KCOM ar13 front RB.
indd 28 6 20 2013 11:15:24 AM Directors report Business review KCOM Group PLC Annual report and accounts 2012 13 Our performance is intrinsically linked to that of The grants funded, among other things, the Community our people, our partners and our communities.
purchase of equipment for a youth sports club, By placing sustainability at the core of our a scouting group and a playgroup, and days Through our community activities we want to strategy we can manage our economic, out for pupils of a special school.
build sustainable partnerships and support environmental and social impact.
projects that make the communities we serve During the year the Group continued also its better places to live, work and invest in.
While we have no material social issues, during patronage of the Princes Trust, the UKs leading the year we reviewed and evolved our approach youth charity.
Our patronage helps the Trust Our people are key to our success in achieving to CR.
As a result of the review, we have achieve its goal of changing lives by offering these aims, and we want to encourage and expanded our areas of focus to include supply training, personal development, business start-up support them to use their skills and time to chain in addition to people, community and support, mentoring and advice to young people.
We supported a number of other charitable Our community strategy covers engagement We have Group-wide programmes in place events including Movember for Prostate and support at both a Group-wide and covering each of our focus areas.
As well as Cancer, the Jeans for Genes appeal, Comic brandlevel.
these, each of our brands is able to pursue CR Relief and Children in Need.
activity that helps them achieve their specific The KCOM Group works with a charity partner business strategy.
Volunteering and community projects and this is chosen by our people voting on a Volunteering and community work is central shortlist of UK-registered national charities.
We have expanded the membership of the CR tothe Groups CR programme and our people Steering Group that we established in 2011 to get involved in many varied projects across In April 2012 the Group began a two-year include representation from the four brands as theyear.
partnership with Sparks, a charity dedicated well as the four areas of focus.
tofunding pioneering research into conditions The Group has formal partnerships in place with affecting babies, children and mums-to-be.
The CR Steering Group will continue to develop schools, charities and projects in areas where we Wesee a match in values between the KCOM and drive the implementation of our strategy operate across the UK.
In Hull and East Yorkshire, Group and Sparks in our dedication and to achieve our CR objectives: where we are one of the largest employers in the commitment to pioneering innovation in our region, our people donated 1,500 hours to respective areas of focus.
Their focus is on to use our knowledge and expertise to create community volunteering through our KCin the improving the quality of life for children and a positive impact on all our stakeholders Community programme.
families affected by serious illness or disability, and the communities in which we operate: while seeking ways to better diagnose, treat The programme has three aims: to involve our and prevent these conditions in the future to develop and promote a value-driven employees in events, projects and activities that through medical research.
The medical culture that is reflected in how we conduct matter to local people: to inspire local young breakthroughs they make possible willdeliver our business: and people and get them interested in, and excited a difference to thousands of women, children about, the future: and to support growth in the and families around the world.
to engage, enable and empower our local economy by supporting entrepreneurship people so that they can make a positive and providing practical support and advice to During the year we raised 68,000 for this contribution to our CR strategy and the start-ups and growing business.
worthwhile charity, the largest amount the causes that matter to them.
Group has raised in a year for a charity partner.
The programme won the community category It was achieved through the dedication of our Responsibility for CR at Board level remains of the 2012 Yorkshire Business Masters Awards people, who raised funds through sporting with our Executive Chairman, Bill Halbert.
challenges, dress down days, charity auctions, cake bakes and many other activities.
Meanwhile, our quarterly employee grants scheme awarded 3,600 to community projects, events and charities chosen by our people, helping them support causes close totheir heart.
indd 29 6 20 2013 11:15:26 AM KCOM Group PLC Corporate responsibility continued Annual report and accounts 2012 13 We aim to create a workplace where every employee is recognised as an individual and inspired to deliver exceptional business performance.
People Our people strategy Our people are vital to the success of theGroup.
We support wholeheartedly In 2010 we launched a programme of theprinciples of equality, diversity and inclusiveness in employment and we empower work aimed at developing our people to our leaders to attract, retain and motivate talented people from all backgrounds and support them infulfilling their potential.
cultures and with a wide variety of mindsets.
Investors in People It has been focused on: Our Investors in People accreditation is central to ensuring we are doing the right things to Value-driven culture help our people become even more customer This workstream has consisted of activities to communicate and focused, enabling us to achieve our long-term embed the Groups values.
During the year more than 1,000 vision and deliver inspiring customer experiences.
employees attended an It Starts with Me workshop, where these values and associated behaviours were explored through discussion Health, safety and wellbeing and activities.
The health, safety and wellbeing of our people, partners, contractors, customers and members Leadership development of the public is important to us.
The comprehensive leadership development programme we began in 2011 12 continued during the year, with 233 people managers Our BS OHSAS 18001 Health and Safety participating in learning sessions covering areas including motivation management system continues to function and performance management.
We launched also a toolkit for effectively and is audited by the British people managers to support them in their ongoing development Standards Institute.
beyond the formal training aspect.
During the year there were no fatalities or Considering the future of work and how future technological health and safety enforcement notices.
We and cultural developments will impact upon the way in which experienced one RIDDOR incident 2012: 3. our people work There were 17.5 working days lost in the year The successful organisations of tomorrow will be those that make as a result of health and safety incidents the most of the collaborative potential of technology to empower 2012: 61. their people, supporting new ways of working and organising themselves to create a high performance workplace.
During the year We aim to continue the improvement in our our membership of the Future of Work Consortium gave us access incident trends in 2013 14 by increasing audits tothought leaders and best practice in this field, equipping us with and inspections not only at Group sites but also the knowledge we need to capitalise on opportunities created by at customers sites where our people are based.
We have continued our annual health and For the forthcoming year: wellbeing screening sessions for the fifth We will continue to focus on building a value-driven culture consecutive year, with 590 colleagues anddeveloping our leadership and management capabilities.
Inaddition, the establishment of a competency based framework tounderpin our work to provide appropriate opportunities for career progression across the Group and to support all of our brands.
indd 30 6 20 2013 11:15:26 AM Directors report Business review KCOM Group PLC Annual report and accounts 2012 13 Colleague participation Leadership development It Starts with Me inannual health and attendees to date attendees to date wellbeing sessions 29% 233 1,007 We have also continued to run monthly health Waste-related activities Environmental and wellbeing campaigns to encourage a we have improved our ability to recycle positive health and wellbeing culture, and to inour Hull offices though access to a sustainability offer information and support through our newrecycling facility and thishas had a During the year we have strengthened our mental health and wellbeing microsite and our significant impact on the overall proportion approach to environmental sustainability confidential employee assistance programme.
of waste that we have recycled in the year: byidentifying Green Champions across theGroup.
Together they form a network of Our cycle2work scheme continued to be popular, we also expanded our recycling facilities enthusiastic volunteers who are helping to raise with 83 new enrolments during the year.
Post across the Group to include household environmental awareness in their locations year-end, we upgraded our cycle facilitiesatour electrical equipment, building around the country.
environmental awareness beyond the workplace: and Energy and waste Supply chain Our most significant environmental impacts are our deployment of a managed print in the areas of energy and waste.
During the year programme to provide a network of printer During the year we expanded our CR focus we have achieved all of our targets inthose photocopiers has led to a reduction in the toinclude supply chain.
By taking account of areas, including a reduction of 1,491tonnes amount of paper and toner used across the environmental, social and ethical considerations ofCO e in relation to electricity consumption, Group through the use of default settings 2 in our purchasing processes, we aim to asa result of the following activities: for double-sided andnon-colour printing, minimise risks and identify opportunities alongside follow me printing toreduce the forinnovation and cost reduction.
Energy-related activities number of unclaimed prints.
Energy our key network partner, BT, has invested in consumption has also reduced through We have a Supplier and Partner Code of energy efficient telephony power systems: theautomatic power-down of printers Conduct to ensure that our suppliers and during periods of little or no activity.
partners support our principles and commitment installation of automatic meter readers to responsible business practice.
Our aim is to hasenabled us to capture usage and reassure customers that products and services targetimprovements: purchased through the Group have been produced and delivered responsibly and we have upgraded some of our IT lawfully in decent working conditions without infrastructure with virtual servers located in exploiting the people who make or deliver our own data centres and accessible via the them and without damaging the environment.
cloud, reducing our impact on the environment: and Compliance with the Code is achieved through self-evaluation.
Where necessary we undertake new energy-efficient boilers have been independent inspections and audits to ensure installed at our Carr Lane office in the latter that our suppliers and partners are adhering to part of the year and passive infra-red the Codes principles and that we are all working motion detectors linked to lighting in together under the same responsible values.
common areas have also been installed.
During 2013 14, we will continue to develop thesupply chain aspect of our CR strategy tomaximise the benefits that responsible procurement principles and processes can deliver.
indd 31 6 20 2013 11:15:26 AM KCOM Group PLC Corporate responsibility continued Annual report and accounts 2012 13 Environmental sustainability is a real focus for us and this year we have managed to achieve all the targets we have set ourselves.
Environmental sustainability continued Targets and achievements equipment operated at hosted facilities Assumptions were made in relation to: Our emissions calculations include the such as third party data centres and following activities: co-location centres: and running loads for racks in third party datacentres: day-to-day running of our offices and sites where we are tenants and do not have network sites including the Groups own responsibility for the electricity bills.
electricity consumption where data data and co-location facilities : froman automatic meter reader has Methodology and assumptions notbeen available: waste generated at our sites: The data below has been calculated using KCOM Group PLCs 2012 13 Greenhouse Gas price of diesel, petrol and LPG: and delivery of services to our customers: GHG Report which has been produced by Verco Advisory Services Limited.
This follows fuel consumption of vehicles.
operation of company vehicles: the requirements of ISO 14064 and also theGHG Protocol: Corporate Accounting employee travel and hotel accommodation: andReporting Standard GHG .
equipment operated at customer sites: GHG emissions In accordance with the draft regulations from the Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs, on the reporting of GHG emissions, we have set out below our total tonnes of CO e produced in the year.
We have selected 2011 12 as our baseline year as this is the year in which we 2 completed our installation of automatic meter readers at over 90 per cent of our estate, therefore enabling us to record our electricity consumption much more accurately.
Current reporting year Baseline year 2012 13 2011 12 Tonnes of CO e Tonnes of CO e 2 2 Total gross emissions 26,600 28,445 Intensity ratio Tonnes of CO e per total 71.33 73.44 2 million sales revenue CO e is a universal unit of measurement used to indicate the global warming potential of a greenhouse gas expressed in terms of global warming potential of one 2 unit of carbon dioxide.
indd 32 6 20 2013 11:15:26 AM Directors report Business review KCOM Group PLC Annual report and accounts 2012 13 Comprehensive information on how webehave responsibly can be found at www.
com our-responsibility Our environmental sustainability targets and achievements Area of focus Target Achieved Actual Actual Percentage Target 2012 13 2012 13 2011 12 change 2013 14 To maintain at To maintain at 26,600 28,445 6.49% 2011 12 levels 2012 13 levels CO e CO e 2 2 Total CO e 2 emissions To maintain To maintain at 1,882 2,225 15.42% 2011 12 levels 2012 13 levels through promotion CO e CO e 2 2 and use of CO e arising from 2 ourinternal business travel communication technology To reduce landfill To maintain at 16.25 80.85 79.90% by 5% from 2012 13 levels tonnes tonnes 2011 12 levels Landfill To increase To maintain at 93.93% 66.49% 27.44% proportion 2012 13 levels recycledby 5% on2011 12 levels Proportion ofwaste recycled To reduce paper To maintain at 15.61 19.26 18.95% used by 10% from 2012 13 levels tonnes tonnes 2011 12 levels through the Printer and introduction of photocopier managed print paperused All of our carbon emissions data is audited by our internal audit team.
