Strategic report Corporate responsibility is a Corporate fundamental element of the responsibility Boards duty of care to the Groups stakeholders, as well as being important to Kellers reputation and profitability.
2012 introduction of the Code of Business Conduct 20 Keller Group plc Strategic report Governance Financial statements The Boards role is to provide effective Safety leadership, establish overall policy for the Group and monitor the performance of the We want every person who works operating companies in relation to: health and safety: the environment: responsible for us, or with us, to go home employment: business ethics: and our safely at the end of each day.
The Chief Executive is ultimately accountable for the Group operating in a way that is socially responsible.
Our line managers are charged with: delivering performance safely and with integrity: supporting Group policy: and providing leadership within their companies.
Environment All employees are responsible for following We want to reduce the impact of Group policy with the support, direction and commitment of line management.
our operations on the environment Our Code of Business Conduct sets out and help to meet our customers the Groups policies and practices relating environmental needs.
to: health and safety: competition: the environment: equal opportunities: harassment: bribery, corruption and fraud: gifts and hospitality: price-sensitive information: and whistle-blowing.
The Workplace and people Code was introduced in 2012 through the Business Conduct Programme.
We want to be known as a responsible employer which Our Code of Business Conduct can be found on our website.
There are four main areas where our business impacts on society and where we have responsibilities which extend beyond our financial performance.
Communities By taking seriously these wider responsibilities, we will continue to earn the We want to continue to take a respect of our stakeholders and to improve our sustainability as an organisation.
leadership role within our industry and to value, and be valued by, the communities in which we work.
to find out more please visit our website www.
co. uk Annual Report & Accounts 2013 21 Strategic report We want every person who works Safety for us, or with us, to go home safely at the end of each day.
Introduction 2013 safety performance Keller achieved its 2013 Group and The Board and senior management are relentlessly focused on achieving our divisional level targets.
The Groups targets focused on improving communications and goal of zero injuries through continuous improvement in our health and safety collaboration and this was achieved by: piloting and establishing the HSE web performance.
portal: the Think Safe Rules campaign: sending out three HSE newsletters: holding A strong safety culture is imperative to achieving our goal and prompted the launch a safety conference: and developing an awards programme for operators and safety of our Group-wide safety framework in professionals.
2010, Think Safe, Work Safe and Go Home Safe Think Safe.
Think Safe has been The divisions also achieved their targets by: deployed across the Group and in 2013 undertaking an annual Think Safe it proved highly successful in improving assessment: drafting and implementing employee behaviour towards safety, as well safety improvement plans based on the as engaging employees to help create a outcomes of the Think Safe assessments safe working environment.
and on their own priorities: and senior management carrying out at least four We have built on its success, developing safety tours during the year and closing a suite of employee communication and out at least 90% of the prior years material awareness materials in 2013, available in findings.
15 different languages, including a Keller OHSAS Think Safe Rules campaign aimed at At an operational level, advances were reinforcing awareness of Kellers minimum made to both leading and lagging indicators health, safety and environment HSE 18001 and the Group saw visible improvements at standards.
We have further introduced site level in compliance and awareness Safety Improvement Plans SIPs, which awarded for Safety throughout 2013.
Overall, the Group had now play a pivotal role in identifying Management 23 Major Injuries reported a 22% reduction significant safety risks across the Group and system against the 2012 performance, 86 Lost putting in place co-ordinated solutions for Time Injuries, and 275 Minor Injuries.
mitigating those risks over time.
Although Lost Time Injuries show a slight increase, we introduced changes to our We continue to assess levels of compliance reporting system in 2013 to include with Think Safe across the Group using the incidents that resulted in over one days bespoke assessment tool developed in absence, rather than only those that 2012, and to strengthen our assurance 1 resulted in over three days absence.
In 2013, we used the tool to successfully deliver programme reviews for our SIPs and our assessment of Like-for-like improvements have also been made in the number of Lost Time Injuries the compliance of 23 business units with the Think Safe minimum standards.
when compared to the previous reporting requirements.
Robust assessment, together with a new The Group 2013 Accident Frequency Rate HSE portal established to further promote collaboration and transparency across the for 2013 increased to 0.62 compared to 0.60 in 2012.
Notwithstanding this rise, Group, has enabled us to prioritise our activities for 2014 whilst a new forum, there were a number of improvements in the divisions.
Notably, EMEA had the largest comprising members of our divisional senior management, will promote further focus on reduction in AFR during 2013, from 1.3 down to 0.8. our activities within the divisions.
During 2013, the Company was awarded the international ISO 9001-2008 certification for its Quality Management systems and OHSAS 18001 for its Safety Management system.
These awards provide us with additional confidence that the systems we have in place are robust and appropriate to support the strong safety culture vital to our future growth plans.
co. uk 22 Keller Group plc Strategic report Governance Financial statements Divisional initiatives and plans contributed to a reduction of these forums Piling Contractors whilst Waterways During 2013 there have been a number of accidents and incidents at work.
achieved the prestigious Australian Federal notable safety initiatives undertaken by the Governments Safety Accreditation, so Group and its divisions.
As a mechanism for improving the further expanding Government work competency of its rig operators, a pilot available to it in the future.
North America study was undertaken in Spain using a North America maintained a low accident simulator.
This has proved very positive in 2014 and beyond frequency rate throughout the year through terms of being able to simulate different During December 2013, a formal structured a programme to develop employees working conditions and emergency HSE review was undertaken, looking at all competencies.
One example of this was procedures.
incidents and initiatives that had taken place the Driller School Programme where each thoughout the year and aimed at reducing region evaluated and categorised each As set out above, the division has reduced or mitigating health and safety risks.
From driller based upon experience and its AFR in 2013.
Further to the acquisition that review, a number of longer-term, completion of competency examinations.
of Franki Africa, management are working Group-wide objectives have been set by These have been graded, with the best to identify and to mitigate the safety risks senior management and agreed by the being classed Master Driller.
This was in that business.
supplemented by running accident reduction programmes and implementing Asia These cover the high-risk areas of the a mandatory carry glove policy across Asia also made significant improvements business and include the following the division.
in its management of safety risk.
Over the improvement areas that will commence in year, the division focused on a number 2014, with varying completion dates up to EMEA of core areas: up-skilling its employees and including 2018: EMEA made a significant step change in its through a tailored safety awareness safety performance in 2013.
Recognising programme at its sites: a safety training a reduction in incidents associated with that an important component of achieving a programme delivered across India: heavy plant and equipment: stronger safety culture would be the inputs recruiting new staff to support the business a reduction in injuries to hands and feet: from site-based leadership teams, EMEAs growth in a safe way: and investing capital improving our occupational health senior management introduced a to refurbishing its yards and depots.
provisions across the Group: and Supervisors Safe Production Forum where further development of the Think Safe supervisors and line managers were asked Australia system by way of the implementation of to put forward initiatives to enhance both All business units in Australia had achieved OHSAS 18001 or an equivalent standard.
A second strategic certification to the Australian Safety risk reduction initiative was the Management System standard AS 4801 We will report on our activities and progress in implementation of a division-wide safety by the end of 2013.
Three business units meeting these objectives in next years report.
awareness campaign focused on hands implemented a programme of safety road and feet injury prevention, which has shows Frankipile and Vibropile and safety 12-month rolling AFR 1.6 Group EMEA 1.4 North America 1.2 Asia Australia 1.0 0.8 0.6 0.4 0.2 0.0 Keller Groups AFR Dec 2012 Jan 2014 1 In considering the out-turn value however, it is important to take into consideration the following factors: the changes in reporting have increased the number, there have been consistent improvements in reporting over the last two years and new businesses have been included such as Brazil and Canada.
Annual Report & Accounts 2013 23 AFR Accident frequency per 100,000 man hours Dec 12 Jan 13 Feb 13 Mar 13 Apr 13 May 13 Jun 13 Jul 13 Aug 13 Sep 13 Oct 13 Nov 13 Dec 13 Jan 14 Strategic report Keller is committed to minimising Environment and its impact on the environment and sustainability complying with its statutory and regulatory obligations.
performance Being a global organisation, this inevitably Reporting boundaries requires constant attention and diligence at To the best of our knowledge, we have both Group and divisional level.
included all material emission sources which fall within the boundaries of our During 2013, an independent review was consolidated accounts.
commissioned of Kellers sustainability and its environmental performance.
The review All direct Scope 1 and indirect Scope 2 presented a snapshot of many good emissions are reported in absolute tonnes practices that positively contribute to equivalent CO. Greenhouse gases GHG 2 minimising our environmental impacts, as included are carbon dioxide, methane and well as those of our clients.
These included nitrous oxide emissions from the geotechnical designs to minimise carbon combustion of fuels mentioned below, and intensive materials e. g. use of stone carbon dioxide emissions from the columns and plasticisers, reduction in consumption of purchased electricity: geotechnical footprint thus reducing materials overall and accreditation to the Scope 1 Direct GHG emissions: international standard ISO 14001 for combustion of diesel, petrol, gas, oil environmental management systems, which and LPG.
has now been achieved by a number of Scope 2 Indirect GHG emissions: companies in the Group.
Accreditation is a significant achievement Data gaps and exclusions and underlines our recognition of the We believe that the collection of data in importance of environmental management relation to our material emissions in 2013 to our clients.
Keller has also invested in will provide the evidence base for delivering new photovoltaic technology in its desire to significant energy-efficiency gains in future become more energy efficient and years.
One example of this can be found in the UK, where a full-size solar 93% of our entities were able to provide panel roof has been installed on a workshop data on their primary emission sources.
building in Coventry, capable of generating Next year we plan to improve upon this up to 45 kWh of electrical energy, around figure and extend our reporting to other half of which we will use ourselves whilst the activities and greenhouse gases.
rest is exported to the National Grid.
The recycling of materials has also been implemented by a number of the divisions.
Carbon reporting This year, we have extended our carbon reporting to cover the majority of entities within the Keller Group, a significant undertaking.
At the same time we have adopted a standard reporting framework: the International Greenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard.
In doing so, we have fulfilled our requirements under the UKs Greenhouse Gas Emissions Directors Reports Regulations 2013.
24 Keller Group plc Strategic report Governance Financial statements Results Summary Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions for the Keller Group are shown below.
Due to changes in reporting boundaries, these 2013 figures are not comparable with earlier years.
Global GHG emissions data for the year ended 31 December 2013 Emissions from: Tonnes of CO e 2 Scope 1 Combustion of fuel and operation of facilities 135,179 Scope 2 Electricity, heat, steam and cooling purchased for own use 6,225 Total 141,404 Intensity measurement: Absolute tonnes equivalent CO per m of revenue 98 2 Third-party assurance statement Keller Group plc appointed Best Foot Forward, part of the global Anthesis Consulting Group, to provide independent assurance on the 2013 Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG accounts presented above.
Their summary opinion is provided below full opinion and recommendations are available on request : Based on our review, we are not aware of any material modifications that should be made to Keller Group plcs assertion that their Scope 1 and 2 group inventory is in conformance with the requirements of the Greenhouse Gas Emissions Directors Reports Regulations 2013, following the methodology of the Greenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard.
Best Foot Forward, February 2014 Group-wide objectives for 2014 and beyond The formal structured HSE review detailed in our Safety report on page 22 also looked at Kellers environmental risks.
Over the longer term we will seek to ensure that we have robust assurance processes in regard to compliance with environmental regulation.
We will also increase our employees awareness of our responsibilities in this area and we will further assure the robustness and integrity of our carbon data monitoring and reporting.
Annual Report & Accounts 2013 25 Strategic report We want to be known as a Workplace responsible employer which and people people are proud to join.
Being a responsible employer The Group gives full and fair consideration Keller employs around 9,000 people to applications for employment made by worldwide, most of whom are working in disabled persons, having regard for their front-line roles meeting with, and delivering respective aptitudes and abilities.
The policy for, our customers.
We are only as good as includes, where practicable, the continued our employees, which is why we want to be employment of those who become disabled known as a responsible employer which during their employment and the provision, people are proud to join.
of training and career development and 9000 promotion, where appropriate.
employees As a Group, we believe in treating all worldwide employees with dignity and respect and Communications and training do not tolerate any form of harassment, Maintaining a strong dialogue with our discrimination or bullying.
We are committed employees can be challenging in such a to creating a working environment in which geographically diverse group, with a mix of every employee is employed and promoted professional, white and blue-collar workers, solely on the basis of his or her merit and many of whom are site-based and often in personal contribution.
We aim to provide remote locations.
Our internal communications fair employment opportunity to all whilst draw on a wide variety of media and forums not offending, or being insensitive to, the including the internet, Company newsletters, traditions and cultures of countries in which consultative councils, suggestion schemes, we operate.
This is not only about being roadshows, electronic messaging as well as fair, it also makes sound business sense.
Diversity We are committed to providing training and We believe that equal opportunity means development opportunities which enable hiring and retaining the best people, employees to perform at their best and developing all employees to their potential and increase their contribution to the Group.
using their talents and resources to the full.
Diversity of people, skills and abilities is a In addition to safety, technical and strength which will help us to achieve our best.
competency-based training, management training programmes operate at a divisional Given our broad geographic footprint and our level.
For example, within EMEA, Keller UK, policy of employing local managers, we are which has been an Investors in People culturally very diverse as a Group.
Gender employer since 2005, has a development diversity at the Board level is discussed in the programme called Keller Futures, which Corporate Governance Report on page 31. includes management leadership modules Below Board level, women represent 8% of specifically aimed at improving skills, our senior managers being managing competencies and behaviours of site directors and their direct reports, or supervisors, engineers and middle managers.
equivalent and 8% of our engineers and contract managers.
Our research of others in At the Group level, we run a strategic our sector indicates that these numbers are development programme, through which every not unusual for our industry.
18 months some 25 senior managers from around the Group participate in three modules, During 2012, we surveyed our women each lasting one week.
The last programme managers to identify what they perceive as finished in April 2013 and the next programme the barriers which might prevent some will commence in June 2014. women from joining the Group or progressing within it: and how they can best Keller Australia has adopted a similar be supported to meet their career goals programme, which produced its first within Keller.
The results showed that around graduates in 2013 17 middle and senior 80% of respondents thought that Keller managers who completed a four-module offers a female-friendly working environment, programme over two years.
although a number of barriers to progress were identified.
Mentoring and flexible One of the ways in which we measure working were seen by respondents as two how well we are doing as an employer is of the most appropriate ways to improve the to measure our staff turnover, and this key promotion of women to senior management performance indicator for each division is positions and we continue to explore how shown in the Operating review.
these might be introduced in parts of the Group where they are not already in place.
26 Keller Group plc Strategic report Governance Financial statements We want to continue to take a Communities leadership role within our industry and to value, and be valued by, the communities in which we work.
Geotechnical community Wider community Most of our companies take a leadership In terms of engagement with the wider role within their industry by providing community in which we work, we are employees, customers, suppliers and generally working for a main contractor, potential employees with technical papers, who is the party responsible for consulting seminars, field trips and site visits.
Staff with any community affected by the project.
from companies throughout the Group Also, our work comes right at the start of a maintain close contact with partner project and we are typically on and off the universities in order to share best practice project very quickly: and our job sites are and provide examples of their leading-edge often in remote locations, where we have engineering.
no interface with members of the public.
There are occasions when we are working For example, Hayward Baker has partnered in built-up areas or in proximity to the public, with three US universities to assist in the such as the London Crossrail and Victoria development of rational design methods for Station Upgrade projects, and on any such using ground improvement for liquefaction projects in particular we strive to reduce our remediation.
noise and dust levels and to conduct our work in a considerate manner.
In the UK, we support research projects with a sustainability focus, including MSc Typically, where we have some community courses run by Birmingham University engagement, it is by supporting our which are investigating: employees when they get involved with the design of crib retaining wall systems community groups and local charities.
for reducing granular fill: The benefit of these activities is twofold: the use of recycled aggregates for vibro for the business there is benefit in terms of stone columns: Company profile and employee satisfaction fibre-reinforced stabilised walls: and and development: and there is also a direct foundations for onshore wind turbines.
benefit to the communities concerned.
In the UK, we operate a matching scheme, Many of our senior managers play key roles whereby donations made by employees in the geotechnical construction industrys to registered charities are matched by the professional associations and activities Company.
We also organise Work in the around the world, getting involved in writing Community days, where employees can building codes, specifications, guidelines, give up some of their working time to and industry-wide safety initiatives.
Looking to the future Ultimately, we want to be a sustainable business which earns the respect of all of our stakeholders by taking seriously our wider responsibilities.
Looking ahead, we aim to bring greater definition to our sustainability agenda, as we continue to invest in our people, systems and processes to enhance both our business performance and our reputation as a good corporate citizen.
Our Strategic report, from page 1 to page 27, has been reviewed and approved by the Board of Directors on 3 March 2014.
By order of the Board Kerry Porritt Company Secretary 3 March 2014 Annual Report & Accounts 2013 27
