Strategic report Governance Financial statements Health, Safety & Environment HSE Committee Dear Fellow Shareholder This report provides details of the role of the HSE Committee and the work it carried out during the year.
The Committee assists the Board in fulfilling its oversight responsibilities in relation to health, safety and environmental matters arising out of the activities of the Company and its subsidiaries.
The Committee is responsible for monitoring and reviewing the Groups Health and Safety Framework and Environmental Policy in line with applicable laws and regulations.
It also evaluates and oversees the quality and integrity of the Companys reporting to external stakeholders concerning health, safety and environmental matters.
The members of the Committee in 2013 are set out below.
All served on the Committee throughout the year except where indicated and all except for Gerry Brown were considered by the Company to be independent.
D G Savage Chairman until 3 October 2013 Paul Withers P N Withers appointed Interim Chairman from 3 October 2013 Interim Chairman of the HSE Committee E G F Brown until 23 May 2013 L R Cairnie Health, Safety & Environment E G F Brown 2 2 L R Cairnie 4 4 D G Savage 3 3 P N Withers 4 4 Retired on 23 May 2013 Retired on 3 October 2013 The Chief Executive and the Group Health, Safety & Environment Director attend all meetings of the Committee.
The Committee met four times during the year and discharged its responsibilities by: reviewing the Groups safety performance in 2013 against its plan: approving the Groups 2014 health, safety and environment plan: receiving safety performance reports and updates on progress against the 2013 health, safety and environment plan: recommending to the Board a Statement of Safety Principles: and receiving updates on regulatory and legal developments.
Further detail on the Companys activities and progress in this area can be found in our Corporate Responsibility Report on pages 22 to 23.
Each Committee meeting complied with the terms of reference in that a minimum of two members were in attendance, being independent, Non-executive Directors.
The full terms of reference for the Committee can be found on our website and they are also available from the Company Secretary.
