Kentz Corporation LimitedAnnual Report and Accounts 2013 42 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY BUILDING BETTER FUTURES WHY IS CR IMPORTANT TO OUR BUSINESS?
At Kentz we recognise the value of doing the right thing, treating our people the correct way and always delivering an uncompromising service to our valued clients.
We recognise that by addressing the things that are most important to our key stakeholders, we will ensure our business is sustainable and will provide shareholder value for the long term.
We believe our approach to CR adds sustainable worth, not only to the communities in which we operate, but also to our Company and its workforce.
GUIDING PRINCIPLES SHARED RESPONSIBILITY BRENDAN LYONS, CHAIRMAN, CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CR Social, safety and environmental awareness is the COMMITTEE sharedresponsibility of all employees and the Board of Directors.
We aim to develop and implement social and business policies which align with our clients and everyday activities.
MEMBERS OF THE CR COMMITTEE ARE: Brendan Lyons, Non-Executive Director HONESTY AND ACCOUNTABILITY Committee Chairman We communicate our policies, objectives and Christian Brown, Chief Executive Officer performance openly and honestly to our stakeholders: investors, clients, employees and suppliers and others James Cassin, Group Head of SSH&E with an interest in our activities.
We encourage an open Sharon Paul, Group Talent & People dialogue with these audiences and welcome their input.
Development Officer CONTINUAL PROGRESS Catrona Nugent, Internal and CR We are committed to continuous improvement.
We will Communications Manager take into account the changing environment where we operate and adapt to these changes in the development and implementation of all new social, safety and WHAT IS CR TO KENTZ?
We will monitor Kentz aims to conduct business our performance, set objectives for improvement and report our progress regularly.
in a socially responsible, ethical and transparent manner, with the ETHICAL AND MORAL BUSINESS PRACTICE desire to have a positive effect on We are committed to observing the highest legal standards: and moral ethics guide the Groups business our stakeholders, our diverse and activities.
We are committed to meet all relevant legislation talented workforce, and the as a minimum and where no legislation exists we will seek communities in which we operate.
to develop and implement our own appropriate standards based on industry-wide best practice, while striving to be We are guided by our Code of leaders in safety performance and employee well-being.
Business Conduct and maintain a strong focus on mitigating risks to COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES FOR THE YEAR our operations.
In early 2013, Kentz implemented its 2013 and Beyond strategic plan.
This strategic plan seeks to deliver sustainable growth for all our stakeholders through the broadening and leveraging of our capabilities across a growing operational footprint.
In setting ourselves these objectives we appreciate the need to engage positively with our stakeholders and align their interests and values with our own to help grow a sustainable business and deliver shared value.
In 2012, Christian Brown, Chief Executive Officer initiated areview of Kentzs performance in CR.
The review process engaged many of the Groups internal stakeholders thatcontribute to Groups CR focus, including Human Resources, Safety, Security, Health and Environment SSH&E, Procurement and regional management teamsfrom across the Group.
Strategic Corporate Financial Report Governance Statements Kentz Corporation LimitedAnnual Report and Accounts 2013 43 Following the internal stakeholder engagement process, a GAP analysis was performed by the CR Committee which allowed the Group to identify its strengths and weaknesses in each area and develop new CR Policy.
It was decided that the CR Committee required  from the Management Executive Committee, as well as the Board of Directors.
A new CR Committee was formed and its first meeting was held in February 2014.
Kentzs new CR policy was formalised and will be controlled by this Committee, with Brendan Lyons, Non-Executive Director as the Committee Chairman.
The Committee will meet four times a year and will provide feedback to the Kentz Board of Directors at every scheduled Board meeting.
The Committees remit is to consider any matters relating to the social, charitable, community and educational activities, expenditures and related publications of the Group that it determines to be desirable.
In addition, the Committee shall examine any other matters referred to it Kentzs CR policy focuses on the following four key areas: by the Board.
A further breakdown of the Committees Our People, Our Communities, Our Safety, Health and responsibilities can be seen in the Companys 2013 Welfare and Our Environment.
By focusing on these Corporate Responsibility Report.
fourareas we will help drive Kentzs strategic objectives and growth.
CR FRAMEWORK OUR PEOPLE As a service-based company, Kentzs most important andprized asset is our people.
We respect our employees, their skills and the valuable knowledge that they bring when delivering our services.
We actively encourage their development and training and acknowledge the mutual value in offering long-term career opportunities.
We also recognise that by setting high standards, we provide a working environment that our people can be proud of and share in the responsibility of maintaining a positive work environment for future employees.
We believe in the preservation of human rights and recognise both their importance and our obligation to protect them.
Our employees are bound by a Code of Conduct that engenders positive behaviour in the work place and encourages each individual to respect their safety and the safety of their colleagues.
In 2013, Kentz employed approximately 14,500 people in 36 countries and the number of nationalities represented in our workforce increased from 71 to 78.
When recruiting for positions within our regions of operation, Kentz will look to the local market to identify and source personnel with the required skillsets, safety culture and industry experience.
If there are specific skillsets that cannot be filled, we will aim to implement training programmes to train the local workforce and increase local employment opportunities.
As an international company with global reach, we will recruit from overseas for more specialised roles as needed.
An example of the training we provide in Africa is detailed further on the next page.
For more information, please visit: www.
com investor-relations Kentz Corporation LimitedAnnual Report and Accounts 2013 44 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED INTENTIONS AND OBJECTIVES OUR SAFETY, HEALTH AND WELFARE A key focus for Kentz in preserving The safety, health and welfare of our successful and sustainable growth is employees takes priority over any our commitment to deliver continuous other business objective.
Our improvements in career advancement ultimate aim is to be an industry and increasing leadership capabilities leader in Safety performance and to across our workforce.
We plan to achieve an incident and injury-free achieve this through a number of workplace, where nobody gets hurt training and development and everyone goes home safe to programmes, some of which are their families every day.
already in place such as KTS outlined in the case study, the AustralianIn 2013, Kentz achieved a strong accredited Certificate IV in Frontline andprogressive safety performance.
A group of KTS students, South Africa Management and the apprenticeship During the year, Kentz completed a programme developed by Kentz and total of 46.4 million man-hours and CASE STUDY Balcatta College of Electrical Training at 0.14, our full year Total Recordable Training and development of in Western Australia.
At a Group level, Incident Rate TRIR was the lowest employees continues to be at the Kentzs in-house Post Graduate since 2008: down 26% from 2012s forefront in Kentz, with exceptional Certificate and Diploma in TRIR of 0.19. project related training Management and Leadership at programmes established across Nottingham Trent University We recognise the importance of Africa and Australia.
In South providesan excellent opportunity being proactive in our efforts to Africa, Kentz Training Solutions Pty Ltd KTS, the training and foremployees seeking to advance reduce incidents of unsafe behaviour development division established their academic studies.
It is important to continually in 2010 has enhanced the delivery look for ways of improving our of Kentz internal programmes by In 2014, we plan to roll out new safetyperformance and encourage including several new key programmes including a Leading engagement amongst all staff to help Information and Communication Performance Programme, as well as us achieve this goal.
We reduced the Technology ICT programmes in new skills-enhancement courses in number of first aid cases by 14% which 125 people participated Managing People Effectively and from317 in 2012, to 273 in 2013, and during 2013.
KTS is currently Relationship Skills.
Kentz has completed 17,000 observations: with involved in several training initiatives, including KTS Training commissioned Soma, an less than 5% resulting in potentially and Assessment Centre and KTS international behavioural change unsafe work practices being Siemens Training Centre.
KTS has consultancy practice with bases in identified.
During 2013, senior also succeeded in registering as an both the UK and USA, to create and management completed circa 50 Accredited Training Provider with deliver these programmes.
Soma, project safety assessments: where Merseta, the national authority with extensive experience of the project safety culture on the responsible for training for organisational and leadership project was assessed against our nine industry-related scarce skills, such development in the oil and gas habits of highly effective leaders.
In industry over the last 30 years, addition, a number of projectrelated training activities, based at together with its capability to In the later months of the year, the Medupi Power Project in support Kentz across the globe, theBehaviour Based Safety Limpopo and the Tete Training isuniquely placed to assist us.
BBS programme, SOCKS Safety Centre in Mozambique, promote Observation Card System, evolved up-skilling of local communities.
Through embedding these types of to become the new Behaviour Over 150 Mozambique nationals initiatives in the organisation, we Intervention Programme BIP.
went through the training courses seek to support, train and motivate Thisnew programme focuses on at Tete in 2013.
Kentz is determined 23different high-risk activities on have served to strengthen Kentzs in becoming a preferred employer ourprojects, allowing us to identify performance in the region and build a strong local workforce.
ofchoice within the Engineering, and work on areas of improvement.
Procurement and Construction Moredetails on this programme are market sectors to support the included in the 2013 Corporate Companys growth strategies.
Strategic Corporate Financial Report Governance Statements Kentz Corporation LimitedAnnual Report and Accounts 2013 45 INTENTIONS AND OBJECTIVES Kentzs ultimate goal is to be an incident and injury-free workplace.
We have a target of 10% reduction inour TRIR year on year.
Monthly leadership meetings discuss and address trends in our Safety, Security, Health and Environment SSH&E performance, as well as the implementation and monitoring of our Behavioural Intervention Programme on our project sites.
This systematic and behavioural James Cassin, Group Head SSH&E, speaking at the conference focused approach toimproving our operational performance is designed CASE STUDY to embed a safety-first mentality.
In 2013, Kentz hosted its fifth Annual Safety Conference in Kentz will also focus on the Johannesburg, South Africa.
The promotion of health and well-being theme of this Safety Conference of all our employees in the coming GOAL employees assisting in the Philippines aid was World Class in Africa effort following Typhoon Haiyan year, and our target is to ensure that Evaluating Safety Standards.
all employees have access to an Conference delegates, including OUR COMMUNITIES many of our valued partners and employee assistance programme.
Kentz strives to become an clients in the region examined the Implementation of occupational activemember of the communities safety culture in Africa and other health programmes will also take inwhich we operate and will support parts of the world, and evaluated place during 2014 through the the leading principles that could be a number of charitable, social, GroupSSH&E team.
developed and honed to achieve recreational, well-being and cultural world class safety standards in initiatives to that end.
We will always projects in Africa.
Kentz constantly listen to and respect community strives to improve its safety needs and expectations and seek standards by investing in the awide range of views on our social welfare and training of its and environmental policies and workforce and will use the performance.
We will encourage conference outputs to improve ouremployees to consider the safety initiatives across the Group.
needsof others and involve themselves in public service in order to continually develop sustainable communities forall.
com investor-relations Kentz Corporation LimitedAnnual Report and Accounts 2013 46 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED INTENTIONS AND OBJECTIVES community projects.
We try to From 2014 onwards, we wish to maximise the use of local suppliers focus our efforts on two annual where possible, to promote the sustainable community projects for development of local industry.
each of our three largest regions: Australasia, Africa and the Middle Further details of 2013 community East.
The aim of these projects will initiatives from across the Group are be to provide sustainable benefits to included in our 2013 CR Report.
the communities in which we operate or alternatively locations OUR ENVIRONMENT from where we recruit.
Environmental management is a key concern for Kentz, our employees Each of the Regional Managing and the industries that we support.
Directors will be responsible for We will promote responsible identifying and getting these behaviour across all operations in all CASE STUDY projects underway, with support of our global locations: and regularly Following the devastation caused from their local teams on the ground.
review our business practices and by Typhoon Haiyan across much of The projects chosen in each region performance to identify how we can the central Philippines in November will be relevant to one of the further improve our level of energy 2013, Kentz established the Kentz following categories: education, Typhoon Haiyan Relief Fund to efficiency, waste management, and medical and community enable employees around the world carbon emissions.
We will identify, development areas of focus our to contribute to the relief efforts assess and manage risks to the and support the affected family employees identified as important in environment and supply sufficient andfriends of Kentzs 3,500 our 2012 CR survey.
Through its time and personnel resource to Filipinoemployees.
involvement in such community ensure the environment is preserved projects, Kentz intends to develop in the successful operation of The Kentz Typhoon Relief fund educational opportunities for local ourbusiness.
raised US$300,000, including people to upskill and support the employee donations and Kentzgrowth of local economies.
Having engaged The Kentzs Green Office encourage local teams to find in a comprehensive selection Programme GOP, set up as part valuable local partners, such as process, the CR Committee ofour efforts to control our off-site selected international humanitarian non-profit organisations, that are environments, monitored paper agency GOAL to invest the familiar with the country and needs usage in our main offices during fundsraised.
TheGOP was formed in 2012 to reporting on these initiatives in and provided the initial platform for Kentzs donation will be used to our 2014 CR Report.
Kentz to launch its carbon reporting support a School Rehabilitation and management framework.
We Programme in the Jaro Municipality Whilst we are keen to promote larger on Leyte Island in the Philippines.
recognise that through reporting initiatives that bring our various The area was heavily damaged by andmanaging our emissions we can regions together in the pursuit of the storms and research from the drive improvements throughout our Multi-Cluster Needs Assessment these more substantial programmes, business.
This was the first year of MIRA showed that teachers were we encourage our teams on the collecting and monitoring our paper experiencing difficulties delivering ground to continue to respond to the usage and in doing so it has enabled quality education in damaged local community needs around them us to set a reporting baseline.
Our classrooms and temporary and maintain relationships with local performance for 2013 is stated in learningspaces.
underprivileged schools and thetable below: The project will involve working with the Department of Education to rehabilitate at least 39 schools that service the local typhoonPaper usage affected communities, providing Procured Used Reused Recycled safe learning environments for children.
At least 11,200 students Total kgs 44,680 37,555 3,802 12,721 5,850 families and 200 teachers Kgs per person 46.16 38.80 3.93 13.14 will directly benefit in at least 54 vulnerable communities.
As well asfacilitating education, these schools will serve an important function as evacuation centres byproviding shelter to vulnerablehouseholds.
Strategic Corporate Financial Report Governance Statements Kentz Corporation LimitedAnnual Report and Accounts 2013 47 Kentz has Environmental Management Systems in place that meet the requirements of ISO 14001.
There were over 140,000 environmental observations performed on Kentz sites up until October 2013, resulting in zero occurrences of non-compliance.
These observations are based on internal standards on environmental controls implementation outlined in Kentzs Behaviour Based Safety BBS programme, SOCKS Safety Observation Card System, which was launched in 2009.
This programme evolved to become thenew Behaviour Intervention Programme BIP during 2013.
INTENTIONS AND OBJECTIVES During 2013, Kentz undertook a fullreview of its operations and established a carbon reporting system in line with the mandatory Greenhouse GAS GHG Carbon Reporting Regulations.
Kentz commenced measuring our Scope One and Scope Two emissions as of October 2013 and will commence reporting of these in January 2014.
This will include the direct emissions from fuel-combustion and airconditioning units and also purchased electricity.
In line with the GHG reporting requirements, Kentz has engaged Socit Gnrale fide Surveillance SGS to conduct a verification review of the framework through which Kentz is monitoring its GHG data collection.
This will be done in May 2014 and the exercise will be repeated annually.
Kentz intends to respond to the Carbon Disclosure Project CDP Climate Change 2014 questionnaire in May of this year, which will enhance our understanding of carbon management and shareholders reporting expectations.
Kentzs 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report is available to view on the Kentz website: www.
com For more information, please visit: www.
