16 BUSINESS REVIEW Sustainability: becoming Net Positive KINGFISHER LAUNCHED NET POSITIVE IN 2012, WITH AN AMBITION TO CONTRIBUTE POSITIVELY TO SOME OF THE BIG CHALLENGES FACING THE WORLD, WHILE CREATING A MORE VALUABLE AND SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS FOR OUR STAKEHOLDERS.
Introduction and Brico Dpt Spain are starting more sustainable and ultimately Net Net Positive is a new approach to doing local forest projects that benefit the Positive lifestyle, so that creating and business for Kingfisher.
It means going environment and economy, and create using products will waste nothing.
beyond achieving zero impact, local sustainable timber supplies.
We have set a target to offer 1,000 and committing to make a positive For the products we sold in 2012 13, different products with closed-loop contribution across four priority 89% of the timber by volume was credentials by 2020, and we are working areas: Timber, Energy, Innovation and responsibly sourced, compared with towards this with partners such as the Communities.
Many not just preventing deforestation but products already have closed loop working towards net reforestation: helping Energy credentials, such as B&Qs New Life to create homes that are generators of With super energy-efficient products and Paint made from waste paint.
their own energy: innovating products tools and materials for eco-retrofits and and services that are restorative by micro-generation, we can help customers This builds on our track record in ecodesign: and working in communities to save money and improve their homes.
During 2012 13 connect people and equip them with The market for in-home energy efficiency products with eco-credentials accounted practical skills.
is predicted to be 70bn by 2020 across for 20% of retail sales see page 15 and our European markets.
Best-in-class, Net Positive underpins Kingfishers our most innovative eco-products, Creating the Leader strategy.
It will help Our aspiration is that by 2050 every accounted for 5% of sales.
us secure resources, unlock opportunities Kingfisher store and customer home is for growth, inspire our people, and be zero carbon or generates more energy Communities a catalyst for collaboration.
Over the past two In local communities we have seen a years, sales of energy-saving products decline in the practical skills of making In each of our priority areas we will helped our customers save over 5 TWh and mending.
Equipping people with transform the way Kingfisher operates in energy use.
Our target is 38 TWh by these skills is good for individuals and to become Net Positive by 2050 see 2020 equivalent to the annual energy communities and will help galvanise chart below.
We will take what we learn consumption of every house in Scotland potential customers.
and integrate it across our business.
Our aspiration is that every Kingfisher Progress will be reported via our Net We reduced our absolute carbon store and location supports projects Positive dashboard.
footprint emissions from property energy which build local communities or equip Timber use, dedicated delivery fleets and business people with skills.
By 2020, our target is Deforestation and rising demand travel by road by 3% compared with to have completed 4,000 community means wood prices could increase by 2010 11, towards our target of a 25% projects that deliver our Better Homes, 30-75% by 2020.
To maintain access to reduction by 2020, which helps to reduce Better Lives purpose.
In 2012 13 we affordable supplies we need to protect operating costs.
launched free DIY classes for school and improve forests.
children in Castorama Poland, a fun way Innovation Our aspiration is that by 2050 we will to learn about DIY and the environment.
Switching to more sustainable materials create more forest than we use.
We are and business models, and designing out aiming for all timber and paper in our waste through closed loop systems, operations, products, packaging and generates value for our business and construction to be responsibly sourced by customers.
Our aspiration is that by 2050 For further information visit 2020.
Our companies such as B&Q UK every Kingfisher product will enable a www.
com netpositive Our current progress on our Net Positive journey Conventional Pioneering Net Net Positive Net Positive approach to date Positive projects tipping point 1990 Net Positive journey 2050 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13
