Corporate social responsibility G rowing our business sustainably The strategic ambitions we have at Laird are supported by our Corporate Social Responsibility programme as we look to build relationships with the communities in which we work, ensure our stakeholders requirements are met and above all continue to build employee pride in our company.
We work with our customers, suppliers and employees to To achieve our business goals we need to determine the issues that are material to our business by a look after the communities, people and continuous process of review, consultation and assessment.
environment which support our operations, We look to mitigate risk and improve our operating efficiencies so we can continue delivering value to all our by being a responsible organisation.
The outputs of aligning our corporate social responsibility throughout our business stakeholders.
are fourfold: sustained growth, lower environmental impact, stronger communities and ultimately, robust stakeholder David Lockwood, Chief Executive relationships.
This report focuses on: Our stakeholders we can continue to be a trusted partner CSR is embedded into our strategy and to all of our stakeholders by being transparent about our corporate social responsibility and demonstrating that we business model: are a well governed organisation that addresses both the Innovation is key to our business and we are accelerating immediate and longer-term issues.
the integration of sustainability into product development Our environment we control our environmental impacts and manufacturing processes.
by working hard to ensure our sites are safe and that natural As we look to penetrate new markets we aim to support resources are used carefully.
We can create cost efficiencies by those communities in which we work by investing locally.
reducing waste which in turn reduces costs and helps improve We want our company culture to be reflected in our our operating margins.
operations as we recognise that the success of our business Our people we aim to attract and retain the best people relies on the skill and dedication of our employees.
by creating a rewarding place to work which offers great We promote sustainability throughout our supply chain.
We aim to build a pool of talent in order to Our operations depend on strong relationships with our deliver our company-wide strategy.
suppliers and we work with them to ensure materials are Our community involvement we support the communities sourced sustainably.
in which we work by considering the impact of what we do Transparency and trust are key competitive strengths and fulfilling our commitments to them to ensure we maintain for Laird and are aligned to our mission statement.
We can our licence to operate and our respect for human rights maintain high standards of business conduct by working openly and demonstrating our sustainability to stakeholders.
30 Laird PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 016933 LAIRD AR 13 p30-45 v7.
indd 30 07 03 2014 19:14 Our stakeholders 2013 achievements We want to deliver value to all our stakeholders investors, Our stakeholders employees, customers, suppliers and communities and adapt A more comprehensive Risk and Governance Group our organisation so that it is one they can trust and invest in.
combining the Risk Management Group and Risk We recognise the need to balance our social and environmental Management Committee was established which, among impacts in a manner that best serves their needs.
other functions, has oversight of our CSR programme We ensure there is a two-way dialogue and that ideas are shared Our Lean Six Sigma Continuous Improvement Programme across the business so our sites can develop their own priorities, delivered approximately 7.6m in savings reflective of the strategy, but directed for their own local needs.
Our current Carbon Disclosure Project submission received We participate in the annual Carbon Disclosure Project and the highest score we have received to date as it continues are included within the FTSE4Good Index to help demonstrate to improve each year our drive to continually better ourselves and contribute to the Our environment development of responsible business practice.
Manufacturing process innovation at our facility in Shunde, China is anticipated to save 1,530,000 kWh of electricity Carbon Disclosure Project annually equal to the average amount of power consumed In order to continue building good relationships with our annually by 329 households in the UK customers and suppliers, we strive to be as transparent as Overall ratio of waste to landfill, per 1m of sales, decreased possible.
We participate in the annual Information Request by 2.5% by the Carbon Disclosure Project to demonstrate the steps we are taking to improve energy efficiency and resource use Our people across our operations.
Our 2013 submission received the We provided on average, an extra 17 hours per employee of highest score we have received to date and it continues to training improve year on year.
Laird achieved a Carbon Disclosure score of 76 2012, 59, the CDP average score for 2013 was Our communities 1 49.
This is categorised as a high score.
Laird achieved a During the year Laird donated 30,925 2012: 16,450, Carbon Performance score within band C 2012, D, in line including Lairds share of the schools assistance programme, with the average score of participants.
This is summarised to charities worldwide as Some activity on climate change with varied levels of Our schools community project programme was expanded integration of those initiatives into strategy.
to assist a further four schools, one in the USA, one in Malaysia and two in China.
The number of suppliers we worked alongside to improve the schools increased from FTSE4Good 4 in 2012 to 18 in 2013 We have been a member of the FTSE4Good Index Series since 2004 with an overall Environmental, Social and Governance rating of 3.3 out of 5.
This index has been designed to objectively measure the performance of companies that meet globally recognised corporate responsibility standards.
Our stakeholders can use this index to make investment decisions, as a benchmarking tool or purely for research purposes.
We can also use this as a reference by which we can assess the progress and achievement of our evolving corporate social responsibility programme.
The FTSE4Good inclusion criteria are updated on a regular basis and continuous improvement is required to merit ongoing inclusion in the index which is reviewed semi-annually in March and September.
The criteria are also regularly assessed by Ethical Investment Research Services EIRIS, an independent research organisation.
1 Typically indicates Senior management understand the business issues related to climate change and are building climate related risks and opportunities into core business Laird PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 31 016933 LAIRD AR 13 p30-45 v7.
indd 31 07 03 2014 19:14 Corporate social responsibility continued The Operations Leadership team has undertaken several Governance initiatives in 2013 that are improving our manufacturing CSR governance structure processes worldwide.
In addition, the team has increased the Lean-Six Sigma deployment efforts in all of our business units operations which have resulted in significant manpower savings, space savings, scrap reductions and lead time reductions across Board all targeted production lines.
During the year we continued to see measurable gains in our manufacturing processes, product quality and customer satisfaction ratings alongside cost reductions through our Lean Risk and Governance Group Six Sigma CIP programme, which delivered approximately 7.6m in savings.
The Operations Leadership team utilises Lairds well established Continuous Improvement Process CIP programme to drive its improvement objectives worldwide.
The CIP programme contributes to improvements in overall business processes by Business Community ensuring our plants deliver high quality product and increasing units Policy Officer operational efficiency and responsiveness to customers.
This in turn positively benefits our profitability and customer satisfaction.
Customer satisfaction is measured through formal customer surveys and customer centric internal KPIs.
The governance structure of our CSR programme provides Information is reviewed by the businesses and support teams clear lines of responsibility from the operational level to the and through continued assessment and actions, we strive to Board.
The strategy is developed and overseen by the Risk continually improve customer satisfaction and ensure lessons and Governance Group RGG which took over from the Risk learned are fed back into the product development and Management Group and Risk Management Committee in 2013. deployment processes.
It reports regularly to the Board and is comprised of the Chief Risk Officer, Company Secretary who also fulfils the role of Customer satisfaction continued to improve during 2013 with Community Policy Officer and the Executive Committee Chief survey results indicating a further increase in our overall quality Executive, Chief Financial Officer, Presidents of the Performance rating.
Over the past seven years Laird has consistently been Materials and Wireless Systems divisions, Chief Strategy and rated better than the competition for quality in customer Technology Officer, Chief Human Resources Officer and Chief surveys, and 2013 increased the gap between Laird and peer Information Officer.
The RGG works alongside functional heads competitors ratings by an additional 16% year on year.
in each business unit to develop their own CSR priorities within Furthermore our focus on reducing the number of customer the strategy established for the Company.
The Community complaints through our CIP programme has resulted in an 11% Policy Officer works alongside the Chief Executive and the Board reduction in the customer complaint rate year on year.
to liaise with the businesses and decide on charitable donations and community projects that will be supported during the year.
Building strategic partnerships with our suppliers Delivering to our customers We have built up strong relationships with our suppliers over many years and they are critical in helping us achieve our An Operations Leadership team was established during the year strategic objectives and delivering on our differentiation.
They to support the development of worldwide innovative operations also play a significant role in our CSR programme supporting our solutions that are critical to enhancing Lairds competitive efforts with the schools projects outlined on pages 39 and 40. position and enabling our strategic differentiation.
The team is chaired by the vice president of quality and continuous Our aim is to procure the best value goods and services from improvement and membership is comprised of the vice suppliers that meet our standards and deliver the services that president of operations from every business unit as well as senior our customers demand.
We expect our suppliers to comply with IT representatives.
This team facilitates interaction between all appropriate legislation and conform to high ethical, social different parts of the business in order to collaborate and and environmental standards in line with the EICC Code of leverage expertise to solve operational challenges more rapidly.
Conduct, including the highest standards for health and safety.
We aim to ensure we consistently deliver to our customers by assessing the safety, quality, service and cost of our operations We have a robust procedure for supplier selection and and deliver our solutions at speed which requires flexible operations.
qualification and review our suppliers quarterly through our periodic supplier evaluation tool which was implemented in Our Business Model helps provide the framework to allow us to 2013 and uses a quality score and evaluation report to monitor have appropriate planning and risk management in place so performance.
we can mitigate the risks that have the potential to disrupt our business.
We are continuing our efforts globally to localise raw material supplies.
Local suppliers are preferred to reflect our continued drive to support the communities in which we operate, 32 Laird PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 016933 LAIRD AR 13 p30-45 v7.
indd 32 07 03 2014 19:14 as well as for efficiencies in production costs.
Lead times are also The facility in Shenzhen, China installed more efficient fuel reduced and transportation costs and effects are minimised.
injection nozzles into the waste gas treatment system for the adhesives coating line.
This improved fuel efficiency by 43% We aim to source non conflict minerals by ensuring our supply and reduced diesel consumption by 49,474 litres annually.
The base is risk managed and selected suppliers are sent an EICC site also installed frequency converters on its air compressors, survey form to obtain a declaration as to the conflict mineral reducing electricity consumption by 190,080 kWh annually.
free status of their supply chain.
The responses are collated into In Tianjin, China the site reorganised its power supply in a company level report that is sent to customers who request order to save 198,824 kWh of electricity annually.
As a supplier we are also audited by our customers.
also designed enhanced product lines for one of our thermal materials, Tflex, which better suited the customers specific Localised sourcing size requirements.
The change resulted in a 30% reduction in We often produce tooling in one geographic region and waste product and a 20% reduction in raw materials.
transport the tools into manufacturing sites.
However, we are increasing efforts to localise this process as part of our Smaller conservation projects in 2013 included: supply chain sustainability initiatives.
In 2013 we localised The implementation of a system at our site in Geel, Belgium the tooling for 24% of the hard tools produced for one of our which is designed to catch and utilise rainwater for cleaning EMI products.
Another key success was localising our board the plant floors to conserve the use of tap water.
At the level shield BLS carrier tape supplier from North America to same site 40% of the electricity consumed is generated by Europe from which to service our Liberec site in the a photovoltaic power installation.
Czech Republic At our Holly, USA site a partnership was formed with a local recycling centre to recycle scrap wooden pallets into compost Our environment for use by the local community.
We work with our customers and suppliers to ensure we run In Schaumburg, USA, the plant implemented an electronic responsible and efficient operations and look after the welfare purchase order signature process, reducing overall paper of our employees.
consumption at their facility by 33% from the previous year.
Our plant in Liberec, Czech Republic installed new lubrication As all manufacturing processes and resources have some systems for the stamping presses resulting in a 50% reduction impact on the environment, we strive to seek ways to optimise of annual oil consumption compared with 2012. our operations to ensure the efficient use of energy and the minimisation of waste.
Our goal is to continually deliver We also focus on a sustainable supply chain and global efforts improvements to address these areas and create cost savings for are being made to localise raw material supplies, manufacturing the business.
operations and significantly reduce the number of product Through the development of some of our products we and material shipments that are expedited by air, by using also aim to help our customers reduce their impact on the consolidated ocean shipments.
Our thermal business, for example, produces Materials division continued to increase the amount of ocean thermally conductive circuit boards for LED lights which help to shipments to 69%, up from 56% in 2012. remove excess heat, improving their performance and lifetime.
Our power supply assemblies are able to utilise temperature Measuring our progress differentials to generate power for sensor systems, eliminating We have non-financial KPIs which provide an ongoing the need to run expensive electrical wiring and often harvesting benchmark of the effectiveness of our CSR programme see waste heat as an additional power source.
EMI gasket and tape product released in 2013 was halogen free, in line with the International Electrochemical Commissions CO emissions 2 IEC standard.
Throughout 2013 we monitored energy usage and carbon Sustainability initiatives emissions in our largest seven sites with an activity-based reduction target of 5% relative to total hours worked.
We have Our manufacturing sites are expected to develop sustainability adopted a standard for our methodology of reporting based plans to reduce their energy, waste and water usage, for example: on our geographic locations and both current and previous year emissions have been restated to reflect this.
We derive The installation of new electric kilns with larger capacity at our Greenhouse Gas emissions GHG by using an emissions our facility in Shunde, China, which reduced the run time calculator within the EICC Carbon Reporting System tool that number of kilns required for the manufacturing process.
The converts actual site-level energy usage data into tonnes CO anticipated energy savings for this upgrade is 1,188,000 kWh 2 electricity annually.
This facility was also able to change the granulation process for powder production from a wet process to a dry process eliminating the need for oven-drying.
The anticipated energy saving for this change is 342,000 kWh electricity annually.
Laird PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 33 016933 LAIRD AR 13 p30-45 v8.
indd 33 11 03 2014 18:05 Corporate social responsibility continued equivalent direct and indirect emissions.
Our emissions have Water usage 2 been calculated based on the Greenhouse Gas Protocol.
Our In 2013 we have seen a greater importance placed on reporting seven largest sites accounted for over 80% of our scope 1 and our water usage across our sites.
In 2013 we monitored and scope 2 CO emissions.
Total greenhouse gas emissions at these 2 measured a total of 403,520 cubic meters of water usage across sites in 2013 were 47,204 tonnes of CO, approximately 3.7% 2 our facilities.
90% of water usage is from our seven largest above 2012 levels 45,519 tonnes of CO.
However, across all 2 Asia-Pacific facilities 361,033 cubic meters.
Currently we have our sites overall CO emissions decreased from 58,318 tonnes 2 a water treatment and recycling process in a number of plants.
to 57,405 tonnes, reflecting increased efficiency from the For example, in our Shenzhen facility in China, contaminated consolidation of some operations into larger key sites.
rinse water is captured from plating operations and treated to sort solids and metals.
It is then pumped through a series of Tonnes of CO equivalent 2 specialised filters to purify the contaminated wastewater to an 5% acceptable level to return to the plating lines for re-use.
Scope 1 Scope 2 Having also established a reliable baseline for measuring our water consumption we are looking for opportunities to extend this process across other sites.
As we set goals and initiatives for 2014 we plan to utilise this data to expand our water conservation efforts.
Occupational health and safety Protecting the occupational health and safety of all our Tonnes CO 1m revenue 2 employees remains a priority.
We commit significant time and resource to monitoring and assessing processes capable of 2013 107 causing injury.
We conduct regular safety audits, and workplace 2012 112 safety training is delivered to all operations teams.
During 104 105 106 107 108 109 110 111 112 113 2013 global Environmental, Health and Safety EHS tools were developed and implemented by the Laird Operations Leadership team in order to improve the identification and evaluation of kWh 1m revenue potential safety risks across Lairds worldwide operations.
The 2013 140,089 site safety audit tool and job hazard analysis tool provides a standardised process by which sites can be systematically 2012 146,455 inspected to identify hazards and the appropriate controls 136,000 138,000 140,000 142,000 144,000 146,000 148,000 implemented to reduce the risk of accidents and injuries.
Years 2012 and 2013 have been restated to reflect an improved reporting Worldwide employee headcount for our operations increased methodology.
while the number of reportable injuries decreased from 24 to 23 in 2013.
The rate of reportable injuries, per 100 employees Waste management annualised, increased slightly based on an approximate 7.3% We have an ongoing programme to examine how we can decrease in hours worked from the previous year.
The number of further minimise the generation of waste in order to protect minor injuries increased from 23 to 51, reflecting the increased the environment and reduce costs.
A slight increase in waste recording of minor incidents as we expand our safety awareness generation relative to sales revenue and manufacturing efforts and encourage all employees to log any injuries.
operations was seen in 2013, however the overall activity ratio of An objective set in 2013 was to reduce the number of hand waste to landfill per 1m of sales decreased 2.5% to 1.17 tonnes and finger injuries caused by moving machinery and we saw from 1.20 tonnes in 2012. a reduction of 15% by the end of the year.
3 Waste to landll tonnes 1m revenue Reportable accidents per 100 employees annualised 2013 1.17 2013 0.21 1.20 2012 2012 0.20 1.00 1.05 1.10 1.15 1.20 1.25 0.10 0.12 0.14 0.16 0.18 0.20 0.22 2 Greenhouse Gas Protocol is the most widely used international accounting tool for government and business leaders to recognise, quantify, and manage greenhouse gas emissions.
Scope 1 emissions are direct GHG emissions from sources that are owned or 3 controlled by the entity such as fossil fuels burned on site and other direct sources.
We have adopted US OSHA Occupational Safety and Health Administration Scope 2 emissions are indirect GHG emissions resulting from the generation of reportable accident definitions across Laird in all regions to ensure we are consistent electricity, heating and cooling, or steam generated off site but purchased by in our definitions and that we are accurately capturing notification and data on all theentity.
34 Laird PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 016933 LAIRD AR 13 p30-45 v7.
indd 34 07 03 2014 19:14 95% Our people 2013 Workplace safety initiatives We believe that our people help determine the future of our During 2013 new health and safety initiatives were business: they are the ones who reflect Lairds values, run our developed and implemented: operations and ensure we maintain Lairds good relationships with our stakeholders.
At our Shenzhen site our thermal operations introduced an automatic process for tin dipping, eliminating the need for Management approach manual high temperature tin dipping and reducing injury risk to employees.
Our business principles, Global Code of Conduct and core company values have helped create a distinctive One Laird To improve working conditions for the employees at culture.
To help reinforce this we ensure all employees take the our Shanghai EMI site in Xinzhuang, sound absorbing Employee Code of Conduct assessment.
material was installed on the ceiling in the metal stamping workshop to reduce noise levels by 6.5 decibels.
The We recognise that we need to attract high quality people whilst site also replaced their degreasing equipment with a retaining the skill and knowledge already present to give us a next generation model, significantly reducing the level competitive advantage in the market and continue to lead the of atmospheric pollution and greatly reducing hygiene way in product development.
To do this we need to: hazards to employees.
As a result of continued efforts to achieving high EHS standards, the facility received the Maintain the right leadership culture Advanced Unit of Safe Production award issued by the Support our employees in their personal and professional Shanghai Xinzhuang Industrial Park municipal government.
growth Have an unwavering commitment to being honest and ethical Process safety management Provide a safe, stimulating work environment To reduce risks associated with all of our chemical processes, Offer competitive remuneration we are continuing to effectively address RoHS Restriction of Hazardous Substances and customer-required restricted Recognising and rewarding performance substance management.
This is achieved through proactive contact with our suppliers and continued periodic sampling of We offer competitive remuneration packages in each of the materials deemed to be high risk through established internal markets within which we operate which is benchmarked against 4 protocols at our CNAS-A2LA certified, high precision RoHS our peers.
We have in place comprehensive performance-based laboratory in Shenzhen, China.
reward systems with the aim of attracting and retaining the best people.
We also have awards schemes which celebrate those In 2013 over 7,700 samples were tested for RoHS restricted employees who put our values into practice.
substances in our laboratories in Shenzhen and Kunshan.
Our decision to conduct in-house testing resulted in net savings It is important to our success that the structure and level of our of approximately 0.4m.
remuneration and rewards are consistent across the Company.
A profit sharing plan was set up during the year with its purpose We also continue to actively address customer enquiries for being to share a portion of the Company profits with employees REACH compliance data for our products, and develop our in the Company.
The plan is based on sharing a percentage supply chain to ensure we continue to meet all REACH legal of profits, above approved targets.
The plan is self-funding compliance obligations and supply products into the EU without and the aim is to align the entire organisation in achieving the disruption.
Companys goals and objectives and sharing as a team, the rewards of these efforts.
It is a strategic corporate directive that all Laird manufacturing sites deemed to have an environmental impact and EHS risk should implement certified integrated management systems to ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 standards.
Thirteen facilities currently hold active Integrated Management Systems IMS certification status to ISO 14001 OHSAS 18001 standards and three facilities hold active ISO 14001 certification.
All of these facilities successfully completed certification, re-certification or surveillance audits during the year.
Newly certified locations in 2013 include Gothenburg, Sweden obtaining ISO 14001 OHSAS 18001 and Chongqing, China who obtained ISO 14001.
4 The national accreditation body of China responsible for the accreditation of certification bodies, laboratories and inspection bodies.
This certification is also recognised by the American Association for Laboratory Accreditation A2LA under the international cooperation scheme.
Laird PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 35 016933 LAIRD AR 13 p30-45 v7.
indd 35 07 03 2014 19:14 Corporate social responsibility continued Supporting employee development Supporting our employees across the world is fundamental to building the Laird culture and as English is not the first We place great importance on our company-wide performance language for a large percentage of our workforce, we offer management process which aligns individual objectives with English language courses as well as presentation skills training the Companys strategy.
There is regular consultation between and quality system training to provide those employees with managers and employees to help support career development the skills they need to succeed.
At our Shenzhen, China facility and reinforce the link between business goals, an employees we have installed a new staff house and canteen to improve contribution and his her remuneration.
We have established the working environment for our employees.
a Total Rewards Strategy scheme which includes Career Ladders and Career Aspiration tools on each employees online portal to help guide their career development decisions.
We believe in investing in our employee development and offer various training schemes which are aligned to enhance the relevant skills required in each respective field.
Our corporate training focuses on culture and compliance and leadership development, whilst other types of training fall under the specific operational areas.
We strive to make learning as accessible as possible and during 2013 we have created over 20 e-learning modules on our products and processes.
During 2013 we provided 36 hours of training per employee, Team building in Tianjin, China an increase of 17 hours from the previous year.
Promoting the health and welfare of our employees is a priority for Laird in order to protect our people, boost morale and enhance productivity.
During 2013 we ran a variety of wellness activities across our US sites including marathons, hikes, bike rides, self-defence classes, onsite biometric evaluations and flu vaccinations and wellness fairs.
Employees also raised money for the American Heart Association, American Breast Cancer Society and the Movember charity through some of these activities.
New canteen at Shenzhen, China Building strong leadership We see strong leadership and managerial capabilities as central to achieving our business objectives and sustained success in the technology sector.
We want to cultivate a talented management team which possesses the right leadership culture for our company and proactively look to identify ambitious employees with the correct skills as future leaders.
We will be launching a leadership curriculum in 2014 which has been developed in the year to help our managers achieve their potential.
This curriculum aims to refine leadership skills and drive innovation and collaboration across the business.
It has been developed in partnership with SkillPath Corporate Strategies, who provide a strategic and innovative approach to on-site training and development specifically tailored for Laird.
The programme is designed with three development tiers from junior level to executive level, focusing on skills such as strategic planning.
Several university based programmes will beused alongside internal training such as the Management ofManagers Programme at the University of Michigan.
Our employees taking part in a sponsored hike in Manchester, New Hampshire 36 Laird PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 016933 LAIRD AR 13 p30-45 v7.
indd 36 07 03 2014 19:14 Leadership meetings are also organised several times a year Executive team % female employees to help foster relationships across the business and ensure our leaders are aligned to Lairds strategic ambitions and future 14% goals, as explained in the Chief Executives review.
86% Leadership team % female employees 16% 84% Management team % female employees Training courses at Tianjin, China 22% Creating a diverse workplace Creating an equal, fair and diverse workplace has always been 78% apriority for Laird.
At Laird, diversity comprises differences in ethnicity, language, Retaining talent gender, age, religion, sexual orientation, physical ability, experience and education.
We operate an Equal Opportunities Worldwide FTE full time equivalent headcount for our and Human Rights policy and consider this to be our operations increased from 9,078 in 2012 to 9,279 in 2013. commitment to our employees feeling respected, valued and able to fulfil their potential.
It is Lairds policy to recruit the most The worldwide annualised employee turnover rate in 2013 has capable person available for each position and applicants are seen a slight increase from previous years.
Currently at 14.8%, it selected solely on the basis of their qualifications and suitability has increased slightly from 14.3% in 2012 and decreased from for the role.
The turnover rate in Asia was 19.1%, a slight increase from 17.3% in 2012.
We saw an improvement in Europe As detailed in the Nomination Committee section of the with turnover rates of 4.3% down from 7.0% in 2012 and in Corporate Governance Report, it is the Companys aim to have North America, a slight increase to 8.9% in 2013 from 8.8% the appropriate level of diversity to reflect the diverse nature of 5 in 2012. the Companys operations.
This includes gender diversity and the following outlines the gender profile of the organisation.
We Worldwide headcount believe that a balanced workforce will ultimately help us achieve our strategic goals.
A breakdown showing the number of persons 2013 9,279 of each sex who were directors of the Company is shown within 2012 9,078 the Board of Directors on pages 54 and 55.
9,000 9,050 9,100 9,150 9,200 9,250 9,300 9,350 9,400 All Company % permanent female employees Business ethics 43% Laird has an unwavering commitment to high standards of business ethics.
We place a high priority on compliance with all 57% legislative and regulatory requirements and on the maintenance of high ethical standards, within each of the territories and jurisdictions in which we conduct our business.
Our Global Code All managers % permanent female employees of Conduct, which is available on our website and reviewed annually, incorporates policies and guidelines relating to human 24% rights, equal opportunity, ethics, compliance, anti-harassment, conflicts of interest and regulatory compliance.
76% 5 Current and previous numbers have been restated to reflect an improved reporting process.
Laird PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 37 016933 LAIRD AR 13 p30-45 v7.
indd 37 07 03 2014 19:14 Corporate social responsibility continued Our global Ethics Hotline provides a confidential way for Charitable donations and community involvement employees to raise concerns about inappropriate behaviour.
A budget is agreed each year by the Board of Laird PLC for The hotline utilises an independent telephone and internet charitable donations and community projects.
The Chief provider, offering support in local languages and has an internal Executive and Community Policy Officer work alongside others escalation and resolution process.
in the Company to agree the projects for the year.
Lairds Health, Safety and Environmental Policy, Global Code During the year Laird donated 30,925 2012: 16,450, ofConduct and Equal Employment and Human Rights policy including Lairds share of the school assistance programme, are available online at www.
com laird csr to charities worldwide.
Our community involvement DeManD Laird understands that maintaining a good relationship between In 2013 Laird was pleased to help fund a student placement its business and the broader society in which it operates is at DEMAND: Design and Manufacture for Disability a charity fundamental to long-term business growth.
dedicated to solving the challenges and overcoming the frustrations of living and working that people with disability Innovation through art face every day.
DEMANDs student placement scheme aims to positively influence the design thinking of tomorrow.
Working In 2013 Laird ran a competition with Arts & Business, who closely with their experienced designers and craftspeople, develop public and private partnerships with the arts, in order young designers are given invaluable, hands-on experience to find and select an artist from a local art school to provide of solving real problems for real people and take with them some art for its London office.
adesign philosophy which has inclusivity at its heart.
The artist selected, JeeHee Park a South Korean artist One of the student projects in 2013 was a page turner for a from Slade Art School has had her work exhibited in Korea, Kindle, which was created for a lady with Multiple Sclerosis Germany, the USA, Iceland and London.
wholoves to read but is no longer able to turn the pages.
Six pieces of artwork were installed throughout the office including the aluminium mounted print featured on the back cover of this report with the prevalent theme of her work being an abstract depiction of the journey from past to present, demonstrating Lairds dedication to global creativity and its ambitions for growth and innovation.
38 Laird PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 016933 LAIRD AR 13 p30-45 v8.
indd 38 11 03 2014 18:05 Supporting local communities We want to support local communities in improving education.
In the USA, we worked with our suppliers to help a school on In impoverished areas around the world overcrowded the Lakota Sioux Reservation in South Dakota.
In addition to classrooms, poor facilities, lack of equipment and poorly providing bags, sports equipment and stationery, funding has maintained buildings cause high drop-out rates at school.
been allocated to build a basketball court for the pupils.
According to UNESCO, one extra year of schooling can increase One of the schools supported in 2013 was the Long-Tan Village an individuals earnings by up to 10%.
With this in mind, and Public Primary School in Chongqing, China.
The school was Lairds focus on education, we approached some of our suppliers founded in the 1980s and has over 104 students between to work together with us to assist various schools.
The condition of the school had In 2012 Laird and four of its suppliers worked together to assist deteriorated over time and to accommodate the increased the ZhiChao Public Primary School in Ledong Li Autonomous student population, the school used old tables and chairs from County, which we reported on last year.
We donated new desks and chairs and bunk beds Lairds Chairman, Nigel Keen and Barry Shen, General Manager for the children at the nursery who are too young to travel to of Shanghai Telematics, visited the school to hand out more school on a daily basis.
In 2013, the programme was expanded to four schools in three countries and Lairds Supply Chain team worked with 18 of its suppliers to help a further four schools, including the He-Dog school in South Dakota, USA, a school in SRJK C Permatang Tinggi in Malaysia and two schools in China, mentioned below.
Sports equipment and schools bags donated to the Long-Tan Village Public Primary School in Chongqing, China The classroom at the Long-Tan Village Public Primary School Pupils at the SRJK C Permatang Tinggi school in in Chongqing, China Malaysia with school bags and books donated by Laird and its suppliers Nigel Keen, Chairman visiting the ZhiChao Public Primary School in Ledong, China Laird PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 39 016933 LAIRD AR 13 p30-45 v7.
indd 39 07 03 2014 19:14 Corporate social responsibility continued Supporting local communities continued Another school which we assisted was the Meng Hua Public In September 2013, David Lockwood, Chief Executive, Barry Primary School in Longsheng Guilin, China, founded in the Shen, General Manager, Shanghai Telematics and Wei Siong 1960s.
Through our combined efforts with our suppliers, Tan, Supply Chain Leadership Chairman visited the school to we helped to repair the ceilings and roof and repainted the meet the pupils and see the improvements that had classrooms and exterior of the school.
The windows and doors been made.
were replaced and the cement in the playground was repaired.
Also during 2013, our employees participated in a range of Laird and its suppliers donated new tables and laptops for the locally based activities, including volunteering, sponsored walks teachers and new refrigerators for the canteen.
and bike rides, gift programmes, cake sales, local nature reserve conservancy efforts, and the support of educational projects.
David Lockwood, Chief Executive, Barry Shen, General Manager, Shanghai Telematics and Wei Siong Tan, Supply Chain Leadership Chairman visiting the Meng Hua Public Primary School in Longsheng Guilin, China 40 Laird PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 016933 LAIRD AR 13 p30-45 v7.
