184 Lonmin Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Shareholder Information Sixteen-Eight Memorial Trust Following the tragic events around our mine, Lonmin has committed, through the Sixteen-Eight Memorial Trust, to funding the education of all the children of the employees who lost their lives.
This funding will cover education costs from primary school to university.
R0.59 million has been distributed to date for basic and higher education.
The fund is currently at R5.7 million and is open to further donations from the public.
The bank account to which donations should be made is: Branch Name: The Standard Bank of South Africa Limited Sandton Branch, Johannesburg, South Africa Branch Code: 01-9205 Trust Current Account: 42 099 362 2 A C Name: Sixteen-Eight Memorial Swift Code: SBZAZAJJ Disclaimer The Strategic Report has been prepared to provide the Companys shareholders with a fair review of the business of the Group and a description of the principal risks and uncertainties it faces.
It may not be relied upon by anyone, including the Companys shareholders, for any other purpose.
The Strategic Report is designed to provide shareholders with an understanding of the Companys business and the environment in which it operates, and, of necessity, only focuses on material issues and facts.
The omission of reporting on any specific topic should not be taken as implying that it is not being addressed.
It should be read in conjunction with the section titled A Deeper Look and the Directors Report which contain other more information which cannot be included in the Strategic Report, on the grounds of materiality.
The Strategic Report and other sections of the Annual Report and Accounts contain forward-looking statements.
By their nature, forward-looking statements involve a number of risks, uncertainties and future assumptions because they relate to events and or depend on circumstances that may or may not occur in the future and could cause actual results and outcomes to differ materially from those expressed in or implied by the forward-looking statements.
No assurance can be given that the forward-looking statements will be realised.
Statements about the Directors expectations, beliefs, hopes, plans, intentions and strategies are inherently subject to change and they are based on expectations and assumptions as to future events, circumstances and other factors which are in some cases outside the Companys control.
The information contained in the Annual Report and Accounts has been prepared on the basis of the knowledge and information available to Directors at the date of its preparation and the Company does not undertake any obligation to update or revise the Annual Report and Accounts during the financial year ahead other than as required by law or regulation.
It is believed that the expectations set out in these forward-looking statements are reasonable, but they may be affected by a wide range of variables which could cause actual results or trends to differ materially.
The forward-looking statements should be read in particular in the context of the specific risk factors for the Company, including those identified in the Strategic Report.
The Companys shareholders are cautioned not to place undue reliance on the forward-looking statements.
Shareholders should note that certain parts of this Annual Report and Accounts have not been audited or otherwise independently verified.
Credits The paper used in this report is produced using virgin wood fibre from well managed forests in Brazil, Sweden and Germany with FSC certification.
All pulps used are Elemental Chlorine Free ECF and manufactured at a mill that has been awarded the ISO14001 and EMAS certificates for environmental management.
The use of the FSC logo identifies products which contain wood from well-managed forests certified in accordance with the rules of the Forest Stewardship Council.
Pureprint Group Limited is FSC certified, PEFC certified and ISO 14001 certified showing that it is committed to all round excellence and improving environmental performance is an important part of this strategy.
We aim to reduce at source the effect our operations have on the environment, and are committed to continual improvement, prevention of pollution and compliance with any legislation or industry standards.
Printed by Pureprint Group Limited, a Carbon Neutral Printing Company.
Designed and produced by MAGEE www.
