Governance Committee discussions in 2013 SAFETY AND SUSTAINABLE At each meeting, the Committee reviewed and discussed a DEVELOPMENT COMMITTEE quarterly report covering the Groups performance across a range of sustainability areas including: safety: occupational health and wellness: community health: climate change: energy and water usage: and social performance.
Very sadly, 14 colleagues lost their lives in work-related incidents Jack Thompson during the year.
The Committee received a detailed account Chairman, Safety and Sustainable Development Committee of each fatal incident from the relevant BU CEO, together with the related management response.
In February, the Committee: received a presentation from the CEO of Copper on the sustainability strategy and performance of that business, followed by the standing risk and assurance item, which focused on resource nationalism.
Further updates included employee and community health and environmental targets Composition for the year.
The Committee welcomed representatives In addition to the members, committee meetings are of the International Womens Health Coalition for a Jack Thompson chairman attended by business unit discussion on the role of mining in supporting local wellness Mark Cutifani BU CEOs and Safety and and healthcare programmes.
Tony ONeill Sustainable Development Ray ORourke In April, the Committee: S&SD and corporate affairs Sir John Parker was joined by the CEO of Platinum for a presentation on its functional specialists from Mphu Ramatlapeng across the Group, all of whom sustainability strategy and performance.
An overview of the Jim Rutherford participate actively in the Group Sustainability Risk Register was presented, followed Committees discussions.
by a discussion on water quality risk and the status of actions identified during the 2012 audits on water quality.
The At Anglo American, sustainability is part of our annual sustainable development regulatory review was everyday business.
How we build relationships with presented by the legal department, followed by updates people inside and outside the business, keep our on responsible supply chain management and the Groups workforce safe and healthy and take care of the social performance.
environment is at the core of our values and delivers In July, the Committee: considerable benefits to the Company.
received an overview of the operational performance in relation to key sustainability risks and opportunities from the Jack Thompson CEO of Metallurgical Coal.
This was followed by a review on Chairman, S&SD Committee risks related to methane and explosive dust.
The Committee was presented with a plan to achieve a step change Role and responsibilities throughout the business in sustainable development, as part Reviewing the development of framework policies of the CEOs Driving Value programme.
The meeting and guidelines for the management of sustainable concluded with presentations from PwC on the results of development and socio-political risks, including safety, their annual audit of the Groups sustainable development health and environment.
reporting and from the UK charity Business in the Reviewing the performance of the Company and the Community on corporate responsibility.
progressive implementation of its S&SD and corporate In October, the Committee: affairs policies.
received a presentation from fide Beers on its sustainability Receiving reports covering matters relating to material performance, after which the meeting focused on technical sustainability risks and liabilities.
risks and controls related to slope stability, tailings risk, underground ground stability and shaft integrity.
This was Monitoring key indicators and learning from incidents followed by a comprehensive overview of sustainability and, where appropriate, ensuring they are communicated communications and engagement, and a discussion on throughout the Group.
conflict management with peace-building NGO, Considering material, national and international, International Alert.
regulatory and technical developments in the field of S&SD management.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 107
