Strategic review Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2013 14 Chief Executives overview People behind the plan Management Committee John Dixon Steve Rowe Steven Sharp Executive Director, Executive Director, Executive Director, General Merchandise Food Marketing We depend on our Our new team listened In a year when trust The unique level of carefully to customers has never been more trust our customers people to make the and acted decisively in important, we place in the iconic M&S response to their continued to deliver the brand has made it one M&S difference.
We are exceptional quality of our strongest assets.
reasserting our style food customers expect Keeping in close touch like to thank all our credentials and have from M&S.
Whilst they with customers created a confident, continued to depend enables us to employees for their edited collection of the on us for celebrations, understand what hard work, enthusiasm latest looks for the new we know that great matters most to them.
food can make any With such a broad and commitment, We are also reasserting occasion special.
So customer base, its our quality credentials, we brought M&S important that we in what has been a with a renewed focus delicious food to the ensure our campaigns on delivering beautifully heart of everyday stay relevant and challenging year.
made clothing with a occasions helping inspiring highlighting flattering fit.
customers do more of the fact that, at M&S, Marc Bolland their weekly shop with we offer something for Chief Executive us and inspiring them everyone.
This year we strengthened our Management Committee in order to sustain momentum in the delivery of our plan.
Our executive team is ably supported by a group of high calibre individuals, whose credentials have been earned both within M&S and externally.
Im proud of the team that is driving our transformation of M&S forward.
The dedication and enthusiasm of all our people drives innovation across M&S and upholds the high standards of quality and service our customers Alan Stewart Laura Wade-Gery expect.
Their expertise and commitment Chief Finance Officer Executive Director, was increasingly acknowledged and Multi-channel This year we E-commerce appreciated by our customers this year.
maintained our focus Each employee plays a part in keeping on careful cost Consumers shopping management across M&S special and I offer my sincere habits are changing the business and and were changing thanks for all their efforts.
continued to look for with them.
We new, more efficient continued to provide ways of doing things.
new and exciting ways We continued to invest for our customers to in the transformation browse and buy, of M&S into an showcasing the very international, multibest of M&S ranges channel business and and making more we are changing our product available.
By Marc Bolland infrastructure to create creating user-friendly a robust platform for experiences that are Chief Executive long-term sustainable quick, convenient and growth.
inspiring, weve made it easier for customers to shop in the way they want with M&S.
Overview Strategic review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Strategic review Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2013 15.
Andy Adcock Sacha Berendji Patrick BousquetClem Constantine Tanith Dodge Steve Finlan Trading Director, Food Retail Director Chavanne Director of Property Director of Human Director of International Corporate Director of Resources Operations Our priority is to give In a challenging trading We aim to ensure that Strategy Implementation our customers the environment, great our stores are in the We are focused on We are now operating and Business products they want, customer service most convenient ensuring we have the as a more international Development when they want them.
locations possible for right people with the business.
Combined During the year we Weve worked hard to Innovation is one of the our customers.
Our appropriate skills to with central planning, worked hard to equip our employees values upon which M&S approach is to create help us achieve our we use local increase availability in with the knowledge was founded.
We are and develop true ambitions.
This knowledge of customer our Food Halls and and skills they need to constantly looking at community stores with includes developing preferences to inform delivered a greater help customers, bring new and exciting ways sustainability talent and building the our buying decisions.
choice of product our new store format to to enhance our offer incorporated as right capabilities across This has enabled us to across our Fashion, standard as through better ranging life and provide a great the business to steer deliver a clearer and Home and Food exemplified by our new and display.
Our clear focus Cheshire Oaks flagship improvements are Weve also improved use a variety of product offer.
Improved on creating original store.
Our successful supported by our the way we obtain communication visual merchandising products, unique Simply Food format is informed shop-floor customer feedback, channels to maintain and our new store experiences and new increasingly popular employees who share enabling us to dialogue and ensure format are also creating global retail concepts and is an important their knowledge of understand more of that each employee is a better, more will ensure we maintain part of our estate M&S Foods quality and what matters to them engaged in our plan consistent shopping our reputation for development innovation with our and respond faster.
and understands the experience for M&S innovation maximising programme.
customers around the the impact and value of world.
Dominic Fry Jan Heere Dirk Lembregts Nayna McIntosh Amanda Mellor Darrell Stein Director of Director of International Director of Supply Director of Group Secretary and Director of IT Communications and Chain Store Environment and Head of Corporate We have a clear plan to Our IT infrastructure Investor Relations Product Presentation Governance drive growth in our M&S supply chain is supports the whole of As we continue to priority markets.
Our the backbone of our Our new-format store We believe that trust is M&S, touching every execute our plan for multi-channel approach business.
This year we environment is established and employee across the M&S, we want all our enables us to apply continued our designed to inspire and maintained by doing business.
This year we stakeholders to be exactly the right model investment in the delight our customers, things in the right way.
improved processes part of the journey.
to each market, creation of more prompting them to take At M&S, effective and drove greater We stepped up our building positions of efficient operations a fresh look at M&S.
governance derives efficiency through the levels of shareholder authority wherever we across the M&S supply Our new in-store trend from a balance business, embedding engagement this year, operate and chain.
These will help zones showcasing between leadership new Food and HR enabling many of our strengthening us meet and exceed the seasons latest and collaboration and systems.
We continue investors to see at first relationships with our our customers looks give a great first we work hard to ensure to create solutions that hand the progress franchise partners.
Our heightened impression and we use this applies to all the give us the necessary were making, both plan is being delivered expectations as the elements of theatre to decisions we make.
flexibility to meet our in the UK and by a best in class business continues to enhance the look of our Trust is cemented strategic goals, and will internationally.
The progress we Food Halls.
Our new further through launch new General are also committed to comprising externallyhave made this year will M&S Beauty and Home increased transparency Merchandise systems increasing the amount sourced talent and deliver significant departments have and we have continued and a multi-channel of company information proven M&S expertise.
improvements in the further strengthened to become more open platform in the year we make available online way we serve our our position as a both in the ahead.
information we provide and the way in which we report it.
