Strategic review Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2013 30 PeOPle HiGHliGHtS People Total employees 81,734 Employees with over five years service 59% Employees with over Our people are the lifeblood of M&S: Focusing on product knowledge, ten years service bringing our values to life: from the presentation, availability and service, 31% innovative products they create over 65,000 colleagues have now through to the service they provide.
participated in our In Touch learning To deliver value for our shareholders programme.
As we introduce more we must engage our employees in our technology to our stores, apps are also business plans and ensure we have becoming an increasingly popular the right individuals, with the right mix communications resource and our of skills to deliver growth.
In 2012 13 Knowledge to Share videos are now we kept our 82,000 colleagues as available on in-store iPads, as well as our engaged as possible and in turn online portal.
These short films from our helped them become more in touch in-house experts help employees share with our customers.
their pride and passion for our products and services with customers.
We have Skills for today and tomorrow also introduced social media portals into As we transform M&S from a traditional our offices, delivering a live stream of British retailer to a leading international, customer comments to M&S employees multi-channel retailer, the skills and across our business.
experience of our workforce must evolve too.
This year we strengthened our Employee engagement leadership team with a number of senior We know there is a strong correlation appointments and almost two thirds of between engagement and performance, Pension auto enrolment our top 100 managers now have so in 2012 13 we introduced our new New legislation introduced in international experience.
In support of Pulse questionnaire a shortened November 2012 required us this, we introduced a global mobility version of our annual Your Say survey to automatically enrol eligible team to facilitate global working and help which increased the frequency of employees into our pension increase international exposure across employee feedback from annual to plan.
We worked hard in the business.
Results are shared via our new advance to ensure we had online Engagement Hub, which brings This year we continued to build our together resources including external an appropriate solution for pipeline of future talent: we continued research and practical tools to help the business and retained a our MBA programmes, recruited 150 managers address specific challenges leading pension offer for our graduates and offered 50 one-year and create a more engaged team.
placements to undergraduates as part of Despite a challenging environment, our their degree course.
Following the move Your Say survey demonstrated improved to bring our software development engagement, up 3% on last year.
in-house, the 2013 graduate scheme also included opportunities for specialist Through our communication channels software engineers to drive our ongoing we ensure everyone understands how IT innovation and support our multithey can contribute to M&S success.
This year we extended our popular BIG Idea staff suggestion scheme to our We are focused on building robust international businesses, starting with succession plans, aligning the content of colleagues in our international sourcing our development programmes with our offices.
Through the scheme, we pose a business strategy.
Over 90% of our quarterly question focusing on a key senior management has now completed business issue to employees.
Each our flagship training programme Lead question attracts around 2,000 ideas to Succeed.
This year we introduced a Our new wellbeing and the first question posed to the new development programme, targeting website international staff attracted a response the next generation of emerging leaders.
Keeping our people healthy from over one in ten employees.
and happy helps to ensure we In touch with our customers Providing an efficient service have a productive and Our new company-wide In Touch As part of our wider IT upgrade effective team.
Our Wellbeing initiative is designed to equip employees programme, we are rolling out our new website encourages with the insight and skills to connect with People Planning system to all our offices employees to maintain a customers and help them discover more and stores.
Designed to improve the healthy lifestyle and this year about M&S.
We know our customers are accuracy and flexibility of our HR service, we updated the site, adding looking for friendly, helpful, the new systems help deliver better new features including online knowledgeable people when they visit resource planning, fewer pay queries physiotherapy advice and our stores and through a combination of and a significant reduction in paper confidential counselling in-store learning and information sharing, usage.
Employees are also enjoying the services.
The site now we are helping employees better benefits such as remote holiday attracts up to 2,000 employee anticipate customer needs and deliver booking, online payslips and a salary visits each month.
even higher standards of service.
Overview Strategic review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Strategic review Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2013 31 New employee uniform Taking a number of our best sellers as inspiration, we unveiled a new uniform for our store colleagues.
At employees request, we incorporated more pockets and a key loop into the new design and accents of green on all pieces make our customer assistants easier Marks & Start Logistics to spot.
All 80,000 pieces Inspired by our successful of the previous uniform scheme already operating in will be Shwopped.
stores and offices, we took our Marks & Start scheme to another level and a new part of our business.
Marks & Start Logistics will help recruit, train and employ people with disabilities and health conditions at our newly opened e-commerce distribution centre at Castle Donington.
Discover more online IN TOUCH Looking ahead We will continue to engage our people in our plans building a more international, multi-channel mindset across M&S.
Our employees will be equipped with the skills and insight required to bring the improvements were making to life for our customers.
We will continue to nurture talent within the business and to ensure we have the right people to drive growth and deliver our ambitions.
