cOrPOraTe sOcial resPOnsibiliTy at Marstons, corporate social responsibility csr is more than just being aware of our impact on the environment.
it is also about the development of our employees, how we relate to our customers, and our relationships with suppliers and the local communities that we serve.
The Marstons Pub Career Path also provides: Corporate Responsibility Report The Chef Development Programme which provides and Marstons approach on CSR is overseen by the Corporate Social supports the development of our kitchen teams into Line Responsibility Committee chaired by the Corporate Risk Director.
Chefs, Second Chefs and Head Chefs.
The Committee has responsibility for the implementation of the The Keyholder Development Programme for our front-of-house CSR agenda and reports progress to the Board.
teams which develops supervisors and assistant managers.
The Deputy Manager Programme which develops future Our Corporate Responsibility Report is available for download at licensed retail managers.
Employees are Marstons most vital ingredient This year our managers and team members undertook over Marstons has around 13,000 employees in its pubs, brewery 32,000 online courses, plus a further 2,700 classroom-based operations and head office.
courses covering topics such as team management, fire marshal 53% of our employees are female.
35% of all our managers in pubs, brewing and head office are women.
Employee Engagement: More than half of our employees work flexible hours, typically The 2012 Employee Engagement Survey which covers all around other work commitments, study and to care for employees, including those in pubs confirmed the huge family.
commitment of our staff and their support for the Company.
As Half of our employees are under the age of 25 for many a result of the survey action was taken to improve our reward working at Marstons is their first job.
and incentive programmes, including our long service awards, Our youngest employee is 16 years old and our oldest is as well as the enhancement of our internal communication 86 years old.
Gender diversity Gender diversity Women 13,062 We are committed to creating real jobs within the Men hospitality and leisure industry.
Our Pub Career Path ensures clear routes for progression are visible to 6,862 everyone, and demonstrates how employees can develop within the business.
Our experienced People 37 Development Team is there to give our people the 10 skills and confidence needed in our business.
9 Cheryl Evans Human Resources Director Pub Operations 1 27 6,200 8 Graduates and school leavers We run a Corporate Graduate Programme providing opportunities Directors Senior Total across our head office and brewing and logistics operations.
This managers employees summer we launched a Pub Graduate Programme to provide We want to give all our employees the opportunity to make opportunities to those who have recently completed a degree and progress at Marstons.
We take pride in the fact that many of our are interested in running their own pub business.
We recognise licensed retail managers, area managers and senior managers the importance of supporting work experience initiatives and started their careers working in our pubs, or joined us straight provide opportunities for people to gain a practical insight into from school or university.
The diversity of our business allows different areas across the business.
In 2014 we will be launching a employees to move between different roles and trading activities.
School Leavers programme designed specifically to support those leaving school looking for their first opportunity to gain skills, learn and complete a qualification at work.
New jobs: In 2013 we created over 1,000 jobs through our new-build pub programme, providing many job opportunities for the local Modern apprenticeships are valuable to our communities within which our pubs are built, as well as employees and to the business.
We have been able to development opportunities for existing employees.
map our internal development programmes across to apprenticeships so that as employees work through Employees in our pubs Keyholder and Chef Development Programmes they The Marstons Pub Career Path is our key development tool to also complete an apprenticeship qualification.
support and encourage new pub-based employees to gain the Suzanne Harrison Head of People Development Destination skills required to do their jobs.
It provides a job specific induction programme, as well as e-learning modules covering licensing, food safety, health and safety, fire awareness and first aid.
From October 2013 our fire marshal training has also moved online.
18 Marstons PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Number of employees Strategic Report giving young people a solid start to their working life With over half of our employees below the age of 25 we consider it our In the year ahead we will be expanding the opportunities available to responsibility to enhance the skills of these individuals and provide young people through the launch of a new School Leavers programme.
them with the chance to build a career.
We do this through our head The aim of the programme is to provide apprenticeship opportunities office development programmes and the Marstons Pub Career Path.
for under 18s and a Junior Managers scheme for those over 18.
This scheme will focus on the ongoing development of school college In the last three years we have had over 1,000 employees complete a leavers who do not intend to go to university but instead wish to Modern Apprenticeship NVQ and currently have over 400 working to develop and gain qualifications in a practical work environment.
Employees are able to complete Modern Apprenticeships or Advanced Modern Apprenticeships in a range of areas including customer service, team leading and food and The steps we take to develop our under 25s are an drink service.
important part of our talent development strategy, We offer apprenticeships to all pub employees, no matter what their age or current role and we work in partnership with Babcock Training and will provide Marstons with future talent capable to deliver this comprehensive training programme.
Apprenticeships are of supervisory and management roles needed to not exclusive to head office and pub employees but are also available support our continued growth strategy.
to our franchisees, lessees and tenants and their teams too.
Cheryl Evans, Human Resources Director Pub Operations We promote Modern Apprenticeship availability and take part in the annual Apprenticeship week.
Suzanne Harrison, our Head of People Development Destination, is an East Midlands Apprenticeship Ambassador and is involved in supporting the continued development of apprenticeships within the UK.
Graduate development programmes have been part of our business for well over 20 years.
Through those programmes we have developed many aspiring managers within our business, who now work in a wide variety of areas in the business including Operations, Estates, HR, Production and Finance.
Training is delivered through structured development programmes, including a CMI level 5 qualification, and further education training.
All this is supported by our coaching and mentoring programmes.
In Summer 2013 we enhanced our graduate offer through the launch of our first Pub Graduate programme.
This is an extension to our Pub Career Path that aims to develop future pub managers and, in the longer term, trainee Area Operations Managers.
Supporting the development of young people is not exclusive to our employees: we recognise our role in providing opportunities through work experience within our head office.
Recently we have been involved in the Feeding Britains Future initiative providing real experience for those looking to develop their skills in a practical workplace environment.
Longer-term placements are also available to university students looking for a year in industry.
Management development We run a wide range of professional development programmes We offer a wide range of structured career development accredited by the Chartered Management Institute CMI.
opportunities ensuring that employees have the opportunity to Marstons has run over 200 CMI courses in the last four years for develop their careers.
employees, who have achieved qualifications ranging from introductory Level 2 awards through to the academically Marstons achieved an industry first in being accredited to run the demanding Level 5 programmes.
We also launched the CMI British Institute of Innkeepings multi-site retail management coaching and mentoring qualification in order to enhance and course.
The aim of this training is to provide our Area Operations expand these skills within our business.
Managers with the professional skills necessary to support our tenants in developing their own businesses.
Within our head office we offer a range of professional qualifications including accounting CIMA, surveying RICS, marketing CIM and personnel CIPD as well as degree and diploma programmes.
This year within our brewery operations we sponsored Brewing Diplomas, Master Brewing qualifications, HGV and Chartered Institute of Logistics and Transport programmes.
Marstons PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 19 cOrPOraTe sOcial resPOnsibiliTy ContinuEd here are a few examples of community events which just one of our breweries, Jennings, has been involved with this year: Jennings Family Fun Day this The Worlds Biggest Liar Keswick Jazz Festival Jennings Competition the internationally annual charity event held at the brewery was once again the sponsor of the renowned contest dates back to the in Cockermouth receives fantastic 22nd Jennings KeswickJazz Festival in 19th Century and is held at the Bridge support from the local community, who May.
Despite the rainthere were plenty Inn, Santon Bridge, Cumbria.
The come along and join in the fun on the of visitors whocould enjoy some most outrageous tales are celebrated day and take a tour of the brewery.
This Jennings real ales whilst listening tothe in one of the most original year we raised 1,000 for the Motor many worldwide jazz acts in the various competitions of all time.
Last years Neurone Disease Association North venues around Keswick.
Our Jennings winner Jack Harvey claimed that he & West Cumbria branch.
stall was in theMarket Place offering had studied the genetics of a the visitors a sample of our Cumberland Cumbrian person and found them Ale and selling merchandise and gifts to be 2% badger, as observed by the for them to takea tasteof Jennings way they eat their food and other home with them.
Marstons at the heart of the community sponsorship of the New Forest Show Ringwood : music Much has been written about the contribution that pubs make to sponsorship of Metal 2 The Masses Hobgoblin : the Bankss communities and to British culture not just as places to socialise Brewery 10k run in Wolverhampton: The Jennings River Ride and and celebrate but as local employers, supporters of local Jennings Brewery Charity Fun Day supporting MNDA: and the suppliers, and the hub of local sports teams.
Tour fide Marstons cycle ride with the Steve Bull Foundation helping terminally ill children.
One of the ways we demonstrate our support for the role of pubs in communities is through our financial support for Pub is The Marstons responsibility in relation to alcohol Hub, a not-for-profit organisation specialising in the diversification Marstons recognises that excessive drinking can be harmful to of pub activities to provide a wider range of services and health and has social consequences.
There is a heightened level of amenities locally, particularly in rural communities, for example, responsibility expected of us because we brew beer and sell alcohol.
We are committed to the responsible retailing of alcohol and Many pubs are also the focus of fund raising for charities, and supportive of a range of measures, including education, to Marstons is involved in two directly funded bodies the encourage the responsible consumption of alcohol.
Marstons Employee Charity Fund and the MIT Charitable Trust.
Both involve match funding from Marstons PLC and contributions Reduction in alcohol strength from employees which totalled over 40,000 in 2013.
In 2013 we reduced the ABV alcoholic content of several of our key brands: Active since 1980, the Charity Fund provides equipment for Marstons Pedigree bottled from 5.0% to 4.5% hospitals, schools and individuals with special needs, with Boondoggle from 5.0% to 4.4% a preference for donating smaller items more often rather than Old Thumper from 5.6% to 5.1% large items.
The Committee comprises current and retired employees and recent donations include an electric wheelchair, These reductions demonstrate that our undertakings within the a computerised display for training brain-damage victims, Governments Public Health Responsibility Deal see a blood oximeter and a tilting chair for stroke victims.
co. uk to reduce alcohol units, are backed The MIT Charitable Trust helps to fund causes promoted in local up by effective actions.
pubs, adding to money raised by customers.
Our breweries are also important in the context of their How our beers are marketed communities.
As with pubs, they contribute in particular to rural Marstons is a signatory to the Portman Code which lays down employment the vast majority of the hops and barley we use in minimum expected standards for alcohol marketing practices.
brewing is sourced in the UK.
Our brewing strategy places a The full Code can be read at www.
uk premium on being local with our breweries being involved in a wide range of local events across the country.
Examples include 20 Marstons PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic Report Informing our customers Public Health Responsibility Deal and food: Alcohol is consumed responsibly by millions of people in the UK, In 2013 we reduced salt in our meals by 15% across 65% however we recognise that more can be done to protect those at of our existing ingredients compared to 2010. risk from alcohol.
Marstons has been a consistent supporter of Our meals do not contain artificial trans-fats or hydrogenated Drinkaware, an industry backed Trust, since its inception.
All new products meet salt targets set by the Public Health Drinkaware aims to influence consumers drinking through a Responsibility Deal.
variety of media: No salt is added to chips.
advertising campaign why let good times go bad, the Drinkaware website www.
co. uk, including the A full list of Marstons commitments can be seen at alcohol unit tracking tool MyDrinkaware, and https: responsibilitydeal.
uk support for other charities working with young people and parents, and sponsoring educational programmes.
And, in addition: Sausages are grilled rather than fried.
Our bottled and canned beers are labelled with unit content, All meals are free from genetically modified ingredients and UK Health Department limit guidelines and information monosodium glutamate.
We introduced gluten free bread in 2013, and in 2014 we will review allergen information further, including intolerance Licensing objectives and the law causing products.
Government regulation of the pub industry includes a requirement to meet several licensing objectives: the prevention of crime and disorder, We have offered lower calorie options for some years, including public safety, a below 500 calorie list of menu items, and will keep the further prevention of public nuisance, and provision of calorie information under review.
The number of the protection of children from harm.
calorie counted dishes served with 500 calories or below was approximately 0.5 million up 66% on last year.
In Scotland there is a further objective: protecting and improving public health.
In total we spent 83 million on food in 2013.
All our food suppliers are either British Retail Consortium approved, complete All licensees and key operational management are expected a self-audit or are audited independently.
We have approximately to understand and promote these objectives in the course 120 food suppliers delivering 900 lines of food.
won the MIDAS award for menu innovation and development for Best Dessert Menu and Best Neighbourhood Pub Menu.
Marstons responsibilities in pubs All of our managed pubs operate Challenge 21.
This year over Marstons has responded to increasing demand 300,000 challenges were made by our staff requesting for information on the ingredients in our meals, acceptable proof of age.
particularly regarding salt content and calories.
We We use an independent test purchase service to check compliance with the law on underage drinking.
are satisfied that our menus clearly indicate the more All our retail staff complete e-learning training on drug and healthy options which customers can select.
alcohol abuse and the identification of underage drinkers.
Ruth Powell Group Compliance Manager for Food and Licensing None of our pubs operate 24 hour licences.
We expect our managers to play an active part in local Marstons responsibility for safety Pubwatch and Best Bar None initiatives.
The health and safety of our employees, customers and the Our tenants and lessees are supported by a dedicated hotline general public is treated with the utmost importance.
on accident rates, compliance and audit scores is reviewed by the Board for all areas of the business.
A description of our Marstons strong adherence to the licensing health and safety systems together with our policy is available at www.
co. uk objectives is key to our reputation.
Protection against alcohol harm is a cornerstone within our staff training, We operate sophisticated electronic systems for incident which we will continue to test internally in order that recording, accident analysis and auditing, in order to better this remains the highest priority.
understand the nature of accidents occurring and to take the Steve Oliver Operations Director Destination actions necessary to avoid them.
For example this year we implemented a driver telematics system which tracks and How Marstons encourages healthy eating measures how safely our drivers are operating in our commercial Growth in the informal dining market is a key objective of our vehicles.
The system has already contributed to an improvement strategy.
We believe that our responsibility in relation to healthy in driver behaviour.
eating is satisfied through the provision of options that allow our customers to make healthier choices and through the commitments we have made through the Public Health Responsibility Deal.
Marstons PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 21 cOrPOraTe sOcial resPOnsibiliTy ContinuEd Our managed pubs are subject to an independent bi-annual Energy usage: external audit of hygiene, health and safety which impacts upon Marstons has been investing for several years in engineering the evaluation of our licensed retail managers performance.
In solutions for reducing electricity usage.
In 2013 we reduced total Charnwood Hygiene Associates carry out around 1,200 of electricity usage in our managed pubs by 6% through initiatives these safety audits each year.
including: LED lighting for all front-of-house areas in our estate including The safe operation of our pubs depends upon safety training, new pub-restaurants, major refurbishments and Pitcher & documented safety instructions, safe design and engineering, and Piano: established routines of safety inspection.
All new staff are trained the use of outside ambient air to cool our cellars rather than from the outset to ensure that a high degree of awareness of air conditioning: safety is sustained.
voltage optimisation: heating control systems: and The operators of our tenanted, leased and franchised pubs are heat recovery systems.
themselves primarily responsible for health and safety within their pubs.
However, Marstons provides documentation and training on health and safety policy to help them carry out these In addition to engineering solutions we have continued our Take responsibilities effectively.
Control campaign to encourage our pub managers to actively seek to reduce energy consumption.
The Take Control programmes include monitoring of performance, reporting usage Marstons Ready to Let meeting our compliance obligations as a landlord : against targets, the preparation and dissemination of operating Last year we introduced the Ready to Let policy into our procedures and practices to control energy use, awareness franchised, tenanted and leased pubs.
Ready to Let is intended raising activities and training.
to ensure that our pubs are legally compliant upon the CO e tonnes Fuel Type commencement of a new agreement and that living areas 2 provide suitable accommodation.
Electricity & gas 101,809 Petrol & diesel 7,399 This process forms part of the Marstons Code of Practice.
Refrigerants brewery 118 We completed over 250 Ready to Let projects in 2013.
Total 109,326 Each of our breweries has a comprehensive quality control Greenhouse Gas Emissions Intensity Ratio: system, and all of our beers are tested to ensure they are of high quality.
Our breweries are also audited by some of the 2013 2012 2011 supermarkets which we supply to.
The breweries at CO e tonnes per Wolverhampton and Burton upon Trent are Grade A certified by 2 the British Retail Consortium the highest quality grade available.
100,000 of turnover 14.82 12.77 13.64 Our high audit scores demonstrate that safety is a Note that: key priority for us.
However, we are not complacent We have reported on all the measured emissions sources required under The Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and and we will continue to strive for improvement.
Our Directors Report Regulations 2013. objective is to reduce accident and hygiene risks to Data collected is in respect of the year ended 31 March 2013, the lowest level.
being the period for which our carbon emissions are reported John Beerjeraz Group Health and Safety Manager under the Carbon Reduction Commitment Energy Efficiency Scheme.
How Marstons cares for the environment Conversion factors for electricity, gas and fuel are those published Environmental considerations are important to Marstons, not by the Carbon Trust and Defra in 2013. least because brewing uses natural ingredients: water, barley, Refrigerant fugitive emissions across our pub estate are not yeast, hops: and these contribute significantly to the distinctive currently measured.
Refrigerant fugitive emissions of R417a non-ozone depleting HFC from our breweries are not included in the total above due to the A comprehensive description of our environmental performance lack of a published conversion factor to tonnes of CO. 2 is included within our Corporate Responsibility Report which is available at www.
co. uk 22 Marstons PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic Report The increase in the CO e tonnes per 100,000 of turnover to 2 14.82 in 2013 is as a result of a combination of factors: last winter was unusually harsh thereby increasing the amount of gas consumed: an increased number of retail and franchise agreements, under which Marstons is responsible for the energy supply: and growth in food sales.
Water During the year we have rolled out water management systems in the toilets of all of our managed pubs PHS Flushwiser and Flowsaver : the full-year effect of this has yet to be determined.
However, early indications are that the systems have significantly reduced water wastage.
Waste recycling How Marstons ethically sources its supplies Our breweries recycle approximately 98% of waste, including Marstons seeks to work with suppliers who also adopt an ethical used malt and hops being recycled as animal feed.
We also approach to human rights, working conditions and the dispose of other waste such as glass, metals, cardboard, paper environment in line with our own values: and polythene through recycling contractors.
in 2012 13 we purchased 575 tonnes of fish secured from sustainable and ethical sources: The majority of our managed and franchised pubs recycle dry we used 1.5 million litres of Prep High Performance cooking oil waste, including glass and packaging.
Last year we ran a pilot 73% of which has been recovered by our drays and recycled scheme with 66 of our managed pubs to recycle food waste and as transport fuel, and which supports the production of this has now grown to 290 pubs.
Food waste is delivered to an sustainable palm oil via the Green Palm trading programme: and anaerobic digestion plant that produces methane in order to we source 5,600 tonnes of chips from a supplier who uses the generate power.
Marstons has targeted itself with increasing the potato remnants for animal feed, fertiliser and renewable energy.
total kitchen waste recycled from managed pubs to 80% by 2015.
Current examples of our suppliers ethical approach: Marstons is a signatory to WRAPs Food and Hospitality DS Smith supplier of packaging used by our delivery Agreement which aims to reduce packaging waste in the operations makes a major contribution to conserving resources hospitality industry and at the same time increase food recycling and reducing landfill waste through its position as the leading UK to 70% by 2015. collector of waste paper for recycling and as the UKs largest producer of recycled paper.
Improving the environmental performance of our The corrugated and plastic packaging products are made by pubs is very much about engineering the right DS Smith from recycled raw materials wherever it is practicable.
Our new-build and It is fully recyclable and approximately 80% of all corrugated refurbishment programmes put us in an excellent packaging used in the UK is again recycled.
position to design in these improvements from the outset.
This year we are reviewing the design lessons Leisurebench supplier of our wooden garden furniture is a learnt in our pubs to determine whether we can member of the Leisure andOutdoor Furniture Association and participates in the Made Aware scheme.
This involves tracing implement similar energy control measures in our timber sources and putting documentation in place to prove all breweries and depots.
timber used is from managedand sustainable forestry.
Many of Andy Kershaw Group Facilities Manager the products are FSC Forest Stewardship Council certified.
100% of Leisurebenchs packaging used for Marstons productsis compressed and recycled.
Our customers have a right to expect that our supply chain is founded on ethical principles and that Marstons has taken all reasonable steps to accomplish this: our Group buying and tendering arrangements are designed to achieve this by ensuring we have a good knowledge of our suppliers working practices, care for the environment and policies on sourcing sustainable natural resources.
Colin MacKenzie Group Purchasing Manager Marstons PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 23
