52 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2017 A letter from our Chairman Building robust stakeholder relationships Good governance is vitally important as it underpins the delivery of our strategy to help Britain prosper and become the best bank for customers, colleagues and shareholders.
Lord Blackwell Chairman Dear Shareholders The Groups strategic Non ring-fenced bank I am pleased to present our corporate transformation One of the largest change initiatives for the governance report for 2017.
This report sets Group this year is the implementation of On 16 May 2017, the Group returned to full out our approach to governance in practice, the ring-fencing regulatory requirements private ownership after the government sold how the Board works, how it has spent its which come into effect on 1 January 2019. its remaining stake.
The sale demonstrated time during the year, how it has evaluated its The Groups approach aims to minimise the the successful delivery of the Groups strategy performance, and includes reports from each impact on both colleagues and customers to transform itself into a simple, low risk, UK of the Boards Committees.
and for the vast majority there will be no focused retail and commercial bank.
There has been significant progress the government first acquired shares in 2009, Good governance is vitally important as it during the year towards the establishment of the Group has repaired its balance sheet, underpins the delivery of our strategy to help the new non ring-fenced bank, Lloyds Bank reduced its cost base, cut complexity and Britain prosper and become the best bank for Corporate Markets plc LBCM.
The Board international exposure, built and sold TSB, and customers, colleagues and shareholders.
It is has played an active role in identifying and addressed legacy issues.
The Group returned essential to ensure good corporate governance appointing members of the LBCM board, as to profitability in 2013 and resumed paying and the associated values are embedded into well as helping to establish the governance dividends in 2014. the thinking and processes of the business, and framework to ensure that the framework is driven by the Board.
The sale marked the final step in the rescue both fit for purpose for the new bank and and rejuvenation of Lloyds Banking Group.
complements that of the Group.
An overview The combination of our strong financial Board changes by the Chairman of LBCM, Lord Lupton, of the performance and the progress we have made establishment and governance structures of The Nomination and Governance Committee towards our strategic priorities has enabled LBCM can be found onpage 60. is responsible for reviewing the composition of over 21.2 billion to be returned to the the Board and its Committees and assessing government, more than repaying the amount whether the balance of skills, experience, Board effectiveness that taxpayers invested.
knowledge and independence is appropriate The Board carried out an annual evaluation to enable them to operate effectively.
However, we are not complacent.
While we of its effectiveness during the year.
This It went through a rigorous process leading are proud of the progress we have made was an internal evaluation overseen by the to the appointment of Lord Lupton as a new over the last few years, we recognise we now Nomination and Governance Committee.
independent Non-Executive Director with have an equally challenging task to transform The process which was undertaken and the additional role of chairing our new non Lloyds Banking Group into a bank that can thefindings of the review are set out on ring-fenced bank.
Lord Lupton joined the deliver outstanding service for customers in pages6667, together with information about Board on 1 June 2017, bringing with him the future technology environment and play our progress against the 2016 review actions.
extensive international corporate experience our full role in helping Britain prosper.
Both Nick Luff Board has spent considerable time over the Diversity and Anthony Watson stepped down from the past two years working with the executive team Board in May 2017, having made significant to understand the requirements to compete Being able to attract, develop, fully utilise contributions to the Group.
As a result of successfully as the Bank of the Future, and and retain top talent is highly important to the two retirements, our Deputy Chairman to translate that into the new strategic plan us, ensuring everyone has the opportunity to Anita Frew was appointed as the new Senior announced with our results.
The oversight of progress and realise their potential.
For this Independent Director, and Simon Henry this new transformation programme, including reason, the Group has made a commitment to succeeded Nick Luff as the Audit Committee the associated cultural changes that will be be a leader in diversity, removing the barriers Chairman.
The names and biographies of required, will be a major focus of our ongoing that stand in the way of equal opportunity.
current Directors are set out on pages 5455. governance activities.
The roles and responsibilities of the Board members are set out on page 68.
Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2017 53 The Board sees it as an important objective for its membership to reflect diversity in its broadest sense.
A mix of different backgrounds Development of our and experience on the Board, as in the transformation strategy executive team, is important in providing a range of perspectives, insights and challenge needed to support good decision making.
In early 2016, following discussions with the Chairman As a Group, we have committed to maintaining and Board, the GroupChiefExecutive initiated a at least three female Board members, and major exercise to explore the characteristics required recognise the Davies Hampton-Alexander to succeed as the Bank of the Future.
Working target for FTSE companies to move towards groups across the Group were engaged in looking 33per cent female representation.
We are forward to the likely impact of changing technology, looking to take opportunities to increase the number of female Board members over time customer needs and competition, and developing where that is consistent with other skills and scenarios for different economic backdrops.
The Group has also The emerging analysis was debated at a two day made the public commitment to increase the proportion of senior roles held by women to offsite session involving both the Board and Group 40per cent by 2020.
For more information on Executive Committee in June 2016, and led to the current levels of diversity and inclusion see conclusion that a major transformation would be page 21. required in evolving our customer propositions, In addition to this, the Group recognises the re-engineering our core business processes to importance of the diversity of colleagues, incorporate new technology, changing our ways of reflecting the diversity of our customers, to working and developing new skills and capabilities.
allow us to better understand customers needs and create deeper relationships.
These conclusions were then developed into a programme of change initiatives which were The Groups aim is to increase ethnic diversity in our workforce and unlock the potential of discussed and reviewed in subsequent Board deep our ethnic minority colleagues.
The Group has dive sessions and, as a whole, in the joint Board and publicly committed to increase the proportion Executive offsite meeting in June 2017. of senior roles held by Black, Asian and Minority Ethnic colleagues to eight per cent Having agreed the key initiatives and the overall scale by 2020.
This is being achieved through career and pace of the transformation, the Board reviewed development programmes, a programme of the more detailed plan and immediate priorities visible role models, and a focus on increasing in an extended session in November 2017, placing cultural awareness to help all colleagues particular emphasis on the effective management interact more effectively, regardless of ethnic background.
Our commitment to diversity is of the programme and the mitigation of potential led from the top, with Executive Committee execution risks.
The final proposals were reviewed sponsorship of the initiatives.
More information again in January and confirmed with the 2018 budget on both diversity and the importance of in February.
succession planning is provided on page 72.
