70 RELX Group Annual reports and financial statements 2017 Chairmans introduction to Corporate Governance The Groups securities are listed in the UK, US and the Netherlands The Boards remain committed and therefore the Companies are subject to applicable corporate governance requirements of those jurisdictions.
These tomaintaining high standards of requirements, which are continually evolving, are reviewed and monitored by the Corporate Governance Committee.
The Boards corporate governance, and also delegate a number of other responsibilities to their Committees, to enable them to carry out their functions effectively.
The Boards toits simplification by removing Committee structure is set out on page 72. complexity from our structure Board changes and succession During the year, the Nominations Committee continued to keep andprocesses, and in doing so the composition of the Boards and their committees under review to ensure their composition remained appropriate.
pleased to report that Suzanne Wood, Chief Financial officer of Ashtead Group plc, joined the Boards as a Non-Executive Director in September 2017.
Looking ahead, Ben van der Veer will step Our governance framework down as Chairman of the Audit Committees in April 2018 and I am pleased to present our Corporate Governance Report Adrian Hennah will be appointed as his replacement.
like to welcome Suzanne to the Boards and thank Ben for his The role of the Boards is to provide effective leadership for the significant contribution during his eight years as Chairman Group, and to oversee our strategy and the management of risks of the Audit Committees.
This report sets out how the Boards performed As a consequence, the composition of the Boards Committees these functions.
It summarises their principal activities and was also reviewed by the Nominations Committee, with a small those of the Committees during the year.
It also explains in more number of other changes being made to their membership.
detail the Groups corporate governance arrangements, and The Nominations Committee will continue to monitor Board provides an explanation of how both RELX PLC and RELX NV and Committee composition and review succession planning the Companies, have applied the main principles of the 2016 UK arrangements on an ongoing basis.
Corporate Governance Code the Code during the year.
To nd information on the application of the Dutch Corporate Governance Biographical details of each of the Directors are set out on Code 2016 by RELX NV, please see the Corporate Governance pages 66 and 67.
The membership of the Boards Committees Statement of RELX NV which is available on our website, as at 31December 2017 can also be found on pages 66 and 67. www.
com Board Evaluation and Effectiveness The Boards remain committed to maintaining high standards As Chairman, I am also responsible for ensuring that the of corporate governance across the Group, which they view effectiveness of the Boards, their Committees and the individual as essential to delivering long-term success and protecting Directors are evaluated annually.
An externally facilitated shareholder value.
With this in mind, I am pleased to report that evaluation was last undertaken in 2014 15.
Therefore, in the Companies complied with each of the provisions of the Code accordance with the Code, the Corporate Governance Committee in 2017.
The Boards are also committed to the simplication of appointed an external facilitator, Lorna Parker, to conduct an the Groups governance arrangements by removing complexity independent effectiveness review for 2017 18.
Details of the from our structure and processes, and in doing so increasing review, which confirmed that the Boards and their Committees transparency.
The Boards are, therefore, proposing to continue to function effectively, and each Director continues to shareholders to move from our current dual parent holding be effective and to demonstrate commitment to their roles, are company structure to a single parent company.
These changes set out on page 77. are described in more detail in the Chairmans Statement on page 3.
Having reviewed the results of the review, and taking into account the changes made to the Boards and Committees during the year, As part of their leadership role, the Boards are responsible for I believe that the Boards and their Committees continue to operate developing a culture of appropriate behaviour within RELX Group.
effectively, and have an appropriate balance of skills, experience, Therefore, they have established comprehensive systems of independence, knowledge of the Group and diversity to ensure corporate governance, which include policies and procedures that they continue to do so.
that promote corporate responsibility, transparency and accountability.
Central to these policies is the Groups Code of I also remain satisfied that the Non-Executive Directors have Ethics and Business Conduct, which sets out clearly the standards sufficient time to undertake their roles.
expected for corporate and individual behaviour.
The Code of Therefore, on the recommendation of the Nominations Committee, Ethics and Business Conduct applies to all Directors and all Directors will stand for election or re-election at the Annual employees of the Group, and is available on our website at General Meetings in 2018. www.
More information on its application can be found in the Corporate Responsibility section on page 45.
Sir Anthony Habgood Chairman 14 February 2018
