com Annual report 2017 Beazley 75 Letter from our chairman The boards role is to set the companys strategic aim, scrutinise managements performance and ensure that the necessary financial and human resources are in place for the company to meet its objectives.
The board and its committees met regularly during the year to set direction and risk appetite and provided oversight and control of management in the day-to-day running of the business.
We promote a culture of openness and debate at each meeting and seek to receive constructive challenge from the non-executive directors to help develop proposals on strategy and other matters.
As chairman, I seek to ensure this is achieved, that appropriate decisions are then reached, and that we empower management to then execute those decisions, with our ongoing oversight and support.
Each of the strategic initiatives has been assigned a non-executive sponsor.
In May, we held our annual board strategy day and topics included were the long term plan, emerging risks and opportunities, deep dives into our specialty lines division and the Data and Analytics strategic initiative and a competitor analysis.
As part of planning for board succession, the nomination committee led the search for a new chairman and David Roberts was appointed to the board on 1 November 2017.
I will step down from the board at the AGM in March 2018, having served two full three year terms as chairman, and David Roberts will take up the role of non-executive chairman.
Details of the search process are set out in the nomination committee report.
Clive Washbourn resigned from the board on 20 July 2017 and we would like to thank him for his valuable contributions during his time on the board.
The company continues to be committed to the highest standards of corporate governance and the groups robust system of governance has been designed to establish, implement and maintain effective controls, internal reporting and communication of information across all levels within the group.
We believe these to be fundamental to the long term success of the company.
We ensure directors continually update their skills through individual development plans and board training.
Talent development and succession planning are critical components of sustainable success and this starts at the very top, in the boardroom.
On the board it is vital that we have the right balance and diversity of expertise, skills, experience and perspectives, in addition to independence of thought and action.
The group believes that diversity of the board contributes to group effectiveness and has developed a diversity strategy to support our commitment to being an equal opportunities employer.
We achieved our goal of three female directors by the 2017 AGM, having gone from none to three within five years.
We remain committed to our goal of a minimum of 35% of female senior managers within the organisation by 2020 and of 33% of female board members at group level by 2021.
We are nevertheless committed to ensuring appointments are made on merit against selection criteria.
Further details of our policy and goals are set out in the nomination committee report.
The board continues to engage with staff and a number of the non-executive directors travelled to various Beazley offices around the globe in 2017, met with staff and witnessed the culture of the company operating in practice.
The provision of timely, accurate and appropriate information to the board and committees is key to good governance.
We regularly review the board information to ensure it is in a form, and of a quality, to enable the board to discharge its duties.
I am pleased to confirm the company has complied with the principles and provisions set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code throughout the year ended 31 December 2017.
Details of the activities of the board and its committee also are set out on pages 82 to 95.
