Governance GOVERNANCE CHAIRMANS INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE I am a strong believer in the importance of good governance and that the actions and behaviours of the Board set the tone for the organisation as a whole.
Stuart Chambers, Chairman This section of the Annual Report provides an overview BOARD VISITS TO OPERATIONS of the means by which the AngloAmerican Group is Given the number of new members joining the Board, the directed and controlled.
The Board of directors is there opportunity for directors to visit operations and learn more to support and challenge management and to ensure about the business was perhaps more important than ever that we operate in a manner that promotes the in 2017.
Even those directors who have been on the Board long-term sustainable success of the Company, for some time find the visits invaluable as they have the generates value for shareholders and contributes to opportunity to interact with employees from a range of wider society.
Over the next few pages we describe backgrounds and seniority, as well as gaining a better the ways in which we seek to achieve this.
understanding of the operations in their local context.
There are also opportunities to meet with local stakeholders and BOARD COMPOSITION understand their interests and concerns.
The site visits are described on pages 76-77.
As described in my statement on pages 4-5, there were a number of changes to the Board in 2017.
These ensured that we replaced the skills and experience lost due to recent BOARD EVALUATION resignations and retirements, and aimed to achieve gender Internal Board evaluations were carried out in 2016 and and ethnic diversity on the Board as a whole.
2017, and the processes used and the results obtained At the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting AGM in are described on pages 74-75.
Each committee and the April, Ren Mdori retired as finance director.
Over a period Board itself have an action plan to address the points raised of 12 years, Rens steady hand, his integrity, and the quality by the evaluations and to ensure that we act upon them of his astute leadership were greatly appreciated by the to improve performance.
In 2018 we will ask an external Board.
Ren was succeeded by Stephen Pearce, who has a consultant to evaluate the Board, its committees and each wealth of financial and commercial experience gained of us who serve as directors.
We will report on the findings across the extractive and related industries.
Stephen has of that evaluation next year in the 2018 Annual Report.
already made considerable progress on, for example, extending our debt maturity profile.
COMMITTEE GOVERNANCE At the AGM in 2017, we also welcomed Nolitha Fakude Starting on page 78, each of the Board committee chairmen as a non-executive director.
Nolitha has had many years presents a report on the activities of their committees during of experience across a diverse range of industry sectors, 2017.
The efficient operation and interaction of the Board and was until recently an executive board member of and its committees are vital to ensure that matters receive South Africa-based petrochemicals company, Sasol.
In the necessary attention in a timely manner.
I am grateful to July, Ian Ashby was appointed as a non-executive director.
the members and the chairmen of those committees in Ian has almost four decades of experience in the mining particular for the work that they do throughout the year in industry, and has held a variety of roles across businesses this regard.
in Australia, Chile and the US.
Last year we presented our remuneration policy to The last Board change in the year was, of course, Sir John shareholders for approval, and received strong support Parkers retirement as chairman at the end of October 2017. for it.
There is clearly more we can do in this area, especially On behalf of the Board, management and employees of the as regards the gender pay gap, and we are committed to Group, I would like to thank Sir John for everything he has addressing this.
The report of the Remuneration Committee done for us during his tenure.
The processes we followed to refresh the Board are described on page 73.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2017 63 GOVERNANCE CHAIRMANS INTRODUCTION COMPLIANCE WITH THE UK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE CHAIRMANS INDUCTION The Board supports the principles and provisions of the From the date my appointment was announced UK Corporate Governance Code the Code issued by in June 2017, I have spent a significant amount the Financial Reporting Council FRC.
The Company has of time getting to know the business.
This has complied throughout the year with the Code, which is afforded me the opportunity to understand the available on the FRCs website www.
Ways in key issues facing the business and ensure I was which the Code has been applied can be found on the well positioned to hit the ground running on day following pages: one as chairman of Anglo American.
Code section and where to find details My extensive induction programme included Section A: Leadership internal briefings with senior leaders across the Pages 65-70 give details of the Board and executive Group, site visits to the Groups operations, and management and the Board governance structure external meetings with corporate advisers and Section B: Effectiveness major investors.
I have met managers and other Pages 72-115 describe the activities of the Board employees in our mines and offices around the committees and the induction and evaluation of world and visited around 15 of our operations.
the directors Key highlights: Section C: Accountability One-to-one meetings with all 12 members of The role of the Board in this area is primarily shown on the Group Management Committee pages 80-87, with further detail on the Groups strategic objectives and the principal risks to the business in the Around 40 meetings with Group business unit Strategic Report and functional leaders Section D: Remuneration One-to-one meetings with each of the The Groups remuneration policy and the report of the non-executive directors Remuneration Committee are found on pages 88-115 In August, undertook an internal orientation session Section E: Relations with shareholders on the Anglo American Operating Model This is shown on page 75.
In September, spent time visiting operations in I hope you find this report useful and informative.
I look South Africa, accompanied by Norman Mbazima, forward to seeing as many of you as possible at our deputy chairman of Anglo American South Africa.
AGM and would encourage you to vote your shares even Over the course of a week I visited fide Beers if you cannot attend in person, so that we gain a better Venetia mine, Platinums Mogalakwena mine and understanding of the views of our shareholders as a whole.
Amandelbult complex, the Zibulo coal mine and Kumba Iron Ores Sishen mine Joined the Sustainability Committees site visit Stuart Chambers to the Platinum Precious Metals Refinery in Chairman South Africa In October, travelled to Brazil to visit the Minas-Rio Iron Ore and Barro Alto Nickel operations accompanied by Ruben Fernandes, CEO Brazil In October, travelled to Chile for an Anglo American Board meeting, operational site visits and joined Copper as they celebrated Anglo Americans centenary celebrations with external stakeholders.
I was also able to take part in my first Global Safety Day at Quellaveco in southern Peru In early 2018, toured fide Beers Technologies and Element Six Global Innovation Centre in the UK, and visited DeBeers Jwaneng mine and Global Sightholder Sales in Botswana, accompanied by Bruce Cleaver, CEO of fide Beers.
I also travelled to Singapore to spend time at the Groups Marketing business, accompanied by Peter Whitcutt, CEO of Marketing.
My induction programme will continue into 2018 with further operational visits and meetings with senior leaders and other stakeholders.
64 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2017
