Chairmans governance letter Dear Shareholder During the year we have put in Last year, we made solid progress and delivered against our place processes and procedures commitment to develop the corporate governance standards at ConvaTec.
I am delighted that we are now in full compliance with to ensure your Board operates the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code issued in 2016 by the Financial Reporting Council the Code.
Governance Your Board remains committed to applying the highest standards of corporate governance across the Group.
As promised, we reviewed the Boards composition during the year and were delighted to appoint Ros Rivaz, Margaret Ewing and Regina Benjamin as independent Non-Executive Directors.
These appointments not only strengthened our Board and committees with their extensive skills and experience, but ensured we achieved an appropriate balance of independence and a significant improvement to our diversity.
We also welcomed Kasim Kutay as a Non-Executive Director, who is the representative Director for Novo Holdings A S, the Companys largest shareholder, who are entitled to appoint one NonExecutive Director.
All Non-Executive Directors appointed by Nordic Capital and Avista have stepped down as Directors as a result of reducing their shareholding in the Company.
Consequently, we have now addressed our non-compliance with the Code arising in 2016 caused by our then major shareholders entitlement to appoint Non-Executive Directors, in that at least half of the Board are now comprised of independent Non-Executive Directors and all committees of the Board meet the composition requirements of the Code.
Sir Christopher Gent Chairman Towards the end of 2017, the Board and the committees conducted the first evaluation of their respective effectiveness.
These reviews confirmed a successful transition following the IPO in 2016 and an appropriate focus by the Board on the key strategic matters facing the Group, coupled with suitable consideration of operational issues.
The evaluation provided an opportunity to reflect on our activities throughout the period since IPO and to agree actions for further improvement.
As Chair I interviewed each member of the Board to review their contribution to the Company and to identify areas for improvement.
All members are making an effective contribution.
I am pleased how quickly those who were recently appointed have engaged with the Company.
The Board now has a strong balance of skills, in particular extensive healthcare sector knowledge from Rick, Regina and Ros and excellent finance expertise from Jesper and Margaret, which will be of huge benefit as the Company works to execute its strategy and continues to improve its internal processes.
ConvaTec Group Plc 60 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Overview01 Strategic report04 Governance60 Financial statements102 Other information168 Activities of the Board Individual members of the Board and each of the committees have taken an active role during this year to add real value to the work of the Board.
Of particular note is the work, led by Paul Moraviec and strongly supported and overseen by the Nomination Committee, to assess and strengthen the Executive Team with members of the Board actively assisting in the recruitment process.
Also, our Audit & Risk Committee, led by Jesper Ovesen, has kept a sharp focus on the use of financial and non-financial measures and adjustments, and activities to improve the reporting process.
Further, Ros Rivaz has supported the new EVP Global Operations in his review of the MIP Programme, drawing upon her extensive manufacturing experience.
Culture The Board has set a clear tone in endorsing the existing strong values-driven culture of ConvaTec and enabling transparency in its interactions with senior management, employees, shareholders and other stakeholders.
We are conscious of the Companys wider responsibility to society as a whole and our Purpose, supported by our culture, enables us to reflect that responsibility in our interactions with our stakeholders.
Further information about our role in society is contained in our CR Report which is available on our website, www.
Shareholder engagement We have continued our commitment to maintaining an active dialogue with our shareholders.
Steve Holliday, Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, and I held a shareholder consultation meeting in September where a range of governance and remuneration issues were discussed with shareholders.
We also continue to engage with shareholders regarding the performance measures and targets for annual incentive and long-term incentive arrangements.
Detailed information about these areas can be found in the Remuneration Committee report on pages 78 to 96.
I have also met with a number of our largest shareholders to discuss the Companys performance and the Chairman of each of our Board committees is also available to engage with our shareholders.
The Board receives analysts notes published about the Company and the sector and is regularly updated by the Companys stockbrokers, Executive Directors and VP, Investor Relations on shareholder sentiment, feedback from meetings and the Groups Investor Relations IR programme.
Throughout the year, a comprehensive and active IR programme was conducted by our Executive Directors.
Further information about these activities is contained in the Corporate governance report on page 69.
We look forward to an ongoing engagement programme with shareholders in 2018 and beyond, and I look forward to meeting individual shareholders at our forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Sir Christopher Gent Chairman 14 February 2018 ConvaTec Group Plc 61 Annual Report and Accounts 2017
