DIRECTORS REPORT Chairmans letter Chairmans letter It is incumbent on the Board to ensure that the Groups unique culture and values are further strengthened This year we have made positive steps on our journey to improve our financial strength, BOARD COMPOSITION culture and conduct agenda, and ensure these remain on a sustainable footing for the future.
This work is ongoing as the external trends impacting the banking sector continue Gender diversity to evolve.
The Board has maintained its oversight of the execution of the Groups strategy throughout the year and we remain con dent that it will deliver sustainable shareholder Board value and a stronger organisation for our clients, colleagues, regulators and the Female Male communities in which we operate.
As part of those discussions the Groups purpose and values were considered and further shaped, which has led to our invigorated purpose 4 9 31% statement, Driving commerce and prosperity through our unique diversity.
I believe this 2016: 23% typi es the essence of what we stand for and who we are.
Iremain convinced that Standard Chartered is a force for good in the countries and regions in which we operate and it is therefore incumbent on the Board to ensure that the Groups unique culture and values are further strengthened.
Executive Along with other members of the Board I have continued to travel extensively across our Female Male markets during the year, visiting many parts of the network, listening to the views and aspirations of our clients and other stakeholders, and seeing first-hand the extent to which 0 0% 2 the Group is so deeply rooted in the real economy, supporting trade and finance across 2016: 0% our many dynamic markets.
The opportunities which exist across these markets are substantial and we remain well-placed to deliver for our clients and wider stakeholders.
We held four of our Board meetings this year in our markets, Hong Kong, New York, Singapore and Dubai, providing an opportunity for the Board to see how the strategy is INED incl Chair translating on the ground and engage directly with our colleagues, shareholders, clients, regulators and others.
I hosted our first Global Chairmens Conference, which was Female Male well-attended by independent chairmen and senior independent directors from Group 36% 4 7 subsidiaries across our markets.
More detail on the conference can be found on page 62.
2016: 27% Last year I highlighted my intention to carry out a review of the Board during 2017.
In March, we commissioned an externally facilitated review of the Board and its committees to assist in providing external input into their functioning and identify areas to enhance our overall Experience effectiveness.
Details of the process, outcomes and actions are set out on page 60. International Representation Banking, risk, The Governance and Nomination Committee has been particularly focused on succession experience from key finance, planning and strengthening the non-executive director and management pipeline during markets accounting experience the course of the year.
Details on this and the wider work of the Committee are set out amongst INEDs on pages 76 to 79.
The composition of the Board has continued to evolve: in July, Kurt Campbell stepped down from the Board after four years, to focus more time to his other business interests: and in November, Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala joined the Board as an 69% 31% 70% independent non-executive director.
Ngozi is an internationally renowned economist and a 2016: 69% 2016: 23% 2016: 60% prominent African leader.
Details of Ngozis experience and skills can be found on page 49.
A more recent change saw the appointment on 1 February 2018 of Christine Hodgson as Senior Independent Director in addition to her role as Chair of the Remuneration INED tenure Committee.
She took over the role from Naguib Kheraj, who remains as Deputy Chairman and Chair of the Audit Committee.
1 The Board took the decision at half year to tender the statutory audit contract in 2017 for 0-1 years 10% the year ending 31 December 2020.
A thorough tender process took place in the second 3 half of the year, led by the Audit Committee, full details on the process followed during the 1-3 years 30% tender process can be found on page 65.
5 3-6 years 50% 1 6-9 years 10% Jos Vials Further details on the work of the Governance and Group Chairman Nomination Committee can be found on page 76 Standard Chartered 46 Annual Report 2017
