Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Governance Introduction from the interim non-executive Chairman Key highlights for 2017 Chief Executive Officer Recruitment As a result of the departure of the groups Chief Executive Officer in August 2017, the group engaged Zygos Partners to facilitate an exhaustive recruitment process.
This process has now concluded with the appointment of Malcolm Le May as CEO on 2 February 2018.
Board Evaluation Following their appointment in 2016, Lintstock, an external evaluator, carried out an evaluation of the Board, its committees and the individual directors.
The key findings from the 2017 Board evaluation, the priorities for change and further details on the evaluation process to be undertaken in the future are set out on pages75 and 76.
Succession Planning I am pleased to present our corporate governance statement Succession planning and personal for 2017 which explains how the company has applied the development for the executive directors and senior management teams across the principles of corporate governance as set out in the 2016 group are kept under regular review by the nomination committee.
edition of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code Read more on page 94. as published by the Financial Reporting Council FRC Remuneration andavailable on its website www.
Remuneration has an important part to play in helping to encourage appropriate Dear shareholder behaviours.
We will continue to operate within the constraints of the remuneration policy The Board is responsible to shareholders for announcements made in June and August 2017, approved by shareholders at the 2017 AGM.
strategic direction, management and control the Board has made it a priority to address the However, in light of recent events, suggested of the groups activities and is committed to operational, governance, risk and regulatory changes within the framework of the existing the highest standard of corporate governance issues that have been identified as a result of policy were proposed and approved by the remuneration committee in December 2017 to in delivering in these areas.
Having regard to these events and has spent a considerable align the company with current bestpractice compliance with the Code, the Board considers amount of time in the latter half of the year following consultation with the groups external that appropriate corporate governance developing plans to enhance its policies and advisors.
standards were in place throughout 2017, practices, in particular its risk management except for those set out on page 100. and governance framework and has created a group Chief Risk Officer CRO role and Read more on page 102 onwards.
I was appointed as interim non-executive appointed an interim group CRO to assist in Chairman of the Board on 2 February this ongoing work through 2018.
The Board 2018, following Malcolm Le Mays interim has also identified where changes are needed additional two non-executive directors and for tenor as Interim Executive Chairman from to ensure greater Board effectiveness, clarity other group central roles in order to manage 24 November2017.
He stepped into the of group purpose, better interaction between the oversight from the centre.
We willalso role following the untimely death of Manjit the group and its divisions and to clarify the take the opportunity to reconstitute the Wolstenholme.
First and foremost I would like roles and responsibilities of the Board and its membership of the Board committees as part to give my sincere thanks to Manjit on behalf of senior management.
of this process during 2018. the Board for her stewardship as non-executive Chairman of the Board to 23 August 2017 Considerable work has also been undertaken The Board has continued to foster good and for stepping in at a time of uncertainty by the nomination committee and the relations with its new and existing shareholders as Interim Executive Chairman on 24 August Board since August 2017 to recruitment and intends to continue tofoster good relations 2017, following the resignation of Peter Crook of a new group Chief Executive Officer with all  2018 by as Chief Executive Officer, until her death on CEO.
The process was concluded with developing a more group centric customer 23 November 2017.
MalcolmLeMays appointment as CEO on focused approach.
I am therefore pleased to The Board has had a difficult year in which take on the chairmanship of the Board and the its leadership and effectiveness has been nomination committee in an interim capacity tested as a result of the operational issues Stuart Sinclair until such time as a new Chairman joins the in CCDs home credit business, regulatory Interim non-executive Chairman Board.
Further changes to the composition issues in Vanquis Bank and Moneybarn and of the Board are a priority through 2018 with 27 February 2018 the loss of key Board members.
In dealing the initiation of the recruitment process for an with the issues which led to the trading 67
