Production, reserves Strategic report Governance report Financial statements and operations Additional information Changes to the board Chairmans governance review Throughout my tenure as chairman of Rio Tinto, I have focused on ensuring that the board has worked effectively and cohesively, with a range and balance of skills, expertise and attributes that matches the geographical, operational and regulatory complexity in which our Dear shareholders, business operates.
I firmly believe that good corporate governance is critical in helping to During the year, there were a number of changes to board composition.
build a successful business that can be sustained over the longer As outlined in last years report, we appointed three new independent term and through the cyclical markets in which we operate.
non-executive directors: David Constable, Sam Laidlaw and Simon Henry, while non-executive directors Robert Brown and Anne Lauvergeon Reporting against applicable codes and standards stepped down from the board at the conclusion of the Rio Tinto Limited We are reporting this year against the UK Corporate Governance Code AGM on 4 May 2017.
2016 version the Code, the ASX Corporate Governance Councils rd In addition, in June 2017, Rio Tinto senior independent director John Corporate Governance Principles and Recommendations 3 edition Varley resigned with immediate effect.
Ann Godbehere assumed the role the ASX Principles, and New York Stock Exchange Corporate of senior independent director and Simon Thompson moved to replace Governance Standards the NYSE Standards.
John Varley as chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
I am extremely We welcome the publication by the UK Financial Reporting Council of its grateful for Johns outstanding contribution over the five or so years that proposed new UK Corporate Governance Code for consultation.
The focus he was on the board.
on the themes of corporate and board culture, stakeholder engagement and sustainability are critical factors for us as we partner with our Following the appointment of David, Sam and Simon, and with Anne Lauvergeons retirement, the proportion of women on the board fell to stakeholders to build an enduring business.
We have also begun to consider ways in which a stronger and more meaningful engagement can 18 per cent.
We recognised that we needed to re-intensify our efforts take place between the board and the workforce and we look forward to when considering the next non-executive appointments to the board to updating you on these initiatives next year.
The engagement, among promote not only gender diversity, but also diversity in its widest sense, other things, will be a vital barometer for the directors to gauge how the including social and ethnic backgrounds, and cognitive and personal strengths.
Groups new values and purpose are embedding within the organisation under J-S Jacques leadership.
On 15 February 2018, we were therefore pleased to announce the Strategic focus appointment of Moya Greene to the board as an independent non-executive director.
Moya will join Rio Tinto during the second half of Throughout the year, the board agenda was structured to allow for 2018 and we will announce her start date separately in due course.
At the regular updates on the optimisation of our portfolio, such as the disposal same time, we announced Paul Telliers decision to retire from the board of Coal & Allied Industries Limited, and the announcement of our various at the conclusion of the Rio Tinto Limited AGM on 2 May 2018.
When share buy-back programmes, totalling some US$4 billion in 2017.
We Moya joins Rio Tinto, the proportion of women on the board will be 30 per spent time on our major capital projects, including Silvergrass, Oyu cent.
Tolgoi, Grasberg and Resolution, and oversaw managements initiatives to drive productivity in every part of the business from mine to market.
Finally, in September 2017, Rio Tintos chief financial officer, Chris Lynch, During 2017, the board has also conducted deep dives into aspects of the informed the board of his intention to retire by the end of September Groups risk management and internal control systems, and this focus 2018.
Planning for the chief financial officer succession was already in will continue into 2018.
I hope that the following pages of this report progress and finding a suitable replacement is a priority for the provide you with greater insight into our discussions during the year.
Nominations Committee in the first half of 2018.
Appointment of Simon Thompson as the new Rio Tinto Upon assuming the role of chairman, Simon Thompson will step down as chairman chairman of the Remuneration Committee and will also cease to be a member of the Audit Committee.
Sam Laidlaw, who previously chaired In early December, we announced the appointment of Simon Thompson the remuneration committee at HSBC Holdings plc, will succeed Simon as as the new chairman of Rio Tinto with effect from 5 March 2018.
He chair of the Rio Tinto Remuneration Committee with effect from 5 March brings to the role a deep understanding of the mining industry, as well as 2018.
In 2018, I anticipate that the board will also look to strengthen and a strong track record as a non-executive.
Having worked closely with deepen the experience on the Audit Committee and Simon, as your Simon since he joined the board some three years ago, I am confident incoming chairman, will update you on these changes in next years that he will continue to promote a culture of integrity and openness and a report.
diversity of perspective among the board that will provide the necessary blend of support and constructive challenge to the executive Regulatory matters management team.
I know that Simon is looking forward to working with J-S, our chief executive, to ensure that Rio Tinto continues to deliver In October 2017, we announced that Rio Tinto had been notified by the superior returns for its shareholders by maintaining its capital discipline US Securities and Exchange Commission SEC that the SEC had filed a and value-over-volume approach.
complaint in relation to Rio Tintos disclosures and timing of the impairment of Rio Tinto Coal Mozambique RTCM.
The impairment was I would like to take this opportunity to acknowledge Ann Godbehere for reflected in Rio Tintos 2012 year-end accounts.
The SEC alleges that her work in leading the chairman succession process this year.
She led Rio Tinto, a former chief executive, Tom Albanese, and the previous chief the global search process, as the senior independent director, with the financial officer, Guy Elliott, committed violations of the antifraud, benefit of frequent support from a specially constituted committee reporting, books and records and internal control provisions of the federal comprising other independent non-executive directors not including securities law by not accurately disclosing the value of RTCM and not myself.
The committee reported regularly to the full board on its impairing it when Rio Tinto published its 2011 year-end accounts in activities and deliberations.
February 2012 or its interim results in August 2012.
We believe that the SEC case is unwarranted and that, when all the facts are considered by I am pleased to say that in the transition period prior to 5 March 2018, the court, or if necessary by a jury, the SECs claims will be rejected.
We Simon has really hit the ground running, and I know he is keen to harness will defend the allegations vigorously.
the collective experience of the board to try new approaches and enhance the overall effectiveness of the board.
Some of these enhancements were identified by this years board evaluation exercise, further details of which are set out on page 62.
com Annual report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS Production, reserves Strategic report Governance report Financial statements and operations Additional information Separately, but at the same time, Rio Tinto reached a settlement with At the 2017 Rio Tinto plc AGM, the resolution to disapply pre-emption the UKs Financial Conduct Authority FCA in relation to the timing of the rights on up to five per cent of Rio Tintos issued share capital was passed impairment of RTCM.
The FCA determined that Rio Tinto should have by a majority of 76.16 per cent, meaning that the vote against was in carried out an impairment review in relation to RTCM for its 2012 interim excess of 20 per cent.
I would like to stress that Rio Tinto adhered to best results and, if it had done so, those results published in August 2012 practice by seeking authority to disapply pre-emption on only up to five would have reected the impairment it recorded six months later.
The per cent and was not seeking any additional disapplication.
Further details FCA determined that Rio Tinto had breached the FCA's Disclosure and on this matter are set out on page 69.
Transparency Rules and imposed a financial penalty on Rio Tinto of In recognition of the role that responsible stewardship can play in 27,385,400 US$36.4 million.
It is important to stress that the FCA improving corporate governance, we also note that the UK Financial made no findings of fraud, or of any systemic or widespread failure by Reporting Council has asked some high level questions about the future Rio Tinto.
This separate FCA case is now closed.
The Australian Securities direction of the Stewardship Code.
We believe that the interaction of the and Investments Commission is also reviewing the RTCM impairment.
Stewardship Code and the revised Code will be crucial in maintaining a In addition, we continue to co-operate fully with relevant authorities in exible, principles-based Code that drives best practice in corporate connection with their investigations in relation to contractual payments governance on a comply or explain basis.
totalling US$10.5 million made to a consultant who had provided advisory Conclusion services in 2011 on the Simandou project in Guinea.
In closing, I would like to extend my warm and sincere thanks to all past The outcomes of these matters, and associated class actions that have and present members of the Rio Tinto board with whom I have had the been commenced on behalf of securities holders, remain uncertain, but tremendous privilege to serve as chairman for nearly nine years.
When I they could ultimately expose the Group to material financial cost.
I can stand down from the board and as chairman on 5 March 2018, I am assure you that the board is giving these matters its full and proper handing over the baton at a time when the business is in great shape and attention and that the dedicated board committee that monitors progress Rio Tinto has a balance sheet among the strongest in the sector.
I am of these matters is continuing under Simon Thompsons leadership.
confident that I am leaving the company in safe hands.
Shareholder engagement The board has undertaken extensive engagement with our shareholders during 2017 and expects to continue this positive trend of engagement under Simons new chairmanship.
We will also seek next year to engage with our shareholders through the Investor Forum on a range of strategic, financial, business and corporate governance issues.
The Investor Forum Jan du Plessis is a group established in London by a number of large investors with the Chairman objective of promoting a long-term approach to investment and creating a model for collective engagement with UK companies.
The board also looks forward to meeting with many of our retail shareholders at our AGMs in London and Melbourne in April and May this year.
Statement of compliance with governance codes and standards in 2017 In compiling this report, the directors have referred to the Code, the ASX Principles, and the NYSE Standards.
Throughout 2017, and at the date of this report, the Group applied the principles of, and was compliant with the provisions of, the Code and the ASX Principles, as summarised in the Governance report, the Remuneration report, the Directors report and Financial statements.
For the purposes of ASX Listing Rule 4.10.3 and the ASX Principles, page 50 to 69 of this Governance report form our Corporate Governance Statement.
This statement is current as at 31 December 2017, unless otherwise indicated, and has been approved by the board.
Rio Tinto plc, as a foreign issuer with American Depositary Receipts ADRs listed on the NYSE, is obliged by the NYSE Standards to disclose any significant ways in which its practices of corporate governance differ from the NYSE Standards.
The company has reviewed the NYSE Standards and considers that its practices are broadly consistent with them, with the following exceptions where the literal requirements of the NYSE Standards are not met due to differences in corporate governance between the US, UK and Australia.
The NYSE Standards state that companies must have a nominating corporate governance committee composed entirely of independent directors which, in addition to identifying individuals qualied to become board members, develops and recommends to the board a set of corporate governance principles applicable to the company.
Rio Tinto has a Nominations Committee comprising the chairman and independent non-executive directors, information about which is set out on page 59.
This Committee does not develop corporate governance principles for the boards approval.
The board itself develops such principles.
Under US securities law and the NYSE Standards, the company is required to have an audit committee that is directly responsible for the appointment, compensation, retention and oversight of the work of external auditors.
While the Rio Tinto Audit Committee makes recommendations to the board on these matters, and is subject to legal and regulatory requirements on oversight of audit tenders, the ultimate responsibility for the compensation of the external auditors and the appointment of the external auditors of Rio Tinto rests with the shareholders.
