ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 METRO BANK PLC CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW A strong governance framework supporting the long-term success of the Company.
Our governance structure is largely unchanged from 2016.
The Board support management and help develop strategy through effective debate and challenge.
The Chairman sets the Boards agenda and ensures that it devotes sufficient time to the Banks vision.
The Board has an open culture which encourages challenge: it has a diverse mix of skills and experience which enables it to continue to operate effectively.
All of the Non-Executive Directors are independent and, by encouraging open and frank discussion, we ensure that no individual Director or group of Directors can dominate discussion or decision-making.
Alongside our day to day governance work, in 2017 we carried out an external Board evaluation in line with the requirements of the Code.
The external Board evaluation process will complete in early 2018 and will help to ensure that the Board and its Committees continue to operate at maximum effectiveness.
More details on the external Board evaluation process can be found on page 52.
We also coordinated the appointment of a new NonMike Brierley Chief Financial Officer and Company Secretary Executive Director.
Monique Melis joined the Board in June 2017: she brings a rare combination of international regulatory and compliance expertise as well as proven entrepreneurial experience gained in founding and growing Creating FANS is at her own successful business.
Her insight, knowledge and skills complement the wealth of experience on the Board.
the heart of everything More information regarding the process for appointments to the Board can be found in the Nomination Committee we do, this is reflected in Report on page 62.
We arranged a thorough and robust induction for Monique and continue to provide ongoing support to her as she settles into her new role.
More details our robust governance on new Director inductions can be found on page 52. framework I will be retiring from my position as CFO and Company Secretary at the end of March 2018.
I would like to welcome David Arden, who joins us from Sainsburys Bank.
David will I am pleased to set out Metro Banks Corporate Governance be taking over the reins from me in leading the Banks Statement for 2017.
This has been a busy and exciting year governance framework as both CFO and Company one where weve continued to surprise and delight our Secretary.
I wish David well in his new role.
customers and created even more FANS.
As a result, weve entered our first full year of profitability.
Our governance Mike Brierley structure provides sufficient challenge and support to the Chief Financial Officer and Company Secretary Bank and its Executive Leadership Team, enabling it to 1 March 2018 continue to grow in a safe and sustainable manner.
Metro Bank has a premium listing on the London Stock Exchange and is required to comply with the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code published by the Financial Reporting Council in 2016 or to explain any areas of noncompliance and our reasons for these.
I am pleased to report that during the period under review, we fully complied with the Code.
43 Financial statements Governance Strategic report
