GOVERNANCE Letter from the C h ai r m an I am delighted to present this years Corporate Governance report.
As Chairman, it is my role to ensure the highest standards of governance are promoted by the Board and that these standards cascade through the group.
Corporate governance underpins how we conduct our business every day, our culture and our behaviour.
As we have seen over recent years, governance best practice continues to evolve and 2017 has been no exception, with the recent FRC Corporate Governance Code Consultation published at the end of the year.
The new Code is expected to be published in early summer 2018 and will apply to accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019.
As has been our approach in previous years, we will endeavour to apply and report on the updated principles of the new Code as soon as possible and once they become available.
Keeping abreast of governance developments is of utmost importance as we continue to strive to remain at the forefront of best practice and consistent with the standards that our investors require.
This includes LGIM, one of the largest investors in the UK.
SIR JOHN KINGMAN I am pleased to report that we have complied with all principles Chairman of the 2016 Corporate Governance Code throughout the year ended 31 December 2017.
Our approach to governance The Board is responsible for leading the company and overseeing the governance of the group.
The Board sets the tone for the groups culture, values and ethical behaviours and we keep the interests of the groups shareholders, customers, staff and wider stakeholders at the heart of our decision-making.
Our governance framework means we have a robust decisionmaking process and a clear framework within which decisions can be made.
This is achieved through our delegated authority framework, which ensures that decisions are taken by the right people at the right level and that there is clear accountability up to the Board.
In an ever-changing environment, it is important for us to ensure that our governance framework evolves with us, and we need to ensure that this framework meets the needs of the whole business and supports the ongoing delivery of our strategy.
60 LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 GOVERNANCE Talent This year has included particular focus on talent and how we harness and encourage the best talent in the company.
Board Keeping abreast of governance mentoring of the talent pool, enhanced Board engagement developments is of utmost with management below the Executive, succession planning and further development of our inclusivity and diversity importance as we continue to programme, have all been discussed.
strive to remain at the forefront In Partnership with Subsidiary Boards of best practice.
We recently announced the appointment of Henrietta Baldock as the Non-Executive Chair of our principal operating Sir John Kingman subsidiary, Legal & General Assurance Society LGAS.
Chairman Henrietta will take up the position of LGAS Chair on 6 March 2018 and brings extensive knowledge of the financial services and insurance sector through her 25 years experience.
Shareholder engagement Our shareholders play an extremely important role in supporting the company and the investor community continues to be a strong and influential force in shaping corporate governance.
We place great value on open and constructive two-way dialogue with shareholders and I have met a range of our shareholders over the year: continual engagement provides them with an opportunity to share particular areas of interest and to raise any concerns.
The AGM also provides a valuable opportunity for all our shareholders to hear more about how we have performed during the year and to meet our Board in person.
I look forward to sharing with you the successes of the company during 2017 and would encourage as many shareholders as possible to attend the AGM on 17 May 2018.
Sir John Kingman Chairman LETTER FROM THE CHAIRMAN LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 61
