Chairmans AstraZenecas return to sustainable growth can only be achieved if it is underpinned by Introduction sound corporate governance.
We are always mindful of the trust shareholders place in us.
Leadership Governance in support of our strategy The strength and quality of a Board begin I am also grateful to those Directors who with the calibre of its Directors.
AstraZeneca chair and are members of the Committees of is privileged to have a diverse, skilled and the Board, which are shown on the opposite experienced Board and 2017 saw some page.
The diligent way in which they carry changes to its composition.
After three years out their Committee duties enables us to service, Ann Cairns retired at the AGM in discharge our responsibilities efficiently April.
At the same meeting, Philip Broadley and effectively.
was elected to the Board and appointed to the Audit Committee.
His significant international We are always mindful of the trust shareholders business and financial experience are already place in us as your elected Directors and of our proving valuable.
wider responsibilities to all of AstraZenecas stakeholders.
We seek to apply governance Later, in August, Bruce Burlington retired best practice in our work for you and those as a Non-Executive Director and member other stakeholders, which you can read about of the Audit Committee, the Nomination and in this Governance Report.
Governance Committee, and from his role as Chairman of the Science Committee.
In all our deliberations, we never lose sight We particularly valued his insightful and frank of the fact that our ultimate success will participation during a period of innovation-led be measured in our ability to deliver lifetransformation at AstraZeneca.
In this way we can add value to patients, shareholders and We are very fortunate to have had three society more generally.
exceptional women join the Board as Non-Executive Directors during 2017.
Nazneen Rahman is a renowned medical scientist and joined us in June.
Sheri McCoy was appointed in October and brings several decades of pharmaceutical industry Leif Johansson experience from her time at Johnson Chairman & Johnson.
Finally, Deborah DiSanzo, global General Manager for IBM Watson Health, joined us in December.
I welcome the new Board members and thank all Board members for their continuing commitment and contribution to our discussions.
Minute pieces of tumour DNA circulating in the bloodstream 86 AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2017 Corporate Governance
