CHAIRMANS INTRODUCTION Highlights for 2017 SOLID CORPORATE GOVERNANCE IS THE Role in review and setting of new five year Group strategy FOUNDATION ON WHICH THE BUSINESS Appointment of two new CONTINUES TO BE MANAGED Non-Executive Directors and meeting HamptonAlexander recommendations Dear Shareholder on boardroom diversity I am pleased to report to you the Governance section of the 2017 Annual Report and further Time during the year allocated to confirm that Coats Group plc Coats has complied fully with the principles and provisions to risk deep dives of the 2016 UK Code of Corporate Governance the Code.
This report describes Coats corporate governance structures and procedures and the roles played by each of the Board, its Committees and the Group Executive Team GET in these.
I believe that our corporate governance framework set out on the following page is Priorities for 2018 appropriate for a company of our size and FTSE 250 status and supports the delivery of the Oversight of long term strategy Groups strategic objectives whilst also ensuring accountability, transparency and fairness and acquisitions in our dealings with all of our stakeholders, in particular our shareholders, customers, Risks which may materially employees and suppliers.
impact Group strategy and long term viability Culture and diversity Continue programme of At Coats, we have long believed that supporting and respecting all aspects of the diversity of site visits around Coats our people is an important contributor to business performance as well as being the right thing to do.
Having a diverse range of Board members is critical, as Board decisions set the tone and culture for the organisation, and diversity and a broad range of experience help generate the sparks that ensure our decisions are never the result of group think or treading all-too Section contents familiar paths.
Chairmans Introduction 37 Consequently, I am pleased to report the Board has appointed two new female Directors, Board of Directors 39 which brings the percentage of female representation on the Board to over 30%.
In December Group Executive Team 42 2017 Echo Lu joined the Board and Anne Fahy joined on 1 March 2018.
Echo brings 20 years Corporate of global HR operations and management expertise, and direct managerial experience of Governance Report 43 global companies operating in markets in Asia.
Anne has a wealth of financial experience from Nomination her time at BP including knowledge of the full range of audit matters and financial controls.
Committee Report 48 Anne will also become Chairman of our Audit and Risk Committee in place of Ruth Anderson Audit and Risk who will step down from the Board following our Annual General Meeting on 16 May 2018.
Committee Report 50 Directors Compliance and accountability Remuneration Report 55 Significant time and resource is given to governance matters by the Board and within UK Corporate the everyday operations of the Group.
This ensures compliance within the framework Governance Code Report 68 of regulations but is also central to delivering sustainable business success.
Directors Report 71 We believe that reputation is critical to commercial success and can only be enhanced Directors Responsibilities by behaviours of which we are all proud.
A key element of ensuring sound governance Statement 76 is guaranteeing an appropriate system of controls and accountability.
Details of the Groups Committees and their reports are contained in this section of the Report.
Activities in the year As a listed company, Coats is required to In addition to time spent at Board and Committee meetings, the Directors participate in report on how it has applied the principles of the Code and this report is set out in the strategy days and Company-related events such as the Global Leadership Conference and following pages.
visits to the Companys sites worldwide.
A statement of compliance with the provisions Two such visits in 2017 were to operations in Turkey and India where the Board had the of the Code can be found on page 68. opportunity to deepen its understanding of the business and culture of the Company and the important role we play for a broad range of stakeholder groups.
Mike Clasper Chairman 6 March 2018 37 CHAIRMANS INTRODUCTION CONTINUED The UK Corporate Governance Our governance activities are aligned to the Code and this report is structured accordingly: code April 2016 can be found Leadership on www.
uk The Board recognises the need for clear divisions of responsibility in order to provide leadership for the long term success of Coats.
The Corporate Governance Report details our approach in these matters and our relations with shareholders.
The Terms of reference of each Effectiveness Committee are available at The Board recognises that to operate effectively the organisation requires the correct balance of www.
com governance skills, experience and diversity.
The report of the Nomination Committee outlines our approach.
Accountability A key element of ensuring sound governance is guaranteeing an appropriate system of controls and accountability.
The report of the Audit and Risk Committee provides an update in this area.
Remuneration Director remuneration is set to promote the long term success of Coats.
The report of the Remuneration Committee sets out our approach in this area.
Governance Code Report The UK Governance Code Report and the Directors Report outline our compliance with all aspects of the Code.
Our governance framework Responsibility for good governance rests with the Board: this is underpinned by an effective governance framework which, the Board believes, fits the requirements of Coats business.
The Board retains certain matters for its own preserve: other specific responsibilities are delegated to its principal Committees, namely the Audit and Risk Committee, the Nomination Committee and the Remuneration Committee, and to senior executive management.
Engagement Board of Directors Shareholders For details of individual roles and responsibilities, see page 39 Engagement Stakeholders internal and external Nomination Remuneration Audit and Risk Committee Committee Committee See page 48 See page 55 See page 50 Group Chief Executive Disclosure Pensions Committee Committee See page 43 See page 44 Group Executive Team For details of individual roles and responsibilities, see page 42 38 Responsibility delegated from Board
