CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Promoting long-term success Dear Shareholders I am pleased to present the Corporate Governance report for 2017.
As in previous years, this report should be read in conjunction with the section on how we have complied with the UK Corporate Governance Code on pages 114 to 118.
I confirm that the Company has complied in full with the UK Corporate Governance Code during 2017.
During the year Hammerson has continued to deliver its strategy: focusing on growing consumer markets, creating differentiated destinations and promoting financial efficiency and partnerships.
You can read my commentary on our progress on pages 4 to 5.
One of the major areas of focus for the Board in 2017 was the proposal to acquire intu properties plc and we believe the acquisition will result in stronger income and superior growth prospects for the Company.
You can read more about the process the Board followed when considering the proposed acquisition on page 79.
Culture and diversity The Companys success depends on our continued commitment to high standards of corporate governance and the Board recognises that a strong culture within the business brings benefits to the Company and its employees, as well as to all our stakeholders.
I believe that the Board plays a key role in shaping Hammersons culture across the organisation.
During the year the Board had a number of opportunities to engage with colleagues from many areas of the business both formally and informally.
This enables the Directors to monitor how far our core values: ambition, respect, collaboration and responsibility, have been embedded in the business.
You can read more about the Boards activities on pages 77 to 80.
The Board recognises that a strong culture within the business brings benefits to the Company and its employees, as well as to all our stakeholders.
David Tyler Chairman 70 HAMMERSON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT The Board believes in the benefits of diversity and in 2017 the Board changes and effectiveness Nomination Committee has spent time reviewing succession The Nomination Committee annually reviews the composition planning and talent development in our business.
The Nomination of the Board to ensure it has the appropriate skills, knowledge and Committee has noted with interest a number of external reports experience for the business.
In 2017 there were no Board changes.
which have been published during the course of 2017 on the broad Clearly, the Nomination Committee will continue to be thoughtful subject of diversity in the workplace.
I was co-chair of the Parker about the composition of the Board.
Review Committee which published a report into the ethnic diversity One of my responsibilities is to ensure that the Board is performing of UK boards.
I and my fellow Directors on the Nomination effectively and as part of this process we carry out an annual review Committee strongly support the initiatives within our business to facilitated internally, and externally every three years.
The review in promote diversity.
The Board monitors the development of the 2017 was conducted internally and I am pleased to report that we Companys diversity and inclusion strategy and the Nomination believe that the Board continues to operate effectively.
I am satisfied Committee continues to keep diversity on the Board itself under close that each Director makes a valuable contribution to the work of the review.
You can read more about this in the Nomination Committee Board.
You can read more about the process followed and the report on pages 82 to 83 and the People section of the Strategic Report outcomes of the review on page 81. on pages 46 to 48.
I am satisfied that our governance structures remain effective and Stakeholders support the business.
When the new UK Corporate Governance Code We have a comprehensive investor relations programme and during is published in 2018 we will review our governance structures to the year I met personally with representatives of major shareholders ensure we remain fully compliant.
in the UK and the Netherlands to discuss the implementation of our strategy and the progress of our business.
I found these meetings very Looking ahead informative which allowed me to provide useful feedback to the Board.
The Board and I look forward to an exciting year in the evolution of The Board is very conscious that there are a number of stakeholders in Hammersons business.
One of our main responsibilities will be to our business model and it is our job to consider the interests of each oversee preparations in the business for the completion of the stakeholder group when making decisions which may affect them.
acquisition of intu properties plc.
We will be assisted in this by a highly The Board naturally spent a good deal of time discussing the potential committed and experienced senior management team supported by effects on our stakeholders as part of its evaluation of the proposed enthusiastic, engaged and hardworking colleagues, as well as acquisition of intu properties plc.
2017 was a significant milestone for the business as we marked our I continue to admire both the skills and the enthusiasm for the 75th birthday.
During the year there were a number of opportunities business of the many colleagues I have met this year.
I would like for Directors to meet with colleagues from many areas of the business, to thank all of our colleagues very much for their contribution former colleagues and other stakeholders.
I was delighted to take part during 2017. in some of these events and to meet many of the people who have helped to make this business the success it is today.
I took the opportunity to reflect on our progress which is a tribute to the talented people who work and have worked in the business.
David Tyler At Hammerson we realise that our business has an impact on the Chairman communities in which we operate and therefore our vision is to create sustainable, high-quality destinations which deliver a positive result for all of our stakeholders both now and in the future.
For example in March 2017, we launched our objective to become Net Positive by 2030.
More information about this initiative can be found on page 43 and on our website www.
The General Counsel and Company Secretary also discussed corporate governance and compliance matters in a number of conference calls held with shareholders and other interested parties The Company has complied in full during 2017. during 2017 and to the date of this report with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code published in April 2016.
The Code is publicly available at the website of the Financial Reporting Council at www.
