80 GSK Annual Report 2017 Chairmans Governance statement Dear Shareholder CEO transition I am pleased to present our Corporate In the period before she formally took Governance report for 2017. up the reins as CEO in April, Emma was working on how she would evolve the Governance, strategy and long-term companys strategy with support and value creation guidance from the Board.
She met with The Board remains committed to achieving each Board director to solicit their views the highest standards of corporate on the company, as well as meeting with governance and integrity.
Our governance employees at all levels of the business, structure operates from the Board across external advisers and commentators to gain the Group and we believe it is critical in a wide view.
She shaped her thinking with underpinning our ability to deliver our Emma Walmsley and the the Board as it evolved.
Our Non-Executive strategy to create long-term value and Directors were fully engaged in this process.
CET plan to ensure that benefit for our shareholders and Emma utilised the diverse expertise around stakeholders.
Our investors are also the companys culture the boardroom table to test and shape the telling us that there has never been a detail of her proposals.
In particular, the greater need for companies to combine and values are consistent Board and its Committees provided Emma obligations to society with delivery of our and the management team with continuous with our strategy and financial performance.
The following pages set out details on the culminated in a discussion at a joint strategy composition of our Board, its corporate meeting with the full Corporate Executive governance arrangements, processes and Team CET in June at which the proposed activities during 2017, together with reports Innovation, Performance and Trust priorities from each of the Boards Committees, were scrutinised ahead of Board approval including the new Science Committee.
Last year we reported on the Boards Emma and the CET then laid out at the work on CEO and executive management Investor Update in July, how Innovation, succession.
In 2017, the Boards focus was Performance and Trust would provide a in supporting Emma Walmsleys transition platform for growth from 2020 and beyond.
into her new role and conducting a detailed She also re-affirmed the commitment to the review of the companys strategy with three-business structure, subject to certain management.
conditions which would continue to be reviewed periodically.
This commitment was tested by the Board at the joint strategy session in June.
In terms of continuing Board oversight of the Innovation, Performance and Trust priorities, all Board papers have been re-shaped to align with the new business priorities.
In addition, the CEOs report includes Innovation, Performance and Trust performance indicators.
Our annual strategy meetings will enable the Board to consider the progress and effectiveness of our business priorities in delivering long-term value to investors.
81 GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Governance and remuneration Financial statements Investor information Aligning strategy and culture Board evaluation The Governments corporate governance A healthy culture is a vital tool in unlocking This was an appropriate time in the Boards reform legislation and the new Code are and protecting value and the biggest evolution to carry out an external Board expected to be effective from 2019 financial driver of our culture is the leadership of our evaluation and the CEO, our Senior years.
I look forward to providing an update company.
Emma Walmsley and the CET Independent Non-Executive Director and on how our arrangements measure up to plan to ensure that the companys culture I therefore chose to appoint a new external these new requirements in next years report.
and values are consistent with our strategy Board evaluator for this review to bring a UK Corporate Governance Code and performance objectives.
Details of the externally compliance Board reviewed her proposed strategy, facilitated review and its conclusions are I am pleased to report that we were in full culture featured heavily in the discussions.
set out on pages 92 to 93. compliance with the requirements of the The Board approved a move to a highCorporate Governance reform FRCs UK Corporate Governance Code performance, values-based culture The Board has taken a close interest in the Code and a copy of the Code is available where the new expectations of Courage, UK Governments development of a package on www.
Accountability, Development and Teamwork of legislative and best practice measures I commend this report to all of our guide employee behavior.
The Board and supports initiatives that raise the bar shareholders.
received a report on managements on corporate governance practices and commitments and initiatives as a effectiveness.
As part of this reform drive, the Financial The CET held a leadership conference in Reporting Council FRC has recently October for the companys top 600 leaders, consulted on its proposals for a revised which I and other Non-Executive Directors Philip Hampton UK Corporate Governance Code.
This was critical to transfer Chairman submitted our views.
I am pleased to note ownership of our strategy and culture to that the FRC has included new measures 12 March 2018 our leaders and on into the company.
We to encourage companies to take steps to are now measuring progress in implementing align their strategy and culture and promote our priorities and monitoring aspects of our effective engagement with their workforce culture twice a year through an all-employee and wider stakeholders, issues that I have survey.
This survey measures engagement, described earlier in relation to the approach progress on our Innovation, Performance of our own Board.
and Trust priorities, our values and expectations.
Emma reports progress to the Board regularly on culture.
Further details on the companys commitment to being a modern employer and driving high levels of employee engagement as part of our Trust agenda are set out on pages 48 and 49 of the Strategic report.
