54 IMI plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Corporate Governance introduction Chairmans Governance letter Following a wide ranging search process Thomas Thune Andersen was Dear Shareholder appointed to the Board with effect from 1 July 2018.
The search for a further non-executive director continues.
As Chairman, my key areas of focus are on A review of the Directors Remuneration Policy was completed by the ensuring that the Board provides effective Remuneration Committee following stakeholder consultation and the leadership and maintains strong governance at resulting proposals were approved by the Board for submission to this all times.
In the Corporate Governance Report years Annual General Meeting.
on pages 55 to 85, we describe our governance We reaffirmed the strategy for the Group and continued to refine the detailed arrangements and the practical workings of plans and implementation of the strategy at a business level.
the Board and its committees.
Approval was given for the significant, complementary acquisition of Bimba Manufacturing Company for an enterprise value of approximately 148m.
Leadership An audit tender process was initiated by the Audit Committee which will I am now in my third year as Chairman and have been pleased with the result in a decision on the auditor to be proposed for appointment at next evolution of the Board, particularly as regards the constructive dynamic in years AGM in May 2019. the Boardroom.
The quality of discussion at meetings is high and all of our non-executive directors are making an important contribution.
Board evaluation In keeping with our Group-wide focus on continuous improvement, in 2017 I enjoy a strong working relationship with the Chief Executive and we keep in we completed a comprehensive evaluation of Board performance facilitated close contact on a weekly and more frequent basis as necessary.
Our thinking by Egon Zehnder.
The overall assessment was highly complimentary of the on key decisions is well aligned as a result of our supportive but suitably Boards function and effectiveness and details of the areas for development challenging debates.
Culture Compliance with the 2016 UK Corporate Code The Board sets the tone at the top and has established clear leadership I am pleased to report that IMI complied with the 2016 UK Corporate values and behaviours which are underpinned by a comprehensive Governance Code throughout the year.
Further details of our compliance governance framework.
These values and behaviours are built into our with that Code are provided in the following Corporate Governance and leadership development programmes and performance assessment Committee Reports.
Excellent leadership behaviours are a pre-requisite for advancement.
We have also embedded policies and processes to Yours faithfully underpin compliance and doing business in the right way.
Lord Smith of Kelvin Governance highlights Chairman A new chair of the Audit Committee was selected from among the continuing non-executive directors.
1 March 2018 Board succession plans put into action to cover Bob Stacks roles as senior independent director and chair of the Remuneration Committee after his sad death on 7 December 2017.
