Ultra AR&A 2017 Governance AW Layout 1 09 03 2018 11:25 Page 3 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 60 Executive Chairmans Governance Statement The Board believes that Ultras culture of accountability and responsibility is an essential factor in the Groups development.
Douglas Caster, Executive Chairman Dear Shareholder, The structure, size and composition of the Board Corporate governance reforms 2017 was a year of significant organisational was a point of focus in 2017, and will continue looking ahead change and market challenges for Ultra.
In my to be kept under review in the year ahead to We note with interest the Governments statement to the 2016 Corporate Governance ensure we maintain a broad and complementary response to the BEIS green paper on corporate Report, I emphasised that strong corporate range of skills, personalities and competencies governance reforms, and the FRC consultation governance is fundamental to Ultras success: in on the Board.
on fundamental changes to the UK Corporate such times of significant change, the importance Governance Code.
In anticipation of the reforms Culture of good corporate governance, underpinned by a that will take effect in the year ahead, we will The Board and senior management play a key sound ethical culture, is brought into sharp focus.
continue to consider our level of engagement role in establishing, shaping and embedding the We continue to believe that good corporate with key stakeholders and especially culture, values and ethics of the Company.
We governance is fundamental to Ultras success.
Our employees, promote diversity across the are taking important steps in dening the approach is to ensure that good practices and workforce and the Executive Team, and monitor culture and behaviours that we believe we need procedures are embedded into Ultras businesses, and assess Ultras culture so that behaviour to deliver on our promises.
so that we can deliver on our stated corporate throughout the business is aligned with its The Boards programme of Non-Executive objective of generating shareholder value.
Director site visits continued in 2017.
This I am pleased to present Ultras 2017 Corporate Despite the challenges it has faced in the past provides an opportunity for the Directors to Governance Report, which provides an insight year, we believe that Ultras strategy, reinforced satisfy themselves that the culture, values and into how the Board led Ultra in navigating often by its culture of accountability and responsibility ethics, which must be set from the top, are difficult and complex issues over the past year, and a robust governance framework, ensures reected in the business at all levels.
with a renewed focus on discharging our that it remains a resilient and sustainable The Board believes that Ultras culture of corporate governance duties and applying the business.
We look forward, with renewed spirit, accountability and responsibility is an essential principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
factor in the Groups development.
The Board is Board changes and succession planning conscious of the need to ensure that Ultras culture Douglas Caster CBE It is vital for the Board to have the right balance of accountability and responsibility is maintained Executive Chairman of skills, knowledge and experience to ensure throughout the implementation of the S3 5 March 2018 effective leadership, and to provide a robust Programme details of which are on pages 22-23 challenge to the Executive Team.
There were a and the continued progress of the introduction of number of changes to the Board announced the new ERP System.
People and culture is during the year, further details of which you will considered by us to be one of the Groups principal nd in the Nominations Committee Report on risks as further described on pages 40-45, and pages 71-72. has been the subject of discussion at both the In April 2017, we welcomed Geeta Gopalan and Board level and at the Executive level, especially Victoria Hull as Non-Executive Directors.
Mark in the last quarter of 2017.
Anderson Group Marketing Director left Ultra As a result of these discussions, we are in the on 31 October 2017.
Rakesh Sharma stepped process of setting up a Risk Committee as a down as Chief Executive and from the Board on formal sub-committee of the Executive Team, 10 November 2017, and I assumed the role of which will be chaired by the Executive Executive Chairman on the same date see page 7 Chairman.
People and culture, along with for further details.
One of my main tasks, as other key business risks, will be monitored Chairman of the Nominations Committee, is to closely by the Risk Committee.
The Board and nd a new Chief Executive and the search process We know that we still have further to go, but is well underway.
Sir Robert Walmsley, whose senior management we believe that Ultras open and diverse culture term as a Non-Executive Director was due to has been, and will continue to be, the expire in April 2018, was asked by the Board to play a key role in foundation for its future as a resilient and remain for a further year as Senior Independent sustainable business.
Director to provide continuity and leadership.
establishing, shaping and embedding the culture, values and ethics of the Company.
