GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW KELVIN DUSHNISKY CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD DEAR SHAREHOLDERS The work of the Board has been challenging during During a challenging year, I have greatly valued the diverse and complementary range of skills and experience of my fellow Directors.
In particular we have had to focus on I am confident that the Board will continue to show its commitment addressing the introduction of the concentrate export during 2018 as we look to deliver optimal performance in the current operating environment and deliver value for all of our stakeholders.
ban in March, legislative changes affecting the natural resources sector, and the receipt of significant tax assessments from the Tanzanian Revenue Authority to the Group companies that own and operate the Bulyanhulu and Buzwagi mines.
KELVIN DUSHNISKY The Board has overseen the implementation of a number of steps to address CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD the impact of these challenges as described in the Strategic Report.
We have focused in particular on the Companys cash position and ensuring Key areas of focus in 2017 that appropriate steps are taken to safeguard the viability of the business.
The Board focused on the following areas in 2017: Discussions commenced in late July between Barrick Gold Corporation Overseeing steps to mitigate risks arising from events in Tanzania and the Government of Tanzania with a view to seeking a resolution to Overseeing operational changes at Bulyanhulu and Buzwagi the current state of impasse.
In October 2017, Barrick announced that a proposed framework had been agreed between Barrick and the Overseeing further measures to protect the Companys balance Government relating to the future relationship between Acacia and the sheet and cash position Government of Tanzania.
Barrick has indicated that it expects to be able Overseeing steps to protect the Companys rights, including commencing to present a detailed proposal to Acacia for review during the first half international arbitration proceedings of 2018.
Any proposal agreed-in-principle between Barrick and the Government of Tanzania will require Acacias approval.
Overseeing appointments to key executive positions and management of change in those positions In light of Barricks position as a controlling shareholder of Acacia, and its role in the discussions that have taken place to date with the Government Conducting risk reviews of Tanzania, specific governance arrangements have been put in place to Conducting performance evaluations protect the interests of all shareholders, including the establishment of the Independent Committee of the Board, chaired by Michael Kenyon.
See Framework discussions with the Government of Tanzania on page 66.
The Boards plan for 2018 In addition, Michael has been appointed as the Senior Independent Director The Boards focus areas for 2018 include: of the Company, in light of his role as Chair of the Independent Committee.
Continuing focus on preservation of cash and protection of balance sheet There have been a number of other changes to the Board during 2017.
Peter Tomsett stepped down from the Board following the AGM in 2017 Continuing to assess all options available to achieve resolution of the and Ambassador Juma Mwapachu resigned as a Director in July on the challenges in Tanzania expiry of his second three-year term.
In December, Brad Gordon stepped On-going review of Group strategy and risk as discussions in down from the Board following his resignation as Chief Executive Officer.
Tanzania progress On behalf of the Directors I would like to thank each of Brad, Peter and Juma for their many contributions to the Company.
Assessing on-going composition of the Board In January we welcomed Peter Geleta to the Board and to his new Overseeing operational, financial and exploration project performance position as Interim Chief Executive Officer.
Peter knows the Company and Reviewing growth opportunities its assets extremely well and brings substantial industry and leadership experience to the role.
62 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 GOVERNANCE BOARD STRUCTURE MANAGEMENT COMMITTEES EXECUTIVE LEADERSHIP TEAM Further support the Board and comprise Responsible for day-to-day management the following key committees: of our business and operations and for monitoring detailed performance of all Disclosure Board aspects of our business Reserves and resources Capital allocation BOARD COMMITTEES AUDIT EHS&S NOMINATION & COMPENSATION INDEPENDENT COMMITTEE COMMITTEE GOVERNANCE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE reviews and oversees the COMMITTEE reviews and oversees all aspects monitors financial development of makes recommends overall and implications of statements strategy and policy recommendations remuneration policy the discussions oversees on Sustainable to the Board on its and strategy between Barrick and relationships Communities, composition and that reviews and the Government of with internal and environmental, of its Committees approves Tanzania, and any external auditors health and safety reviews and oversees remuneration related proposals oversees external and security matters the formulation and arrangements for audit process reviews the adoption of Acacia Executive Directors reviews internal effectiveness corporate governance and Executive audit plans of Sustainable policies and Leadership Team compliance matters Communities, procedures environmental, health and safety and security management programmes and systems 2017 Membership 2017 Membership 2017 Membership 2017 Membership 2017 Membership Andre Falzon Chair Rachel English Chair Kelvin Dushnisky Chair Michael Kenyon Chair Michael Kenyon Chair Rachel English Peter Geleta Michael Kenyon Rachel English Rachel English Steve Lucas Andre Falzon Steve Lucas Steve Lucas Andre Falzon Steve Lucas Non-Executive Chairman Executive Director Non-Executive Directors The Chairman creates the conditions for overall Board The CEO is the most senior Executive Director on the Non-Executive Directors have a responsibility to uphold and individual Director effectiveness.
The Chairman is Board with responsibility for proposing strategy to the high standards of integrity and probity and are required required to demonstrate the highest standards of Board, and for delivering the strategy as agreed.
The to have a strong command of the issues relevant to the integrity and probity, and set clear expectations CEO has, with the support of the ELT, primary business in order to make a positive contribution to the concerning the Companys culture, values and responsibility for setting an example to the Companys Board.
Non-Executive Directors support the Chairman behaviours, and the style and tone of Board employees, and communicating to them the and the CEO in instilling the appropriate culture, values discussions.
The Chairmans role is wide-ranging and expectations of the Board in relation to the Companys and behaviours in the boardroom and beyond.
All includes: demonstrating ethical leadership: setting a culture, values and behaviours.
The CEO is responsible Non-Executive Directors are required to ensure that Board agenda which is primarily focused on strategy, for supporting the Chairman to make certain that there is sufficient consideration of business issues performance, value creation and accountability, and appropriate standards of governance permeate prior to, and informed debate and challenge at, Board ensuring that issues relevant to these areas are throughout Acacia.
The CEO ensures that the Board is meetings.
In making decisions, they take into account reserved for Board decision: making certain that the made aware, when appropriate, of the views of the views of shareholders and other stakeholders, Board determines the nature, and extent, of the employees on issues of relevance to the business.
In given that such views may provide different significant risks the Company is willing to embrace in addition, the CEO ensures the Board knows the ELTs perspectives on the Company and its performance.
the implementation of its strategy: regularly considering views on business issues in order to improve the succession planning and the composition of the Board: standard of discussion in the boardroom and, prior to making certain that the Board has effective decisionfinal decision on an issue, explain in a balanced way making processes and applies sufficient challenge to any divergence of view in the executive team.
major proposals: encouraging all Board members to engage in Board and Committee meetings by drawing on their skills, experience, knowledge and, where appropriate, independence: and consulting the Senior Independent Director on Board matters, as necessary in any given context.
ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 63
