Governance CHAIRMANS GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW Markets Authority ESMA guidelines published on November in respect of the correct interpretation of the Alternative Investment Fund Management Directive and ensures that the Company continues to adopt best governance practice.
As well as regular Board meetings which consider Company business in light of its strategy, the Board continues to meet for specific strategy meetings to consider the Companys strategy, discuss the future of the Company, its market and its Customers.
Further detail on Board and strategy meetings can be found on pages -.
The Companys growth and long-term success Directors is supported by our culture of strong corporate The Company appointed a new Non-Executive Director, Aubrey governance: it is integral to the Companys growth Adams, formerly of Savills plc and British Land Company PLC.
and the successful implementation of its strategy.
Aubrey has also been appointed to the Audit Committee, the Management Engagement Committee and the Nomination Strong corporate governance has been the foundation of our Committee.
More details can be found in my Nomination business and strong performance since the Companys launch Committee Report.
Stephen Smith resigned from the Board in.
The Companys strategy is supported by the principles of the Company in June.
of good and effective corporate governance: it has helped the Company to establish a strong culture which supports open The Board commissioned Lintstock Limited to undertake its and robust debate, promoting good decisions made to secure Board evaluation in and.
This will allow Lintstock the Companys long-term and continuing success.
In this to have a full and in-depth review of the Board and its key section of the Annual Report we report on our compliance with working relationships.
The arrangement has been structured the principles of corporate governance and highlight the key so that Lintstock will be able to use the results of the governance events which have taken place during.
review as a starting point for its comprehensive evaluation in.
I am looking forward to receiving the results and has been a successful year and a year of new achievements, recommendations from the review.
Further information on including our first issue of million of loan notes which the evaluation can be found on page.
As a Board, we were listed on the Irish Stock Exchange and issued under continue to benefit from our bespoke professional development the Euro Medium Term Notes Programme EMTN : a well programme, more details of which can be found on page.
supported equity raise and our Companys acquisition of the unique development site at Littlebrook.
It has also been a year Shareholder and stakeholder communications of changes at Board level with the appointment of Aubrey The Company has continued to develop its communications Adams OBE, formerly of Savills plc and British Land Company programme with Shareholders and stakeholders and I was PLC, and the resignation of Stephen Smith earlier in the year.
pleased to run another series of Chairmans lunches which were again very beneficial, interesting and well received.
Strong governance Colin Godfrey, together with the Companys Broker, undertook The Company has appointed Tritax Management LLP the another extensive international roadshow this year which was Manager as the Alternative Investment Fund Manager for well received by Shareholders.
the purposes of the Alternative Investment Fund Manager Directive AIFMD and as such the Board has delegated Capital markets authority to the Manager to conduct portfolio management The Company undertook a successful equity fundraising in and risk management services on behalf of the Company.
The Company appointed Lazard to Whilst the Manager has ultimate responsibility to take the final advise on the successful debt re-finance which took place in decision over portfolio and risk management services, the December.
As part of the process, the Company achieved Board discusses potential investments and divestments with the an investment-grade credit rating of Baa from Moodys.
This Manager and ensures ongoing compliance with the Investment EMTN is part of the Companys overall financing initiative to Policy.
This complies with the latest European Securities and further diversify its sources of funding and to move towards See Nomination Committee Report, pages - Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Key Board statements REQUIREMENT BOARD STATEMENT WHERE TO FIND FURTHER INFORMATION Going concern basis The Board is of the opinion that the going Further details are set out on page of the concern basis adopted in the preparation of Strategic Report.
the Annual Report is appropriate.
Annual review of systems A continuing process for identifying, Further details are set out in Accountability, of risk management and evaluating and managing the risks the pages - of this Governance Report.
internal control Company faces has been established and the Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the internal control systems.
Fair, balanced and The Directors confirm that to the best of their Further details of the fair, balanced and understandable knowledge the Annual Report and Accounts understandable statement can be found in the taken as a whole are fair, balanced and Audit Committee Report on pages -.
understandable and provide the information necessary for Shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
Appointment of the Manager The Directors consider the continuing Further details are set out in the Management appointment of the Manager on the terms Engagement Committee Report on pages agreed in the Investment Management -.
Agreement dated September to be in the interests of the Companys Shareholders as a whole.
Robust assessment of The Audit Committee and the Board Further details can be found in Our Principal the principal risks to the undertake a full risk review twice a year where Risks and Uncertainties on pages - of the business model, future all the principal risks and uncertainties facing Strategic Report.
performance, solvency and the Company and the Group are considered.
liquidity of the Company unsecured longer-term borrowing for the Group.
The refinance compliance with recent regulatory change concerning the types and EMTN has moved the maturity date of the Companys of services which the Auditor is permitted to provide, following borrowing from four and a half years to just under nine years.
the re-tendering process and re-appointment of BDO LLP as Auditor, PwC LLP were appointed to advise on corporate finance Audit Committee transactions and to provide tax advice to the Group.
Further The Audit Committee, led by Jim Prower, went through a information is provided in the Audit Committee Report.
All the re-tendering process for the external audit appointment.
members of the Audit Committee also sit on the Management Deloitte LLP, KPMG LLP, PwC LLP as well as the incumbent Engagement Committee and the Nomination Committee.
auditors, BDO LLP were invited to tender and following an extensive process with exceptional quality shown from all the firms, the Audit Committee recommended to the Board that BDO LLP should be re-appointed.
I am pleased to confirm that the Board acted upon this advice.
In order to ensure See Accountability, pages - See Management Engagement Committee Report, pages - See Audit Committee Report, pages - See Our Principal Risks and Uncertainties, pages - Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report Governance: Chairmans Governance Overview Statement of Compliance The UK Corporate Governance Code includes provisions relating to: The Company is subject to the UK Corporate Governance Code : however, we, as the Board of the Company, have considered the principles and recommendations of the AIC The role of the Chief Executive: Code of Corporate Governance AIC Code by reference Executive Directors remuneration: to the AIC Corporate Governance Guide for Investment The need for an internal audit function.
The AIC Code, as explained by For reasons set out in the AIC Guide, and as explained the AIC Guide, addresses all the principles set out in the in the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Board UK Corporate Governance Code, as well as setting out considers these provisions are not relevant to the position additional principles and recommendations on issues that of the Company.
The Company is an externally managed are of specific relevance to the Company.
In particular, all of the Companys day-to-day management and administrative functions are The Board considers that reporting against the principles and outsourced to third parties.
As a result, the Company has recommendations of the AIC Code, and by reference to the no executive directors or employees.
The Company has AIC Guide which incorporates the UK Corporate Governance therefore not reported further in respect of these provisions.
Code, provides better information to Shareholders.
The Company has complied with the recommendations The AIC Code and AIC Guide can be found at: of the AIC Code as set out on pages - and the https: www.
co. uk  provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code except as set out below.
Following the resignation of Stephen Smith and prior to the appointment of Aubrey Adams, the Company appointed Richard Jewson temporarily to the Audit Committee.
Further information is contained in the Audit Committee Report, page -.
Risks The Board assessed, through the Audit Committee, the principal risks facing the Group, its appetite in respect of those risks and mitigating factors put in place in respect of those risks.
The Board has delegated responsibility for managing internal risks and for establishing appropriate procedures in respect of financial and internal risks to the Manager.
The management of these risks is reviewed by the Board on a half yearly basis.
The Board consider the risks the Group faces at each Board meeting and the longer-term outlook at the strategy meetings.
The Audit Committee considers the principal risks in depth twice a year, along with an assessment over whether the risk has heightened or reduced during the previous months.
Richard Jewson Chairman March UK Corporate Governance Code: https: www.
uk directors   Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report
