Directors Report Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 64 Chairmans Introduction Ch airmans Introduction to Directors Report Sustainability Ian Davis Investment in our people and communities Chairman remains a key priority for the Board.
During 2017, we maintained active graduate and apprenticeship development programmes and are proactively working to increase the number of women at all levels within Rolls-Royce.
We are engaging with communities on an international basis through our research partnerships and STEM science, technology, engineering and mathematics programmes.
As one of the worlds leading industrial technology companies, we recognise we have an important role in addressing the risks and opportunities associated with climate change through our engineering expertise and operational strategy.
See pages 44 and 45 for further information and pages 104 to 109 for the Safety & Ethics Committee Report.
Introduction Employee engagement Board apprentice programme As I consider our approach to governance Employees and the Board were deeply I am particularly proud that in 2017 at Rolls-Royce, and reflect on the activities disappointed by the business conduct that we launched a new Board apprentice of the Board during 2017, I am pleased with led to the announcement in January 2017 programme that provides coaching and the progress we are making.
We have been that the Group had entered into deferred board experience to a diverse group of undertaking some interesting and, at times, prosecution agreements DPAs with the UK emerging leaders selected from the Groups experimental initiatives designed to ensure Serious Fraud Office and other authorities.
talent pool, each assigned to a Board or the Board maintains an awareness and We have continued to strengthen and executive committee.
This direct involvement appreciation of the perspectives of our key embed ethics and compliance procedures in nurturing leadership talent is proving stakeholder groups as we help to shape across the Group.
Our continuing ethics to be very rewarding for all participants, the Groups direction and strategy.
training and Code of Conduct clarify as well as serving to support diversity the responsibilities which apply to all The Board and I were deeply saddened by and our succession pipeline.
The Board remains the death of two colleagues in separate on page 81. committed to this programme as we believe work-related incidents during the year.
that the right behaviours and culture will These tragic events reinforce the importance deliver enhanced long-term performance.
Board developments of health and safety across all that we do.
We were also extremely sad to learn of the We encourage an honest, open and direct We welcomed two new Directors during death of Dame Helen Alexander, a former dialogue with our employees and their 2017, as mentioned in the Nominations Non-Executive Director of the Company representatives.
This led us to introduce & Governance Committee Report on and close colleague.
Helen will be greatly two new initiatives to strengthen our page 81.
Beverly Goulet was appointed missed by many, and she leaves behind a employee engagement programme.
to the Board in July 2017 and joined the legacy and contribution to the advancement The Meet the Board event in May was Nominations & Governance and Audit of corporate governance, notably in her tremendously engaging and positively Committees.
Beverly has 24 years work on the promotion of gender diversity.
We also selected Irene Dorner experience in the US airline industry and as our Board employee champion.
Irene will enhance our customer perspective In light of the operational challenges has taken the lead in strengthening links on the Board.
To ensure strong executive faced by the Civil Aerospace business, between the Board and our employees, leadership was in place at an important the Board remained regularly informed on who are key stakeholders in the Groups juncture for the Group as we refreshed the management of these issues including: future success.
You can read more about our vision and strategy, Stephen Daintith conflicting demands on resource: the these initiatives on page 73 and in Irenes joined the Board as Chief Financial Officer handling of impacted customers interests: introduction opposite.
in April 2017 as previously announced.
and the management of the resultant programme risks.
As well as briefings from In February 2018 it was announced that For more information on employee the Chief Executive, the Board also heard Nick Luff had been appointed to join the engagement see People on page 46. from the President Civil Aerospace and Board as a Non-Executive Director with members of his team throughout the year effect from the conclusion of the AGM in with updates on the latest developments.
May 2018, subject to shareholder approval.
DIRECTORS REPORT Directors Report Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 65 Chairmans Introduction During the year we renewed the terms of More detail on the changes to the Board Looking forward appointment for Ruth Cairnie, Lewis Booth is set out in the Nominations & Governance The Board remains strongly committed to and Sir Frank Chapman each for a further Committee Report on page 81. continuous improvement in governance.
In February 2018, we also We actively reviewed and responded to agreed to extend Brad Singers initial the FRCs consultation to the UK Corporate Stakeholder engagement two-year appointment for a further three Governance Code.
All Directors will stand for re-election We set out to actively capture our at the AGM in May 2018.
The Company and Areas we intend to focus on in 2018 include stakeholders views in a number of ways this Brad Singer are party to a relationship Brexit, health and safety, cyber security year.
As well as our employee engagement agreement with ValueAct a summary of and sustainability.
We will be monitoring activities, we invited some of our Civil which can be found at www.
developments in best practice and I look Aerospace customers to present to the The agreement will expire on 3 May 2018 forward to continuing a progressive and Board and provide their views on what it is but will be replaced with a new agreement innovative approach to governance in the like to work with Rolls-Royce.
The direct and covering treatment of confidential year ahead.
open feedback was appreciated and helped information and conflicts of interest only.
our understanding of what is working well Ian Davis and which areas need more focus.
The Board has a diverse membership with Chairman varied and balanced experience and skills We benefit from having Brad Singer on that are highly relevant to the Groups the Board.
He is able to provide an investor needs and challenges.
We recognise that perspective drawing on his experience the Directors need to remain mindful as chief operating officer of ValueAct, the of their duties to consider the interests Groups largest shareholder.
To remain alert of key stakeholders.
We received training to the views of our wider shareholder base, from the Company Secretary on our in March 2017 we held the second of our duties under the Companies Act 2006, governance events for fund managers and of particular importance for those Board governance analysts.
We also undertook members who do not hold directorships at an open and meaningful shareholder other UK companies, and a useful refresher consultation exercise on our remuneration for the other Directors.
The Board also policy, approved with a majority of over resolved in December to adopt our Board 95% at the AGM in May 2017. diversity policy which sets a target of a You can read about our stakeholder minimum of one third of women on the engagement activities on page 73.
meetings and piggy-backed on other events.
who have attended a session and have I hosted an online discussion with employees been motivated to take action on an issue that was particularly rewarding because it which has particularly engaged them.
allowed for a free flow of conversation Future plans will include visiting our across many sites on many subjects.
Recognising that the What has marked all of these events has engagement in 2017 was primarily been the openness of our people and their UK-focused, we will find ways to reach willingness to raise issues.
Often there a wider audience and to bring their views is simply a real curiosity to understand in an organised manner to the Board and what the Board does, but equally we have the heart of the organisation.
had open discussions about: connecting 2017 was a foundational year on which we the Rolls-Royce vision more closely to can build and learn how to do this better.
our employees: diversity and inclusion: IRENE DORNER, I have no doubt that this initiative will evolve working methods: career development: EMPLOYEE CHAMPION and offer opportunities for change for the effectiveness of the employee individuals and Rolls-Royce.
opinion survey: the role of employee Experiments are almost always by their very representatives: transformation: and nature exciting and kicking off the employee Irene Dorner culture and communications.
champion activities has been no exception.
Non-Executive Director I think it is important to get around the I have been ably assisted by the formation Group and see as many different cohorts of an employee stakeholder engagement of people in order to get a broad range group where we can discuss what we have of views.
This presents challenges in itself learnt and plan our next moves.
and we have experimented with a variety of events, some more formal than others.
I have reported back to the Board and I have attended dedicated sessions in continue to have open dialogues with theatre style, gatecrashed already existing various employees around Rolls-Royce
