Corporate governance Chairmans introduction Driving performance through culture it is appropriate for me to be executive chairman Henry Klotz, due to my in-depth knowledge of the business and Executive Chairman substantial experience of the European property industry.
Nevertheless, we are attentive to the implications of having an executive chairman and have safeguards in place to protect independence and ensure that proper processes and controls are followed.
These include the independent judgement of our Non-Executive Directors in all Board decisions, the support of Malcolm Cooper, our Senior Independent Director, who helps to ensure that all decisions taken are made with full support of the Board, a schedule of matters reserved for the Board where, for example, all property transactions above 5 million must be approved by the Board, robust internal controls and a clear division of responsibilities between myself and our CEO.
The Board believes that, inpartnership with the executive team, we focus on ensuring the Group succeeds in its business strategy whilst ensuring good governance.
What role does the Board play in setting theculture of the business?
In anticipation of the changes to come following We believe in the importance of good corporate the FRCs announcement of its review of the Code governance as a key driver to building a strong and the release of the Governments response business that delivers sustainable value to to its Green Paper consultation on corporate shareholders.
We recognise that, through an governance reform in August 2017, the Board has effective structure of controls which define continued to focus on the Groups culture, values authority and accountability throughout the and how we engage with our employees.
During Group, risks are appropriately managed whilst 2017, we have implemented a significant number stillpromoting effective and entrepreneurial ofrecommendations made by our employees in our leadership and ensuring a successful and employee survey, such as our flexible working policy innovative business.
This, we believe, has to embrace a work life balance and share incentive beenthekey to ourlong-term success.
plan to enable employees to share in the success of the Company.
We believe these measures will help Q.
As Chairman, what is your view on the role in driving the right attitudes and behaviours whilst ofgovernance?
helping staff to improve performance and function Our approach to corporate governance has always more effectively.
been to adopt the best practice principles in a practical way which is consistent with our values Q.
The 2017 Board Evaluation was externally and best fits the Group.
Where we decide that the facilitated what issues did it identify?
interests of the Company and its shareholders This was the first time that we had undertaken are best served doing things a different way, we an externally facilitated review, which was explain the reasons why.
This is the backbone of carried out by Independent Audit, using its online the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
The report showed members felt the Board functioned Q.
What are the areas where CLS diverges well, with well-organised meetings covering fromtheCode?
Nevertheless, there The Code recommends that the chairman of a is further work to be done on communicating listed company should not hold executive powers, executive succession planning and identifying and be independent upon appointment.
Due to talent from within.
We will also undertake more my previous executive roles and my current role site visits to properties to ensure non-executives as Executive Chairman, we do not comply with the have a better understanding of the key risks Code.
However, the Board continues to believe that management face on a daily basis, which will 38 CLS Holdings plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report | Corporate governance | Financial statements | Additional information CLS Holdings plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 also provide an opportunity to meet management In this report below board level.
As with many boards, we have identified the need to impose stricter discipline over presentations such that we take papers as Leadership havingbeen read, allowing more time to be spent The Board is responsible for setting the on discussion and debate.
tone toembed the Groups strategy into the business.
The Board carefully monitors the Q.
The Board is accountable for the Groups progress of the strategy and receives regular management of risk.
briefings on the markets in which we operate.
Our management of risk is key to the success of the business.
We regularly review our principal For more information see pages 40 to 45. risks and uncertainties to ensure they remain current and appropriate.
We regularly monitor Effectiveness the Groups internal controls to ensure we have The Nomination Committee makes sure effective, robust procedures in place to protect the Board has the necessary skills and theCompanys assets.
Our Board is regularly experience to understand the market and updated on governance and health and safety provide challenge to the business to deliver issues such that it can take appropriate decisions.
What engagement with smaller shareholders For more information see pages 46 to 50. has the Board had during the year?
We were very pleased to have a number of Accountability individual private shareholders attend our Annual The work of the Audit Committee plays an General Meeting AGM.
This gave us an invaluable important role in providing the necessary insight into their perception of the company safeguards to manage risks and achieve high but also allowed them to ask direct questions standards in transparency and accountability of the Board and senior management.
good example of why I believe the use of AGMs continues to be an important part of investor For more information see pages 51 relations and enfranchisement.
What are the Boards governance priorities Relations with Shareholders for the year ahead?
Explaining our strategy, business model and As a group, we want to focus on our strategic performance is an important part of the Boards objectives so as to ensure we have another good work in keeping shareholders informed.
To enable us to do so will require the Board to For more information see page 53. look at the lessons from the 2017 Board Evaluation.
From a governance perspective, we keep a Remuneration watching brief on the outcome of the consultation Through the work of the Remuneration on the revised UK Corporate Governance Code.
Committee, the Companys policy is to align A further key focus will be our ongoing review Executive Directors remuneration with the in order to meet our obligations in respect of the performance of the Company and incentivise General Data Protection Regulations which are long-term sustainable value creation.
dueto come into effect from May 2018.
For more information see pages 62 to 76.
Henry Klotz Executive Chairman 7 March 2018 39
