Strategic report Governance IFRS financial statements Other information Chairmans Governance Letter member of the Committee since June 2016.
To further the Chairmans execution of our Digital First Strategy, Claudia was also appointed as Chair of UK Digital in September 2017.
Governance Letter Our stakeholders In December 2017 the FRC issued proposals for a refresh of the UK Corporate Governance Code and we are participating in the consultation process and are largely supportive of the planned changes.
We recognise the importance of responding to increased Our governance scrutiny on how companies are run and the emphasis on the A strong system of governance, with effective and prudent controls importance of considering the interests of a broad stakeholder to assess and manage risk, is central to helping any organisation group in making business decisions.
anticipate and adapt to changing external circumstances.
It is very During 2017, we began the process of creating an Evolution pleasing that this year we ranked second in the FTSE 100 IOD Cass Council, which will comprise high calibre leaders from across the Business School Good Governance Index 2017.
This external business with a specific focus on the generation X Y view of our recognition is testament to the dedication of the team and all our colleagues, and will be in operation from March 2018.
The Council colleagues who work to ensure high standards of corporate will receive a broad selection of materials ahead of each Board governance throughout our business.
meeting with a focus on digital, brand and marketing, and will be We are not, however, complacent and constantly assess and asked to provide insight and comments on the matters covered.
reassess how we are performing against the risks that we face.
For This will be an invaluable way of ensuring the views of our example, in 2018 as we continue to implement our Digital First employees are fed back to the Board on our strategic and business strategy, we are not only conscious of the benefit of the evermatters, and that we have insight from the heart of our operations.
evolving technological developments but alert to the risks they can At the outset, I will Chair the Council, with a view to rotating this in represent.
We strive to mitigate these risks by ensuring our controls due course around other Non-Executive Directors.
continue to be strong and that we are well equipped to protect our Additionally, the Board will be developing a programme to business and customers from whatever new threats emerge.
More receive further input from employee forums, suppliers and the information on our principal risks can be found in the Risk and risk communities in which we operate during the 2018 year.
An example management section of this report.
of our planned interactions with the employee forum is set out in the Remuneration Committee report.
Our culture The Board remains focussed on all our stakeholders be they our As Chairman, I am responsible for establishing and embedding the people, our customers, our shareholders, and the communities culture of the Board, which in turn sets the tone from the top for the which we are part of.
I am proud that we put people at the heart of culture for the Company.
Culture has remained high on the Boards our business.
You can read about the work that we do in these areas agenda in 2017 and I support the Financial Reporting Councils in the Corporate responsibility and Our people sections of this FRC proposals for the new UK Corporate Governance Code to give report.
more prominence to the Boards role in considering the culture of the Company.
We are proposing to shareholders an updated remuneration policy to help achieve our aim of building a culture that promotes our ambitions for growth in both earnings and revenue, by encouraging innovation and reinforcing our strong values.
The Board and I have a strong belief that the way we conduct business Sir Adrian Montague CBE and the way we engage with our customers, shareholders and other Chairman 7 March 2018 stakeholders, needs to be aligned to our values and purpose to Defy Uncertainty, and this in turn will ensure our long-term success.
Changes to the Board In line with our structured approach to succession planning, there have been a number of Board changes during the year.
Maurice Tulloch joined as an Executive Director in June 2017, taking the role of Chief Executive Officer of International Insurance.
Having worked for Aviva for over 25 years, Maurices appointment is a great example of our investment in talent from within the Company.
Our succession planning has also been reflected at NonExecutive level.
At the 2017 Annual General Meeting, Bob Stein and Sir Malcolm Williamson retired as Non-Executive Director and Senior Independent Director SID respectively, with Glyn Barker becoming SID, having been on the Board for five years.
Following the 2017 half year results, Glyn stepped down as Chair of the Audit Committee to focus further on his role as SID, and Keith Williams assumed this role as the Chair of the Audit Committee and also joined the Risk Committee.
Claudia Arney was appointed as Governance Committee Chair in January 2017 having been a Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2017 34 Strategic report Governance IFRS financial statements Other information Chairmans Governance Letter Continued continued support for the diversity and inclusiveness programme Board and Group executive diversity throughout the business.
The statement can be found on our The charts below illustrate the diversity of the Board and senior website at www.
com corporate-governance management as at the date of this report.
The Board also recognise the issue of unconscious bias, which Board of Directors could affect decisions in our workplace.
We are committed to Non-Executive Executive Group Executive increasing awareness throughout the Company and plan to deliver Composition training to all senior leaders throughout the Group during 2018.
The 4 Executive 10 Board received training on this during the year, demonstrating our 8 Non-Executive approach to lead from the top down.
Gender 5 4 Male 7 3 Female 3 Experience and Skills 4 4 Insurance 9 8 4 Banking 5 3 4 Actuarial 6 8 4 Transformation 5 5 2 Law 3 7 3 Government 4 8 4 Customer 7 5 2 IT Digital 3 8 4 Strategy 7 International experience 8 4 Europe 9 3 2 Asia Pacific 4 1 2 The Americas 3 1 1 Middle East & Africa 2 Tenure 10 years 3 1 5-10 years 2 2 1 4 years 3 1 3 years 2 2 2 years 2 1 1 year 1 1 year 1 Age 30-39 1 1 1 40-49 3 3 3 50-59 5 4 60 1 individual directors may fall into one or more categories There has rightly been a continued focus on diversity during the year with the publication of the Hampton-Alexander review and McGregor Smith and Parker reviews during 2017.
The Board and I support the increased spotlight on this area and are committed to improving diversity throughout the Company, not just with regards to gender and ethnicity, but in the broader sense to include diversity of thought, tenure, age, experience, skills, geographical expertise, educational and professional background.
We support the target for women to represent a minimum of 33% of Boards, and a minimum of 33% of Executive Committee members and direct reports, by 2020.
As at the date of this report our percentage of women on the Board has increased from 23% in 2016 to 25% in 2017.
The percentage of female representation on our Group Executive has fallen from 36% in 2016 to 30% in 2017, due to Monique Shivanandan leaving the Group.
Future appointments to the Board and Group Executive will be made in line with our Global Inclusive Diversity Strategy, which is described in the Directors and Corporate Governance report.
We welcome efforts to remove the barriers preventing women advancing into senior roles, and we are proud that we are part of the Future Boards Scheme, and that both myself and the Group Chief Executive Officer Group CEO are active members of the FTSE 100 30% Club.
The Board published a Board Diversity and Inclusion Statement in May 2017, to formalise our approach to diversity, and reflect the Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2017 35
