Chairmans Governance Letter CHAIRMANS GOVERNANCE LETTER The Board is accountable to stakeholders for establishing and delivering strong sustainable performance and the creation of long-term shareholder value.
The Group have continued to work business processes as required.
More towards the ambition of delivering information in respect of each of these DIRECTORS improvements and efficiencies across areas is available in this report.
AND CORPORATE customer service, underwriting GOVERNANCE REPORT The Board continually challenges effectiveness and controllable expenses.
management to ensure that the flow The Boards role in the delivery of this Chairmans Governance Letter 42 and quality of information to the Board ambition is oversight and challenge with Board of Directors 44 is of a high standard.
responsibility for the overall strategy Executive Committee 48 of the Group and the commitment to The Board has also spent time in the Board Activities during 2017 49 bestin-class with careful consideration business both collectively and as Leadership 50 of the interests of customers.
individuals, exploring specific business Effectiveness 52 areas through presentations, meetings Accountability 54 There are a number of changes to the and dialogue with management.
Johanna Waterous Engagement 56 retired as a director and Isabel Hudson The effectiveness of the Board and its Group Investment Committee Report 57 succeeded Johanna as Senior Independent Committees was evaluated internally Group Nomination and Director in May 2017.
The results of the evaluation Governance Committee Report 58 succeeded Hugh Mitchell as Chair of the concluded that the Board continues to Board Risk Committee Report 60 Remuneration Committee and Martin operate in a cohesive and effective way.
Group Audit Committee Report 62 Strobel succeeded Kath as Chair of the I would like to thank the Board and Directors Remuneration Report 68 Board Risk Committee with effect from employees for their contribution and Annual Report on Remuneration 71 1 December 2017.
Hugh will retire as a commitment throughout the year, which Summary of Directors director with effect from the Companys is fundamental in ensuring the Board Remuneration Policy 86 Annual General Meeting AGM on 11 May delivers for its shareholders, customers Statutory Information 93 2018.
I would like to thank Hugh for his and wider stakeholder group.
contribution to the Board over the past six years and I would also like to thank Kath for her leadership and oversight of the Board Risk Committee.
I wish Martin and Kath success in their new roles as Chair of Breakdown of time spent on four Martin A Scicluna the Board Risk Committee and Chair of the Chairman key focus areas by the Board Remuneration Committee respectively.
and Committees during 2017 21 February 2018 Throughout the year, the Board and its committees have focused on four key areas: d a 1. strategy and growth, including business transformation 2. risk management and internal control b c 3. financial performance and reporting 4. governance a.
Strategy and growth including ensuring that a broad range of matters are business transformation 21% considered and sufficient time is spent on b.
Risk management and internal control 27% c. Financial performance and reporting 32% these areas with deep dives into certain d. Governance 20% 42 RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Directors and Corporate Governance Report Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code The Board is aware of the proposals to change the UK Corporate The primary responsibility of the Board is to provide effective, Governance Code and the Group have contributed to the FRCs entrepreneurial leadership to ensure that it promotes the long-term consultation process about those proposed changes.
Once the success of the Company for the benefit of its members as a whole.
revised Code has been published, the Group will conduct a full review of the Companys governance processes in light of the The Financial Reporting Council FRC is responsible for the Codes new Principles and Provisions.
publication and periodic review of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code which sets out standards and expectations on corporate governance matters for UK companies.
References The Group Nomination and Governance Committee monitors The current version of the Code, published in 2016 can be compliance with the Code.
Throughout the year, the Company has found at www.
Key features of the Groups compliance RSA Board Committee Terms of Reference are available are set out below.
There is more detail throughout the Directors to view at www.
and Corporate Governance report, the reports from each of the Board committees and in the Strategic Report, demonstrating how the Principles and Provisions of the Code have been applied.
LEADERSHIP EFFECTIVENESS A balanced Board with a broad range of skills, diverse experience and knowledge, demonstrating independence Programme of scheduled Board and committee meetings and constructive challenge throughout the year includes annual site visits, a two-day strategy meeting and in-depth management presentations Role statements define the split of responsibilities between the to enable directors to discharge their duties effectively Chairman and Group Chief Executive and provide a mandate to independent non-executive directors to challenge performance Letters of appointment set out the anticipated time and bring an independent, objective opinion.
No individual commitment, which is reviewed annually by the Group or small group of directors can dominate the Boards Nomination and Governance Committee decision-making Detailed induction programme established for new The Senior Independent Director, through the annual Board directors upon appointment effectiveness process, evaluates the performance of the Annual review of training undertaken for each non-executive Chairman in the leadership of a cohesive, effective Board director by the Chairman Through regular review of the Boards rolling agenda and Board, committee and director evaluation undertaken annually previews of each Board meetings agenda, the Chairman with an in-depth external evaluation undertaken every ensures sufficient time is allowed for discussion and debate and three years last external evaluation undertaken in 2016. he encourages constructive challenge during Board meetings.
The evaluations undertaken include an assessment of Board composition, expertise, time management and oversight of material provided to the Board.
KEY FEATURES OF ACCOUNTABILITY ENGAGEMENT COMPLIANCE WITH UK CORPORATE The Board sets annual business Importance of stakeholder engagement GOVERNANCE CODE objectives in line with the current is key to the Board: shareholders, Group strategy and monitors customers, employees, regulators achievement against these objectives and rating agencies through regular functional reports Performance and expertise of the A schedule of matters reserved for Groups employees are key to the REMUNERATION the Board and committee Terms of successful delivery of the Groups Remuneration Committee established Reference are reviewed annually strategy.
The Board regularly engage with oversight of remuneration decisions with senior leaders in the business Rolling agendas for the Board and Directors Remuneration Policy, to gain a greater understanding committees are continually refreshed approved by shareholders, supports of specific business areas in line with the needs of the business operational plans, business strategy Meetings with institutional Certain responsibilities are delegated and short and long-term performance shareholders took place throughout to Board committees to ensure detailed Performance measures are aligned 2017.
The Board receives regular and focused consideration to business strategy and have updates in relation to institutional The Board, supported by its stretching targets shareholder views committees, operates within Remuneration framework is designed One of the Groups strategic goals a framework of prudent and to promote sound and effective risk is the ambition of delivering effective controls in the interests management in line with the Companys improvements in customer service.
of shareholders and customers risk profile The Board receive regular updates The Board believes it provides Shareholding requirements, malus and on customer metrics as it moves information necessary for shareholders clawback provisions are in place towards realising this ambition to assess the Companys position Remuneration Committee members The Board is committed to dealing with and performance, business model receive background information regulators in an open, co-operative and strategy on the remuneration of the Groups and transparent manner and takes its Viability assessed over a threeemployees in general to provide context regulatory responsibilities seriously year period which is aligned to the when considering Executive Directors The Group Chief Executive presents operational planning process and shortremuneration an update on the Companys tail nature of the insurance contracts Remuneration Committee comprised performance at the AGM.
Shareholders that the business underwrites of independent Non-Executive are encouraged to attend and The Board, through the Board Risk Directors with responsibility ask questions.
Committee, ensures that material for executive reward decisions.
risks are identified and ensures these risks are mitigated and managed.
RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2017 43
