Chairmans introduction Corporate Governance The Board recognises the importance of succession planning and understands the need to have leaders who live the Groups culture and values.
Dear shareholders and other stakeholders, On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present the Corporate Following a review of the Boards expertise and experience, Governance report for the year ended 31 December 2017. the Nomination Committee engaged external consultants The Board continues to focus on maintaining high standards in the search for new candidates.
The Nomination Committee of corporate governance, which we seek to achieve through led the selection and appointment of Danuta Gray as a the Groups robust governance framework.
Non-Executive Director, with effect from 1 February 2017, and Mike Holliday-Williams was appointed as an Executive Our commitment to good corporate Director also on 1February 2017.
On 1 November 2017, Penny James joined the Board as an Executive Director and governance Chief Financial Officer-designate.
The appointment coincided The Corporate Governance report sets out the Direct Line with the announcement that John Reizenstein would be retiring Group framework, which we believe enables effective decisionfrom the Board following the AGM on 10 May 2018.
Penny making and management of the risks in the markets in which will take over as CFO on 1 March 2018.
She joined us from we operate.
Matters Reserved to the Board and the role of Prudential plc, where she served as Chief Risk Officer and a the Boards Committees are core elements of this framework.
You can find further information on our The Corporate Governance and Committee reports highlight diversity policy, our approach to succession planning and the areas of focus, challenge and supervision for the Board Board appointments on pages 70 and 71. and its Committees during 2017.
Effectiveness and evaluation Succession planning and Board changes As Chairman, my principal objective is to develop and lead an Succession planning has been an area of focus for the Board effective Board for the benefit of our shareholders.
The Board recognises the importance of succession undertakes a review of its effectiveness each year and appoints planning and understands the need to have leaders who live an external evaluator every third year, as recommended by the the Groups culture and values.
Board diversity from various UK Corporate Governance Code.
Having benefitted from an perspectives is also considered an important matter by the external review in 2016, the Board and its Committees carried Board and its Nomination Committee.
The Board has female out their 2017 effectiveness review in-house with the assistance representation of 36% and the Board remains committed to of the Company Secretary.
Respondents agreed that strengths seeking to improve further its position on diversity when identified in earlier reviews, including the Boards culture, the appropriate opportunities arise.
openness of its debate and the quality of information received, remained strengths.
In the interests of continuous improvement, some suggestions for fine-tuning were raised during the review process and taken into consideration by the Board.
You can find further details on page 53.
44 DIRECT LINE GROUP ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Executive remuneration Our values The debate in the UK over executive remuneration remains a valid topic for discussion and continuous evaluation.
The Groups Do the right thing remuneration policy was approved by shareholders at the For our people, our customers, our shareholders and our wider AGM in 2017 and is expected to remain in place for stakeholders: make decisions based on what is right, not what is threeyears.
Further details on the work of the Remuneration easy: demonstrate personal and professional integrity: do whats right for the long-term sustainability of our business.
Committee can be found on page 72 and the remuneration policy summary is detailed on pages 94 to 99.
Aim higher UK Corporate Governance Code Strive to be the best in every area of the business: be ambitious, courageous and innovative: relentlessly challenge and improve: seek The Board is committed to the principles of the UK Corporate and embrace change: learn from our mistakes: persevere, always Governance Code 2016 issued by the Financial Reporting deliver our promises and dont settle for second best.
I am pleased to report that we have complied with all of the principles of the Code.
You can find Work together further explanation and details on pages 49 to 58.
Collaborate across all levels and functions: leverage the skills, knowledge and experience, irrespective of hierarchy, to deliver the Culture and values best possible results: develop relationships based on trusting each other, partnerships and win-wins: recognise and celebrate success.
The Board is responsible for securing the long-term success of the Group.
The Board aims to deliver this success by creating an open and collaborative culture that encourages the Group Take ownership to make decisions that are best for our shareholders, whilst Treat it like its OUR business: take the initiative, if you can see a better way, go and make a difference: take decisions, be having regard for our other stakeholders.
I believe that the accountable for your actions in whatever role you perform: take values and the Code of Business Conduct set by the Board are responsibility for your personal development and performance.
central to the Groups culture.
Our Code of Business Conduct governs the way we treat our stakeholders and our values determine our behaviours.
Together, these elements reflect the Say it like it is Be real, authentic and true to yourself: have adult-to-adult way we do business with the objectives of delivering long-term conversations with all audiences: listen, seek to understand and sustainable shareholder value and of ensuring our Groups respect diversity of views: be open, call out issues we see: share long-term success.
You can find further information on how information and keep things as simple as possible.
the values and the Code of Business Conduct aim to deliver long-term success whilst having regard to the interests of our Bring all of yourself to work stakeholders on page 59.
Be the best you can be, the real and whole you: celebrate our diversity of skills, experiences and personalities: be a role model to Our shareholders others, demonstrate a can do spirit, have fun and make this a great place to be: be excited about our Company and our future: believe Communication with shareholders is extremely important in yourself, feel confident and empowered.
By maintaining dialogue with you, we aim to ensure that your views are considered and our objectives are understood.
I would like to thank you for your support and look forward to Our Code of Business Conduct discussing the Groups progress with you at our forthcoming AGM on 10 May 2018.
Your Board maintains strong relationships and regular Yours sincerely interaction with our shareholders.
Their continued support for our strategic aims is important.
Michael N Biggs Chairman See page 60 for our full Code of Business Conduct.
See page 57 for relations with shareholders.
