Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 58 Corporate Governance Chairmans Statement Introduction On behalf of the Board, I present the Companys Corporate Governance Report for the financial year ended 31 December 2017.
This will be my As stewards of the Company, the Board last report to our Shareholders as I shall not be seeking re-election at our2018 Annual General Meeting AGM, and I will be handing over to promotes the highest standards of Chris Sinclair as Chairman-elect.
I am extremely proud of the Board and corporate governance across the Group.
all my RB colleagues for creating so much value for our stakeholders and contributing wholeheartedly to the good governance and stewardship Our betterRB strategy recognises that longofour business during my tenure as Chairman.
term success depends as much on good We report against the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance stewardship of our business and nurturing our Code 2016 the Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council FRC.
obligations to society, as it does to strong Impleased to confirm that our high standards of compliance with the Code remain.
There have been a significant number of changes in the political and regulatory landscape affecting the corporate governance agendaover 2017 and in the future.
The effects of the Modern Slavery Act, EU Market Abuse Regulation, the EU Audit Directive as well as the implications for the business around the Brexit vote were reviewed by the Board during the year, and we have made good progress in enhancing our high governance standards.
We will be reviewing the outcomes of the FRCs consultation on a new UK Corporate Governance Code in the forthcoming year and considering any steps we should take as a consequence.
Leadership and culture We recognise that the world around us is changing.
Following our acquisition of the Mead Johnson Nutrition MJN business, and the divestiture of our non-core Food division, we saw the opportunity to implement a significant change in our Group.
During the latter half of 2017, the Board took the decision to reorganise the RB Group into two focused and fully accountable business units: Health and Hygiene Home, to better serve our consumers and customers, and to simplify and streamline our business.
We have put together a strong leadership team for each business unit with the appropriate skills and experience to create a platform for sustainable outperformance.
We refer to this programme of reorganisation as RB 2.0.
RB values at a glance Adrian Bellamy Chairman Achievement Hungry for outperformance Responsibility Ownership Entrepreneurship EntreOwnership Responsibility preneurship Doing the right thing Its my business, Courage to disrupt I own it, I drive it the status quo Partnership Building trusted relationships to create value Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 59 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Both business units are united by shared values that reflect RBs Directors as at 31 December 2017 underlying principles and beliefs.
These values have recently been Male 8 revisited to better define the way that RB will do business in the future.
Female 3 Our updated Code of Conduct reinforcing our non-negotiable principles of business conduct was communicated to all employees at the start of the year with mandatory training.
Championed by our CEO, Rakesh Kapoor, Responsibility features as a new core value reinforcing RBs commitment to all its stakeholders.
It sits alongside Ownership, Length of tenure of Non-Executive Directors as at 31 December 2017 Entrepreneurship, Partnership and Achievement to create our five values that demonstrate a focus on people, a clear purpose, a passionate Under 3 years 3 commitment and a track record of outperformance.
Its all about acting 3-6 years 1 responsibly and doing the right thing always even when it is hard.
6-9 years 1 9 years 4 Board and succession planning Ken Hydon, Judy Sprieser and myself have each taken the decision to step down from the Board at the 2018 AGM.
We have all served for a Directors nationalities significant length of time, and Ken and Judy have provided invaluable as at 31 December 2017 expertise to the Board with challenging and independent behaviour over their tenures.
Over the past year, we have been committed to British 6 an effective handover of our duties to the Board and its committees.
American 2 Following a detailed review of Chairman succession, led by the Senior French 1 Independent Director, the Nomination Committee recommended to Brazilian 1 the Board that Chris Sinclair should replace me as Chairman of the Indian 1 Board subject also to his re-election as a Director by Shareholders at the 2018 AGM.
He was appointed Chairman of the Nomination Committee with effect from 19 September 2017, when I stepped 2017 has been a year of change as we continued to review the down from that Committee, as part of transitional arrangements.
I am confident he will be a fantastic leader of the Board and will inspire composition of the Board and the independence and tenure of each Director, to ensure that the Board operates effectively within its his RB colleagues to continue to build on the Groups success.
We recognised the importance of Board renewal as Ken Hydon and Judy Sprieser intend to step down from the Board at On the recommendation of the Nomination Committee to the Board, Mary Harris became the Remuneration Committee Chair on 1 November the AGM, and the growing importance of expertise in areas such as e-commerce and digital.
And I thought it right that Chris Sinclair, as 2017, replacing Judy Sprieser, who has remained on the Committee to assist in the handover of her responsibilities.
Marys report on the incoming Chair, should lead the search for new Directors by replacing me as Chair of the Nomination Committee last September, at the same activities of the Remuneration Committee can be found on pages 78 to94.
time as we announced that he would become the new Chairman.
Ken Hydon stepped down as Chair of the Audit Committee at the On the recommendation of the Nomination Committee, Egon Zehnder, signatory to the Voluntary Code of Conduct for Executive conclusion of the May 2017 AGM, handing over his responsibilities to Andr Lacroix.
Ken has remained as a member of the Audit Committee Search Firms, was retained as recruitment consultant in respect of the search for suitable candidates to join the Board.
Egon to support Andr in his new role.
Andrs report on the activities of the Audit Committee throughout the year can be found on pages 71 to 75.
Zehnder is an independent third party executive firm with no other connection to the Company.
Following an extensive search Andr Lacroix has remained as Senior Independent Director of the and thorough recruitment process, I was delighted to announce on 19 March 2018 that Andrew Bonfield has agreed to join RB Board, and is available to the other Directors and Shareholders who have concerns that cannot be addressed through the Chairman, CEO or CFO.
as a Non-Executive Director with effect from 1 July 2018.
I would like to thank Judy and Ken for their many years of dedicated As a Board, we collectively continue to place the greatest of importance on having an experienced, well-balanced and diverse Board with a wide service to the RB Group and our Shareholders, and their counsel and support of the Board, its committees and me.
On behalf of the Board, range of skills and expertise.
It is this breadth of experience and diversity which underpins our decision-making capabilities and this Corporate Iwish them the very best for the future.
Governance Statement serves to present to you our compliance with the Code during the year and how we have served you, our stakeholders.
Biographies of the members of our Board of Directors and Executive Committee can be found on pages 52 to 57.
The strength of the Board lies in its diversity, with skills and experience from across the business spectrum and within the industry sectors in which we operate.
At all times, the composition of the Board is kept under review so that it continues to be best placed to ensure the long-term success of the business, comprehensively manage risk and deliver on our stakeholders expectations.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 60 Corporate Governance Chairmans Statement continued Accountability and audit within the approved policy, including adjusting the measurement of EPS growth to exclude MJN, reducing the LTIP awards made to The Board has responsibility for confirming that the Financial Statements for the Group are fair, balanced and understandable.
the CEO, as well as exercising its discretion to reduce the vesting It is supported in its decision by the Audit Committee, which outcome for the 2015 LTIP by 50% for the CEO and CFO.
Further ensures the integrity of the Groups financial reporting, internal details on how the Committee implemented the remuneration controls framework and risk management processes.
The Audit policy in 2017 and plans for 2018 are set out on pages 83 to 89.
Committee works closely with the CRSEC Committee, the Internal Audit function, as well as the External Auditor.
Summary The Board considers compliance with the Code of utmost importance.
As I reported last year, together with the Audit Committee, the Board Any instances of non-compliance are only allowed through the authority has considered the requirements of the Competition and Markets of the Board, if it can be shown that the spirit of the Code and good Authority Order in respect of audit tendering, as well as the Code corporate governance within the Company generally continues.
recommendations and the related FRC guidance.
As we announced on 5 May 2017, following a comprehensive audit tender process and Save for myself, Judy Sprieser and Ken Hydon, all the existing in compliance with the UK implementation of the EU requirements Directors will be offering themselves for election or re-election on auditor rotation, we have recommended the appointment of at the 2018 AGM.
Andr Lacroix will have served nine years KPMG LLP as External Auditor, replacing PwC, for formal Shareholder from his first election.
The Board has taken this into account and approval at the 2018 AGM.
Again, we extend our thanks to PwC for believes that the current mix of tenure is in the best interests of our their significant contribution and for the work they have carried out Shareholders, and that Andr continues to challenge appropriately to provide assurance to the Board and our stakeholders, including and act independently, and provides our newly appointed Directors the audit of RB for the financial year ended 31 December 2017. with a wealth of experience to avail themselves of in respect of the RB business.
We look for your continued support for Directors Remuneration standing for re-election to continue to serve the Board on your Aligning the interests of our Executive Directors and employees with behalf and to promote the long-term success of the Company.
those of our investors remains the key driver behind our Remuneration Policy.
This approach is further detailed in the Remuneration Report The Corporate Governance Statement outlines the Companys governance on pages 78 to 94.
We are conscious of the need for a measured processes in greater detail and is on pages 61 to 68.
The Company has approach to remuneration, whilst offering sufficient reward for complied with the Code throughout the year ended 31 December 2017. effective performance to maximise our ability to recruit and retain the very best suited candidates.
The Directors Remuneration Policy Adrian Bellamy was approved in 2016 and details are set out on page 82.
We will Chairman not be asking Shareholders to make any changes to the policy this 19 March 2018 year.
However, the Remuneration Committee has made changes Key areas of Board focus in 2017 The Board considers reports from the Risk management and internal control Results and Financial Statements CEO and the CFO on strategic and RBs principal risks, emerging risks and Compliance with reporting requirements business developments as well as the Groups risk register, including newly Annual Report financial performance and forecasts identified compliance risks and the Results and presentations to analysts for the business at every meeting.
impact of Brexit Consideration and approval of the In addition, the following areas Remuneration Viability Statement formed substantial areas of focus Oversight of executive remuneration The effectiveness of the Groups for the Board in the year: compliance programme Leadership and governance Strategy and planning Remediation of the South Korea Group budgets, forecasts and key Humidifier Sanitizer HS issues Board and committee evaluation and effectiveness performance targets, including The ongoing investigation by the US assumptions, scenarios and projections Department of Justice DoJ into the Director and senior management succession planning Potential mergers and acquisitions and Groups former pharmaceuticals business, post-acquisition reviews, including the which was demerged at the end of 2014 Corporate responsibility, sustainability, acquisition and integration of MJN, The management of the cyber attack in ethics and compliance, as we move andthe divestiture ofour non-core further into regulated health-related June 2017, and subsequently Foodbusiness strengthening the security and recovery sectors Performance relative to key competitors processes of our IT systems Relations with Shareholders Group debt and funding arrangements Internal controls Promoting the highest standards of RB 2.0 structural reorganisation External audit tender and evaluation of corporate governance and best practice Internal and External Auditors Other Independent review of the Groups management of the HS and safetyrelated issues
