42 Corporate Governance Report Annual Report 2017 National Express Group PLC Chairmans introduction to Corporate Governance Dear fellow Shareholder On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to introduce the Corporate Governance Report for the year under review.
The effective stewardship and governance of the Group remains Sir John Armitt CBE a key commitment and high priority for the Board, which comes up Chairman in many aspects of its work.
This is not only because high standards of corporate governance are vitally important in allowing the Directors to discharge their duties and responsibilities, but also because it The Board is committed to ensuring that high standards of good helps management to enhance performance and protect value, governance, values and behaviours are in place and consistently and enables all our employees to embrace excellence and good applied in the boardroom and throughout the Group.
The following governance in their day-to-day activities.
pages set out our approach in this regard and cover: Culture and values Page As part of its responsibility to provide effective leadership to the organisation as a whole, the Board sets the culture and tone from Leadership the top.
The Executive Directors, supported by the Non-Executives, How the Board and its Committees operate within a well-established lead by example to ensure our high standards and expected values, governance structure and lead from the front, and the key activities of attitudes and behaviours are understood and consistently applied the Board during the year.
Collective opportunities for communicating and demonstrating this to employees and management exist when Effectiveness the Board visits local operations, as it did during the year to Madrid How the Directors perform their duties, and this years external Board and Washington DC see page 53.
The Board monitors the corporate and Committee evaluation outcomes and succession planning review.
50 culture by regularly receiving HR updates and reviewing the outcomes of employee opinion surveys which are normally conducted annually.
Accountability However, while culture might originate from the behaviour of leaders, How the Audit and Safety & Environment Committees fulfil their it cannot be sustained by top-down mandates and examples alone.
oversight responsibilities, and our audit, controls and risk That is why our Values are embedded across the business and management environment.
57 represent the way we live and breathe our culture.
They underpin our business model, are fundamental to the way we work with our Remuneration employees, customers, suppliers and other stakeholders, and guide How we align Executive Director pay with our performance and the way we engage with the wider community and environment which the interest of shareholders, and the proposed new Directors is affected by our conduct.
Our Vision and Values are explained on Remuneration Policy.
Relations with Shareholders How we maintain and manage our relationships with equity institutional and debt investors and individual shareholders, and our investor relations programme.
100 Good governance helps us to implement our strategy, achieve our objectives and create and protect value for our investors and other stakeholders.
It also significantly strengthens our culture.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2017 Corporate Governance Report 43 Board changes and effectiveness Governance The Board completed two Executive Director changes during the I am pleased to confirm that throughout the year we applied year.
As previously reported, we welcomed Chris Davies to the Board theprinciples and complied with the provisions of the UK Corporate on 10 May and he took up the position as Group Finance Director Governance Code 2016 Code, a copy of which is available at on 1 June 2017.
He replaced Matt Ashley who, after two and a half www.
The following pages of this report explain our successful years and as part of a career development opportunity governance framework and the robust processes and procedures within the Group, relinquished that role but not his executive wehave in place to achieve this under each of the five main principles directorship on 31 May.
This was to take up the operational position of the Code, namely: Leadership, Effectiveness, Accountability, as President and CEO of our North America business, based in Remuneration and Relations with Shareholders.
Included as part Chicago, on 1 September.
I would like to thank Matt for his of this is a report from the Chair of the Nominations, Audit, Safety & contribution not only in his previous role but also in ensuring an Environment and Remuneration Committees detailing the key matters effective induction and a smooth handover of responsibilities that addressed by each Committee during the year.
enabled Chris to get up to speed by the end of the summer.
I am A new Directors Remuneration Policy, which includes only a few delighted to say that both Chris and Matt have settled in well and changes from the current one, is being recommended to made good starts in their new roles.
As a result of these changes, shareholders for approval at this years AGM see below.
We are the quality of the Board, together with our leadership and succession confident that the new policy, intended to last until the AGM in 2021, plans which remain high on our agenda, have been strengthened.
is fit for purpose, aligns the interests of the Executives with those of There were no Non-Executive Director changes to the Board or shareholders and promotes the long-term success of the Company.
membership of its Committees during the year as these are working The changes proposed, the positive outcome of the consultation well and effectively.
This was endorsed by the results of this years undertaken with major shareholders and the new policy in full, can external Board and Committee evaluation, the findings from which be found in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 68 to 99. and the key areas identified for further development are set out on The Board is aware that a new Code is in preparation and we will look pages 50 and 51. to pro-actively respond to developments arising from this as part of our 2018 agenda.
Board composition and diversity The Nominations Committee undertook a formal review of the Annual General Meeting AGM Boards composition and concluded that its current balance This year, our AGM will be held at 2.00pm on Wednesday, 16 May post the executive changes referred to above remains appropriate 2018 in the Horton Suite of the Burlington Hotel, 126 New Street, to the Groups forward-looking needs and our ability to continue Birmingham, B2 4JQ.
As this provides an opportunity for you to delivering against our strategy.
I believe there is a natural opportunity meet with and ask questions of your Directors regarding the business, in relation to Non-Executive Director rotation over the next few years this Annual Report and the matters before the meeting, I would for us to consider our Board diversity, in its widest sense, including encourage you to attend and look forward to meeting you.
gender diversity where 17% of our Directors are female, as one of the factors when making future appointments.
In the business, we continue to embrace the benefits of workforce diversity and we are making progress in this important area.
Nevertheless, the Board has challenged the executive to identify and pursue opportunities where we could be more active and drive change over time.
Sir John Armitt CBE Chairman 1 March 2018
