Strategic report Financial statements Other information Governance Introduction to corporate governance Governance activity during the year During 2017, the nomination committee began the process to replace Ed Warner as Non-Executive Director as he reaches his nine-year tenure on the Board.
For more information about this search, see the nomination committee report on page 63.
In 2017 we have continued to build on the health and safety processes and procedures for the office locations.
In our port services division, a further commitment to health and safety was shown by the appointment of a dedicated health and safety JAMES HUGHES-HALLETT manager in July 2017.
CHAIR For more information about health and safety activities during the year, please see pages 52 to 53.
Shareholder engagement Effective corporate governance The Board believes that regular shareholder is essential in ensuring both engagement forms a key aspect of good corporate governance.
Following a significant number of votes good decision-making and the against the remuneration report and remuneration sustainability of the business.
policy at the 2017 AGM, the Chair of the remuneration committee engaged in consultation with major shareholders and proxy agencies.
The remuneration committee has carefully considered all shareholder feedback received and the Directors endeavour to operate the 2017 remuneration policy within additional I am pleased to present to you the Boards corporate parameters.
For more details, please see page 65. governance report.
In this section you will find our review of corporate governance at Clarkson PLC Board evaluation together with reports from the nomination, Following the external Board evaluation undertaken remuneration and audit committees on pages 63, 64 in 2016, the Company Secretary conducted an and 80 respectively.
internal Board review in 2017 as per our evaluation Board and committee changes schedule.
For more information on the Board evaluation, please go to page 60.
As previously reported, we welcomed Marie-Louise Clayton as an independent Non-Executive Director Compliance with the UK Corporate tothe Board on 1 January 2017 and James Morley Governance Code retired on 12 May 2017.
On 21December 2017, our Company Secretary, Penny Watson, resigned from As the financial year began after 17 June 2016, the the Company.
We wish James and Penny every 2016 UK Corporate Governance Code the Code success for the future.
Penny has been succeeded by waseffective for the Companys current reporting Mike Cahill as Interim Company Secretary.
We discuss how we comply with the Code Chartered Accountant with over 26 years experience onpage 58. at Clarksons.
I look forward to meeting you at our AGM on 10 May 2018 and addressing any questions you may have.
Yours faithfully James Hughes-Hallett Chair 9 March 2018 www.
