Governance Report Chairmans introduction Business ethics are our foundation and, over this time, to see it make significant progress.
Transitional arrangements for a Key points in this section: progress.
The Group has my best wishes for limited duration not exceeding two years are Board changes the future.
Gender and diversity As a Board it is our responsibility to provide As a global organisation, with over 90% of strategic oversight of managements our revenues and profits generated outside Preparation for Brexit direction of travel for the Group, in order to of the UK, we are well positioned for a UK Enhancing our risk encourage improvement whilst providing exit from the EU.
Our Brexit plan has 11 management and stability and steady growth for shareholders areas of focus, ranging from UK and EU compliance programmes and stakeholders.
The Board is fully customer targeting to a review of IT systems committed to ethical business practices and and acquisition opportunities.
We have to ensuring the business operates to the navigated periods of political and economic highest standards of corporate governance.
uncertainty in the past and have a long and Our approach to governance successful history of growth.
We are well In this section of the Annual Report we set Governance helps us to: prepared for significant work in the period out our approach to governance, using Ensure our shareholders receive a late 2018 to early 2019 as actual Brexit and the five main principles of the Corporate good return on their investment post-Brexit trading relationships crystalise.
Governance Code 2016 Code, and explain Behave with integrity how the Board and its Committees are Key actions during the year Treat our customers, employees, structured and their areas of focus during During 2017, we paid particular attention suppliers and local the year.
to succession planning for the Board, as communities properly Regulatory disclosures required under the part of our on-going response to the key Respect the environment Disclosure and Transparency Rules 7.2.
6 recommendations from the last external can be found on pages 109 to 111.
Board effectiveness review conducted by DrTracy Long CBE the findings You will find the Remuneration Report on Sustainable governance of the review are set out on page 73. pages 85 to 108.
The Annual Report on Subject to shareholder approval at the The appointment of Jamie Pike as the Remuneration 2017 sets out the details of Annual General Meeting AGM on 15thMay new Chairman, Clive Watson as the Senior Executive compensation throughout 2017, 2018, I am pleased that Jamie Pike will Independent Director and Peter France as a which will be subject to the normal advisory take over as Chairman following my Non-Executive Director were all part of the vote at the AGM in May 2018. retirement at the AGM and Clive Watson will implementation of our long-term succession become our Senior Independent Director Brexit plan to ensure key Board positions in addition to continuing as Chairman of transition smoothly.
The EU 27 and the UK have given broad the Audit Committee.
Peter France was indications of how they plan to approach As a Group we are committed to gender appointed in March 2018 as an independent the Brexit negotiations, via the publication of diversity and to achieving a minimum Non-Executive Director.
Peters proven three documents: the UKs Article 50 notice, target of 33% female representation track record of delivering results and his a draft of the European Parliaments motion on the Board, the Group Executive appointment reflects the Companys for a resolution on the negotiations and a commitment to bringing broader sector and their direct reports.
We ensure that draft of the European Councils negotiation this target is taken into account in our experience to the Board.
Whilst it is still far from clear what succession planning and recruitment.
It has been a pleasure to serve the the final destination will be, the direction of Our Group Diversity and Inclusion Policy shareholders and the Company for 16 years travel is becoming clearer as the negotiations has been published on the Groups website, Managing risk and robust governance structures enable our shareholders to be confident that the Group is well positioned for the future.
Bill Whiteley Chairman 64 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report 2017 Governance Report www.
com, under Perhaps the most engaging activity for the the Governance section.
Further information Board in 2017 was our close involvement is set out on page 76 in the Nomination in approving the acquisitions of Gestra Committee Report.
and Chromalox, which have both started well and are already making a healthy We reviewed the tenure of the contribution to the Group.
Non-Executive Directors in order to ensure independence.
We continue to make good progress as a Group and are outperforming our markets, Another key activity this year was the internal as detailed in the Strategic Report beginning Board effectiveness review.
I am pleased on page 1. that this anonymised, internal evaluation of the Board and our Committees supported Core values ICSA award the independent evaluation carried out The Board takes seriously its responsibilities In November 2017 we were delighted to during 2015 and the internal evaluation in for promoting the Groups Core Values win the ICSA award for Annual Report 2016: confirming that the Board is collegiate, and, in particular, for ensuring that all of the Year FTSE 250 for our 2016 transparent and effective.
A summary of employees and everyone associated with Annual Report and to be nominated the findings and recommendations are the Group are aware of their responsibility for an award in the category of Best set out on pages 72 to 73 of this Report.
to act lawfully and conduct themselves in Board Disclosure.
The next external review is set for 2018, in accordance with high standards of business accordance with the Code.
These values are embedded in our The Risk Management Committee carried Group Management Code and driven by Compliance statement out a thorough review of all the risks on tone-from-the-top.
The Audit Committee Our Governance Report over the the risk register, which encompasses all supervised the revision and updating of the following pages explains how the Group Group businesses, including Gestra and Group Management Code, which sets out has applied the principles and complied Chromalox, which were recently acquired.
our adherence to ethical business behaviour with the provisions of the UK Corporate Following bottom-up reports from our and is found on the Groups website, Governance Code 2016 Code.
Group companies, cybersecurity, loss of www.
com, under the indirect channels to market and loss of Governance section.
We are fully compliant with the critical suppliers were introduced onto requirements of the Code, as set A strong anti-bribery and corruption culture the register.
Finally, the Risk Management out in detail on the Groups website, is central to the Groups values and all Committee focused on crisis management www.
com, employees are required to undertake to ensure that the Group can respond under the Governance section.
A biennial refresher properly to a catastrophic event such examination programme ensures that we as a terror attack, cyberattack or global maintain this position.
Our anti-bribery pandemic that causes loss of life and or lifetraining is extended to all new businesses Fair, balanced changing injuries, threatens to fide-stabilise that join the Group: Gestra employees are on the Company or significantly damage the and understandable track to complete the training shortly.
Further details are In accordance with the Code, the introducing a new anti-bribery programme contained in the Strategic Risk and Risk Directors confirm that they consider the in the first half of 2018 and the employees at Management Report beginning on page Annual Report, taken as a whole, to Chromalox will be the first participants.
30 and the Risk Management Committee be fair, balanced and understandable Turning to sustainability, in 2017 we focused Report starting on page 81. and that it provides the information on the implementation of our five year necessary for shareholders to assess During 2017, the Remuneration Committee plans and the Sustainability Committee the Groups performance, business focused on rewarding strong business concentrated on raising awareness of our model and strategy.
Our Remuneration Policy 2017 strategy throughout our new enlarged is unchanged.
In addition to JaneKingstons Group.
Our progress and achievements can summary of key activities in her Statement be found on pages 52 to 61. on page 87, full details can be found in the As a Group the primary focus of our Remuneration Report beginning on page 88. community engagement activities is The Board is updated on a regular basis on education, particularly in the sciences and progress with our General Data Protection engineering, because we recognise the Regulation project.
Ernst & Young LLP transformative impact that education can has been appointed as consultant.
have on the lives of individuals and the A gap analysis was recently conducted by well-being of communities.
Ernst&Young LLP and a remediation plan I am pleased to report that good corporate will follow, to be rolled out to all affected governance is integrated into our culture at Group companies.
I look forward to welcoming you at our AGM on Tuesday, 15thMay 2018.
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report 2017 65 Corporate Information Financial Statements Governance Report Strategic Report
