Chairmans introduction On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to introduce our 2017 Corporate Governance Report.
Governance best practice continues to evolve and in this years report we describe the Groups compliance with the 2016 UK Corporate Governance Code the Code and explain how the Board and its Committees have operated in 2017.
The Main Principles of the Code provide the enable the Group to deliver its strategy and framework for the reporting model which we create long-term shareholder value.
Our approach to: information on our strategy and business model can be found on pages 2 to 35.
Leadership is set out on pages 40 to 46 To support the Board, in 2017 we extended the remit of the Nomination Governance Effectiveness is described on Committee to include the monitoring of the pages 47 to 49: Companys compliance with applicable Relations with Shareholders and codes and other requirements of corporate Other Stakeholders is described on governance and the Committee was page 50: and renamed the Nomination & Governance Accountability is described on Committee.
We continue to work hard to maintain a The Board is committed to maintaining the culture where doing the right thing is at the highest standards of corporate governance, core of how we do business.
As custodian which are fundamental to discharging our of Savills culture the Board demands responsibilities.
As Chairman, it is my role to openness and transparency to maintain an ensure the highest standards of governance environment in which honesty, integrity and are promoted by the Board and to ensure fairness are valued and practised by our that the Group is governed and managed in people every day.
The Boards behaviour and the best interests of shareholders and wider the values it demonstrates set the tone to stakeholders.
This includes encouraging guide our peoples behaviour and ensure that open discussion and constructive challenge.
we live by and demonstrate the right values In this report, we set out our governance which in turn enable entrepreneurial and framework and explain how robust and prudent management to deliver long-term effective corporate governance practices success for the Group and its stakeholders.
Overview Leadership Effectiveness Accountability The Groups current corporate The Boards composition and Internal controls and governance structure independence risk management The role of the Board and its Board induction and development Going concern Committees Board and Committee performance Dialogue with Shareholders How the Board operates evaluation Audit Committee report Board activities during the year Nomination & Governance Committee report Savills plc 38 Report and Accounts 2017 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements It is important in my role as Chairman to In line with the requirements of the During the year, the Audit Committee Code we continue to test the Boards reviewed the FRCs Guidance on Audit ensure that the Board has the right blend of skills and experience.
As an international effectiveness and performance annually Committees.
The Audit Committee was through a formal evaluation.
satisfied that the Company complies with business, we benefit from our NonExecutive Directors knowledge of and the 2016 Code, and has considered the This is facilitated by an independent external Guidance on Audit Committees.
involvement with other businesses in Hong consultant at least once every three years.
Kong and China, Europe and the US.
At JCA Consultants externally facilitated the At our AGM in 2017, we received support least half of the Board members throughout review in 2016, so this years evaluation was for our Directors Remuneration Report and the year were Independent Non-Executive conducted in-house, led by the Chairman and Policy from 99% of Shareholders voting.
Directors excluding me, as Chairman.
The facilitated by the Group legal director & details of their skills and experience are, The 2017 Remuneration Report pages 58 Company Secretary.
The process, key along with those of the other Board to 73 provides a summary of the Policy conclusions and areas of focus for 2018 are members, set out on pages 44 and 45. approved by shareholders at the 2017 AGM set out on page 49.
Following this review, I am In accordance with the Code, each Director and a detailed review of the Remuneration satisfied that the Board continues to perform will stand for re-election at the 2018 AGM Committees activities, and bonus and share effectively and in particular I am confident that on 8 May 2018.
The Board also reviews scheme performance, in 2017. the Board has the right balance of skills, Non-Executive Director independence on experience and diversity of personality to an annual basis and takes into account the We believe that engaging with our continue to encourage open, transparent individuals experience, their behaviour at Shareholders and encouraging an open, debate and challenge.
Board meetings and their contribution to meaningful dialogue between Shareholders unbiased and independent debate.
The and the Company is vital to ensuring mutual The Board recognises the recommended Board considers that all of the Nonunderstanding.
We are in regular contact term for Non-Executive Directors within the Executive Directors bring considerable with our major Shareholders and potential UK Corporate Governance Code and it is management expertise and strong Shareholders through a regular, scheduled mindful of the need for suitable succession.
All of the Nonprogramme of meetings as part of our In 2018 we have started the process of Executive Directors are considered by the continuing commitment to this open and recruiting a further Non-Executive Director.
Board to be independent, including Charles transparent dialogue.
You can read more McVeigh, notwithstanding his long service.
On 16 January 2018 we announced that, about Shareholder engagement on page 50 after 11 years in the role, Jeremy Helsby and in the meantime, my fellow Directors The Board is committed to a culture that intended to retire as Group Chief Executive and I look forward to continued dialogue attracts and retains talented people to deliver Officer at the end of the 2018 financial year.
and meeting with Shareholders at our AGM outstanding performance and further During 2017 the Board, through the in May where I will be happy to answer any enhance the success of the Group.
Nomination & Governance Committee, further questions.
The Board recognises the benefits of having completed the process to recruit his diversity across all areas of the Group.
We are Overall I remain happy with the Boards successor.
Following a comprehensive committed to eliminating discrimination and activity across our governance agenda.
review, it was agreed that Mark Ridley, encouraging diversity amongst our people.
However, we will continue to challenge currently CEO of Savills UK and Europe, Our aims are that our business will be truly ourselves and the business and to consider should be offered the role of Group Chief representative of all sections of society and and to learn from our decisions to ensure Executive Officer with effect from 1 January that each employee feels respected and able that we build upon the existing strength of 2019, and to join the Board as an additional to give their best.
The Companys policy on our governance structure.
Executive Director and Deputy Group Chief diversity applies across all levels of the Group Executive Officer effective from 1 May 2018. and further details of the policy can be found in the Corporate Responsibility CR section on pages 30 to 35.
Nicholas Ferguson CBE Chairman of Savills plc 14 March 2018 Remuneration UK Corporate Governance Code April 2016 Statement by Remuneration The UK Corporate Governance Code 2016 the Code is the standard against which we Committee Chair measured ourselves in 2017.
A copy of the Code is available from the Financial Reporting Councils website at www.
We are pleased to confirm that we complied with all Remuneration Committee Report of the provisions set out in the Code for the period under review.
Further information about how the Board complies with the Main Principles is set out on pages 56 to 57 of this Annual Report.
Savills plc 39 Report and Accounts 2017
