DIRECTORS GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW Committed to the highest standards of corporate governance W e see robust corporate governance as fundamental to the effective management of our business and a principal contributor to the long-term success of the Group, creating trust and engagement between the Group and our stakeholders.
Neil Janin NEIL JANIN DAVID MORRISON CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD CHAIRMAN OF SENIOR INDEPENDENT THE BOARD NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR Dear Shareholders, BOARD CHANGES AND DIVERSITY After a six-month period as an advisor to the Board and a member of The Board recognises the contribution the corporate governance the Audit Committee, Jonathan Muir was appointed as an independent practices of the Group can make to the Groups overall success.
Jonathans appointment has enhanced a diverse regulatory and governance environment continues to change, we will and balanced Board and we look forward to his continuing contribution continue to seek to build upon the standards we have set thus far.
Our corporate governance framework extends to the culture we We also took the opportunity to review our Diversity Policy and, have sought to create and maintain throughout the Group which is consistent with the Boards determination to lead the Group by example, characterised by integrity, honesty, transparency and fairness.
This has have amended the policy which is now applicable to all employees.
enabled us to attract and retain the most talented individuals available whose efforts have contributed to the Groups success.
The Board will GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK continue to lead by example in the year ahead, ensuring we act ethically Our corporate governance framework, policies and practices are in our relationships with the Groups stakeholders and continue to described in this section of the Report.
This framework provides for develop talent in our management team.
the development, review, implementation and continued oversight of a system of controls, policies and procedures that uphold our high SEPARATION OF THE BANK AND INVESTMENT BUSINESSES governance standards.
AND REVIEW OF CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE We have discussed the effects the potential changes might have on This section also covers some of the work we have carried out this year our governance structures.
Further, in the report of the Nomination in effecting this framework and preparing the Group for next stages of Committee you will read about the work that has been done its development.
repositioning our senior management team ahead of the demerger.
CULTURE AND GOVERNANCE Neil Janin David Morrison Most recently, the Board spent time considering the FRCs proposals for Non-Executive Senior Independent a revised corporate governance code, and initiatives regarding increased Chairman Non-Executive Director employee and stakeholder engagement and is considering any changes 7 March 2018 7 March 2018 that may be necessary.
BOARD EVALUATION The Boards belief in the strength of our culture and corporate governance is supported by the results of our externally facilitated Board evaluation.
The external evaluation, which was performed by Lintstock, concluded that the Board continues to operate and perform effectively.
In particular, it was highlighted that the Board has a good balance and mix of expertise and experience which provides diversity of view and perspective.
The progress we felt we have made against our 2017 objectives, and our objectives as a Board for 2018 can be found on page 87 in the Corporate Governance Framework.
UK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE COMPLIANCE STATEMENT Throughout the year, we continued to apply the Main Principles and complied with the Provisions of the 2016 UK Corporate GovernanceCode.
The Code and associated guidance are published by the Financial Reporting Council and are available at www.
Set out on our website at http: bgeo.
com page id 62 our-governance is the Boards assessment of its application of the Main Principles of the Code.
76 Annual Report 2017 BGEO Group PLC
