Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Directors Report Introduction Audit Nominations Remuneration Responsibility & Board Committee Committee Committee of Directors Chairmans introduction on Governance Index to key elements Directors Report Chairmans introduction 55 Board of Directors 56 Management Board 58 Leadership and effectiveness 59 Board activities in 2017 60 Board effectiveness 62 Audit Committee 65 Nominations Committee 71 Remuneration Report Annual Statement on Remuneration 73 Richard Burrows Annual Report on Remuneration 75 @ Chairman Responsibility of Directors 99 We have improved our global business conduct governance Dear Shareholder framework, implementing the Groups new global compliance A key focus of the Board during 2017 was the oversight of the programme, known as Delivery with Integrity.
Driven by our acquisition of RAI.
In addition to our scheduled Board programme, BusinessConduct & Compliance BC&C department, the during the months leading up to the acquisition, the Board convened programmefocuses on driving a globally consistent approach to several additional meetings during which it received detailed briefings compliance, and strengthening our existing processes, across the from senior management and external advisers on the RAI business Group.
Further information on the work of the BC&C department and the legal and governance implications of the acquisition.
As a result of the acquisition, we are subject to additional US It is important that the Board is equipped with the right balance of compliance obligations as a foreign private issuer, including certain skills and expertise and has a deep understanding of the business.
requirements of the NYSE Rules and US Securities laws including the I led the internal evaluation of the Boards performance during the Exchange Act and SOx.
We carried out a full review of our key policies year, which found that the Board continues to perform effectively.
and governance frameworks to ensure that they would meet all Market visits and engagement with our senior management remain required governance requirements post acquisition.
key to the Boards understanding of our business, and our meetings Our Audit Committee was instrumental in reviewing our internal held in the US provided an excellent insight into the US business, control processes to ensure alignment with US and SOx requirements, its strategy and future challenges.
Further details on the Board particularly in the areas of Audit Committee responsibilities, financial performance evaluation can be found on pages 63 and 64. disclosures, and conflicts of interest.
The review resulted in changes Corporate governance requirements continue to evolve, with the to our Audit Committee Terms of Reference and our Auditor possibility of significant UK corporate governance reforms during Independence Policy: the creation of a SOx Steering Committee and 2018.
I look forward to continuing the Boards engagement with Disclosure Committee composed of senior management to provide our shareholders and corporate governance stakeholders on day to day oversight of SOx issues: and the approval of a Code of governance issues.
Ethics for the Chief Executive and Senior Financial Officers.
Please see our Audit Committee report on pages 65 to 70 for further details.
On behalf of the Board, I confirm that we believe that this Annual Report presents a fair, balanced and understandable assessment Our Nominations Committee carried out an externally facilitated ofthe Companys position, its performance and prospects, as well review of the composition, independence, diversity and skills set asitsbusiness model and strategy.
of our Board, and following the acquisition of RAI we made three new appointments to the Board.
A full report on the activities of our Richard Burrows Nominations Committee can be found on pages 71 and 72.
Chairman We continue to pay close attention to business conduct issues.
As previously reported, we are investigating, through external legal advisers, allegations of misconduct and have been liaising with the UKs Serious Fraud Office SFO and other relevant authorities.
It was announced in August 2017 that the SFO had opened an investigation in relation to the Company, its subsidiaries and associated persons.
We are cooperating with the SFOs investigation and a sub-Committee of the Board continues to have oversight of these matters.
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2017 55
