COM DIRECTORS REPORT | AUDIT COMMITTEE CHAIRMANS LETTER AUDIT COMMITTEE CHAIRMANS LETTER The arrival of Paul Forman as Chief During the year, the key projects Executive at the beginning of 2017, after a in which the Audit Committee has period of financial performance challenges participated include: for the Company, provided the stimulus for a reassessment of the overall corporate An independent assessment of the governance practices across the Group.
Companys internal audit processes and capability was undertaken by The work of the Audit Committee during specialist external resource.
The review the year has continued to focus on the was focused on identifying potential integrity of the financial reporting and improvements to the existing Terry Twigger monitoring the relationship with PwC management framework and resourcing Audit Committee Chairman following their formal appointment as practices and priorities, in order to drive the Companys External Auditor at the better engagement with the businesses AGM in April 2017.
In addition, with and effectively support the governance Dear Shareholder, Pauls commitment to the Governance improvement initiatives.
The Company Improvement Programme designed to is continuing to work with specialist As Chairman of the Essentra plc deliver FTSE 250 top quartile best practice external resource in the delivery of an Audit Committee, I am pleased to governance by 2020, the Audit Committee internal audit capability aligned with present the 2017 Audit Committee has spent considerable time assessing the best practice risk assurance by 2020, Report to shareholders, and to be nature and extent of the internal control while the Audit Committee maintains able to confirm, on behalf of the environment and engaging with specialist its focus on the robustness of the Board, that the Annual Report is external resource in conjunction with the internal control environment through fair, balanced and understandable.
Company, to assess opportunities to the activities of the internal audit team.
improve the effectiveness of the existing A comprehensive review by an expert The report aims to provide the following risk management, internal audit and external risk consultant, assessing the information: compliance practices.
nature and extent of the risk management practices within the How the Audit Committee operates and With the creation of a new Legal, Risk Company.
As a result of that review, engages with the Company, including & Governance function, headed by the the Company has implemented new with the Executive Directors, the Group Company Secretary & General Counsel policies and management frameworks Assurance function and other key and the addition of new resource, the for the better identification, assessment management Company has begun to implement and mitigation of enterprise and business a number of improvement initiatives in The key activities which were reviewed continuity risks.
Further details can be a prioritised and structured manner by the Audit Committee, including found on page 40 in the Management agreed by the Board, and that programme those items of regular annual review of Principle Risks Report.
During 2018, will continue throughout 2018 and beyond and other current areas of focus the Audit Committee will be carefully into 2020.
In accordance with of reference reviewing the consistent implementation The discussions and actions and having regard to the continued of the changes which have been agreed, undertaken, in conjunction with the evolution of the improvement programme and ensuring that the new frameworks External Auditor, on any significant in response to the demands of the Board.
and processes are providing the accounting judgements and or The Audit Committee has engaged anticipated improvements in the quality financial reporting issues extensively in the review and assessment and effectiveness of the Companys risk of potential improvement opportunities Details of the ongoing review of the management practices.
and overseen the implementation of a External Auditor and the amount number of changes to policy, processes of non-audit work undertaken and practice.
74 DIRECTORS REPORT | AUDIT COMMITTEE CHAIRMANS LETTER ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | WWW.
COM An independent assessment on In order for the Audit Committee to I would like to thank KPMG for their the effectiveness of Essentras data provide positive assurance to the Board, approach and assistance in ensuring management and security processes, that the Annual Report, when taken the smooth transition and for their work and the new practices and procedures as a whole, is fair, balanced and as external auditor since 2005. required in preparation for the new EU understandable and also provides the General Data Protection Regulations information necessary for shareholders This is my final report as Chairman of which come into effect in May 2018. to assess the Companys position and the Audit Committee, and I would like to The Company is undertaking a number performance, business model and strategy thank the members and the Board as a of actions in response to the findings the following processes and controls whole for their work and support during and recommendations of that were followed during the year: my tenure at Essentra, and to wish them report, and the Audit Committee and the Company as a whole every has continued to track progress with An annual update is made to the Audit success for the future.
Committee on the fair, balanced and understandable requirement, including A comprehensive review of the early notification of the matters under TERRY TWIGGER Companys insurance programme consideration for inclusion or otherwise Audit Committee Chairman coverage and associated management in the narrative reporting of the 2017 2 March 2018 practices and processes, to assess the full year results.
The Audit Committee quality of the coverage and compliance undertakes a similar assessment at the with fair presentation, disclosure and half year, to ensure a consistent and reporting requirements, to ensure the diligent approach to the requirement effectiveness of the coverage available covering the year in response to any claims.
The review was undertaken by Mactavish, and the An experienced core team, with Company is undertaking a number expertise covering financial reporting of activities in response to their and regulatory compliance, is recommendations and will continue responsible for the co-ordination of to work with Mactavish during 2018. content submission and verification, and ensuring that there is a detailed I believe that the Audit Committee review and challenge of the reporting comprises the necessary experience, Senior management confirms that the expertise and financial understanding content regarding their respective area to continue to effectively fulfil its of responsibility is considered to be fair, responsibilities and to continue to input balanced and understandable significantly into the various improvement initiatives.
I am confident that The diligent adherence to these Mary Reilly, who has already made a comprehensive processes, as overseen by significant impact as a member of the the Audit Committee, provide assurance Audit Committee since her appointment to the Board that the statement required in July and is succeeding me as Chairman, by the 2016 UK Corporate Governance will bring new and additional experience Code can be given.
and a fresh perspective and approach, which will provide a valuable addition to As previously reported, following a the capabilities of the Audit Committee tender process completed during 2016, and assist the Company considerably  PwC were in the successful delivery of its 2020 formally appointed as the external auditor governance objectives.
A key activity following the 2017 AGM.
The transition for the Audit Committee in 2018 will be to from KPMG has been completed in a review the progress of the implementation seamless way, and PwC have performed activities and to assess the effectiveness very well during their first year.
I am sure of the improvements being made.
that they will continue to work effectively with Mary and the rest of the Audit Committee in the future.
