DIRECTORS REPORT | REMUNERATION COMMITTEE CHAIRMANS LETTER ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | WWW.
COM REMUNERATION COMMITTEE CHAIRMANS LETTER Key principles Summary of key points There are three key principles that have 2017 saw widespread stability restored underpinned our approach this year: to Essentra and the development of a new strategy for the Company.
The Linking reward to the new strategy remuneration outcomes for the year The Remuneration Committee agreed reflect the performance of the Company with the Chief Executive to emphasise during this period: the incentive system to support the stability agenda and strategy Our new Chief Executive, Paul Forman, development.
This will include recognising was appointed in January 2017 on Lorraine Trainer the importance of cash in the early a salary of 625,000 per annum Remuneration Committee Chairman stages of the recovery and use the Paul Forman has chosen not to take reward policy to reinforce the cultural a salary increase with effect from shift to achieve this.
The salary increase that Dear Shareholder, the importance of a capital return had been recommended to the Board measure which we heard from by the Remuneration Committee was in As Chairman of the Remuneration shareholders was important to them.
line with the average increase provided Committee I am pleased to present This now forms part of our new policy to the wider UK workforce our Remuneration Report for the and is already reflected in the Companys financial year ended 31 December 2017.
Key Performance Indicators on pages 20 The single figure for Paul Forman as to 21 and is most likely to be implemented Chief Executive for 2017 is 1,267,000. in the 2019 Long Term Incentive Plan This is the first year for which Paul LTIP.
Forman was Chief Executive and as a result no long-term incentives Ensuring targets are appropriately vested in the year stretching We recognise past outcomes have The annual bonus outcomes for 2017 demonstrated that Essentras policy were for the Chief Executive 48% of delivers a wide range of outcomes maximum and for the Group Finance linked to performance and we want to Director 41% of maximum.
The levels continue this policy.
We believe we have of bonuses reflect the restoration of set stretching targets which will drive stability, the development of the new the recovery in the life of the policy.
strategy and the performance of Essentra during the year Ensuring we have the right reward tools to support Paul Forman in No LTIP awards vested in the year attracting and developing the team in line with three-year performance around him Our proposed new Remuneration Policy The Remuneration Committee has is straightforward and updated.
It will worked with the Chief Executive in be put to our shareholders for their ensuring he is able to attract talent into approval at the AGM in April 2018 the business.
In addition, the bonus structure for the Executives covers c. 180 managers, not just the Executive Directors, thus enabling the Chief Executive to focus his senior team on achieving the right outcomes in driving the recovery.
The personal objectives for the senior management throughout the Company were focused on delivering the outcomes that supported stability and strategy development.
COM DIRECTORS REPORT | REMUNERATION COMMITTEE CHAIRMANS LETTER Rewarding performance in 2017 Working Capital target set for the year was Committee believes that the overall annual Following a challenging year in 2016, exceeded.
Notwithstanding the significant bonus outcomes for the Executive Directors 2017 saw widespread stability restored to progress made during 2017, the targets for shown below are a balanced reflection of Essentra as well as the development and Adjusted Operating Profit and Adjusted Net what has been achieved in 2017. communication of a new strategy for Income for the 2017 annual bonus were not the Company as set out in the Chief achieved.
This was largely due to a shortfall The performance targets for the 2015 to Executives Review on pages 10 to 17. in Health & Personal Care Packaging, owing 2017 LTIP awards were not met and these to the profit drop-through impact from awards lapsed in full.
The Remuneration Committee set stretching lower revenue, a material operating loss at targets for the year based on the key our Newport cartons facility, and the impact More information on the financial and performance indicators for the Company.
of hurricane Maria on our two sites in Puerto operating performance of Essentra in The management of cash is vital to Rico together with a less profitable revenue 2017 is set out on pages 22 to 39 in the delivering our new strategy, and the Net and segment mix in Tapes.
2017 annual bonus outturn Bonus payout KPIs Threshold Target Maximum Actual % of max 1 Adjusted Operating Profit 25% of maximum 95.1 100.1 105.1 83.7 0% 1 Adjusted Net Income 25% of maximum 67.2 70.7 74.2 60.2 0% 2 Net Working Capital 30% of maximum 50 bps 16.5% -50bps -130 bps 30% Personal objectives 20% of maximum Details of performance against pre-set personal objectives are set out on page 99.
Following assessment by the Remuneration Committee, the Chief Executive and Group Finance Director received 18% and 11% of their respective maximum bonuses in relation to these objectives.
Bonus award to Chief Executive: 48% of maximum Bonus award to the Group Finance Director: 41% of maximum 1 Based on internal forecast at constant exchange rates.
2 Average Net Working Capital as a percentage of sales.
One half of the bonuses earned will be deferred and payable in Essentra shares which will vest after three years in 2021.
Full details are set out on page 99.
82 DIRECTORS REPORT | REMUNERATION COMMITTEE CHAIRMANS LETTER ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | WWW.
COM Aligning pay and strategy Strategy alignment Shareholder consultation 2018 Remuneration Policy and Since his appointment in January We have proactively engaged with our shareholder approval 2017, Paul Forman has completed major shareholders and proxy voting The current Directors Remuneration Policy a full strategic review of the Company.
agencies on the updated Remuneration Report was approved by our shareholders The results of that review were set Policy prior to publication.
We are required by law out during our Capital Markets Day Summary of key changes to put a new Policy to our shareholders on 28 July 2017.
The strategy review The key proposed changes in our for approval three years later at the emphasised that Essentras future updated Policy are summarised below 2018 AGM.
success will be driven by a focus on with full details set out on pages 86 restoring stability and delivering to 96.
These changes bring our Policy consistent growth in a sustainable and in line with current mainstream market profitable manner.
The clear priorities practice and are consistent with our of our new strategy are reflected in new corporate strategy.
our straightforward updated Remuneration Policy.
Policy change Rationale for change and implementation in 2018 Amended approach Annual LTIP awards will be calculated as a percentage of salary.
This will replace the non-market standard to LTIP awards feature of the 2015 Policy Report whereby the former Chief Executive and Group Finance Director received an award over a fixed number of LTIP shares each year.
Extended LTIP LTIP awards granted to Executive Directors will be released five years after grant.
Performance will be release date measured over an initial three-year period and then there will be a new additional two-year holding period.
Amended LTIP LTIP awards may be subject to a combination of relative Total Shareholder Return TSR, Earnings Per Share performance EPS, cumulative adjusted operating cash flow and a capital return measure.
The addition of cash flow and conditions capital return as potential measures reflect our evolving strategic priorities and feedback from our shareholders.
After careful consideration the Remuneration Committee has decided that 2018 LTIP awards will be subject to a combination of relative TSR, EPS and cash flow measures.
The Remuneration Committee will most likely introduce a capital return measure for LTIP awards to be made in 2019 and subsequent years.
In the interests of simplicity, we would try to have no more than three measures in any one award.
Amended approach Executive Director salaries will be reviewed on an annual basis in April each year.
This will replace the current, to salary reviews non-market standard approach whereby the former Chief Executives and Group Finance Directors salaries were fixed throughout the Policy period.
Reduced future The revised Policy Report includes a commitment to reduce the maximum level of pension provision for any pension provision future Executive Director appointments to 20% of salary compared to the current 25% of salary maximum.
Amended minimum Executive Directors will be expected to build up a minimum shareholding worth 200% of salary over six years.
shareholding This is consistent with the Remuneration Committees assessment of a reasonable period over which the guideline Executive Directors should be expected to reach the guideline target, given the level of annual LTIP awards that will be made.
This is a reduction from the previous shareholder requirements and reflects the relatively recent appointments of the Chief Executive and Group Finance Director.
Since Paul Formans appointment he has invested personally in the Company and has already made good progress in building his personal shareholding in Essentra.
COM DIRECTORS REPORT | REMUNERATION COMMITTEE CHAIRMANS LETTER 2017 LTIP award rather than as a fixed number of shares, 2018 pay decisions As outlined in our 2016 Remuneration represents a change from the approach The annual base salaries of the Executive Report, we delayed the granting of LTIP envisaged in our 2016 Remuneration Directors will be reviewed now in April each awards in 2017 until after the completion Report but is consistent with our year.
The Chief Executive, chose not to of our new Chief Executives strategic updated Policy and the approach we take the recommended salary increase review.
This was to ensure that the awards adopted for 2017 LTIP awards with effect from 1 April 2018.
The salary would be appropriately aligned with our throughout the Company.
increase that had been recommended revised strategy and the updated Policy to the Board by the Remuneration Given the importance of the generation described above.
Committee for both Executive Directors of cash in the successful execution of was in line with the average increase our new strategy, LTIP awards granted in As disclosed in the 2016 Remuneration provided to the wider UK workforce.
2017 are partially subject to an adjusted Report, our new Chief Executive The salary of the Group Finance Director operating cash flow measure in addition received a 2017 LTIP award over shares will increase by 9,700 from April 2018 to the previous relative TSR and EPS of 200% of salary which is lower than to 369,700 pa. measures.
the 300% of salary LTIP award made each year to our former Chief Anticipating our updated Policy from The structure of the 2018 annual bonus Executive.
He also received a one-off 2018, the 2017 LTIP awards granted plan and 2018 LTIP awards for Executive recruitment award of shares of 100% of to the Chief Executive and the Group Directors will be broadly unchanged from salary to compensate him for incentives Finance Director are subject to a 2017 although the Remuneration forgone when he left his previous three-year performance period, plus Committee has decided to drop Adjusted employer.
The Group Finance Director an additional two-year holding period.
Net Income as a separate measure in the received a 2017 LTIP award over shares bonus plan, in order to simplify and focus of 150% of salary.
Granting an LTIP Full details of these awards are shown our approach.
Adjusted Operating Profit award at a level linked to his salary, on pages 100 to 101. will therefore now account for 50% of the 2018 annual bonus opportunity.
The LTIP award for the Chief Executive will be 200% of salary and the LTIP award for the Group Finance Director will be 150% of salary as applied at the start of the last Policy period in 2015.
84 DIRECTORS REPORT | REMUNERATION COMMITTEE CHAIRMANS LETTER ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | WWW.
COM In summary, the pay arrangements for the Executive Directors for 2018 will comprise the following elements: Details Performance conditions Base salary Chief Executive 625,000, with no increase in n a April 2018, at the request of the Chief Executive.
Group Finance Director 369,700, after an increase of 2.7% effective 1 April 2018.
Pension allowance Chief Executive 25% of salary: Group Finance n a Director 20% of salary.
Benefits Car or cash allowance, plus private medical n a insurance and life insurance cover.
Annual bonus opportunity Maximum opportunity Chief Executive 150% Adjusted Operating Profit 50% for 2018 of salary: Group Finance Director 125% of salary.
Net Working Capital 30% Personal Objectives 20% Half of any bonus is deferred in shares for three years.
LTIP awards to be made Chief Executive to receive award over shares worth EPS growth 33.33% in 2018 200% of salary: Group Finance Director to receive Relative TSR 33.33% award over shares worth 150% of salary.
Cash flow 33.33% Awards will be subject to three-year performance period and an additional two-year holding period.
Committee membership I would like to thank my colleagues on the Remuneration Committee for their work this year.
Terry Twigger will be retiring as a Director from Essentra following the 2018 AGM and as such will be relinquishing his appointment on the Remuneration Committee, and I would like to thank him for his contribution over the years.
I am delighted that Ralf K. Wunderlich was appointed to the Remuneration Committee effective from 1 March 2018.
Conclusion I hope you will find this report to be clear and helpful in understanding our remuneration practices and that you will be supportive of the resolutions relating to remuneration at the AGM.
As ever, the Remuneration Committee welcomes any questions or comments from shareholders.
LORRAINE TRAINER Remuneration Committee Chairman 2 March 2018 85
