52 Corporate governance statement CHAIRMANS INTRODUCTION TO GOVERNANCE DRIVING PERFORMANCE THROUGH CULTURE Phil White Chairman This is built on our well-established and along with our dedicated Health & Safety Our governance long-term University partnerships, which Committee, has led a comprehensive fire weve developed over more than 25 years safety review in the year.
We have worked framework continues operating in the higher education sector.
with fire safety experts on the ACM cladding identified on 6 of our properties, to support our strategy The Board has overseen the Groups with the Committee overseeing our and ensure our longportfolio strategy with a substantial remedial plan see page 41. investment in quality properties.
This term, sustainable has required delivery of a complex Ross Paterson joined the Board as development pipeline on time and to a Non-Executive Director in September.
budget, large acquisitions such as We welcome his valuable FTSE 250 Aston Student Village, our first University operational and financial experience.
partnership transaction secured in 2017 and disposals such as our portfolio sale The year ended sadly with the sudden and Woburn House, London.
This strategy and tragic passing of Manjit Wolstenholme, has been well executed, with 85% of our our Senior Independent Director and Audit properties now nominated at mid Committee Chair.
Manjit helped ensure the high-tariff Universities or those ranked Groups financial rigour and delivery and Gold or Silver by the Teaching will be sorely missed.
The importance of effective governance At the same time, the Board has led continues, especially now with the maturing the roll-out of a broad range of diversity, PBSA sector and the broader uncertainties equality and inclusion initiatives as well as due to Brexit and its impact on the UKs Service Style training.
This ensures we keep higher education sector, real estate both our people and our service levels at and economy.
Unites overall governance framework The Board has also overseen the transition has been designed to help us manage of our financial structure, with a 500m these external and internal changes, unsecured facility announced in 2017. enabling the Board to provide the This, along with longer-term University necessary oversight and challenge to partnerships securing revenue and rental secure the Groups long-term success.
growth coupled with our digital operating The following pages offer insight into platform, ensures continued delivery of how we are building on our decades quality income and sustainable earnings.
of experience in the sector and creating a sustainable and successful business.
The Grenfell Tower tragedy underlines the critical importance of fire safety, something we have always recognised as our biggest safety risk.
The Group Board, THE UNITE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 53 The Boards governance role in developing and implementing our strategy Governance overview Governance framework Our governance framework, underpinned by the UK Corporate Governance Code, continues to support our strategy and ensure our long-term sustainable success.
Like our risk management framework described on page 24, our governance framework is driven by an open and collaborative Board and broader Unite Students culture, creating an environment for people to have confidence to challenge the norm.
Below and on the next two pages, we cover how governance has supported our strategy during 2017 and how this is linked to our principal risks.
We also describe our governance priorities for 2018.
Read more on p54 Leadership On pages 56 and 57, we describe the composition of the Board and explain their skills and experience.
Pages 60 to 61 explain how the Board is collectively responsible for the long-term sustainable success of Unite, its clear division of responsibilities and the role of the Non-Executives in constructively challenging and developing our strategy.
Read more on p56 Effectiveness Page 65 describes how our governance framework ensures the effectiveness of the Board.
The results of this years externally facilitated board evaluation are on page 65.
The Nomination Committee report page 66 describes how we ensure we have the right skills and experience on the Group Board as well as how we develop our future leaders, integral to succession planning.
Read more on p65 Accountability The Audit Committee report pages 68 to 71, together with our risk management framework and principal risks pages 24 to 31, describe how we ensure a fair, balanced and understandable assessment of Unites position and prospects, the assessment of our principal risks and their alignment with our strategic objectives.
This section also notes how we maintain an appropriate relationship with Deloitte, our external auditors, consistent with the Code and statutory requirements.
Read more on p68 Remuneration In what is an increasingly complicated regulatory area, our Remuneration at a Glance section page 78 is intended to provide an overview of this complex area.
The detailed remuneration report pages 75 to 95 describes how we ensure Executive Director remuneration is designed to promote the long-term success of the Company and how we develop these remuneration policies.
Shareholder relations Page 59 describes how we engage with shareholders, which during 2017 included a Capital and engagement Markets Day in April, and a second Capital Markets Day in November at Aston Student Village.
Read more on p59 THE UNITE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 54 Corporate governance statement CHAIRMANS INTRODUCTION TO GOVERNANCE CONTINUED HOW GOVERNANCE SUPPORTED OUR STRATEGY DURING 2017 Strategic Link to objective Boards governance role Principal Risk 2017 Board activity Active property recycling Read more about Board oversight on portfolio recycling activity Property market Read more about Asset disposals on p41 ensuring value obtained and proceeds Quality cycle risk on p30 recycled efficiently.
properties Development pipeline Read more about Board scrutiny of city and site selection for new Property Read more about Development activity on p39 developments against backdrop of increasing Development competition for the best sites.
Governance risk on p30 of developments acquisitions to ensure they run to budget and schedule and are earnings accretive.
Health & Safety The Board reviews the safety of our students, visitors and Read more about As we develop our brand through the employees, as well as contractors at our development sites, Operational risk implementation of Home for Success, the risk at each Board meeting.
Major health & of a health & safety incident damaging our safety incident reputation increases.
The Boards governance of in a property or H&S Committee, a sub-Committee of the Board, focuses on: the health & safety, wellbeing and security of the a development site on p29 50,000 students who make Unite Students their - fire, our biggest safety risk, and our work with the Avon Fire home is critical to the Groups continued success Authority, our Primary Fire Authority lead and trusted reputation.
- external safety assurance through The British Safety Council, our external safety auditor - physical security review of our properties by WSP Parsons Brinckerhoff.
Read more about H&S Committee Report on p72 PRISM Board review of our digital strategy.
Read more about Governance to ensure our market-leading Market risks Quality Oversight that PRISM delivers: service platform is robust, reliable and also supply and service - a robust booking system developed further to meet our customers demand on p28 platform - an improved and scalable platform for revenue increasing expectations.
management and customer engagement - enhanced service levels for both Universities and students - market differentiation.
Read more about Operations Review on p32 Affordability and value for money Analysis of the HE accommodation sector and ensuring we Read more about continue to offer an affordable and value-for-money product.
Market risks supply and Read more about Affordability on p51 demand on p28 Information security and keeping our customers As our engagement with our digital native customers moves Read more about and employees personal data safe and secure increasingly online - and we develop apps to enhance this its Market risks more important than ever that we keep their personal data safe.
supply and demand on p28 As part of our Digital Media strategy, the Board led a review of our information security and its governance, in particular having regard to General Data Protection Regulations GDPR and our readiness for when GDPR comes into effect in May 2018.
The Audit Committee also reviewed our information security GDPR compliance matrix as part of its remit to review our risk management and controls framework.
Board scrutiny of our developments and portfolio Higher Education review and our Growth Strategy having regard Quality Read more about recycling to ensure we partner with the right to developing new University partnerships transactions.
University Market risks Universities and enhance our long standing supply and partnerships Read more about Quality partnerships on p10 relationships.
demand and Property Development risk on p28 THE UNITE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 55 Key Quality properties Quality people Quality service platform Earnings & NAV growth Quality University partnerships Strategic Link to objective Boards governance role Principal Risk 2017 Board activity Leadership development & succession planning The Nomination Committee focuses not only on Quality Read more about talent pipeline.
D&I Initiatives Board succession, but also our broader talent pipeline Market risks people and leadership development.
supply and demand on p28 Read more about Quality people on p09 and Nomination Committee Report on p66 High-quality, growing earnings Read more about Read more about Quality partnerships on p10 Oversight of operational performance, rental Market risks growth and University partnerships transactions and Property along with dividend growth.
Development risks on p28 Capital structure Board oversight on transition to unsecured lending and Read more about Group Board focus on a strong and flexible continued focus on locking in debt at historically low rates for Financing risk Earnings & capital structure, which can adapt to market new debt facilities and forward starting interest-rate swaps for Unable to conditions, and reducing and diversifying the future borrowings for secured development pipeline.
NAV growth arrange new cost of funding.
debt or expiring At the end of 2017: debt facilities - Loan to value 31% 31 December 2016: 34% cannot be - Average cost of debt 4.1% 31 December 2016: 4.2% replaced or only at high cost.
Read more about Debt financing and interest rate Adverse interest hedging arrangements and cost of debt on p44 rate movements on p31 Tax strategy REIT conversion Board review of the Groups tax position and strategy.
Group Board review of our tax strategy published Governance of on-going REIT conditions and headroom for in 2017.
Board oversight of our REIT compliance operating within the Balance of Business REIT tests.
framework, following our conversion to a REIT at the start of 2017.
2018 governance priorities Continued delivery of high-quality, growing earnings with oversight and assurances of: Choosing, securing and developing the right sites in the best locations.
Securing income Quality Financial Growing our unsecured lending and funding coupled with rental growth through highproperties structure our developments.
quality properties with quality long-term University partnerships.
Fire safety in a post-Grenfell world.
Impact of Brexit on higher education and UK Enhancing our digital offering for our digital plc more generally.
How will this impact the Quality native customers where next for PRISM?
How Market maturing PBSA sector?
What are the risks service should our product proposition evolve?
Market dynamics and equally what opportunities does this differentiation but focused on affordability bring for Unite?
Developing our talent pipeline and future Quality leaders to help ensure a sustainable future.
people Renewed focus on our diversity, equality and inclusivity initiatives.
Phil White Chairman of the Board 21 February 2018 THE UNITE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017
