CHAIRMANS INTRODUCTION TO GOVERNANCE Steve Good was appointed Chairman of the Remuneration ANDREW DUFF, CHAIRMAN Committee in April 2017 and has led the review of the Directors remuneration policy in consultation with major shareholders as well as implemented a tender process for new remuneration advisers.
More details can be found in the Directors remuneration report on pages 55 to 76.
Anne Hyland continues to chair the Audit Committee and the focus this year has been the impact of the SummitReheis acquisition and other corporate transactions on the financial statements.
This was also Deloitte LLPs first full year as our external auditors.
Further details on the Committees activities can be found on pages 51 to 54.
The Nomination Committee carried out an internal effectiveness review of the Board, Committees and individual Directors towards the end of the year.
A description of the key findings are set out in the report of that Committee on page 50.
CHAIRMANS LETTER I am pleased with the pace of progress made and delighted Continuing with its programme of visiting operational sites, with the level of commitment and contribution that the Board the Board held meetings at our principal offices in New Jersey, has demonstrated during the year.
US in June and also at the headquarters of our Coatings EMEA business in Cologne, Germany in September.
The Board Early in 2017, we announced the acquisition of SummitReheis, also visited the SummitReheis sites in New York, US and our largest acquisition in 20 years, and the sale of the US Ludwigshafen, Germany.
The Board interacts regularly with Colourants business and simultaneous closure of the Jersey members of the Executive Leadership team and engages with City site.
We ended the year with the announcement of the the wider business to deepen the level of knowledge and sale of our Surfactants business.
increase insight into the operations of the business.
We have also welcomed 2 new Non-Executive Directors, We received a strong level of support from our shareholders Sandra Boss and Dorothee Deuring.
Both Sandra and Dorothee for all our resolutions at the 2017 AGM.
I would like to express underwent a process of induction, meeting members of the my sincere thanks to you, our shareholders, for your Executive Leadership team and visiting a number of our continuing support.
Statement of compliance The Board culture that I foster continues to be founded on The Board is of the view that it has applied fully, throughout the principles of integrity, respect, transparency and openness.
2017, all of the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Directors are expected to lead by example and exemplify the Code published in 2016 the Code.
A copy of the Code is highest standards of propriety, diligence and accountability.
The application of the Codes This culture and the values it underpins is not only engendered principles are described in the Corporate governance report in the Board, its Committees and the Executive Leadership on pages 45 to 48. team but permeates throughout our organisation.
The sections that follow describe how the Board has applied Ralph Hewins and Paul Waterman are enthusiastic and deeply the principles and provisions of the Code.
committed to the Reignite Growth strategy and together they bring a renewed focus on delivery of strategy.
I would like to ANDREW DUFF thank Paul and Ralph for enhancing the Boards understanding Chairman of strategic and operational developments.
27 February 2018 44 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2017
