Corporate governance overview Delivering growth with governance Dear shareholder, I am delighted to present this, my first overview of the Companys corporate governance framework in my role as Deputy Chair and Senior Independent Director of the Company.
I strongly believe that good governance is vital for the prosperity and longevity of the Company and it inspires confidence and trust in the business amongst our various stakeholders.
The Directors Report has been prepared in accordance with the April 2016 edition of the UK Corporate Governance Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council the Code.
During the 2017 financial year, the Company complied fully with the provisions of the Code other than provision A.
3.1 of the Code which applies to the appointment of a chief executive as chair of the same company, which I explain further below.
The Governance framework report on pages 68 to 85 sets out in detail how the Company has applied the principles and complied with the provisions of the Code and describes the activities of the Board and its Committees and the matters which they have considered during the financial year.
Changes to the Board In April 2017, we announced changes to the structure of the Board following the previous Chair, Simon Heale, informing the Company of his intention to step down from the Board after 11 years.
It was KAZ Minerals the Boards view, after careful consideration, that Oleg Novachuk, corporate at the time Chief Executive Officer of the Company, was uniquely qualified to succeed Simon as Chair, to lead the Board and hold governance specific responsibility for strategy, government relations and business development.
His knowledge, experience and relationships, framework is in as explained in more detail in the Nomination Committee section on page 83, made him uniquely qualified for the role.
Prior to the place to support announcement in April 2017, in compliance with the Code, we the Board in consulted our major institutional investors on this appointment and Oleg Novachuk became Chair on 1 January 2018. delivering longAs part of the changes described above, the Board, with the aim of term, sustainable maintaining the Groups high standards of governance, asked me to take the role of Deputy Chair with effect from 1 January 2018.
The growth for Deputy Chair role expands the authority and responsibilities of the Senior Independent Director, leading on Board governance matters, shareholders in a including the annual review of Board effectiveness, the leadership of the Nomination Committee and acting as an intermediary between transparent and non-executive Directors and the Chair.
The Deputy Chair role ethical manner.
also provides a point of contact between the Company and independent shareholders, who may wish to raise issues with the Board other than through the Chair.
Michael Lynch-Bell Deputy Chair and Senior Independent Director 64 KAZ Minerals Annual Report and Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For more information, see pages 14 Chairs statement 22 Strategy The Board has been strengthened by the appointment of Alison Stakeholder engagement Baker on 9 October 2017 as an independent non-executive As a Board, we engage with our stakeholders throughout the Director.
We conducted a review of the membership of the year, so that in running the business, we remain cognisant of their Committees in conjunction with the changes to the Board structure interests and mindful of our duties towards them under section and as a result, I was appointed Chair of the Nomination Committee 172 of the Companies Act 2006.
To provide the Directors with and a member of the Health Safety and Environment Committee the opportunity to interact with our employee base in Kazakhstan, and Alison Baker joined the Audit and Nomination Committees.
there are two site visits per year to our operations which the Alison will succeed me as Audit Committee Chair during 2018.
We independent non-executive Directors all attend and where they are have thoroughly reviewed and adapted the scope of the roles and able to engage with staff at different levels of seniority.
Members of responsibilities of the Directors to ensure that they are well-defined senior management attend various Board and Committee meetings and that the division of responsibilities between the Chair, Chief throughout the year and present to the Board, responding to Executive Officer and Deputy Chair are clear.
any questions the Board may have on matters including HSE, operations, human resources and finance.
Committee framework KAZ Minerals corporate governance framework is in place to I engaged with our major institutional investors during the year to support the Board in delivering long-term, sustainable growth discuss and explain the governance measures we were putting in for shareholders in a transparent and ethical manner.
The four place as part of the Board changes and I remain available to speak principal Board committees Audit: Health, Safety and Environment: to them as required.
The Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Remuneration: and Nomination and the interim Operations Ramp Officer and the Investor Relations team meet on a regular basis Up Assurance Committee, each deal with specific aspects of the with our institutional investors and sell-side analysts to understand Groups affairs and have an important role in internal control and their views.
risk management within the Group.
Summary information setting We are holding our Annual General Meeting on Thursday out the roles and responsibilities of each Committee and the 3 May 2018 in London and I hope that many of our shareholders activities they have undertaken during the year, is set out in their will attend.
My fellow Directors and I will be available to discuss respective sections of the Governance Framework report.
any questions that shareholders may have about the Company.
Diversity and Equality I look forward to overseeing Board governance over the course KAZ Minerals is committed to diversity and equality in the of the year for the benefit of our stakeholders, as set out in more workplace and prides itself on the strong female representation detail in the pages that follow this overview.
throughout the Group at all levels of seniority, relative to its mining peers.
During 2018, we will continue to build on the successes that Michael Lynch-Bell we have achieved.
Our Board is comprised of men and women with Deputy Chair and a range of nationalities, bringing diversity to Board discussions and Senior Independent Director this is reflected across our workforce.
More detail can be found in the Corporate responsibility report on page 52 and on page 75 of the Governance Framework report.
Board committee membership The current membership of the Boards committees is shown in the table below: Audit Health, Safety and Nomination Remuneration Operations Ramp Up Committee Environment Committee Committee Committee Assurance Committee Oleg Novachuk Andrew Southam Lynda Armstrong Alison Baker Vladimir Kim Michael Lynch-Bell John MacKenzie Charles Watson Chair of committee Member of committee www.
