60 60 intu properties plc Annual report 2017 Governance Dear shareholder Effectiveness and evaluation As Chairman, it is my role to provide Throughout the year we have continued leadership to ensure the operation of to ensure that our governance structures aneffective Board.
at Board, Committee, subsidiary and joint venture levels continue to be appropriate The Board consists of nine directors, and support our business and culture in including myself.
The directors bring a an ever-changing regulatory environment.
wide range of skills and perspectives to In the next few pages we provide details the Boards deliberations, as described on of our Board members, the role of the the following pages.
In relation to gender Board and its performance and oversight.
diversity we have three female Board We also provide the information on our members 33 per cent, which meets the governance framework which we Lord Davies 2020 target of 33 per cent.
consider is appropriate for a UK As highlighted in the Nomination and premium-listed company.
Review Committees report on page 76, the Board considers that broader aspects 2017 governance highlights of diversity, rather than purely gender, are Succession planning key to stimulating constructive debate.
It has been an exceptionally active yearfor the Nomination and Review During 2017 we conducted an externally Committee with significant changes to facilitated Board performance evaluation the Boards composition.
Patrick Burgess and the findings provided a further retired from the Board following the opportunity to continue to enhance the annual general meeting AGM in May Boards contributions through improved 2017 after nearly nine years as Chairman.
Andrew Huntley, Non-Executive Director and Senior Independent Director SID, also retired from the Board in May 2017.
In accordance with the process John Strachan established by the Board, Andrew Chairman Huntley chaired a Nomination and Review 22 February 2018 sub-committee to oversee the search for Compliance with the April 2016 a new Chairman.
The sub-committee UKCorporate Governance Code comprised Andrew Huntley, Adle theCode Anderson and Steven Underwood.
Korn The following governance pages Ferry Whitehead Mann was engaged to explain how the Company applies the assist with the search.
The independent main principles of the Code, issued by non-executive directors also contributed the Financial Reporting Council FRC, to the process, all being entitled to attend and how it meets other relevant Nomination and Review Committee governance requirements including meetings when Board succession matters provisions of the Disclosure Guidance were being discussed.
and Transparency Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority.
Both documents are publicly available on the FRC website frc.
The Board considers that the Company complied in full with the provisions of the Code during the year.
Governance Governance 61 Board in action It was fantastic to meet John Centre teams around the country played host to a series and David and talk with them of visits from the Chairman and Chief Executive as part of the Chairmans induction.
about the future of the centre.
Kyra Massey As part of the visits, which each lasted half a day, John Strachan Customer Service Team Leader, intu Merry Hill and David Fischel were given a centre tour by the general manager.
They then spent time meeting staff from all areas of the centre team over a cup of tea and a bite to eat with centres bringing a local twist such as eccles cakes at intu Trafford Centre.
They met and spoke to hundreds of staff from housekeeping teams to security, customer services to business support and technical services to car park hosts and gardeners.
Topics were varied as staff quizzed John and David on company plans and policies, corporate responsibility, and their views on the economy and Brexit as well as more personal questions such as which sports teams they supported and their all-time favourite lms.
But it wasnt all one way John and David found it invaluable to learn more about the ner details of peoples jobs, discuss any staff concerns and importantly to hear a host of new ideas that the staff had about keeping intu at the forefront of the retail and leisure market.
