Governance Chairmans Governance Statement In the Governance section I am pleased to present our Corporate Governance Report for 2017.
We believe that This section of the Annual Report contains corporate governance is essential to our success and as such the Board is committed to a statement from our Chairman and upholding the highest standards of governance and works closely with the executive team information about the Directors and in order to do so.
We are engaged in considering the proposals for the revised UK Corporate Management Board.
It explains our Governance Code the Code and will seek to ensure compliance with that Code in due governance structure and corporate course.
This year has seen an increase in Board membership, which builds on our already governance compliance and includes diverse Board and brings additional experience, ensuring there is an appropriate balance reports from the Audit and Risk and ofskills and knowledge.
Thiscurrent Board consists of a strong team with a wide range Remuneration Committees and the ofexperience across various industries and territories.
Information on what we focused on in the year can be found on page 67.
Board composition Board experience Following the departure of Adam Crozier, we announced in July of last year the appointment of Dame Carolyn McCall as Chief Executive.
I am very pleased towelcome Carolyn, who with her track record in media, experience of international operations, clear Sector experience strategic acumen and strong record of delivering value to shareholders will help to continue Media 40% Finance 60% to build on the success of ITV.
The decision to appoint Carolyn was taken after a rigorous selection process.
More detail can be found on page 68.
The Board is mindful of the need to refresh its membership at appropriate intervals and after more than nine years on the board Andy Haste and John Ormerod will step down following the AGM in May.
The Board agreed last year that Margaret Ewing would bethe best candidate to succeed John as Chair of the Audit and Risk Committee.
Salman Amin wasalso appointed during the year and has been a great addition to the Board.
More details Advertising & on our approach to Board diversity can be found on page 69.
Marketing 30% Retail 40% Directors other commitments are kept under review to ensure that they have sufficient time to dedicate to our business.
Details of appointment dates and length of tenure for each director can be found on page 68.
All Directors are required by the Companys Articles of Association to be elected by shareholders at the first AGM following their appointment by the Board.
Subsequently, all Directors are subject to annual re-election byshareholders as recommended by the Code.
International experience The Board is mindful of the need to refresh its membership at appropriate intervals.
60 ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Additional information Chairmans Governance Statement Board induction and evaluation Culture We believe that a comprehensive induction programme is important for all of our new Board members as well as a programme of continuing evaluation for the Board to assess Q What is ITVs culture?
Full details of our evaluation and induction processes in the year are A ITV believes in an open and setout on page 69. collaborative culture across all areas ofthe business.
At its core, ITV puts Stakeholder engagement trustand an open and honest working Our stakeholders are very important to us and we remain committed to maintaining environment for all as its most regularopen dialogue and effective communication with them.
We believe that continued important values.
engagement is highly beneficial to all parties as it helps to build a greater understanding oftheir views, opinions and concerns.
Further information on how we engage with our Q How does the Board engage with stakeholders can be found on page 71. thecorporate culture?
A The Board places a high importance Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code on the value of corporate culture ITV is required to report on how it has complied with the principles of governance set out withinITV and the role it provides in inthe Code.
The Board considers that during 2017 the Company has complied with the thedevelopment and retention of provisions of the Code but notes the following: employees as well as ITVs external reputation.
7.1 Independence andcommunication are key at ITV and John Ormerod has served on the Board for more than nine years.
The Board believes he assuch it is imperative that the Board remains independent and as explained last year, the Board agreed that he should remain isvisible throughout the organisation.
as a Director until a successor as Chair of the Audit andRisk Committee could be found.
TheBoard participates in site visits to Margaret Ewing was appointed in October 2017 to ll this position.
ourdifferent locations and is in regular communication with senior executives Provision A.
2.1 Separation of Chairman and CEO and other employees.
Following Adam Croziers departure, the Board agreed that I would stepup as Q How is the corporate culture ExecutiveChairman from July 2017 until a new Chief Executive joined the business.
DameCarolyn McCall was appointed to the Board in January 2018 to ll this position.
A We seek to instill the One ITV TheBoard notes that this was not compliant with the Code.
wayofworking our global network of Ambassadors to enhance communication Further information on corporate governance and a schedule setting out how we comply and information sharing across all levels with the Code can be found on our website.
The Board considers andacts upon feedback from employee www.
com investors governance engagement surveys.
We also aim for oursenior executives and our Board A copy of the Code is available on the FRC website.
members to be as visible as possible and useopen plan ofce space to encourage www.
uk Our-Work Codes-Standards Corporate-governance openness and collaboration.
Our London property strategy is a big step to achieve Looking ahead a more coherent and joined-up business.
It has been a year of change for ITV and we enter 2018 with a new Chief Executive who theBoard strongly believes will put ITV in the best position to face the challenges of Q What is next for ITV?
acompetitive and rapidly changing industry.
A We believe that an effective and well embedded corporate culture helps create asuccessful business.
We will continue to focus on building a strong Sir Peter Bazalgette corporate culture and will keep this Chairman underconsideration as part of our 28 February 2018 strategy refresh.
