6 62 2 Dr Drax ax Group Group plc plc A An nnu nual al repor report t and and ac acc co ount unts s 2 20 01 17 7 LETTER FROM THE CHAIRMAN THE MANAGEMENT OF OUR BUSINESS AND CONTROL OF OUR ACTIVITIES ISFOUNDED ON GOOD GOVERNANCE PHILIP COX CBE CHAIRMAN OUR HEAT VALUES HONEST We say what we mean and do what we say, were genuine and true to ourword ENERGISED Were passionate about our daily activities and have the drive to turnideas into action ACHIEVING Were focused on our goals and determined to succeed.
We work hard to deliver innovative solutions to help us do things better, for the benefit of the Group TOGETHER We work collaboratively with our colleagues, customers and stakeholders with a friendly approach and recognise the value each of us brings to achieving our Group vision Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Dr Drax ax Group Group plc plc A An nnu nual al repor report t and and ac acc co ount unts s 2 20 01 17 7 63 63 SUCCESSION PLANNING AND DIVERSITY Dear shareholders We recognise that in order to maintain an effective Board it is essential to plan for the future and to ensure the right individuals are Drax places considerable emphasis on governance and in appointed to the Board from a diverse pool of talent.
We are strong thissection of the Annual Report, we describe governance at advocates of diversity and we consider the Board to be diverse in Drax, theprincipal activities of the Board and its committees and terms of the background, skills and experience each individual brings how wehave complied with the principles of the UKCorporate to the Board.
All appointments will continue to be based on merit.
More detail on MY ROLE AS CHAIRMAN the work of the Nomination Committee can be found in the The division of responsibilities between the roles of Chairman Nomination Committee Report on pages 7175. andGroup Chief Executive officer CEO is well established, as shown below.
As Chairman I am responsible for leading the Board We recognise the importance of diversity within the Group and we and ensuring it operates effectively.
The Group CEO isresponsible have reported on Board and Executive Committee composition and for running the business and the implementation of the strategy diversity earlier on pages 59 and 60.
Currently around 25% of Draxs andpolicies adopted by the Board.
senior management are women and werecently appointed a new female non-executive director, Nicola Hodson.
Draxs business and Chairmans responsibilities demographics are changing and we arecommitted to improving Chairing and managing the business of the Board.
gender diversity across the Group.
Together with the Group CEO, ensuring the Board carries out a full and robust review of the strategy of the business and ensuring BOARD DIRECTORATE CHANGES effective implementation of the strategy by the executive Executive directorate changes management team.
In September 2017, we announced that Will Gardiner would succeed Engagement with shareholders and other key stakeholders.
Dorothy Thompson as Group CEO in January 2018.
Will was In conjunction with the Nomination Committee, taking previously the Group Chief Financial officer CFO and his responsibility for the composition of the Board.
appointment is a natural progression after two years working Overseeing the annual Board evaluation and acting on its results.
Ensuring effective contribution and constructive challenge from non-executive directors and a productive relationship between A process to appoint a permanent Group CFO is underway and in the executive and non-executive directors.
meantime Den Jones has been appointed as Interim Group CFO.
Ensuring Board agendas cover all material aspects of the business.
Overseeing a thorough process for succession management, both Non-executive directorate changes for the Board and for the executive management.
The Board membership has been refreshed and diversied with Ensuring Group policies, including policies for health and safety, theappointments of David Nussbaum and Nicola Hodson as trading, environment, diversity, ethical, social and sustainability non-executive directors in August 2017 and January 2018 standards are t for purpose and appropriately implemented.
Davids knowledge of sustainability will support our Oversight of risk management and internal control systems.
good work in thisarea and Nicolas experience in technology, sales and marketing, business transformation and energy will provide real Group CEOs responsibilities value as Drax delivers on its strategy.
Communicating the culture, vision and values of the Group.
The development and implementation of the Groups strategy.
BOARD AND COMMITTEE EVALUATION The day-to-day management of the Group.
During 2017 we conducted an internal evaluation of the Board and Leading the Executive Committee.
The evaluation process involved the completion of Managing relationships with key stakeholders.
questionnaires and interviews by the Chairman.
More information on With the Group Chief Financial officer, communicating the the process and the key action areas can be found on page 72 in the Groups financial performance to shareholders.
report of the Nomination Committee.
KEY AREAS OF FOCUS During 2018 and beyond I am confident that we have the right team In 2017 significant progress was made with the strategy.
in place to meet the challenges and opportunities of the future.
The on-boarding of Opus Energy following its acquisition in February continues to go well and the acquisition of LaSalle Bioenergy in the US Gulf region signicantly increased our biomass pellet capacity.
In developing longer-term options for growth we continue to explore the option of coal-to-gas repowering at Drax Power Station and construction of new OCGT plants, in order to provide new sources of flexible generation backed up by long-term contracts.
PHILIP COX CBE CHAIRMAN The health and safety of all employees and contractors is of paramount importance and safety remains at the centre of our operational philosophy.
We have performed well in this regard and we continue to work to improve our performance across the Group.
