Ascential plc Annual Report 2017 CHAIRMANS INTRODUCTION TO GOVERNANCE Our Board is committed to high standards of corporate governance and is responsible for ensuring that these standards, alongside the Companys values and behaviours, are consistently applied throughout the Group as they underpin the integrity of our operations, and deliver and preserve shareholder value.
Scott Forbes Dear Shareholder, Chairman I am pleased to present the Corporate Governance Report for 2017, which highlights the work the Board has 2017 Highlights undertaken during the year.
Review of strategy and approval of three-year plan Our goal is to be a leading, specialist, global information company that enables customers to excel in the digital economy, as well as a best in Good operational progress during the year, class employer and a strong investment candidate for shareholders.
We sharpening our brand portfolio, enhancing our have continued to focus on developing our brands to service customers product offering and acquiring exciting, highacross the consumer value chain of product design, marketing and sales.
growth businesses that fit with our ambitions Board visit to the US with in-depth reviews of We are pleased that our teams have been able to continue to deliver our MediaLink, WGSN and Money20 20 on the ambition we set out at the time of our IPO to become a more businesses focused, faster growing company, with a greater number of satisfied customers allowing us to generate higher levels of returns for our Development of our risk management framework shareholders.
You can read more about our progress with this strategy in the Chief Executives Report on pages 4 to 5.
We believe it is vital to create an environment where people can be The UK Corporate Governance their best, improve skills and gain experiences across our businesses worldwide.
Ascential employees are a reflection of our business that Code does not stand still: they know there is always more to learn, more to offer and more to be.
Ralph Tribe, our Chief People Officer, joined us Through the Listing Rules, the UK Corporate during 2017 and the report on pages 28 to 29 explains our people Governance Code the Code underpins the strategy.
overarching corporate governance for listed companies in the UK.
We have delivered consistent with our promises and another positive financial performance in 2017.
Prior to the strategic acquisition of Clavis It contains principles and provisions, which set out on 22 December 2017, our Groups leverage target had reduced to 1.6x, on the lower end of our 1.5-2.0x guidance.
The transaction raised standards of good practice in relation to Board our leverage to 2.3x, still in a position that allows a healthy mix of leadership, effectiveness, accountability and dividends as well as cash for investment in bolt-on acquisitions.
relations with stakeholders as well as remuneration practices.
The Board targets a dividend pay-out ratio of 30% of Adjusted profit after tax and consequently, the Board is recommending a final dividend The Chairmans Introduction to Governance, in of 3.8p per share which, together with the 2017 interim dividend, conjunction with the Corporate Governance makes a total dividend for the 2017 financial year of 5.6p.
You can read more about our 2017 financial performance in the Financial Review on Report, explains how we have implemented these pages 12 to 18. provisions and been in compliance with the Code throughout the year.
36 Ascential plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Board effectiveness As part of our three-year performance evaluation cycle, we conducted Board overview an internal Board evaluation process during the year, following our externally facilitated evaluation in 2016.
Length of tenure Each Board member was asked for their opinion on a broad range of topics, including four core questions on key strengths, improvements during the year, areas of focus for continued development and any risks requiring more focus from the Board.
The responses to these questions were anonymised by the Company Secretary before discussion by the Board, who debated the points raised and agreed areas for development during 2018.
Feedback on the Chairman was provided to the Senior Independent Director, who discussed it with him individually after a discussion with the Board at a meeting at which the Chairman was not present.
Board composition and succession planning The Board evaluation process confirmed that the Board has worked effectively during the year, with a committed, skilled and genderdiverse Board who are very engaged with the Ascential business, and Over 6 years 14% prepared to address relevant challenges and opportunities.
All the 2-6 years 14% 0-2 years 72% Non-Executive Directors are considered to be independent in character and judgement, and free of any business or other relationship that could materially influence their judgement.
Scott Forbes was considered to be independent on appointment.
Board gender diversity As all the Non-Executive Directors have a reasonably short tenure on the Ascential Board following the Companys IPO in February 2016, the Nomination Committee will develop plans to ensure an orderly refreshment of skills and experience on the Board as well as consider additions to the Board if needed to address the evolving nature of the business.
All Directors will offer themselves for re-election by shareholders at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The Nomination Committee conducted a thorough review of Board and organisation succession planning during the year, which is explained on page 48.
Non-Executive engagement As a relatively new Board, the Non-Executive Directors have devoted considerable time to developing their knowledge and understanding of the business.
As well as in-depth reviews as a Board, Non-Executive Directors have conducted individual visits to offices and events across Male 43% the Group and received reports from a wide range of senior Female 57% management at Board meetings.
Risk management and internal control Risk is present in all our activities and having an effective risk culture and risk management framework is key to effective decision making.
Balance of Executive and The Board has not established a separate risk committee as it considers Non-Executive Directors that risk management is a responsibility of the whole Board.
More detail about risk management within Ascential is given on page 22.
The Audit Committee reviews the system of internal controls within the Group and reports on this work to the Board, which reviews the effectiveness of internal controls in place throughout the year.
You can read more about the work of the Audit Committee on pages 43 to 47.
Relations with shareholders The Board recognises the important and valuable role that shareholders play in safeguarding the Companys governance.
During the year, the Company has directly engaged with over 200 institutional investors through a variety of face-to-face meetings, attendance at Ascential events such as Money20 20 and Cannes Lions as well as the annual Capital Markets Day.
More information on the ongoing investor relations programme is given on page 42.
Scott Forbes Non-Executive 57% Chairman Executive 29% 23 February 2018 Chairman 14% 37
