Corporate Governance: Governance overview Governance overview Andy Crossley joined the Board as a NonThis Corporate Governance Report is Dear Shareholder, Executive Director and member of structured in order to demonstrate to On behalf of the Board I am pleased to the Audit Committee in February 2018. shareholders how the Board has sought present the Corporate Governance Report Andy has broad financial services and during the year to comply with each section for the financial year ended 31 December insurance experience having served most of the Code - Leadership: Effectiveness: 2017.
The focus of the Board continues to be recently on the Board of Domestic and Accountability: and Relations with on maintaining high standards of corporate General.
The process of succession planning Shareholders.
Remuneration is dealt with governance which it achieves by ensuring is ongoing as the composition and balance in the separate Remuneration Report.
the appropriateness and effectiveness of the Board is reviewed to ensure that of the Groups management and control continuity is maintained, and appropriate framework.
This Report sets out the skills and experience are added.
Admiral framework of governance and the approach the Board has taken during 2017 As the Board undertook an externally to promote the standards of good corporate facilitated evaluation last year, the process governance that are rightly expected by of evaluating the Boards performance Annette Court our shareholders.
this year consisted of each Board member Chairman completing a questionnaire detailing specific We believe that having a sound corporate 27 February 2018 areas of focus for the Board including governance framework enables effective succession planning and Board composition, and efficient decision making and promotes the priorities for change, the impact of the right balance of skills and experience previous evaluations, and Board expertise to to assess and manage the risks in the meet future challenges.
The results of the markets in which the Group operates.
An completed questionnaires then formed the external review of the Groups governance basis for discussion when the results of the arrangements was carried out during evaluation and areas for development were the year and the completed report was discussed and considered by the Board at considered by the Board at the January 2018 the meeting in January 2018.
The recommendations, the outcomes of the Boards discussion and contained in the report, to strengthen the consideration of the results of the evaluation Groups existing governance arrangements are set out in more detail at page 48 of so they remain fit for purpose in the future this report.
will be an area of focus for the Board in 2018 as new entities are established and board constituents change.
Changes to the composition of the Board in 2017 have meant that succession planning has continued to be a key area of focus.
I succeeded Alastair Lyons as Chairman in April 2017 after he retired from the Board at the AGM in April 2017 after serving for 16 years.
Due to a change in her executive role, Non-Executive Director and member of the Audit Committee, Penny James, also stepped down from the Board in September 2017.
42 42 A Adm dmi ir ra al l G Gro roup up p pl lc c A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 17 7
