Governance CHAIRMANS INTRODUCTION THE BOARD OUR COMMITTEES The Board is responsible for the Groups Our Board committees play integral roles longterm success.
This success is in supporting the Boards work.
They are promoted by having Board members provided with the resources they need to with a diverse range of relevant skills undertake their duties, including access and experiences.
As the biographies to the Company Secretary and external set out later in this section illustrate, advisers.
The committees, their mandates the Board has a good balance of asset and memberships are shown later in management, accounting, financial this section.
services, international, regulatory and The Audit and Risk Committee continued governance experience.
The Board is its role of overseeing the Groups supported by a succession plan, which financial reporting, risk management balances continuity and refreshment of and internal controls framework, Board membership, and ensures compliance framework and relationship members continue to demonstrate with the External and Internal auditors.
appropriate experience in the asset During the year, the Committee management markets within which we monitored the progress of a new operate.
enhanced Governance, Risk and Controls DEAR SHAREHOLDER, During the year, after having served programme.
The Committee was also Jupiter puts considerable emphasis on eight years as a NonExecutive Director active in overseeing Jupiters significant effective governance, so I am pleased of Jupiter, Lorraine Trainer announced change programmes.
to report on the governance of your her intention to step down from the Company in 2017.
The Nomination Committee has Board following the 2018 AGM.
On progressed its work on Board and senior THE ROLE OF THE BOARD behalf of the Board, I would like to management succession planning to express my thanks to Lorraine for her AND OUR CORPORATE VALUES ensure diversity of perspective as well as The Boards role is to set the Groups invaluable support over the years and ensuring the candidates have the for her significant contribution to Jupiter.
strategy, ensure it has the right relevant skills and experience.
leadership and culture, monitor the In accordance with good succession performance of the business and The Remuneration Committee continued management, Jonathon Bond and Bridget oversee its risk management structure.
to perform its role of ensuring that Macaskill succeeded Lorraine in the roles The Boards effectiveness in carrying Jupiter can attract and retain talented of Senior Independent Director and out this role is supported by its focus individuals.
Following feedback from a Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, on culture, setting the tone from the number of shareholders prior to the 2017 respectively.
Lorraine supported Jonathon top and paying close attention to good AGM, the Committee spent considerable and Bridget in their transition to the governance throughout the Group.
time on developing a new remuneration new roles.
Jonathon and Bridget bring As Chairman, my role is to lead the policy, which a number of our larger considerable experience and insight to Board, set its agenda and ensure it shareholders were invited to discuss with these positions and I look forward to the operates effectively.
the Remuneration Committee Chairman, additional contributions both will make in Bridget Macaskill, in a consultation Our corporate values are longstanding these new roles.
The new remuneration and were first documented in 2015.
In October, after a rigorous search and policy introduces a number of best They are central to our business selection process, I was very pleased practice features for Executive Director success.
You will see them set out fully to announce Roger Yatess appointment pay which reflects feedback received in the Strategic Report.
They describe as a NonExecutive Director.
Roger from shareholders and investor bodies.
clearly our clientcentric culture, brings significant asset management Simultaneously, it aims to maintain the focused on integrity and excellence and international business management strong culture of pay for performance of client outcomes.
experience to the Board from his and align the reward to employees previous board and executive positions with the experience of our clients and at multinational asset managers.
Further details of the insight and knowledge has already new policy may be found in the provided a significant contribution to our Remuneration Report.
The Board now comprises three Executive Directors and seven NonExecutive Directors, including me.
In December, Adrian Creedy stepped down as Company Secretary and has been succeeded by Adam Westley.
The Board is very grateful for Adrians contribution during a career with Jupiter spanning over two decades.
38 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 The reports from each of the Board COMPLIANCE STATEMENT committees which follow, further explain Jupiter supports the principles of their work over the past year and corporate governance as set out in their ongoing priorities.
the 2016 version of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code issued BOARD EFFECTIVENESS by the Financial Reporting Council.
In June 2017, we undertook our A copy of the 2016 version of the annual review of Board effectiveness.
Code can be found on the FRC This year we worked with a specialist website at: www.
uk consultancy, Independent Board Evaluation, to help us ensure that we Having reviewed the provisions of utilise individual Directors strengths the Code dated April 2016 the Board most effectively in the Board environment.
is satisfied that throughout The recommendations of the review are the accounting period ended further described later in this 31 December 2017, Jupiter complied Governance section.
with all of the provisions of the Code.
More information on how the Since 2016, Jupiter has operated a Company applied the principles of pairing arrangement between Non the Code is set out later in this Executive Directors and members of Governance section.
the senior executive team to foster deeper engagement.
This has led to an increased understanding of the Boards role for senior executives and of the Groups business and operations for the NonExecutive Directors.
This programme is being continued in 2018.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REFORM The Board supports the proposed revisions to the UK Corporate Governance Code and proposals for corporate governance reform as announced by the UK Government in August 2017 and published by the FRC in December 2017.
The Board has assessed the implications of these proposals and has concluded that the Company is well placed to comply with the new requirements as and when they become effective.
I hope that this introduction has added some colour to the formal reports from the Committees that follow in the next few pages.
I look forward to meeting you and answering any questions you may have at our AGM on 16 May 2018.
