56 MEGGITT PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 f gO Inan ver c nan Ial S ct eatementS The Board is committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance, which are fundamental to discharging our responsibilities.
It is my responsibility CHAIRMANS to ensure that Meggitt is governed and managed in the best interests of shareholders and wider stakeholders.
This INTRODUCTION includes encouraging open discussion and constructive challenge.
In this report, we set out our governance framework and explain how our activities as a Board throughout the year have supported our strategy.
Leadership As part of the planned and continued evolution of the Board, there have been a number of Board changes in 2017.
We announced in November 2017 that Tony Wood would be appointed as Chief Executive from 1 January 2018.
Tony brings a wealth of industry knowledge, skills and extensive operational experience from his thirty years in the aerospace sector.
His contribution as Chief Operating Officer has been outstanding and I know that he will be an excellent successor to Stephen.
Most recently he held a number of senior management positions at Rolls-Royce plc during a sixteen year career, latterly as President, Aerospace.
Stephen Young stepped down from the Board with effect from 31 December 2017 and will retire in April 2018 after a long career at Meggitt, initially as our Group Finance Director and Sir Nigel Rudd then from 2013, as our Chief Executive.
Chairman Brenda Reichelderfer retired from her position as Non-Executive Director on 27 April 2017 and was replaced by Nancy Gioia.
Nancy, a Tony brings a wealth of industry knowledge, skills and US citizen and electrical engineer, joined Ford Motor Company in 1982 and worked there extensive operational experience from his thirty years in until 2014 in a number of senior roles across the aerospace sector.
His contribution as Chief Operating engineering and manufacturing operations.
Nancys appointment enables the Board to Officer has been outstanding and I know that he will be an retain critical US and engineering experience excellent successor to Stephen.
and her background in the fast-moving automotive industry is consistent with our focus on accelerating strategic initiatives and delivering further operational efficiencies to drive long term shareholder returns.
Effectiveness The 2016 external board evaluation highlighted that although a lot of progress had been made on strategy, succession planning and risk management in prior years, there were further opportunities to improve.
Every year executive management has made incremental improvements to the Groups succession planning process and how it is presented to the Board.
In the 2016 evaluation, the Board asked for more detail on the process and we had a thorough session on this in July 2017, followed by a detailed review of the outcome by the Nominations Committee in November 2017.
The Board asked for more of an external perspective on market trends in the annual strategy session, as a result of which, an independent consultant attended the session in September and discussed emerging aerospace trends with the Board.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 MEGGITT PLC 57 STRATEGIC REPORT G gO Ove VEr Rnan NANc Ce E FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Whilst executive management had improved this area The Board has confirmed that this Annual Report is fair, balanced significantly over the last five years, there were opportunities to and understandable.
You can find an explanation of the process we improve further in 2017.
We report the improvements made in have used to make this determination on page 97.
2017 in the Risk management report pages 40 to 45.
A skills matrix was completed for the Board which links to the Remuneration Groups strategy, end markets and key areas of governance, risk In 2017 following our 2016 consultation with shareholders, and compliance.
The matrix will be useful in succession planning shareholders approved our remuneration policy at our 2017 AGM, as for the non-executive directors.
a result of which we have amended our share plan rules to introduce a two year post vesting holding period for executive directors.
The Remuneration Committee has also considered how to amend targets The Board reviewed its own effectiveness in 2017 through an from ROTA to ROCE for executive directors in our share plans and internal process and were satisfied with the outcome.
There details are shown in the Directors remuneration report.
were discussions about succession and Board composition and the Board also reflected on the importance of ensuring the Chief Executive succession process was a success.
There were also some requests relating to the annual Board schedule, for example, for external aerospace market experts to attend the Board annually.
Accountability In 2017, the Audit Committee discussed the 2016 viability Sir Nigel Rudd statement process and confirmed that it was appropriate to retain Chairman of the Board of Directors the same process for the 2017 viability statement.
The impact of 26 February 2018 the UKs vote to leave the European Union was taken into account in the assessment of viability.
A description of the process and the resulting statement is set out in the Risk management report.
That report also includes our annual confirmations on risk management and internal control.
At the start of the year we reviewed and responded to the Corporate Governance Reform Green Paper and are tracking the proposed UK Corporate Governance Code consultation and any resulting changes.
We welcome the opportunity to further consider how we engage with our wider stakeholders.
The Audit Committee went through a well planned, detailed and rigorous audit tender process for the audit of the financial year ending 31 December 2018 which is described in detail in the Audit Committee report.
The Committee recommended that we retain  LLP PwC as auditor of the Group as a result of the tender process.
PwC have been auditors of the Group since 2003 and will be subject to mandatory rotation in 2023.
This appointment remains subject to approval by shareholders at the 2018 AGM.
IN THIS SECTION Board of Directors Audit Committee report Directors remuneration report This introduces our individual Board Introduced by its Chairman, Colin Day, this The Directors remuneration report members by providing details of the report describes the Audit Committees includes an introduction from its skills and experience they bring to the work during the year by reference to the Chairman, Paul Heiden, summarising Boardroom and the committees on which principal responsibilities of the Committee the Committees overall approach to they serve.
for financial reporting, external audit, the remuneration and the link between our risk management process, internal controls strategy and remuneration plans.
It also and internal audit.
includes the remuneration policy which was approved by shareholders at the 2017 AGM and describes how the policy has been applied in 2017.
See page 58 for more information See page 65 for more information See page 72 for more information Corporate governance report Nomination Committee report Directors report The Corporate governance report Introduced by its Chairman, Sir Nigel The Directors report is prepared in analyses the leadership provided by the Rudd, this report outlines the Committees accordance with section 415 of the Board, the steps taken to ensure that philosophy on appointments and diversity Companies Act 2006, and sets out the Board is an effective one and the and describes the activities of the information that the Directors are framework by which the Board manages Committee during the year.
required to present in accordance with relationships with shareholders.
See page 60 for more information See page 69 for more information See page 94 for more information
