Chairmans introduction Robust and transparent governance supporting the delivery of our strategy Dear Shareholder Risk and internal controls for shareholders and customers and the This report provides an explanation Fundamental to demonstrating good impact on our wider stakeholders.
of the Groups governance governance and stewardship is having in During the year we also announced the arrangements and our activities place processes to allow the Board to make sale of our brokerdealer network in the in this area during 2017. a robust assessment of the risks facing our US, which was owned by our subsidiary business and those internal controls used Good governance encourages decisions to National Planning Holdings Inc. and to mitigate them.
Details of our approach to be made in the best interests of the consisted of INVEST Financial Corporation, internal controls and risk management are business, taking account of the views Investment Centres of America, Inc, set out on pages 99 to 100.
We aim to achieve this National Planning Corporation and SII Committee report on pages 105 to 114 through a responsive governance Investments, Inc. to LPL Financial LLC.
This describes how the Committee monitors the framework that supports and challenges allows us to focus on our primary strategy effectiveness of the internal control and our executives decision making.
in North America of being the leading risk management systems and the Risk manufacturer of retirement products.
Committee report on pages 115 to 119 Effective leadership sets out how that Committee has As Chairman, one of my priorities is how Looking after our stakeholders considered the Groups risk appetite.
we as a Board can improve and work The Board continues to be aware of the together even more effectively.
The Board impact of its decisions on all of our Culture undertakes an annual review of its stakeholders.
Feedback we receive from I continue to believe that tone is set from the performance, both collectively and as engaging with stakeholders helps us to top and the Board and senior management individuals and uses the outcomes of these devise and manage policies and processes.
must therefore exhibit the behaviours reviews to drive improvements over the expected throughout the Group.
Individual In 2017, the Group published its first coming year.
The actions taken by the businesses are also shaping culture locally, environmental, social and governance Board in 2017 to address the contributing to our shared values.
Under my ESG report which gave a detailed account recommendations of the 2016 review are stewardship, our international volunteering of our approach to ESG matters.
An external programme, Chairmans Challenge, has report explains that while serving our independent evaluation was conducted at grown significantly and over 8,000 customers is at the centre of our business, the end of 2017 in order to provide colleagues offered their time and skills to we approach other stakeholders with the shareholders with further comfort that the supporting the community in 2017. same sense of responsibility and Board continues to operate effectively.
commitment, from our suppliers and Details of the 2017 review can be found on The Board has set itself an objective for employees to the wider communities in page 94 and I was pleased that the review the Group to develop a framework for a which we operate.
We expect to publish concluded that the Boards strengths measurable, definable culture.
As part of our next ESG report in May 2018. included strong leadership in a collegiate this, a risk culture survey was developed by and constructive environment, effective the Risk Committee covering all businesses.
Looking forward use of time and materials, and strong risk The Board will continue to build on this in On the governance front, of key interest and control oversight.
2018, bringing together the many strands will be the changes proposed to the UK of initiatives around the Group.
Corporate Governance Code, which are 2017 has seen a refresh of the Board in set to include a range of new requirements In December, the Board approved an both Nonexecutive and Executive roles.
for both behaviour and reporting.
Once in updated Group Code of Conduct which The changes to the Board have highlighted place, the Board and its Committees will introduced standards of business conduct.
the strength of our succession planning consider how any changes will affect the This clarifies expectations over employee activities which have allowed us to way we work.
behaviour and seeks to ensure employees successfully navigate a number of changes understand the individual obligations that without disruption.
This planning has On a regulatory level, the impact of the Group imposes on them through our enabled us to recruit very high calibre International Financial Reporting Standard policies, including financial crime candidates to the Board, with diverse skills 17 IFRS 17 on the Group will be further prevention, conflicts of interest, information and expertise.
Succession planning has assessed following work already undertaken security and securities dealing, public therefore been a particular area of focus by the Board and Audit Committee.
communications and social media, people during the year and we continue to keep I hope that this report and the reports of my related policies and confidential reporting.
The activities of fellow Committee Chairs will demonstrate the Nomination & Governance Committee Strategic projects to you the work we have undertaken over in this respect are set out on pages 101 to In 2017, the Board considered a number of the course of the year as well as the 104 and all changes to the Board are set out strategic projects.
Most notably, we tangible and positive impact this has had on page 83 of this report.
I would like to announced in August 2017 our intention to on our business.
express my thanks once again for the merge our UK asset manager, M&G, and contributions made by Ann Godbehere, our UK life insurance business to form Penny James and Tony Wilkey during their M&G Prudential.
The combined business tenures and to welcome Mark FitzPatrick, manages over 330 billion in assets for James Turner and Tom Watjen to the more than six million customers.
details of the merger are set out in the Strategic report on pages 10 to 80.
From a governance perspective, the Board and Paul Manduca Audit Committee spent significant time Chairman considering the benefits of the transaction 82 Prudential plc Annual Report 2017 www.
