Governance Chairmans Introduction to Corporate Governance Focused on STRATEGY In my first months as Chairman, I have found the culture of Spectris to be open and transparent.
Mark Williamson Chairman On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present my first Corporate diversity at a Board, executive leadership and at every level of the Governance Report as Chairman of Spectris.
This report aims to Company.
I was pleased to hear about some of the initiatives provide shareholders and other stakeholders with an appreciation already underway within the operating companies to support of how our Group is managed and the governance and control future talent and diversity and you can read further details in the framework in which we operate.
Sustainability Report on pages 43 and 44.
The Board and I are committed to maintaining the highest As a Board, we are conscious that we are accountable to our standards of corporate governance and this report sets out how we shareholders and must have regard to other stakeholders such as have applied the principles and provisions of the UK Corporate employees, customers, suppliers and the environment.
Culture is key to strong governance and in an active dialogue with shareholders throughout the year and listen my first months as Chairman I have found the culture of Spectris to to views of representatives of investors and financial institutions.
be open and transparent, with the Board and Executive sharing a We welcome the opportunity at our Annual General Meeting to common approach of constructive challenge and support.
meet and answer shareholders questions.
The Board and I take very seriously our responsibility to have a Mark Williamson robust governance structure in place to ensure that we properly Chairman discharge our responsibilities in setting our strategy, as well as 19 February 2018 monitoring and reviewing progress as it is implemented, and in ensuring that we manage our risks and carry out business responsibly.
In support of this responsibility, the Board held an in-depth strategy review with the Executive team in December 2017 to thoroughly consider and challenge the five-year strategic Corporate Governance Code plan and the proposed organisational model to support that plan.
Statement of compliance A review of the implementation of the strategy agreed at that As a UK premium listed company, Spectris plc is expected to meeting will be included on the agenda of all scheduled Board comply, or explain any non-compliance, with the 2016 UK meetings for 2018.
Corporate Governance Code 'the Code'.
The Board considers As a Board we have taken note of the reports from both the that the Company complied with the Code throughout the Hampton-Alexander and the Parker reviews.
We have considered year ended 31 December 2017 and a full summary of our approach to diversity in light of the issues raised in both reports.
compliance is set out on pages 62 to 63.
This report details the Boards renewed commitment to promoting 48 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Board and Executive Committee structure The governance of the Group is structured through the Board and a series of committees that approve, review, challenge and monitor the strategies and policies under which the Group operates.
The structure and responsibilities of these Board and management committees, and a summary of their responsibilities, are illustrated in the diagram below: The Board Board committees Audit and Risk Nomination Remuneration Responsible for overseeing the Responsible for advising on Responsible for recommending financial reporting process, succession matters and talent the policy for the remuneration significant accounting judgements, management for the Board, Group of the Chairman, Chief Executive the Group's ethics programme, Executive and senior management and Finance Director and the financial and compliance controls Executive Committee and risk management Management committees Executive Disclosure Finance Responsible for the Responsible for the identification Responsible for banking day-to-day management and disclosure of inside and treasury matters of the Groups operations information and for ensuring that announcements comply with applicable regulatory requirements Board and committee attendance Board Board Audit and Risk Remuneration Nomination 1 1 scheduled ad hoc Committee Committee Committee AGM Mark Williamson appointed 26 May 2017 4 4 n a n a n a 1 1 n a John O'Higgins 9 9 2 2 n a n a 5 5 Y Clive Watson 9 9 2 2 n a n a n a Y 2 Russell King 8 9 2 2 n a 6 6 5 5 Y Karim Bitar 4 4 n a 2 2 3 3 n a n a 3 Ulf Quellmann appointed 1 July 2017 8 9 1 2 3 4 5 6 n a Y Bill Seeger 9 9 2 2 4 4 n a n a Y 4 Kjersti Wiklund appointed 19 January 2017 8 9 1 2 n a 5 6 4 5 Y Martha Wyrsch 9 9 2 2 4 4 n a 4 5 Y 5 Dr John Hughes retired 26 May 2017 2 5 1 2 n a n a 2 4 N 1.
In addition to scheduled meetings, the Board also held two ad hoc meetings during the year and the Nomination Committee held two ad hoc meetings during the year.
Given the inherent short notice of these meetings, some Directors were unable to attend but all were fully briefed on the matters discussed.
Russell King was unable to attend the telephone Board meeting on 16 May 2017 due to a travel delay and instead provided input ahead of the meeting.
Ulf Quellmann was unable to attend the Board meeting, Remuneration Committee and the Audit and Risk Committee meeting held during the visit to Malvern Panalytical on 16 and 17 October 2017 due to a competing engagement with Rio Tinto.
Mr Quellmann provided his detailed comments on the matters to be discussed at the meetings to the Chairman and the Committee Chairmen ahead of the meetings.
Kjersti Wiklund was unable to attend the scheduled telephone Board meeting on 16 May 2017 due to a commitment made prior to her appointment.
Dr John Hughes took a medical leave of absence from the Company from 28 April 2017 until his retirement from the Board.
