BAE Systems 72 Annual Report 2017 Chairmans governance letter Contents Chairmans governance letter 72 Governance highlights 73 Directors duties 74 Board governance 76 Board of directors 78 Board information 80 Governance disclosures 81 Audit Committee report 82 Corporate Responsibility Committee report 87 Nominations Committee report 90 Remuneration Committee report 91 Dear Shareholders, The importance of having a clearly defined This year, we decided to widen the circle of strategy for management to pursue and the contact with Board members by inviting a right culture to guide behaviour and drive small group of shareholders to engage directly performance to implement the strategy with the Board in an informal gathering to remains a priority focus for the Board, as discuss the requirements of shareholders in Ihighlight in the Chairmans letter in this general, and to review BAE Systems in report see pages 10 to 12. particular.
The meeting proved to be valuable to both parties and we will continue this Effective engagement with ourstakeholders is practice in the years ahead.
equally an essential part of goodgovernance, with particular emphasis onshareholders Our second additional measure was to invite andcustomers.
shareholders to a more formal morning meeting with our non-executive directors Our shareholder contact is typically through andChief Executive for a brief presentation our investor relations team on a day-to-day byeach of the non-executive committee basis, which is supplemented by face-to-face chairson our remuneration, audit and meetings with our major shareholders by our corporate responsibility policies and Chief Executive and Group Finance Director procedures.
The presentations were followed atthe time of our annual and half-year results.
by an open question and answer session, To ensure that our performance is viewed in which enabled shareholders to probe more the context of our broader Board policy, as deeply into the methods and mindsets of Chairman, I try to meet with our major thenon-executive team.
Feedback on this shareholders at least once a year to discuss session was particularly positive, and we will governance, strategy, culture and succession.
continue to conduct this type of meeting on Our Senior Independent Director is, of course, atwo-yearly basis or when there is material available to speak to shareholders at all times change in Board membership.
if an alternative or additional channel of communication is required.
