58 Chairmans introduction to corporate governance The statement of corporate governance practices set out on pages 58 to 87 and the information referred to therein constitutes our Corporate Governance Report which we believe remains appropriate for the Groups business and is supportive of its strategy and culture.
Philip Aiken AM Chairman Leadership Effectiveness Accountability We have a collective We continually evaluate The Board sets the Groups responsibility to challenge thebalance of skills and strategy and risk appetite strategy, performance and experience of the Board and approves the operating accountability to ensure and management team plans and targets to deliver every decision complies toensure we have the this strategy based on with high standards of rightpeople in place to therecommendations business integrity and is in provide effective leadership.
the best interests of the Companys shareholders.
Read more about the Boards Read more about the Boards Read more about the Boards leadership p60-62 effectiveness p63-66 accountability p67-71 Remuneration Our remuneration policy aims to attract, retain and motivate the right calibre of people to drive the performance of the business.
We aim to operate this policy in a transparent manner.
Read more about the Boards remuneration policy p76-87 Compliance with the Code The UK Corporate Governance Code 2016 the Code is the standard applying to good corporate governance practice in the UK and the Listing Rules require listed companies to disclose whether they have complied with the provisions of the Code www.
The Company has complied fully with the requirements of the Code throughout the accounting period and to the date of this report.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 59 Leadership Diversity The Board seeks to promote the longAppointments to the Board are made term success of the Group, delivering on merit and candidates are assessed sustainable value to shareholders and against objective criteria through a promoting a culture of opennness and rigorous selection process, overseen debate.
It is responsible for setting and bythe Nominations Committee.
We ask upholding high standards of corporate search rms to identify suitable female governance, including the way the Group candidates although we do not believe conducts its business and its approach to ingender quotas.
ethical matters, and sets the risk appetite Diversity and inclusion are key appropriate to delivering the Groups components of our talent management strategy.
It is committed to providing anddevelopment programmes, details effective leadership by ensuring that of which can be found on the Companys those governance principles are adhered website balfourbeatty.
to throughout the Group, supported by an effective framework of systems and Accountability controls which define clearly delegations We believe that Balfour Beattys processes of authority and accountabilities.
and procedures have been further Further details of how the Board manages strengthened during the year with the risk can be found on pages 65 and 66. development of a Business Management As Chairman, it is my role to ensure that System for all aspects of UK business the executive leadership and the Board practice and ever greater harmonisation are able to discharge their responsibilities of HR systems and of financial reporting effectively and, within that, I have platforms, enabling the Board to present responsibility to ensure that a robust a fair, balanced and understandable succession plan is in place to cover assessment of the Groups trading position all eventualities.
We continue to keep under review the matters reserved to The Board comprises a majority of theBoard and the terms of reference non-executive Directors whose role it ofitsCommittees.
Copies can be found is to challenge constructively, scrutinise onthe Companys website.
the performance of management in meetingagreed targets and contribute Remuneration tothe development of strategy.
The remuneration policy was approved Maureen Kempston Darkes, who has byshareholders at the 2017 AGM.
served as a Director since July 2012 and Details of how we intend to operate chair of the Safety and Sustainability that policy in 2018 can be found in the Committee, retired at the AGM in 2017.
Remuneration report on pages 76 to 87.
I am delighted to welcome two new nonexecutive Directors to the Board, Barbara Relations with shareholders Moorhouse who joined in June and Our investor relations programme is of Michael Lucki who joined in July.
critical importance to the Board.
The Board routinely receives reports from the investor Non-executive Directors are appointed relations team and analysts, together with to the Board for an initial three-year term feedback from any meetings which the and, subject to continuing satisfactory Directors have with institutional investors.
performance and re-election by As Chairman, I seek to meet, at least shareholders at AGMs, are expected to annually, with representatives of the UK serve two three-year terms.
We recognise may invite a Director to serve beyond six the AGM as an important opportunity for years but any such extended period would private investors to engage with the Board.
be subject to particularly stringent review.
All resolutions will, however, be put to a The Directors believe that the Board poll rather than a show of hands to ensure provides effective leadership.
Details of the that shareholders who are not able to Directors are set out on pages 60 and 61. attend the meeting have their votes fully taken into account.
Very sadly, during the year, Steve Marshall, my predecessor as Chairman, passed away.
I would like to express our condolences to his family and recognise the leadership he gave Balfour Beatty at avery challenging time for the Company.
Philip Aiken AM Chairman balfourbeatty.
