56 Governance | Chairmans introduction Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 CHAIRMANS INTRODUCTION TO GOVERNANCE ANDREW SUKAWATY We are committed to CHAIRMAN maintaining the highest standards of governance at the Board level and throughout the Company The Board is ultimately responsible to shareholders for all our activities: for delivering our strategy and financial performance in the long-term interests of the Company: for efficiently using our resources and having regard to social, environmental and ethical matters.
Setting the right cultural tone from the Board, through the Executive Directors and Executive Management Board throughout the Group is very important.
The Board approves the Groups governance framework with the Board Committees contributing their specialist focus to key areas such as remuneration policy, internal controls and risk management.
Our governance framework reflects the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code and the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Report Amendment Regulations 2013 the Regulations.
Groups financial condition and results of cascades down through the business from the We comply with the Code with one exception operations.
Our external auditors review the Executive Management Board.
We are very that I, as Chairman, was not considered narrative sections of the Annual Report to proud of Inmarsats brand and are focused independent on appointment because I was identify any material inconsistencies with on protecting its integrity for the future.
However we the financial statements.
Our Board members have a strong Senior Independent Director, As Chairman I am able to call on a broad receive drafts of the Annual Report in sufficient Dr Abe Peled, who provides additional and diverse range of skills and experience time to facilitate their review and input.
independence to respond to any shareholder from all my Directors.
The blend of experience, queries and has joined me in several We are aware of the Financial Reporting Council nationalities and range of cultural experience shareholder meetings.
report which encourages the Board to address within the Board is valuable to us as we fulfil our culture, encourage discussion and debate how duties.
The diversity already on our Board allows During 2017 there were changes in Board boards and executive management can steer us to be culturally aware and respond where there membership which Ive summarised in my corporate behaviour to create a culture that are areas which need greater focus.
Succession opening Chairmans statement on page 7 will deliver sustainable good performance.
planning for the Non-Executive Directors remains and also note later in this Report.
The Board is very collaborative and collegiate: a key focus for the Nominations Committee and The Directors have confirmed by way of honest and open debate is in evidence at the Board.
Warren Finegold joined us in August a statement, on page 103, that they consider all Board meetings.
The Board and Executive 2017 and Im delighted that he is contributing the Annual Report, taken as a whole, to be fair, Management Board understand the increasing so well so quickly.
We will review the size and balanced and understandable.
The processes importance which corporate culture plays in composition of the Board over 2018. including financial controls and reporting, delivering long-term business and economic We hope the information in this Report will and risk management, which underpin and success and this will be an area of focus for help you to understand how your Board runs support our confidence in making this statement the Board.
During 2017, we introduced a new the Company, manages risks, monitors internal are long-established and embedded into our high-performing culture programme which is controls, and how decisions have been made.
business and we continue to make improvements mentioned in the Our People section of the in our reporting.
In addition, our Internal Resources and Relationships part of this Annual Audit department reviewed the narrative Report.
It has already been rolled out to the ANDREW SUKAWATY sections of the Annual Report.
In line with its extended leadership team of around 100 senior CHAIRMAN terms of reference, a subset of the Disclosure managers across the Group and all employees Committee also reviews the Annual Report will participate in workshops during 2018 and 9 March 2018 to ensure it contains all necessary disclosures into 2019.
We act with integrity and we see to fairly present the Companys and the this within our Board discussions, and how this
