Chairmans and nomination committees Members John Sawers Member since September 2015 and chair since April 2016 Paul Anderson Member since September 2015 Frank Bowman Member since September 2015 Ian Davis Member since September 2016 Melody Meyer Member since May 2017 Cynthia Carroll Member from September 2016 to May 2017 Andrew Shilston Member from September 2015: retired May 2017 Meetings and attendance Chairmans introduction Carl-Henric Svanberg and Bob Dudley attend all committee meetings.
The executive vice president, regions and the vice president, The chairmans and the nomination committees were actively involved government and political affairs attend meetings as required.
in the evolution of the board in 2017.
In October, I announced that I would be standing down as chairman at an appropriate time after the The committee met three times during the year.
All directors attended 2018 AGM in May.
As a result, the board has started the search for my each meeting that they were eligible to attend except that Cynthia successor.
This is being carried out by the chairmans committee led Carroll was unable to attend the meeting on 1 February 2017. by Ian Davis, the senior independent director.
The nomination committee continues to focus on board renewal and Activities during the year diversity.
The committee developed and broadened its work over the year.
Carl-Henric Svanberg It discussed BPs involvement in the key countries where it has Chair of the committees investment or is considering investment in detail.
These included Angola, the US, Russia, Mexico, Brazil, India, Mauritania and Senegal.
It considered broader policy issues such as the US domestic and foreign policy under the new administration and the political and economic Chairmans committee impact of a low price on producing countries.
Role of the committee We reviewed the geopolitical background to BPs global investments To provide a forum for matters to be discussed by the non-executive and the politics around climate change.
Committee evaluation Key responsibilities The committee reviewed its performance by means of an internally Evaluate the performance and the effectiveness of the group chief facilitated questionnaire, and discussed the outcome of that evaluation executive.
at its meeting in January 2018. Review the structure and effectiveness of the business organization.
The evaluation concluded that the committee was working well and Review the systems for senior executive development and determine considering the right issues, but stressed the importance of considering succession plans for the group chief executive, executive directors and the geopolitics in a country before an investment is made.
The other senior members of executive management.
committee currently meets three times a year and is considering Determine any other matter that is appropriate to be considered by additional meetings.
The committee and board felt that there should be greater integration Opine on any matter referred to it by the chairman of any committees between the work of the board, the committee and the international comprised solely of non-executive directors.
Members The committee comprises all non-executive directors.
Directors join the committee immediately on their appointment to the board.
The group chief executive attends meetings of the committee when requested.
88 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2017 Corporate governance Meetings and attendance Nomination committee The committee met 10 times in 2017.
All directors attended all the Role of the committee meetings for which they were eligible, except that Cynthia Carroll was The committee ensures an orderly succession of candidates for unable to attend the meeting on 1 February, as was Paula Reynolds for directors and the company secretary.
Nils Andersen did not attend the meetings where succession was discussed.
The chairman did not attend the Key responsibilities meeting on 2 February when the committee, led by Andrew Shilston, Identify, evaluate and recommend candidates for appointment or the then senior independent director, carried out an evaluation of the reappointment as directors.
Identify, evaluate and recommend candidates for appointment as Bob Dudley and Brian Gilvary joined meetings where the chairmans company secretary.
Matters relating to the business of the nomination committee were also discussed at some meetings.
Keep the mix of knowledge, skills and experience of the board under review to ensure the orderly succession of directors.
Activities during the year Review the outside directorship commitments of non-executive Evaluated the performance of the chairman and the group chief directors.
Considered the composition of and the succession plans for the Members executive team.
Carl-Henric Svanberg Member since September Determined the process for the search for a new chair and appointed 2009 and chair since January advisers to support the committee.
2010 Commenced the search for the new chair.
Alan Boeckmann Member since April 2016 Discussed the strategy options for the company, including the lower Ann Dowling Member since May 2015 carbon transition.
John Sawers Member since April 2016 Ian Davis Member since August 2010 Andrew Shilston Member between May 2015: retired May 2017 Andrew Shilston left the committee when he stood down from the board in May 2017.
Meetings and attendance The committee met three times in 2017.
During the second half of the year, matters relating to the appointment of new directors were considered jointly with the chairmans committee.
All directors attended each meeting that they were eligible to attend.
Activities during the year The committee monitored the composition and skills of the board.
Paul Anderson will be retiring from the board at the 2018 AGM.
The committee focused on ensuring that the boards composition is strong and diverse.
As a result, the board is proposing Dame Alison Carnwath for election as a director at the 2018 AGM.
Committee evaluation The committee generally continues to work well.
Its balance of skills and experience needs to be maintained so that it is able to govern the company as it implements its strategy in the transition to the lower carbon world.
It expressed a need to ensure that the board maintains strong former executive membership and this will be a focus in forthcoming appointments.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2017 89
