48 Governance report Chairmans introduction to governance Rupert Robson Leadership More generally, with the slightly larger size of Chairman Against the background of Tullett Prebons the Board now, we aim to move to a position acquisition of ICAP at the end of 2016, the where we refresh the Non-executive Director Board committed to ensuring that it was complement of the Board at the rate of one Dear shareholder, fit for the future by appointing two new person every 12 months or so.
This is not independent, international Non-executive intended to be a hard and fast rule, as it is As a Board, we take our governance Directors.
Iwas delighted to welcome Edmund important to maintain flexibility.
Nonetheless, responsibilities seriously and recognise that Ng ontothe Board in November 2017, and an approach of this sort allows for staggering instilling and promoting a culture rooted in inJanuary 2018 we were joined by Michael of Board rotation at an appropriate pace.
our core values of honesty, integrity, respect Heaney.
Edmund and Michael bring arange Therefore, we are actively considering and excellence is particularly important of relevant expertise andperspectives of whatfurther Board changes will need to be during a period of integration and change.
financial markets in Asia andthe Americas made in the coming 12 to 24 months.
We are respectively, and also enhance the cultural conscious of the fact that some non-executive We have made good progress during diversity of the Board.
We also have two members of the Board will have completed 2017, further strengthening the women on the Board, Angela Knight and anumber ofyears on the Board during governanceand complianceframeworks Carol Sergeant.
Overall, we believe we have thisperiod.
that regulators, clients, shareholders made significant progress in achieving a andother stakeholders expect from the Andrew Baddeley was Chief Financial diverse set of Board members.
Officer until he stepped down in November While I believe the Boards composition 2017.
The search for Andrews replacement Evolution and reform provides an excellent blend of experience, continues.
Though not formally on the Board, We remain committed to continual expertise and challenge, we remain mindful Robin Stewart, Deputy CFO, has taken up the improvement in governance, culture and of the need to bring in fresh perspectives.
CFO responsibilities on an interim basis, and compliance.
Recognising the increasing focus Wewill therefore continue to challenge I thank him for his considerable efforts since society places on corporate governance, ourselves to develop our Board succession November last year.
theBoard determined during the year that plan, ever cognisant of the benefits that the Nominations Committee should take The Board recently concluded its annual diversity, in all its forms, brings.
increased responsibility for overseeing evaluation of the Board and its committees.
Stephen Pull has indicated that he would Given that the previous years evaluation liketo retire from the Board in the first few was externally facilitated, this year it was The renamed Nominations and Governance months of 2019.
He will have been on the aninternal questionnaire-based exercise.
Committee will take the lead in ensuring the Board for seven and a half years by that The results of this evaluation confirmed Company is prepared to react and adapt point.
To thatend, we have recently thatthe Board and its committees continue inresponse to legislative and business-led embarked on asearchfor a new to operate effectively, but also identified corporate governance measures implemented independent Non-executive Director, areas for further development.
These are set under the UK Governments corporate whowill also start as a new member of the out on page 57 of this report.
You can find further detail Remuneration Committee.
With impending on the work of the Committee during 2017, Compliance with the Code changes to the scope of the Remuneration including its work on succession planning, We have reviewed our governance framework Committee arising from the Financial onpage 60. with reference to the UK Corporate Governance Reporting Councils FRC review of the UK Code, and astatement of compliance with the Corporate Governance Code the Code, Over the following pages you will also Codeis set out on page 55. weare giving careful consideration to the gaingreater insight into the work of the skills required of this new individual.
Board and each of the other main Board Rupert Robson Committees, and will see how we have Chairman fulfilled our governance responsibilities 13 March 2018 throughout the year.
TP ICAP Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 49 Instilling and promoting a culture rooted in our core values.
Q&A with Rupert Robson on the importance of culture, ethics and integrity at TP ICAP How comprehensively has the Board wewould expect to see to exemplify each How does the Board ask for Q Q considered the importance of TP value.
The values are hard-coded into the feedback from stakeholders, ICAPs culture, and how it wishes to instil performance management process for all including employees, on the culture they this culture throughout the Company?
Our Code of Conduct is our guide would liketo see within the Company?
to appropriate conduct and summarises The Board regularly discusses the The Board welcomes feedback standards to ensure that people are clear Aculture ofthe Company, and how Afromall stakeholders.
The Board onwhat it means to do the right thing.
We itisprogressing towards becoming the isconscious of the obligations under s172 also welcome feedback from our employees employer of choice and role model for oftheCompanies Act 2006 and has to show how these values are working within thesector.
We have a culture rooted in our increased its focus on the appropriate the organisation and to identify any areas core values of honesty, integrity, respect approach to stakeholder engagement.
where we can continue to improve.
This is something I The Board has delegated to the mentioned briefly in my statement in last How has the Board considered Nominations and Governance Committee years Annual Report and Im pleased with Q theextent to which the business responsibility for considering how the the progress we have made over the past model and strategy relies on culture?
Company can most effectively seek 12months.
Nonetheless, there are always Culture is fundamental to the longfeedback from stakeholders.
Some of the areas that can be improved and over the Atermsuccess of a business and forms key stakeholders who frequently contribute past year, we have been looking closely asignificant part of our discussions on the are our shareholders, regulators, clients and atthe culture of the combined organisation business model and strategy of the Group.
There are various avenues for as it establishes itself following the early AtTP ICAP, we believe the conduct of shareholders to provide this feedback, stages of integration.
individuals and the Group is as important including at the Annual General Meeting As well as having the Companys culture asthe products and services we deliver.
orthrough more informal discussions with inmind throughout the year, the Board has Ensuring the culture of the Company is based the Chief Executive.
Other colleagues on begun receiving regular updates on culture on our identified values helps us meet our the Board, including most obviously the and conduct.
The culture monitor is a clients needs, and creates a sustainable Senior Independent Non-executive Director biannual internal report which provides business model.
Our reputation in the market andthe Chairman of the Remuneration commentary against specific goals and is incredibly important to us and contributes Committee, are also available to seeks to measure progress against them.
to the success of the business.
In addition, we hold regular Our Risk Committee also considers culture meetings with regulators to ensure that the To what extent do internal or as a topic for review and discussion.
dialogue between us is as meaningful and Q external board evaluations include open aspossible.
We ask all employees to How do TP ICAPs values assist insights onthe culture of the Board?
complete an Engagement Survey, which Q withharmonising the culture allows them to express views on anumber Both the internal and external across the organisation?
We review the Aevaluations look at the culture of results carefully.
There isalso an employee At TP ICAP, we believe it is theBoard and how it helps the Board representation forum inthe UK called Afundamental to our success that the operate effectively.
I am proud of the culture involve which is made upofelected culture we promote within the organisation of theBoard, which I believe is one that representatives.
This forum provides a resonates with our employees in all encourages openness, challenge and place for meaningful consultation and ourlocations.
Our core values of honesty, collegiality amongst the members.
The two-way dialogue on a number of issues.
integrity, respect and excellence apply evaluations also consider the culture of the This has been especially important over everywhere.
These are set out in numerous organisation asawhole.
thelast 12 months, when we have been places with examples of the behaviour focused on creating a unified culture for thecombined organisation.
To read more about stakeholder engagement see p59 www.
