62 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2017 Governance overview Dear shareholders, Sidney Taurel Chairman As I said last year, during times of change, good governance is paramount.
As a Board we continue to organise our work around five major themes where we believe we can add value: governance and risk, strategy, performance, leadership and people, and shareholder engagement.
A summary of the key items covered by the Board throughout the year appears on p68, and I have set out below further detail on our particular areas of focus during 2017.
Looking back on 2017, the Board is satisfied that external and internal expectations regarding performance have been met and that the company has achieved operational stability.
We have been In this Governance section very focused throughout the year on the simplification of our p6475 Leadership & effectiveness portfolio and investment in our transformation programmes, including The Enabling Programme TEP and the Global Learning p7685 Accountability Platform GLP.
We are now in a position where, in addition to regularly monitoring performance and simplification, the Board p8689 Engagement can begin to pivot its attentions towards longer-term strategic p90105 Remuneration opportunities through structural growth, digital transformation and in the lifelong learning sector.
p106110 Additional disclosures Leadership & effectiveness See full section on p6475 In my letter to shareholders at this time last year, I set out a number of priorities for the Board during 2017.
I am pleased to report that good progress has been made on all fronts, summarised below, and with further detail given throughout this report: m onitor the companys strategic and tactical actions related to the refocusing of the business the Board monitors financial and operational performance through a streamlined and effective dashboard, which is provided to the Directors on a monthly basis, enabling us to spend more time on strategic discussions during Board meetings i mplement previously signposted portfolio decisions in 2016 we indicated that we intended to reduce our exposure to large-scale direct delivery businesses to focus on more scalable online, virtual, and blended services.
In line with this strategy, we completed the sale of our English test preparation business in China, Global Education GEDU, in August 2017.
We also announced the sale of our English language learning business, Wall Street English WSE, which is expected to complete in the first half of 2018.
In addition, we indicated in early 2017 our intention to exit from our stake in Penguin Random House.
Following negotiations with our partner in Penguin Random House, Bertelsmann, we agreed to divest a 22% stake in Penguin Random House, retaining an interest of 25%, and to recapitalise that business s ignificantly drive down our cost structure we announced in 2017 our plans to reduce Pearsons cost base by a further UK Corporate Governance Code 300m exiting 2019.
We are on track to deliver the planned savings, many of which will come through simplification of our technology This year, we are reporting against the 2016 edition of the architecture allowing the increased use of shared service centres UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
The Board enabling us to standardise processes and reduce headcount.
believes that during 2017 the company was in full compliance This will facilitate further opportunities such as the greater with all relevant provisions of the Code.
A detailed account centralisation of procurement and the reduction in the number of the provisions of the Code can be found on the FRCs of our office locations website at www.
uk and we encourage readers to view our compliance schedule on the company website at r educe the dividend in 2017, we took the decision to rebase our www.
com governance dividend policy to reflect portfolio changes, the challenging market environment, the pace of investment required to transform the Overview Our strategy in action Our performance Governance Financial statements Section 4 Governance 63 63 Governance overview business and the need to sustain a healthy balance sheet to ensure We recently announced that Harish Manwani, a Non-Executive we have the financial flexibility to maintain a solid investment Director of Pearson since 2013, is retiring from the Board at the grade credit rating.
Our policy reflects a sustainable and progressive forthcoming AGM, and will not be seeking re-election, in anticipation dividend, comfortably covered by the earnings of our business and of his future commitments.
The Board joins me in thanking Harish which can grow as our business expands into the opportunities in for his commitment and invaluable contribution to Pearson, and we global education.
For the 2017 financial year, we therefore propose wish him all the best in his future endeavours.
to pay a total dividend of 17p per share 5p per share at the interim, Accountability See full section on p7685 paid in September 2017, and 12p per share final dividend, subject to shareholder approval at the Annual General Meeting AGM in As a Board, we are accountable for Pearsons successes and May 2018 addressing its challenges.
We aim to communicate to you in a transparent manner the steps we have taken to ensure that we have effect an optimal capital allocation, particularly following the a clear oversight of the business and the work we have undertaken outcome of negotiations regarding our investment in Penguin in respect of Pearsons strategy throughout the year.
Our Audit Random House, to ensure long-term sustainability and to reward Committee, led by Tim Score, plays a key role in monitoring and our shareholders.
The proceeds from the sale of the Penguin evaluating our risk management processes, providing independent Random House stake have been used as follows: we undertook oversight of our external audit and internal control programmes, a buyback programme to repurchase 300m of ordinary shares accounting policies, business transformation projects, such as which completed on 16 February 2018: $306m was utilised to TEP and GLP, and in assisting the Board in reporting in a fair, pay down debt in the form of an early redemption of a US dollar balanced and understandable manner to our shareholders.
denominated bond: and the remainder reinvested to build a strong balance sheet.
Engagement See full section on p8689 In the coming year, our main focus is to pivot towards our longerThe 2017 financial year has been one of significant engagement with term growth opportunities by delivering on the three strategic our shareholders.
I have enjoyed spending time throughout the year priorities described in this report and to continue to monitor with many of you to ensure that we maintain an open, transparent progress against our dashboard and key milestones for 2018. dialogue, keep you updated on our strategy and receive your The Board continued to work closely with the Executive team to inputs.
In common with most large, public companies, we have a ensure ongoing leadership development throughout the year.
wider range of stakeholders than just traditional investors, and At an Executive level, we recruited a Chief Strategy Officer, Jonathan our Reputation & Responsibility Committee has oversight of our Chocqueel-Mangan, and a new Chief Human Resources Officer, sustainability and social impact initiatives, government and public Anna Vikstrm Persson, both of whom joined the team in early 2018. affairs matters, and engagement with the education community.
The Board looks forward to working closely with Jonathan and Anna, Board members also engage with the wider stakeholder population, who each have a key role to play in shaping Pearson as we continue including employees, customers and partners, both through formal to transform the business, hone our strategy and ensure we are able Board events and by way of individual contributions to internal and to attract and develop the talent that will lead the business forward.
The Board evaluation for 2017 was facilitated externally the first Remuneration See full section on p90105 external evaluation during my tenure as Chairman.
I am pleased Since our last AGM in May 2017, Elizabeth Corley, who chairs our to report that there was unanimous agreement by all Directors that Remuneration Committee, has led our work to engage with the Board is operating effectively.
In times of transformation and investors in connection with Pearsons remuneration policy and disruption within Pearson itself and the wider sector in which we to listen to their concerns.
It is clear that shareholders and other operate, it is imperative to ensure that our long-term strategy is stakeholders would like our approach to remuneration to be simple, appropriate, with shorter-term tactical actions that support delivery transparent, closely linked to our strategy and the companys of that strategy.
One particular theme arising from our evaluation performance.
We have worked hard to develop an approach that was that the Board will spend even more time considering long-term the majority of our shareholders can support.
Our approach is strategy and ensure we are aligned on process and deliverables.
explained in more detail in the remuneration section of this report Our Chief Strategy Officer will play an important role in this work on p90105.
Building on our 2016 evaluation, the Board and management gave Conclusion consideration to the areas where we could particularly leverage I hope this report clearly sets out how your company is run, and external expertise and advice, and as a result Pearson established how we align governance and our Board agenda with the strategic a Digital Advisory Network of external experts who are partnering direction of Pearson.
We always welcome questions or comments with us to help maximise the opportunity from digital disruption.
from shareholders, either via our website www.
com or Lincoln Wallen was instrumental in the creation of this network, in person at our AGM.
which held its inaugural meeting late in 2017.
We are also pleased that Michael Lynton has been appointed as a Non-Executive Director with effect from 1 February 2018.
Michaels experience leading businesses through times of digital disruption will further strengthen our capabilities in this area.
