Governance Report 43 Chairmans Introduction to Governance Jock Lennox Chairman Dear Shareholder, Welcome to our Corporate Governance Report.
As your new Chairman, I wish to share with you how the Board ensures strong corporate governance to underpin the delivery of our strategy, and how I plan to lead the continued development of our approach.
The Board has ultimate responsibility for the Groups strategic delivery and for the management of risk.
The Board discusses the Companys Strategic plans at each Board meeting and is resolved to continue with its current strategy, which has proven successful in delivering value to shareholders over the last few years and maintaining our strategic direction will be our focus in 2018.
This will be complemented by our continuous improvements in risk management and internal controls.
Our approach to risk management was set out in our Strategic Report on pages 26 to 30 and Mark Reckitt, Chair of the Audit Committee, gives more insight into our internal control environment in his report at pages 56 to 60.
In order to fulfil our role, I am committed to ensuring that we have an effective Board.
To support this, the Board commissioned an external review of Board effectiveness in 2017 and we are considering various responses to its recommendations, including reviewing the composition of the Board in the light of FRCs review of the UK Corporate Governance Code which is likely to be released in the summer of 2018.
More detail on Board composition changes and Board effectiveness can be found in the Governance Report on pages 50 and 51 and my report on behalf of the Nomination Committee on page 55.
The Board leads the business in a way that is honest, transparent and accountable.
This transparency is key to the delivery of the Groups strategy and value creation for our shareholders.
Our approach to shareholder and other stakeholder engagement is set out in the Governance Report on page 46 and I would encourage you to attend our Annual General Meeting on Thursday 17 May 2018.
In order to promote the long-term success of our business and support an appropriate internal culture, the Board has given robust consideration to executive remuneration and Annette Kelleher, Chair of the Remuneration Committee, explains further in her report on pages 62 to 71.
Finally, I would like to thank my Board colleagues and all employees for their commitment and focus in 2017.
Jock Lennox Chairman 7 March 2018 www.
