Chairmans introduction My responsibility as Chairman is to ensure that the Board operates effectively and efficiently and that it upholds the high standards of The Board aims to corporate governance required for the long-term success of the Group.
I believe the achievement of good governance is based on ensure that good the appropriate level of oversight, good communication, a focus on the management of risks, a commitment to transparency and governance extends ensuring a culture of continuous improvement in standards and performance across the business.
beyond the boardroom The Board regularly reviews its level of oversight and the monitoring of risks over a variety of areas including strategy, acquisitions and disposals, capital expenditure on new projects, and is continually finance, people, and sustainability matters.
It will continue to adapt to meet the evolving needs of the Group.
The Board aims borne in mind in the to ensure that good governance extends beyond the boardroom and is continually borne in mind in the successful delivery of the successful delivery of Groups strategic priorities over both the short and long-term.
On 5 December 2017 the FRC published proposals for a revised the Groups strategic UK Corporate Governance Code the revised Governance Code, intended to reflect the changing business environment and to help UK companies achieve the highest levels of priorities over both the governance.
I shall be working with your Board on the appropriate implementation of the recommendations of the revised short and long term.
Governance Code by the time it takes effect.
As announced on 11 October 2017, Wayne Sheppard will retire from the Board in 2018.
Wayne steered the company through its Jamie Pike successful IPO and under his leadership Ibstock has delivered Non-Executive Chairman significant shareholder value in its first years as a public listed company.
He will be succeeded as CEO by Joe Hudson, who joined the Board on 2 January 2018 as CEO Designate.
On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank Wayne for his immense contribution to Ibstock and his commitment to ensure a smooth transition.
On 31 December 2017 Lynn Minella stepped down from the Board, having joined the Company shortly after the IPO.
Lynn, who has held a number of senior Human Resources roles, became chair of the Remuneration Committee on appointment.
Lynn returned to the USA to take on an executive appointment.
On behalf of the Directors, I should like to thank Lynn for the valuable contribution she has made to the Board.
We appreciate the efforts Lynn has made to accommodate the Board since leaving the UK and wish her every success in her new role.
I am pleased that Tracey Graham accepted the Boards invitation to become Chair of the Remuneration Committee with effect from Dear Shareholder, 1 January 2018.
I am pleased to present the 2017 Corporate Governance Statement to our shareholders.
We have also commenced a search process for the appointment of two new Non-Executive Directors.
The Board is responsible for the governance of the Group and recognises the importance of corporate governance in assisting As announced on 14 February 2018, I shall be stepping down the Group to deliver long-term success for its stakeholders.
I am from the Board following conclusion of the 2018 AGM.
Following pleased to confirm that we have achieved full compliance with the my departure, as part of its long-term succession planning UK Corporate Governance Code throughout 2017. arrangements, Jonathan Nicholls currently Senior Independent Director and Chair of the Audit Committee will be appointed Your Board manages the Company in a transparent, open and Chairman of the Board: Tracey Graham will be appointed as the honest manner, which we achieve by maintaining high standards Senior Independent Director, in addition to her current role as of corporate governance.
The Board is ultimately responsible to Chair of the Remuneration Committee and Justin Read will be shareholders for all our activities: for delivering our strategy and appointed Chair of the Audit Committee, in each case subject to financial performance in the long-term interests of the Company, their re-election by shareholders at the AGM.
for efficiently using our resources and having regard to social, environmental and ethical matters.
The Board approves the It has been a pleasure to be Ibstocks Chairman and I am proud of Groups governance framework with the Board Committees what the Company has achieved since it listed in October 2015. contributing their specialist focus to key areas such as remuneration policy, internal controls and risk management and succession planning.
Jamie Pike Non-Executive Chairman While other sections of the Annual Report and Accounts cover 5 March 2018 our financial and operational achievements during the year, this section describes the effective leadership of the Board and how it endeavours to promote the highest standards of corporate governance throughout the Group.
Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 44 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Other information Board statements The Board is committed to the highest standards of corporate governance.
The Company is subject to the UK Corporate Governance Code 2016 the Code, which is publicly available on the Financial Reporting Council website at www.
The Board is required to make a number of specific statements on certain governance matters.
These statements are set out in the following table: Requirement Board statement Where to find further information Compliance with the Code The Directors confirm that, throughout the 2017 financial Application of the main principles of the Code on pages 46 year, the Company applied the Main Principles and and 47. complied with the Provisions of the Code.
Going concern basis The Directors are satisfied that the Group has sufficient Financial review on pages 38 to 41.
Strategic Report on financial resources to continue operating for a period of at pages 1 to 42.
Principal risks and uncertainties on pages 32 least twelve months from the date of approval of the to 37.
Board statements Going concern in the Audit financial statements and, therefore, have adopted the Committee Report on page 63. going concern basis in preparing the Groups 2017 financial statements.
Viability statement The Directors have assessed the viability of the Group Principal risks and uncertainties on pages 32 to 37.
Internal over a three-year period ending 31 December 2020, controls and Risk Management in Accountability on taking into account the Groups current position and the pages 57 to 58.
Board statements Viability statement in principal risks and uncertainties set out on pages 34 to 37. the Audit Committee Report on page 63.
Following this assessment, the Directors have a The Viability Statement can be found in the Financial Review reasonable expectation that the Group will continue in on page 42. operation and meet its liabilities as and when they fall due over the period of its assessment.
Robust assessment of The Directors confirm that they have carried out a robust Principal risks and uncertainties on pages 32 to 37. the principal risks facing assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, Assessment of principal risks in Accountability on pages the Group including those that would threaten its business model, 57 and 58. future performance, solvency or liquidity.
The Directors also assessed, with the support of the Audit Committee, their appetite with respect to these risks and considered the systems required to mitigate and manage them.
Annual review of systems During the 2017 financial year, the Board monitored the Systems of risk management and internal control of risk management and Groups systems of risk management and internal control Effectiveness review in the Audit Committee Report on internal control with the support of the Audit Committee and carried out page 61. a review of their effectiveness.
The conclusion was that these systems were effective.
Fair, balanced and The Directors consider that this Annual Report, taken Board statements Fair, balanced and understandable understandable as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and review in the Audit Committee Report on page 63. provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy.
Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 45
