esure Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 Chairmans letter DEAR SHAREHOLDER The Boards role is to provide leadership to the Group to assist in achieving its strategic aims, and to promote the long-term success of the Group.
We keep our corporate governance framework under continual review and our Board Committees play a vital role in ensuring its effectiveness.
Each Committee Chairman has provided a report on the Committees role and these can be found on pages 39 to 47.
I was delighted to welcome Alan Rubenstein and Peter Shaw, who joined the Board as Non-Executive Directors on 8 March 2017.
Peter Shaw became a member of the Remuneration and Risk Committees on appointment and Chairman of the Risk Committee on 17 May 2017.
Alan Rubenstein became a member of the Audit and Nomination Committees on appointment.
As previously announced, the Board and Stuart Vann agreed that he would step down as Chief Executive Officer with effect from 18 January 2018.
I would like to thank Stuart for his immense contribution to esure.
Under his direction, the Company has introduced a successful footprint expansion programme and the business remains on track to deliver three million in-force policies by 2020.
We wish him all the best for the future.
During the process of selecting a new Chief Executive Officer, I was delighted to welcome Darren Ogden, Chief Finance Officer, has been appointed Interim Chief Executive Officer, subject to regulatory approval.
Alan Rubenstein and Peter I am supporting Darren during this period by taking a more active role in the business.
Shaw, who joined the Board Also, as previously announced, due to work commitments, as Non-Executive Directors Mara Dolores Dancausa has decided to step down as a NonExecutive Director of the Company at the conclusion of the on 8 March 2017.
Annual General Meeting on 17 May 2018.
I would like to take this opportunity to thank Mara Dolores for her valued support Sir Peter Wood Chairman and her excellent contribution over the years.
As part of our succession planning and as previously announced, Peter Ward stepped down as a Non-Executive Director of the Current balance of Executive and Non-Executive Company at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting Directors held on 17 May 2017.
I would like to take this opportunity to thank Peter for his support over the years as an exceptionally valuable member of the Board.
I, together with the Nomination Committee, continue to keep 1 1 6 the membership of our Board under review, ensuring we have the right mix of skills, experience and background.
Currently, 37% of our Board members are women.
Chairman Executive Non-Executive Director Directors We remain committed to diversity and equality within our organisation, whilst continuing to make appointments based on objective criteria.
Gender diversity Length by tenure I believe this report demonstrates how, through their actions, the Board and its Committees continue to fulfil their governance responsibilities and how the Board works proactively to embed good governance practices across the Group on an ongoing basis.
Sir Peter Wood Male 5 Chairman 13 years service 4 Female 3 46 years service 3 7 years service 1
