Vesuvius plc 76 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Chairmans Governance Letter champion safety and quality throughout the Group.
We thank Dear shareholder, him for his dedication, leadership and stewardship of the Group.
On behalf of the Board I am delighted to present the 2017 Corporate Governance Report.
As a Board, we remain Prior to undertaking these new appointments, the Nomination committed to applying the highest standards of corporate Committee spent time re ecting on the balance of skills and governance, recognising that robust governance and culture experience of the existing Board members, and considering underpin business success.
This year the Company is reporting these against the future needs of the business.
Balancing against the 2016 UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
independence with the skills, knowledge and experience This version of the Code includes minor changes following the required on the Board, and on the Committees which support implementation of the European Unions Audit Regulation and it, is crucial to the Groups success.
With the appointments of Directive.
I am pleased to report that the Company is fully Holly and Patrick we are con dent that the Board has the compliant with the Code.
appropriate composition to ensure the continued long-term success of the business.
Consequently, I encourage all There was much debate in 2017 about the future direction shareholders to support the election and re-election of our of corporate governance, with the publication in April of incumbent Directors at the 2018 Annual General Meeting.
the Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy BEIS Select Committees report on corporate governance, and the Further details about the recruitment processes for Patrick Governments publication of its response to the Green Paper and Holly can be found in the Nomination Committee Report.
on Corporate Governance Reform in August.
During the year, institutions and voting agencies also issued guidance Culture and Diversity on governance and voting issues, and the FRC produced Corporate culture continues to be an important focus for commentaries on key governance issues and responded to the our organisation.
Following the recruitment of a new Chief Governments announcements.
This culminated in December Executive, the Board looks to him to continue the work of his with the FRCs publication of its consultation on a new draft of predecessor in ensuring that appropriate values and a robust the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The Board monitored ethical stance are re ected consistently in our behaviour as we each of these developments, and remains focused on ensuring conduct our business.
One of the key strengths of Vesuvius has that the Company continues to comply with all its governance always been in the diversity of our employees.
With a wide obligations, including full compliance with the UK Corporate geographic spread and local hiring of the clear majority of Governance Code.
staff, the Group encompasses individuals from a multitude of different nationalities and ethnicities.
At a Board level Board Composition we recognise the signi cant bene ts of diversity in our 2017 has been a year of signi cant development for the Board, business, and understand its importance in supporting with two new Board appointments.
candid and constructive boardroom debate.
During 2017, the Board re ected further on this theme, monitoring the In April, the Board was strengthened by the appointment of recommendations of the Hampton-Alexander, Parker and Holly Koeppel as an independent Non-executive Director, McGregor-Smith Reviews on gender and ethnic diversity, and replacing Nelda Connors, who resigned from the Board in approving a Board diversity policy.
Having spent 35 years working in global utility, power commitment to diversity and explains the actions we will take and infrastructure businesses, Holly brings with her extensive to af rm this going forward.
Whilst recognising that the international experience.
Hampton-Alexander Review has set a target of 33% female representation on FTSE 350 Boards by 2020, the Board In September, we welcomed Patrick Andr to the Board as Chief Executive, replacing Franois Wanecq who retired from considers its diversity, size and composition to be appropriate for the requirements of the business, and does not believe that the Board on 31 August 2017.
Patrick was appointed as part of a planned succession process, which involved a comprehensive at this time it needs to accelerate the usual rotation of Directors to meet this target.
However, the Board will continue to consider review of external and internal candidates.
Patrick joined the Group in early 2016, and has displayed signi cant drive and the acknowledged bene ts of greater diversity in all future Director recruitment decisions.
With respect to the Group as energy since then, strengthening the Flow Control business, and exhibiting strong leadership skills and a constant customer a whole, we recognise that our commitment to diversity is not currently re ected in the gender diversity of our employees.
The Board believes that Patrick is the ideal candidate to lead the Group in the next stages of its development.
Like many other industrial engineering companies, we know that our organisation must work harder to attract, develop Following a period of transition, Franois Wanecq retired from and retain talented women.
Franois led the business through a period of signi cant challenges and change.
He A copy of the Board Diversity Policy can be found in the Governance Report.
worked tirelessly to strengthen Vesuvius business and to Governance 77 Board Evaluation and Training Financial Reporting and Risk This year the Boards formal evaluation process was again In 2016, the Audit Committee conducted a competitive externally facilitated by the corporate advisory rm, Lintstock.
tender for the external audit which led to the appointment It utilised a fresh approach, with the key element constituting of  LLP PwC as the Companys one-on-one interviews with each Director conducted by new auditor in 2017.
PwC formulated a detailed transition Lintstock, aimed at gaining a deeper insight into Directors plan, working with people across the business to build on their responses.
Overall, the evaluation concluded that the Board understanding of the Group and re ne the planned approach remained of a high calibre and was functioning well, with to the audit.
During the year PwC provided regular updates open and challenging debate and transparent information to the Audit Committee on the status and progress of the ow.
The Nomination Committee was felt to have dealt auditor transition plan, along with valuable insights into the successfully with Board succession during the year, identifying Groups audit environment.
Further details about the transition an accomplished candidate to replace Franois Wanecq process are contained in the Audit Committee Report.
as Chief Executive and securing an excellent new Non-executive The Board continually assesses the Groups key risks, and the Director.
Similarly, the Audit Committee continued to deliver methods by which we manage our risks.
The impacts of the robust challenge to management on financial matters and had risks are also reviewed and tested as part of our ongoing risk overseen a smooth transition of external auditor.
Remuneration Committee had prepared and recommended A number of emerging risks were raised and discussed, an updated Remuneration Policy for 2017. re ecting developing macro trends and identi ed risks The evaluation highlighted a number of Board priorities for where issues had arisen during the year.
Whilst none of these 2018 including the need to integrate the new Chief Executive, was considered signi cant enough to change the overall an ongoing emphasis on strategy and its delivery, and the characterisation of the Groups risks and uncertainties, the need for the Board to continue to set the right tone from the Boards view on each of these issues was integrated into top and monitor the culture of the Group.
The development of management discussions on risk and factored into the senior management level talent, and succession plans for them, approach the Group takes to mitigation.
The Board continues was again noted as being a key area for focus in 2018, with to monitor all perceived risks and the methods by which these new training programmes implemented, and continuing are managed.
initiatives in place to ensure greater Board access to these Yours sincerely high-potential individuals.
John McDonough CBE Chairman As Chairman, I recognise that I am responsible for ensuring that the Board continues to operate effectively, and that part 28 February 2018 of this role is to ensure that all Directors attain an appropriate understanding of the business, and continue to refresh their skills and knowledge.
During the year, both new Directors undertook a tailored induction programme to ensure that they quickly gained a good understanding of the Group and their responsibilities and obligations.
As well as receiving brie ngs and updates on key financial, legal and governance issues impacting the organisation, the Directors furthered their knowledge by undertaking visits to various operations during the year.
The Board visited Group operations and a customers facilities in Brazil, I visited our operations in China and other Non-executive Directors visited operations in Poland, the US and Germany.
During 2018, the Non-executive Directors will continue to broaden their understanding of the Group through In this section: Also see: individual site visits as well as scheduled Board visits.
Board effectiveness on p80 Risk on p22 Board accountability on p83 Principles on p56 Audit Committee Report on p85 Nomination Committee Report on p93 Directors Remuneration Report on p96
