58 | Corporate governance Chairmans Q&A Q What were the key areas of focus for the Boardin2017?
A Following on from a strong and successful first full year as a listed entity, the Board focused on continuing that momentum in 2017.
It reviewed the Groups strategy and approved a Three Year Plan to ensure that growth is sustainable: risks are considered and mitigated as much as possible and key strategic priorities are communicated.
The Groups vision continues to be to offer straightforward insurance products at competitive prices.
By maintaining an agile, disciplined, focused, data driven and cost effective business model the Board is confident that the Group will continue to grow profitably and for the benefit of all stakeholders.
As discussed in my opening statement to this Annual Report, Following on from a strong and Board succession planning was also of key importance with the appointment of Gary Hoffman as my successor as Board successful first full year as a Chairman and Toby van der Meer as ChiefExecutive Officer.
listed entity, the Board focused on continuing that momentum in2017.
Q How does the Board take into account the views Mike Fairey and interests of all stakeholders as well as fulfilling Chairman its duties when taking decisions to promote the long term success of the Company?
A All of the Groups actions are based on our 4Cs approach.
Wefocus on getting things right for our colleagues, customers, company and community.
This way of working enables everyone, from the colleagues in the call centres right up to the Board, to ensure that the interests and views of each of these stakeholders are at the heart of what we do and how we do it.
The long term interests of the Company are underpinned by how we as a Board get it right for our colleagues by creating the right environment and giving them the right tools to do their job.
Therefore they will do more for our customers, and the Company, enabling us to grow profitably and sustainably, and allowing us to invest in the communities we serve.
Hastings Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information | 59 Q Q What were the main outcomes from the Last year the Company was not fully compliant with Boardevaluation undertaken in 2017?
the UK Corporate Governance Code in terms of the composition of the Remuneration Committee.
A How has this been addressed over the year?
This year, like the last, an evaluation of the Board and its A Committees was undertaken using an externally facilitated platform that was overseen by the Company Secretary who The Company stated its intention to be compliant in terms of assessed and reported the results to the Board in November the composition of the Remuneration Committee last year this year.
The main areas requiring further enhancements as its membership included two Non-Independent Directors related to more formality around training and development representing Founder and Goldman Sachs shareholders.
of Directors, the composition of the Board, compliance During this year the Nomination Committee and the Board with the UK Corporate Governance Code and shareholder discussed the Committees composition on a number engagement by Non-Executive Directors.
Action plans for of occasions and I am pleased to say that the Founder various improvements have been agreed by the Board and Shareholders and Goldman Sachs Shareholders have agreed each of its Committees.
As Chairman of the Board, Gary and that their nominated representative would step down from this Iwill oversee the progress on those plans for the Board and Committee.
As a consequence the Company now complies with the chairs of the other committees will do likewise.
the Code in relation to the composition of this Committee.
Q Q How has the Board considered its composition and Although the Company was fully compliant with that of the Committees as well as addressing issues the UK Corporate Governance Code at the end of of diversity?
the financial year, the appointment of the Chief Executive Officer as your successor is not in line A with the principles of the Code.
Why has the Board The Companys policy is that candidates will be considered chosen to appoint Gary as Board Chairman?
based on the independence, skills, knowledge and experience A that they possess as well as the skill sets and experience of the whole Board.
The Board is committed to ensuring that it The Board takes Code compliance very seriously and the represents the diversity of its workforce and candidates from decision was not made lightly without consideration and a wide range of disciplines and experience are considered.
Hastings has grown very successfully under Gary, As part of succession planning for the role of Chief Executive both before and after the IPO, and he has been instrumental Officer, candidates from a wide range of backgrounds were in establishing the Groups strong stakeholder engagement considered.
The Board composition currently includes 25% culture.
His promotion and leadership of that culture is female and 17% from non-white backgrounds: the diversity considered to be of great value.
Gary also has previous and ofthe Board as a whole will continue to be reviewed.
current experience of Board chairmanship and as a NonExecutive Director, making him the prime candidate as my successor.
The Board strongly believes that continuity and stability is in the best interests for the Company and its stakeholders.
Toby van der Meer, currently Managing Director of Hastings Direct, has also played a pivotal role in the growth and development of the Groups Retail business.
His appointment as the Groups Chief Executive Officer, together with Garys as Chairman, means that there will be minimal disruption providing an orderly succession and transition period with Gary as Chairman.
Mike Fairey Chairman 28 February 2018 Annual Report 2017 Hastings Group Holdings plc
