Chairmans introduction to Corporate Governance Dear Shareholder, As Chairman, it is my responsibility On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present TI Fluid Systems Corporate Governance report for the year ended 31 December 2017, our first year as a listed company.
This report aims to to ensure that TI Fluid Systems provide shareholders and other stakeholders with an appreciation of how our Group is managed and the governance and control is governed and managed with framework in which TI Fluid Systems operates.
Good governance is essential for enabling our Board to operate effectively in the transparency and in the best leadership of the Group and in promoting the success of the Company in the long term.
TI Fluid Systems listed its Ordinary Shares on the Main Market of the London Stock Exchange on 25 October 2017.
The Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority, and the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, have therefore only applied to the Company since that date.
Inevitably, there has been a particular focus this year on establishing governance structures, risk and control frameworks and policies and procedures that are appropriate for a company Manfred Wennemer of our size and reputation.
Sound governance structures were Chairman in place at TI Fluid Systems prior to the Global Offer and Listing, but we have welcomed the opportunity to strengthen these where necessary.
I am delighted to be able to report close to full compliance with the Code for the period since we became a listed company.
Having been appointed as an Independent Non-Executive Director of the Company in September 2016, I was appointed as Non-Executive Chairman of the Company in October 2017.
In the lead-up to the Global Offering and Listing, the Company appointed two new Independent Non-Executive Directors, John Smith and Jeffrey Vanneste, both of whom bring a wealth of experience and knowledge to the Board.
In addition, Neil Carson, who was appointed as an Independent Non-Executive Director of the Company in September 2016, was appointed as Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Director in October 2017.
Furthermore, Paul Edgerley and Stephen Thomas, who were both Directors of the Company, were formally appointed as Non-Executive Directors in October 2017.
Biographies of each of the Directors are set out on pages 34 to 35.
To assist the Board in its oversight functions, during the year we established the Audit & Risk, Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
I am pleased to report the Board and its Committees are operating effectively.
We intend to keep the Board and its Committee performance under close review and it is the Boards intention to conduct a formal performance review exercise during the course of 2018.
Following the successful outcome of our Global Offering and Listing, we now have a new and wider shareholder base.
A key priority for the Board is communicating effectively with the owners of the business.
Manfred Wennemer Chairman TI Fluid Systems plc 32 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Overview Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information UK Corporate Governance Code Compliance statement The Company adopted the UK Corporate Governance Code Provision B.
7.2 Code 2016 on 25 October 2017 on admission to the UKLAs Detail the Board did not undertake an annual evaluation Official List and Listing on the Main Market of the London of its own performance and that of its Committees and Stock Exchange.
From the date of listing to 31 December 2017, the Company Explanation of non-compliance in the short period of time has applied all the main provisions of the Code and has from admission to the Companys year end of 31 December complied with the provisions of the Code save as 2017 it was considered too early for the Board to undertake noted below: an evaluation of its own performance.
During the coming year it is intended that an internal performance evaluation Code Provision B.
Detail the UK Corporate Governance Code requires that at least half the Board, excluding the Chairman, should comprise non-executive directors determined by the Board to be independent.
Explanation of non-compliance The Board comprises eight directors, including the Independent Non-Executive Chairman, the Senior Independent Director, two Independent Non-Executive Directors, two Executive Directors and two Non-Executive Directors.
The Company regards this as an appropriate Board structure.
However, the Company intends to appoint additional independent Non-Executive Directors within a reasonable period of time to comply with the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The Governance Structure The Board Leadership, strategy and development: controls and values.
Manfred Wennemer Timothy Knutson Paul Edgerley Stephen Thomas Independent Non-Executive Chief Financial Officer Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Chairman William L. Kozyra Neil Carson John Smith Jeffrey Vanneste Chief Executive Officer Deputy Chairman and Independent Non-Executive Independent Non-Executive and President Senior Independent Director Director Director Nomination Committee Audit & Risk Committee Remuneration Committee Chairman Chairman Chairman Manfred Wennemer Jeffrey Vanneste Neil Carson Members Members Members Neil Carson Neil Carson John Smith Paul Edgerley John Smith Jeffrey Vanneste Key responsibilities Key responsibilities Key responsibilities Evaluating the size, structure Reviewing and monitoring the Setting the Remuneration Policy for all and composition of the Board integrity of the financial statements Executive Directors and the Chairman Assisting the Board in relation to the Ensuring effective systems of Administering, together with the composition of the Board, including internal controls, internal audit and CEO, the grant of awards under the evaluating the balance of skills, risk management are maintained Companys Annual Bonus Plan and knowledge and experience Long Term Incentive Plan Advising on the appointment of Consideration to succession planning the external auditors and monitoring non-audit work undertaken by the external auditor More information: Nomination More information: Audit & Risk More information: Remuneration Committee report on page 40 Committee report on page 41 Committee report on page 44 TI Fluid Systems plc 33 Annual Report and Accounts 2017
