FRESNILL FRESNILLO O STRA STRATEGIC TEGIC CORPORA CORPORATE TE FINANCIAL FINANCIAL T TO OD DAY AY REPORT REPORT GO GOVERNANCE VERNANCE ST STA ATEMENTS TEMENTS 117 117 FRESNILL FRESNILLO PL O PLC C ANNUAL REPORT AND A ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 CCOUNTS 2017 DEAR SHAREHOLDER During 2017, stakeholder expectations for good corporate governance have continued to evolve both in the UK and Mexico.
My Board colleagues and I have sought to understand the implications of those developments for Fresnillo plc and respond to them accordingly.
In Mexico, there was a significant development in anti-bribery and corruption legislation during the year.
It was pleasing, from the Boards perspective, to see that the work we have undertaken over the past few years to ensure compliance with the UK Bribery Act enabled us to accommodate the requirements of the new Mexican legislation very easily.
Nevertheless, this provided us, as a Board, with the opportunity to review and update our Group Code of Ethics and Anti-Bribery and Corruption policy.
We have also continued to monitor the work being undertaken by the management team to understand and develop our corporate culture which will help us as we engage with our employees and the communities in which we operate.
In 2017, we were required to re-submit our executive remuneration policy to shareholders for approval at the AGM.
I am delighted that, again, over 99% of our independent shareholders supported the remuneration policy.
We note that our policy is unusual in some respects compared to many companies in the FTSE 100 index because our approach to executive remuneration seeks to align with Mexican market practice.
The Remuneration Committee continues to review investor expectations and will continue to provide good explanations for those aspects where we differ from the norm in our Remuneration Report see pages 152-161.
Ahead of the 2017 Annual General Meeting, we engaged in a number of conversations with institutional investors and their representative bodies about our Board composition and membership, recognising the need to evolve the independent representation on the Board and ensure that our Directors have sufficient time to be able to commit to the work of the Board.
During the second half of 2017, we continued to consider the evolution of the Board and as a result, we recently announced some further changes to the Board which will take effect from the 2018 AGM.
I am delighted that Dame Judith Macgregor joined the Board as an independent Non-executive Director following the AGM.
Dame Judith brings a range of perspectives to the Board, and we will benefit from her diplomatic experience particularly gained during her four years as the British Ambassador to Mexico.
It is also proposed that Georgina Kessel will join our Board after the 2018 AGM.
These two appointments mean that 50% of the new appointments to the Fresnillo plc Board in the past six years will have been female, demonstrating our commitment to broaden the diversity of our Board.
The Nominations Committee continues to be mindful that Fresnillo plc does not yet meet the current expectations for gender diversity on FTSE 100 boards and will continue its efforts to address this in its future Board appointments.
Guy Wilson, the Chairman of our Audit Committee, has now served on the Board for nine years.
In keeping with the UK Corporate Governance Code requirements on director independence, it will no longer be possible for Guy to remain on the Board as an independent Non-executive Director and Audit Committee Chairman.
It is therefore with great regret that Guy will step down from the Board after the 2018 AGM.
We will continue to speak to our institutional investors and other counterparties concerning our approach to corporate governance in order to ensure that we communicate our perspective on governance within our Mexican context, while at the same time responding to any questions or concerns that shareholders may have about our governance standards.
As we approach the tenth anniversary of our listing on the London Stock Exchange, we remain committed to the standards of good governance set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code which we will endeavour to apply in the way that we believe best serves the interests of all of our stakeholders.
Mr Alberto Baillres Chairman of the Board
