Introduction to governance Your Board is responsible for ensuring that the Group complies with its legal obligations, as such I take my duty as the head of the Group very seriously ANDREW ALLNER CHAIRMAN In January 2018 the Board conducted be considered in determining the optimum DEAR SHAREHOLDER, such an evaluation.
In accordance with the composition of the Board and the aim will be SIG is committed to business integrity, requirements, this being the third year in to balance them appropriately.
high ethical values and professionalism in the cycle, the evaluation should have been all of its activities.
At SIG, we believe that GOVERNANCE WITHIN SIG externally facilitated.
However, due to the good governance comes from an effective As Chairman, I take responsibility for number of recent Board changes, it was Board which provides strong leadership ensuring that good governance is operated felt that an internally facilitated evaluation to the Group and engages well with both at SIG in order that we can maintain the be undertaken at this time.
Details of the management and stakeholders.
As an highest standards of corporate governance process concerning this evaluation and its essential part of this commitment, the to which we continually aspire.
The Board is outcome are covered on page 66 of this Group supports the highest standards in accountable to the Companys Shareholders corporate governance report.
This section of our and overall to its stakeholders for good report outlines how the Board ensures that BOARD DIVERSITY governance and this Report, the Directors high standards of corporate governance are The Board of SIG acknowledges the Remuneration Report on pages 80 to 96, the maintained.
Details of the overstatements importance of diversity in its broadest Audit Committee Report on pages 73 to 77 relating to cash and trade payables and of sense in the boardroom as a driver of and the Nominations Committee Report on profits for previous financial years, about Board effectiveness.
Diversity encompasses pages 78 to 79 describe how the principles which we notified the market earlier this diversity of perspective, experience, of good governance set out inthe Code are year, are provided on page 61.
The actions background, psychological type and personal applied within SIG.
taken by individuals are clearly unacceptable.
The Board recognises that gender As your Chairman I take this very seriously The Companys external Auditor, Deloitte diversity is a significant aspect of diversity and have established Culture and People as LLP, is required to review whether the and acknowledges the role that women with a key matter in the Board agenda.
above statement reflects the Companys the right skills and experience can play in compliance with the provisions of the Code contributing to diversity of perspective in the COMPLIANCE WITH THE UK specified for their review by the Listing Rules boardroom.
The Board also acknowledges CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE as contained within the Financial Conduct the work of Sir John Parker and his report The Board considers that throughout the Authoritys Handbook and to report if it does into the Ethnic Diversity of UK Boards.
The year under review, the Company has, except not reflect such compliance.
No such report Board Diversity Policy is published on the for the Board evaluation explained below, has been made.
complied with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code of We reported in last years Annual Report ANDREW ALLNER April 2016 issued by the Financial Reporting that female representation on the Board CHAIRMAN Council FRC.
The matter continues to 8 March 2018 be reviewed, particularly in light of the The Code can be accessed at www.
second Hampton-Alexander Report on FTSE Women Leaders.
BOARD EVALUATION Under the Code, the Board is required to All appointments to the Board will continue undertake a formal and rigorous annual to be made on merit.
However, differences evaluation of its own performance and that in background, skills, experience and other of its Committees and individual Directors.
qualities as well as gender and ethnicity will COMPLIANCE STATEMENT Our Governance sections over the following pages explains how the 1 2 3 4 5 Group has applied the principles and LEADERSHIP EFFECTIVENESS ACCOUNTABILITY RELATIONS WITH REMUNERATION complied with the provisions of the SHAREHOLDERS Code.
Except for the requirement to have an externally facilitated Board evaluation, as explained on page 66, See page 68 See pages 61-65 See pages 66-72 See pages 73-77 See pages 80-96 we are fully compliant with the Code.
60 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 25690-AR2017 15-03-18 Proof Six
