Letter from the Chairman Board well prepared for forthcoming governance changes Dear Shareholder I am pleased to report on our corporate governance compliance for Neil Johnson 2017 and give an update on the Boards ongoing programme to Chairman improve its effectiveness.
We were once again in full compliance with the applicable UK Corporate Governance Code being the April 2016 version effective for the Company from 1 January 2017 throughout the year.
TheBoard composition remained unchanged until the end of the year and therefore we maintained a balanced position between independent and non-independent directors throughout that period.
Our 2017 AGM resolutions received overwhelming support and it was particularly pleasing to achieve greater than 99% in favour of thenew remuneration policy which has subsequently been fully implemented by the Remuneration Committee.
The Board supported the work of the Audit Committee during the year in thedevelopment of its remit in connection with the oversight of riskmanagement processes and review of tax matters.
In accordance with the commitment given in my 2016 letter, an externally facilitated evaluation of the Board and its Committees was carried out in 2017.
The online surveys were completed by non-Board members who are regular attendees at Board and Audit Committee meetings as well as the Directors themselves, in order to gain a broad range of opinions on Board and Committees performance.
The feedback report recognised the Boards progress in promoting a culture of openness and mutual respect, developing good boardroom dynamics and increasing exposure to wider management.
Areas identified for focus in 2018 include development of the Boards oversight of employee management and provision of tailored training and workshops on aspects of the Groups business and operations.
Inaddition, an updated code of business conduct will be launched in 2018 in order to promote the setting of the correct tone in which the Groups business and its employees are required to operate.
Other governance activity carried out by the Board and its Committees in 2017 included the review and approval of the Groups Modern Slavery Act Statement and tax strategy.
Reports were also received on gender pay gap data and the proposed reporting for external publication will be approved by the end of March 2018.
Jinya Chen retired as an independent non-executive director on 31December 2017 after 5 years service on the Board.
The Nomination Committee has initiated a search for a replacement independent non-executive director in order to bring the Board composition back into balance.
As we enter 2018, I believe the Board is well positioned to adapt to the changes in the corporate governance landscape envisaged by the new Code proposals and board guidance, currently under consultation and likely to be effective from 1 January 2019.
I do hope you find the information contained in the following pages of this report helpful and informative.
Neil Johnson Chairman 1 March 2018 Governance Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code Governance snapshot The Board considers that it has complied throughout the financial Board membership and balance year ended 31 December 2017 with the provisions set out in Board composition theApril 2016 UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
1 Application of the Code 3 The main principles of the Code were applied as follows: 2 Leadership and effectiveness Operation of the board The activities of the Company are controlled by the Board which, during 2017, comprised two executive directors and seven nonexecutive directors.
The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are clearly divided between Neil Johnson who heads the Board in his 1 British 6 capacity as non-executive Chairman and Calum MacLean who has 2 Dutch 1 responsibility for the running of the Companys business as Chief 3 Malaysian 1 Executive Officer.
The non-executive directors all have wide business and boardroom experience gained in a broad range of business sectors, details of which are given on pages 58 and 59.
Board tenure The Board has reserved to itself a schedule of matters which 1 includes setting long-term objectives for the Group and the strategies to be employed in achieving them.
The Board has delegated to the Chief Executive Officer responsibility for the development and preparation of the business plan and the annual 3 budget for recommendation to the Board.
Asthe senior executive director, the Chief Executive Officer is responsible for all aspects of day-to-day operational control of the Group and execution of the Group strategy.
The Chief Executive Officer has established and 2 chairs an Executive Committee whose other members are the Chief Financial Officer, the Chief Counsel and Company Secretary, and 1 1-5 years 4 the operational vice presidents for theGroup to assist him in the 2 5-10 years 2 performance of his duties and which meets once a month.
The 3 10 years 2 Chairman has available to him the minutes of the Executive Committee and all directors receive a monthly management report comprising business, financial andsafety, health and environmental reviews from the Chief Financial Officer.
The Board has established Audit, Nomination, Remuneration and Disclosure Committees which are discussed on page 63.
Note A full version of the Code can be found on the Financial Reporting Councils FRC website www.
