LEADERSHIP: CHAIRMANS INTRODUCTION STRONG AND EFFECTIVE GOVERNANCE Strong and effective governance is essential to the long-term success of our Group.
Our governance structures are designed to enable us to focus on the matters and issues that will shape our future.
Jean-Paul Luksic, Chairman INTRODUCTION RISK AND RISK APPETITE There were a number of important changes to the Groups The changes in the membership of the Committees which took place governance structures in advance of the 2017 AGM, including on 1 January 2017 means at least one member of the Audit and Risk the appointment of independent Non-Executive Director Committee serves on each of the other Board Committees and the Francisca Castro, changes to the composition and Chairmanships Chairman of the Sustainability and Stakeholder Management of Board Committees and the succession of Ollie Oliveira to the role Committee sits on the Audit and Risk Committee.
This overlap is designed to enable the Audit and Risk Committee We were pleased that we received strong 96% support from to comprehensively consider the risks faced by the Group and shareholders for each of the resolutions proposed at the 2017 AGM.
to enable further constructive challenge of the analysis and management of the Groups risks.
There have been no further changes to the composition of the Board and its Committees since 1 January 2017 and we continue The Audit and Risk Committee now holds at least one meeting each to fully comply with the Corporate Governance Code.
year dedicated entirely to risk management.
The first such session was held in June 2017.
The main focus of this meeting was to The Board and Committees have been responsible for pursuing consider the most relevant materialised risks at each of the Groups and overseeing a number of important developments during the year, operations over the past 12 months, the current analysis of key risks which are highlighted throughout this Corporate Governance Report, and mitigation activities, and the expected evolution of those key risks a selection of which I highlight is this letter.
70 Antofagasta plc Annual Report 2017 GOVERNANCE We are also engaged in a process to update our assessment of the SUCCESSION PLANNING AND EXECUTIVE REMUNERATION Groups risk appetite.
This is being facilitated by the Groups risk The Nomination and Governance Committee is responsible for management function, with support from external advisers.
The risks succession planning for the Board and the CEO and reviewed these facing the Group are constantly evolving, and our approach and succession plans during the year, as explained in more detail on attitude towards those risks must be equally dynamic.
Accordingly, it is pages 86 and 87. important to ensure that the Groups risk appetite and managements The Remuneration and Talent Management Committee oversees evaluation and attitude in respect of those risks remain current.
executive talent management and succession planning for executives reporting into the CEO and below.
It conducted a detailed review REVIEWING AND EMBEDDING OUR CULTURE and update to the succession plans for each of the members of During 2017, a management committee, led by our CEO, was the Executive Committee excluding the CEO in 2017, identifying established to design and implement a cultural reinforcement process.
candidates at different stages of readiness in the talent pipeline to fill The committee oversaw a critical review of the Groups charter roles in case of unexpected departures and to identify and define of values and the development of behavioural guidelines, which set development goals for these employees.
out actions aligned with these values.
The Committee also commissioned a fundamental review of the Further work is under way, with input from employees, to assist Groups executive remuneration structures during 2017 with the in refining the Groups purpose and to ensure the Groups values aim of simplifying the Annual Bonus and Long Term Incentive Plans, and culture are adopted across all levels of the organisation.
enhancing the alignment between executive remuneration and shareholder returns and incorporating flexibility to allow the Group The Board actively set the tone for this process and provided to react to significant changes that may arise within the Group guidance to the committee as part of a dedicated session at the or externally.
Boards strategy day in June.
Progress since then has been overseen by the Remuneration and Talent Management Committee and final This process has involved market analysis, Board and management actions will be reported to the Board during 2018. interviews, and workshops to provide feedback and further refine these proposals.
As a consequence of this work, the number of DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION measured performance criteria across both incentive programmes We have a diverse Board comprising Directors with a broad spectrum has been reduced from 22 to 14. of complementary skills, personalities and competencies.
The Board STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT believes in the benefits of diversity throughout the Group, not just at Board level, and that more diverse companies are able to attract the Mining is a long-term business and timescales often run into decades.
best talent and achieve stronger, more reliable overall performance.
Our relationships with stakeholders are central to our long-term success.
The Groups governance structures include a network of The Company has recently completed an assessment of the maturity arrangements to ensure that the views and interests of stakeholders of the Groups diversity and inclusion model, and will be implementing are represented in the Boardroom and considered as part of the definitive steps to improve further in this area during 2018.
A further explanation of these arrangements will once again be measured and assessed and included as a target is set out in the Sustainability and Stakeholder Management Report within the Groups 2018 Annual Bonus Plan.
The Board fully supports the objectives of the diversity and inclusion Along with fellow Directors, I regularly visit the Groups operations programme and the Remuneration and Talent Management and projects to understand first-hand the realities and challenges that Committee will receive periodic updates on progress and ultimately exist on site.
Interactions during these visits provide us with a closer determine how successfully the programme performed in its understanding of the topics that are important for our workforce and assessment of Group performance under the Annual Bonus Plan, other stakeholders and we will continue to prioritise visits to the during the course of 2018.
As always, I welcome questions or comments from shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
co. uk 71 LEADERSHIP: SENIOR INDEPENDENT DIRECTORS INTRODUCTION SUPPORTING KEY DECISIONS Providing an alternative channel of communication to the Chairman and the Board allows me to contribute to the range of views and perspectives to which the Board has access when making decisions.
Ollie Oliveira, Senior Independent Director Q.
What are your responsibilities as Senior Independent The consensus view has been that the substantial controlling interest is regarded as a positive, with shareholders comfortable in aligning Director?
their interests with those of the controlling shareholder, taking It is my responsibility to support the Chairman on a number of levels.
advantage of its understanding of the copper price cycle and market A major part is to ensure that he has a direct channel of fundamentals, its longer term vision of the industry, and its wellcommunication to understand the issues that are especially important known conservative operating, financing and growth strategy.
to the Boards independent Non-Executive Directors and to the Companys shareholders.
This support is of course always given on condition of being assured of the continuation of the current corporate governance I am based in Europe which allows me to keep in touch with framework which rigorously protects the interests of all shareholders.
shareholders, directors at other UK-listed companies and advisers, to ensure that the Chairman, the Board and the Group as a whole I and all the Independent Directors place a strong emphasis on receive independent and objective feedback and challenge.
maintaining this governance and protection regime.
We guard this independence and preside over a framework and processes that go Q.
What impact does the controlling shareholding have beyond the regulatory norm.
We are invariably joined by the other on Company decisions?
Directors who like the Independent Directors bring their own perspectives and opinions.
The Company has had a controlling shareholder for almost 40 years and the controlling shareholder has demonstrated an excellent track The controlling shareholder, and the members of the Luksic family record over that period.
who serve on the Board including the Chairman, are not just supportive of this framework but actively encourage the Independent As an Independent Director and now as the Senior Independent Directors to provide that independent input and challenge which we Director, I have had a number of meetings over the years with all know proves indispensable in Board decision-making.
shareholders at which the role of the controlling shareholder has been discussed.
As set out in more detail on pages 73 and 124, What follows in this report is a more detailed description of this the controlling shareholder is the E. Abaroa Foundation, in which framework and the checks and balances it contains.
members of the Luksic family are interested.
Ollie Oliveira Senior Independent Director 72 Antofagasta plc Annual Report 2017 GOVERNANCE RELATIONSHIP AGREEMENT RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS The E. Abaroa Foundation Abaroa is a controlling shareholder of Certain related party transactions outside the ordinary course of the Company under the Listing Rules and certain other shareholders business must be subject to independent assessment and approval.
of the Company including Aureberg Establishment are also treated The Company has for many years also presented all such related as controlling shareholders.
Details of the Companys substantial party transactions regardless of its size between the Company shareholders are set out on page 124. and the controlling shareholder or its associates to a committee of Directors independent from the controlling shareholder, to support In 2014 the Company entered into relationship agreements in respect the negotiation process and ultimately to make an assessment as of each controlling shareholder, which contain the mandatory to whether the Company should enter into that transaction.
In most independence provisions required by the Listing Rules.
The Company cases, transactions of this nature will also be subject to independent has complied with, and, so far as the Directors are aware, each review by the third-party shareholders in each of the Groups mining controlling shareholder and its associates including Metalinvest operating companies.
Establishment and Kupferberg Establishment has complied, with the mandatory independence provisions at all times during 2017.
Any other proposed related party transaction over $25 million, whether or not in the ordinary course of business, is also tabled for Board approval.
If applicable, any Director with a potential conflict or connection with the related party will not take part in the decision on that transaction.
RELATED PARTY GOVERNANCE IN PRACTICE There are a number of checks and balances which ensure that there is full transparency in the way related party transactions are dealt with by the Board.
The following diagram summarises the approach taken to identify and manage related party transactions and actual or potential conflicts of interest.
IDENTIFYING DIRECTORS INTERESTS Process How this is managed Responsibility Monitoring of If a Director has an interest in any other company, the Board will normally consider Directors Directors interests that interest under its arrangements for authorising conflicts of interest under section 175 of the Companies Act.
Further details on this process are set out on page 124 MANAGING A RELATED PARTY TRANSACTION Proposed Ongoing monitoring of Directors interests and related parties of the Company Responsibility transaction provides the information to determine if a related party approval is required for a Company Secretary, proposed transaction.
Antofagasta Group management and the Executive Committee Process How this is managed Responsibility Contract negotiation The Executive Committee will seek to ensure that the best possible terms are achieved Antofagasta Group and verification for a proposed transaction and that they are verified by industry benchmarking reports management and or independent third-party valuation assessment.
Executive Committee and, if involving the If the potential transaction is between the Group and the controlling shareholder or controlling its associates, a committee of Directors independent from the controlling shareholder shareholder, and its associates is formed, to oversee and support management with this process Independent Directors and to ensure that the Relationship Agreement is complied with.
Process How this is managed Responsibility Independent Potential related party transactions outside the ordinary course of business that Independent Director approval involve the controlling shareholder or its associates are approved by a committee Directors of Independent Directors.
All other potential related party transactions over $25 million, whether or not in the ordinary course of business, are approved by the Board and if applicable, any Director with a potential conflict or connection with the related party will not take part in the decision on that transaction.
Transactions within the ordinary course of business which are below $25 million require approval of the relevant subsidiary board.
