LEADERSHIP: BOARD OF DIRECTORS GROUP GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW ANTOFAGASTA PLC BOARD BOARD COMMITTEES Sustainability Nomination Remuneration Audit and and Projects and Talent and Risk Stakeholder Governance Management Management ANTOFAGASTA PLC BOARD The Board is collectively responsible for the long-term success of The Board is assisted in the fulfilment of its responsibilities by the Group.
It is responsible for its leadership and strategic direction, five Board Committees.
The Board has delegated authority to these for the oversight of the Groups performance, its risk and internal Committees to perform certain activities as set out in their terms control systems, and for ensuring that the Company acts in the best of reference.
interests of all shareholders and has regard to the interests of The Chairman of each Committee reports to the Board following stakeholders.
The schedule of matters reserved for the Board each Committee meeting, allowing the Board to understand and, is available on the Companys website at www.
if necessary, discuss matters considered in detail and to consider the Committees recommendations.
See pages 76 to 79 for Directors biographical details, skills and strengths and specific roles within the boardroom The terms of reference for each Committee are available on the Companys website at www.
KEY RESPONSIBILITIES Strategy KEY RESPONSIBILITIES Governance The key responsibilities of each Committee are set out on pages 84 and 85.
Internal controls and risk management Approving material transactions See pages 84 to 117 for an overview of the Committees activities during the year Financial and performance reporting Shareholder engagement See page 82 for an overview of the Boards activities during the year 74 Antofagasta plc Annual Report 2017 GOVERNANCE From left to right: Jorge Bande, Juan Claro, Gonzalo Menndez, Francisca Castro, Jean-Paul Luksic, Vivianne Blanlot, Ollie Oliveira, Tim Baker, William Hayes, Andrnico Luksic C, Ramn Jara.
CEO AND EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE SUBCOMMITTEES OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE Operating CEO and Business Project Performance Disclosure Ethics Executive Committee Development Steering Review The Board has delegated day-to-day responsibility for implementing The Executive Committee is assisted in the performance of its the Groups strategy to the Companys CEO, Ivn Arriagada.
responsibilities by the Operating Performance Review Committee, the Business Development Committee, the Disclosure Committee and, Mr Arriagada is not a Director of the Company but is invited to attend from time to time, Project Steering Committees.
all Board and Committee meetings and is supported by the members of the Executive Committee, each of whom has executive Members of the Executive Committee also sit on the boards of the responsibility for his or her respective functions.
Mr Arriagada chairs Groups operating companies and report to the Board, Mr Arriagada the Executive Committee.
and the Executive Committee on the activities of those companies.
The Executive Committee reviews significant matters and approves Following the introduction of the EU Market Abuse Regulation, expenditure within designated authority levels.
the Board adopted its current Disclosure Procedures Manual and delegated to the Disclosure Committee primary internal responsibility The Executive Committee leads the annual budgeting and planning for identifying information which may need to be disclosed to the processes, monitors the performance of the Groups operations and market and for managing disclosure of that information.
investments, and promotes the sharing of best practices and policies across the Group.
The Ethics Committee is responsible for implementing, developing and updating the Groups Code of Ethics and monitoring compliance.
See page 79 for an overview of the interaction between the CEO and Executive Committee and the Board and pages 80 to 81 for the CEO and Executive Committee members biographies antofagasta.
