88 89 Dear Shareholder, nominated for and won EPRA Gold for Key activities of the Board during 2017 On behalf of the Board, I am pleased our 2016 annual report and accounts: The Board met seven times during the year including the Annual General Introduction to introduce the Groups Corporate nominated for and won EPRA Gold for Meeting.
One meeting every year is arranged specifically to consider the governance statement for 2017. our 2016 Annual Sustainability Report: Groups strategy and five-year plan.
Additional meetings are arranged if and necessary for the Board to properly discharge its duties.
fromthe Chairman Governance nominated for the Investor Relations At Derwent London, we do not view Societys Best annual report FTSE 250.
An overview of our Boards key activities are provided below.
corporate governance as simply an exercise Risk management and in compliance but as an evolving and core Strategy Our property portfolio Strategy internal control discipline which underpins the success of The Board takes seriously our responsibility Approved the sale of Held the annual Received updates the Company.
We therefore welcome any for ensuring the Group is capable of the freehold interest strategy review day from the Risk and Audit changes which aim to strengthen and delivering on our strategic objectives in 132-142 Hampstead in June 2017 which Committee Chairs on promote the principles of good corporate and operating in the best interests of Road NW1, 8 Fitzroy included receiving the key areas discussed governance.
During the coming year, we will our stakeholders over the long term.
Street W1 and the presentations from the Reviewed the outcome be monitoring the finalisation of a revised We reviewed in detail the strategy and long leasehold interest Executive Committee of the Groups fire UK Corporate Governance Code the Code five-year plan in June 2017 and challenged in The Copyright and updates from safety portfolio review with the objective of ensuring we are fully management on the strength of their Building W1 external advisers following the Grenfell compliant in advance of its effective date.
planning, and expectations for the future, Provided with regular Ongoing updates Tower fire tragedy to ensure the Group remains resilient during updates on asset from the Executive During the year ended 31 December this period of continuing uncertainty.
Received regular management, leasing Committee on the 2017, we have applied the principles reports on health and investment implementation of of good governance contained in the Employee engagement and diversity and safety matters from the senior strategy throughout Code.
Following the resignation of Derwent London benefits from an engaged management team the year Stuart Corbyn on 19 May 2017, we were and highly skilled workforce.
During the Reviewed and Considered the unable to comply with provision B.
1.2 latter half of 2017, a second employee approved the risks and scenarios which recommends that at least half of our survey was conducted which we have independent valuation which could impact Board should be independent, excluding reviewed in depth.
We remain pleased with of the Groups on the Group over the Chairman as our Board consisted of the level of commitment from the Group to property portfolio the long term five independent non-executive Directors act upon suggestions and potential areas and six executive Directors.
for improvement which arise from these Received regular Approved the surveys.
Further details on this years updates on the key five-year strategic plan As a Board we are confident that we survey can be found on page 82. construction projects: Robert Rayne continued to effectively apply principle B.
1 Corporate reporting and Chairman Brunel Building W2 performance monitoring Stakeholder engagement of the Code and this did not impact upon The Board is committed to ensuring that The Copyright our ability to effectively discharge our the Group is free of discrimination and Reviewed the rolling Our Annual General Building forecast Meeting AGM was duties.
My role as Chairman is to ensure is equitable to all employees.
We have 80 Charlotte Focus areas for 2018 held on 19 May 2017 that our Boardroom discussions benefit therefore made it a Board priority for Approved the budget Street W1 from diverse perspectives and is not 2018 to monitor the initiatives to improve Review the Groups strategy, five-year plan and budget White Collar Received updates Received updates dominated by any Director or group of diversity across the Group further Continue to focus on Board succession planning on our investor Factory EC1 from the Monitor the changes being made to the UK Corporate Governance Directors, which continued to be the case information on diversity at Derwent engagement Remuneration Reviewed quarterly Code and ensure our compliance throughout 2017.
Decisions relating to our London is provided on page 83 and 105. programme and Committee Chair Monitor the success of initiatives to improve the Groups diversity project cost reports financial reporting and the remuneration regular investor on the achievement outcomes for our executive Directors are Board changes relations reports of performance delegated to the Audit Committee and We have a strong and diverse Board with each Board members and attendance targets by senior Considered the Remuneration Committee, respectively, Director contributing fully to our Boardroom executives in respect outcomes and agreed which are solely comprised of independent discussions.
In 2018, we will continue to Attendance the next steps arising to their variable pay non-executive Directors.
focus on our succession plans at Board level Chairman annual bonus and from the second and for our senior executives.
I would like Robert Rayne 100% Group-wide Performance Share With the appointment of Helen Gordon, to extend a personal welcome to Helen Executive Plan PSP awards employee survey as a non-executive Director with effect Gordon, who joined us from 1 January 2018.
John Burns 100% from 1 January 2018, we became compliant Approved the Received an update on Simon Silver 100% with all the principles and provisions of the Annual General Meeting year-end and the actions taken since Damian Wisniewski 100% interim results the last employee Code.
Further information on the Code As in previous years, I would encourage Paul Williams 100% survey and the success can be found on the Financial Reporting you to attend the Companys Annual Approved the Nigel George 100% of the Fit for the Councils website at: www.
uk General Meeting on 18 May 2018 where quarterly Q1 and Q3 David Silverman 100% Future initiative you will have the opportunity to meet the business updates to Independent non-executive We consistently challenge ourselves to Chairs of the Board Committees and the market Received updates Stephen Young 100% improve the clarity and transparency of members of senior management.
on our sustainability Simon Fraser 100% our reporting and were delighted to receive initiatives Richard Dakin 100% Robert Rayne several external accolades during the year: Claudia Arney 100% Chairman Cilla Snowball 100% 27 February 2018 Stuart Corbyn 100% Helen Gordon n a Percentages based on the meetings entitled to attend for the 12 months ended 31 December 2017 Stuart Corbyn stepped down as a non-executive Director on 19 May 2017 Helen Gordon joined the Board as a non-executive Director from 1 January 2018 Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2017 Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2017
