Chairmans Governance Letter I am delighted with the Board appointments that the Company has been able to make during the year which has returned Spire Healthcare to a strong governance footing.
Dear Shareholder, After an extensive search which I led with the assistance of Heidrick & Struggles, Executive Directors we were delighted to appointed Peter It was with great sadness that we Bamford as Deputy Chairman and Senior announced the death of Andrew White Independent Director.
Peter brings in July following a period of illness.
Andrew considerable plc board and leadership joined Spire Healthcare towards the end experience and the appointment maintains of 2015 and was appointed an Executive a strong independent presence on our Director the following June.
He gave considerable focus to significant contribution during his time ensuring that there was appropriate with us, and his enthusiastic and positive scrutiny of decision-making during my approach are deeply missed.
Peter also chairs our I stepped back from my position as Nomination Committee.
Executive Chairman at the end of June The table on page 61 summarises due to an illness and resumed my previous all of the changes to the Board made role of Non-Executive Chairman.
Garry Watts, time Simon Gordon agreed to act as Chairman Chief Executive Officer on an interim basis Subsequent to the year end, on 1 March until a full-time appointment was made.
2018, Simon Gordon, our Chief Financial I remained engaged with the business Officer, resigned from the Board and will during my period of treatment.
leave the Group at the end of March 2018.
Further details of Simons departure are Chief Executive Officer set out in the Directors Remuneration We were delighted to appoint Justin Ash Report on pages 78 to 95. as the Companys new Chief Executive Simon has made a significant contribution Officer from 30 October 2017.
The Board to Spire during his time with the Group, believes Justins skillset is particularly and I would like to thank him in particular suited to developing Spire Healthcare for his extensive contribution to the as the premier UK private hospital group transformation of the business from and to creating and delivering a strategy private ownership to public listing, and focused on our private patients.
more recently for fulfilling the interim CEO role in difficult circumstances.
Deputy Chairman and We also recently received notification Senior Independent Director from Mediclinic Jersey Limited, our I would like to take the opportunity largest shareholder and a wholly-owned to thank John Gildersleeve for his wise subsidiary of Mediclinic International PLC, counsel and contribution to our Board.
that Danie Meintjes would not seek John served as our Senior Independent re-election at the annual general meeting Director from Admission in July 2014 but in May.
It has nominated Dr Ronnie chose not to seek re-election at last years van der Merwe to replace Danie as a annual general meeting.
Non-Executive Director of the Company from the conclusion of the meeting.
60 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Other information Changes to your Board during 2017 Individual Event Date Governance The Company did not comply with two John Gildersleeve Stepped down as Deputy Chairman and 26 May 2017 Senior Independent Director aspects of the UK Corporate Governance Code, one on a short-term basis during Peter Bamford Appointed as Deputy Chairman and Senior 26 May 2017 the year, and you can read further about Independent Director these and the Boards responses on page 62.
The appointment of Justin Ash 26 May 2017 Dame Janet Re-appointed as an independent Non-Executive as Chief Executive Officer and Peter Husband Director following the completion of initial Bamford as Senior Independent Director three-year appointment period has strengthened the Board.
Tony Bourne Re-appointed as an independent Non-Executive 26 May 2017 As in previous years, the Board has taken Director following the completion of initial the matter of governance extremely three-year appointment period seriously and continues to perform well with the Non-Executive Directors Simon Gordon Chief Financial Officer acted as interim 13 June 2017 to all providing extensive challenge Chief Executive Officer 29 October 2017 to management.
Garry Watts Resumed previous role of Non-Executive Chairman 1 July 2017 2017 performance evaluation Andrew White Sadly passed away and ceased to be an 22 July 2017 The Boards evaluation in 2017 was led Executive Director by Peter Bamford and facilitated using Thinking Board, Independent Audit Simon Rowlands Appointment as a Non-Executive Director 23 July 2017 Limiteds governance assessment process.
renewed for a further year Independent Audit Limited is a reviewer of board performance and is independent of Justin Ash Appointed as Chief Executive Officer 30 October 2017 the Company.
This was the first time since Admission that an external third-party had been engaged by the Company agreed action plan can be found on outcome for both the Company and and the review covered areas including page 65 as well as an update on the its customers.
A review of our principal strategy, Board and management actions identified from last years risks is set out on pages 52 to 55. succession, Board culture, balance evaluation.
The Board will again use and diversity, meetings and processes, the services of an independent third Annual general meeting investor relations, decision-making, risk party to facilitate its evaluation in 2018.
Finally, the Board looks forward to management and Board committees.
meeting as many shareholders as possible Peter Bamford also separately led the The principal conclusions of Independent at our annual general meeting which review of my performance as chair of Audit Limiteds review were presented by will be held at 11.00am on Thursday, the Board in conjunction with the other their lead facilitator and discussed at our 24 May 2018 at the offices of Freshfields Non-Executive Directors.
It was determined Bruckhaus Deringer LLP, Northcliffe House, that the Companys Board continued 28 Tudor Street, London EC4Y 0AY.
Risk management and corporate culture to operate effectively, in an open and Our risk culture is centred on risk transparent manner, providing support Garry Watts awareness, openness, continuous and challenge to senior management.
Chairman improvement and encouraging the A fuller review of the results and our 1 March 2018 right behaviours to ensure an appropriate 61 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2017
