Polypipe Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 INTRODUCTION FROM THE CHAIRMAN The terms of reference for each of the DEAR SHAREHOLDER Board committees were reviewed and I am pleased to present the Companys updated as necessary to reflect legislative Corporate Governance Report for the changes and best practice.
year ended 31 December 2017, on behalf of the Board.
During the year the Board has placed much focus on the consistent This year has seen further changes to leadership of the Group through the Board, with Martin Payne being this period of change, as well as its appointed as Chief Executive Officer strategic development, in light of which following the retirement of David Hall presentations by the Groups financial in October 2017 after 12 years service advisers and brokers and the annual as Chief Executive Officer.
At the same strategy day proved very valuable.
time, Glen Sabin was promoted to Chief Operating Officer and appointed to the The following pages of this report and Board.
Mr Payne continued to oversee the Directors Remuneration Report set and manage the group finance function out in greater detail how the principles following his appointment as CEO until and provisions of the UK Corporate the appointment of Paul James as Chief Governance Code April 2016 the UK Financial Officer on 5 March 2018.
Code have been applied and how the The Company Secretarial function was Board and its committees have fulfilled also brought in-house for the first time their responsibilities during the year to since the IPO with the appointment of ensure that robust governance practices Emma Versluys as Company Secretary.
I are embedded across the Group.
The am delighted to say that these changes report also serves to provide insight have been well received by employees into how the Board and management and shareholders, and that there was a team run the business for the benefit seamless transition of CEO responsibilities of shareholders.
As always, we from David to Martin.
I remain confident welcome questions or comments from that we have a strong and diverse Board shareholders either via our website at in place, with the necessary motivation www.
com or in person at the and an appropriate balance of experience Annual General Meeting AGM.
and skills to lead the Company through Ron Marsh the next phase of its development.
Chairman Following the externally facilitated 20 March 2018 review of our Boards performance in 2016, an internal review of the Board, its Committees and individual Directors was carried out in 2017 using an evaluation questionnaire.
The results of the evaluation, which were discussed by the Board at its meeting in November 2017, concluded that the Board continues to function strongly and collaboratively.
Suggestions for minor improvements were also made, and the outcome of the evaluation process is discussed in more detail on pages 46 and 47 of this Report.
