Sirius Minerals Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Governance CHAIRMANS INTRODUCTION Dear Shareholder I am pleased to present the corporate governance report for the year ended 31 December 2017.
Last year was a year of many significant achievements for Sirius.
One of our key achievements occurred on 28 April 2017, when the Companys ordinary share capital was admitted to trading on the MainMarket.
As the Company is now on the Main Market, we are subject to the UK Corporate Governance Code theCode.
The Code encourages me, as Chairman, to report personally on how the principles relating to the Boards role, and effectiveness of them, have been applied, and I am pleased to do so.
The Board is committed to the This section of the Annual Report highest standards of corporate setsout our approach to corporate governance.
governance using the five main principles of the Code and explains RUSSELL SCRIMSHAW.
CHAIRMAN how the Board and its Committees are structured and their areas of focus during 2017.
The Board is committed to the highest standards of corporate governance and the Board supports the principles of the Code.
The Directors believe that the Company has complied during the year with the principles and provisions of the 2016 UK Corporate Governance Code with the exception of provision D. 2.1 of the Code with respect to the composition of the Remuneration Committee, as described on page 86.
The Sirius Board recognises the importance of sound corporate governance.
Its role is to provide leadership of the Company and its executives with myself, as Chairman, being responsible for leading the Board and ensuring its effectiveness.
It is therefore important that the Board has the correct balance of skills and experience and that its members work together effectively in pursuit of our corporate goals and objectives.
58 Sirius Minerals Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 During the year, Thomas Staley was Board activity in 2017 appointed to the Board as Finance Director, further strengthening the Boards set of critical skills, especially Performance Governance and with regard to financing.
Additionally, Noel Harwerth, a very experienced stakeholders Received comprehensive and long-standing Non-Executive management reports at each Received regular meeting reports Director of several major companies meeting covering progress with from each of the Committee was appointed as our Senior the Project, health and safety Chairs.
The Board now matters, sales and marketing Reviewed and approved comprises two Executive Directors, developments and finance increase to the annual fees of sixNon-Executive Directors, one of andcorporate development the Non-Executive Directors activities.
whom is the Senior Independent andBoard Chairman following Director, providing, I believe, an Approved the 2017 and 2018 recommendations from a appropriate balance of executive budgets.
benchmarking exercise and non-executive positions on the undertaken by the Remuneration Approved changes to the Board.
The Directors have a broad Groups treasury policy.
range of relevant capabilities Considered and approved Considered and approved including strategic, construction, updates to the statement of theprocess for the annual mining, financial, governance and authority matrix.
performance evaluation of other experience to support the theBoard.
Approved the full year and Company in pursuit of our key halfyear results following Reviewed annual schedule of objective of becoming one of the Board agenda items.
recommendations from the worlds most important producers of AuditCommittee.
Undertook an annual evaluation multi-nutrient fertilizer.
of the Boards performance and Approved the 2016 Annual Report.
In 2017 a review of the performance Approved changes to the of the Board and its Committees Leadership Groups anti-bribery and wascarried out internally via a corruption policy and the questionnaire circulated to all Approved the appointment of Groups new Speak Up policy.
Thomas Staley to the Board Directors.
The review confirmed that andNoel Harwerth as Senior the Board and all of its Committees Reviewed the 2017 Annual Report Independent Director following planning process.
More details recommendations from the can be found on page 62 and in In preparation for the move Nominations Committee.
each of the Board Committee reports fromAIM to the Main Market, in this section on pages 66 to 98.
Following recommendations received briefing memoranda from the Nominations onDirectors duties and Committee, approved the With our move to the Main Market responsibilities for a premium Chairmans role profile, the listed company: AIM to Main during 2017 we are now pleased to CEOsrole profile, division of update papers: update from provide an increased level of detailed responsibility scheduled for the PwC on accounting and reporting in our Annual Report.
Chairman and CEO: and the workstreams together with a Included in this increased reporting Senior Independent Director role StepUp training paper and you will find the Remuneration Report profile.
In preparation for the presentation from Allen & Overy on pages 73 to 98 which details our move from AIM to Main Market, and J. P. Morgan Cazenove.
three-year Remuneration Policy that reconstituted the membership of Received and considered an will be put to a binding shareholder the Disclosure Committee.
anti-bribery and corruption vote at our Annual General Meeting memorandum updating the AGM in May 2018.
The Annual Strategy Board on the current legislative Report on Remuneration 2017 also position and planned actions sets out the details of Directors Held an offsite strategy meeting.
toensure compliance with remuneration throughout 2017, and Reviewed and approved the bestpractice.
this will be subject to an advisory vote take-or-pay supply agreement Approved updated Terms of by shareholders at the upcoming AGM.
with Wilmar International for Reference for the Audit theuse and resale of POLY4 Committee, Remuneration This year our AGM will be held exclusively in South East Asia.
Committee, Nominations at1pmon Thursday 31 May 2018 at Committee and Disclosure Internal controls and risk TheEvents Centre, The Principal York, Committee.
Station Road, York, YO24 1AA and management Approved changes to the Ilook forward to welcoming you.
Received regular updates on risk Disclosure and Inside Information and reviewed the principal risks Policy and adopted a schedule and mitigation plans.
of matters reserved to the Board.
Received a health and safety Reviewed developments in presentation from the Groups corporate governance, legal H&S manager.
Russell Scrimshaw Chairman Received investor relations reports.
59 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT
