Chairmans Introduction to Corporate Governance overall strategic direction of PageGroup non-executive director experience from a and supports its core values, policies number of different companies.
The skills and procedures, which in turn, creates and experience of both Sylvia and Angela an environment in which our business complement that of the other Board and employees can act with integrity members, providing a balanced Board.
and effectiveness, while driving profitable Baroness Ruby McGregor-Smith stepped growth.
The following pages of this down from the Board in May 2017 and, Corporate Governance Report set out how in March 2018, Danuta Gray decided the Company has complied with the UK not to offer herself for re-election at the Corporate Governance Code, the work forthcoming Annual General Meeting on and activities of each Board Committee 7 June 2018.
Danuta will also cease to be and the annual evaluation process.
David Lowden, Chair of the Remuneration Committee and Chairman The Board continued to build a strong and Angela Seymour-Jackson will be appointed Dear Shareholder, well balanced Board with the appointment in her stead.
I would like to thank both of Sylvia Metayer and Angela SeymourRuby and Danuta for their contribution to I am pleased to present the Companys Jackson as Non-Executive Directors of the Company.
Corporate Governance Report for the the Company.
Sylvia brings extensive financial year ended 31 December I hope you find our Corporate Governance experience to the PageGroup Board, 2017.
Your Board believes that sound Report informative.
I will be available at the having held a variety of finance and governance, both in the boardroom and 2018 Annual General Meeting to respond general management roles in companies throughout the Group, is fundamental to to any questions you may have on this operating in a number of different sectors.
the long-term success of the business.
She is also a Chartered Accountant, It remains committed to high standards so adds to the financial experience of David Lowden of governance and the fostering of an the Audit Committee.
Angela has a effective governance framework.
This Chairman wealth of experience in service focused underpins the Boards ability to set the organisations and has both executive and 6 March 2018 Our Corporate Governance Framework The Board The Boards role is to provide entrepreneurial leadership of the Group within a framework of prudent and effective controls which enable risk to be assessed and managed.
It has a formal schedule of matters reserved for its decision.
More details on pages 52 to 55 Chief Executive Chief Financial Nomination Officer CEO Officer CFO Committee Key responsibility is to develop Responsible for managing the Responsible for ensuring that the and deliver the Groups strategy financial risks, reporting and Company has the executive and nonwithin the policies and values planning of the Group.
executive Board leadership it requires.
Details on page 56 Audit Committee Executive Board Responsible for the integrity of the The Executive Board is chaired Companys financial statements and by the CEO and includes the performance, ensuring the necessary CFO.
The Executive Board is internal controls and risk management responsible for overseeing systems are in place and effective.
operations in our regions and for Details on page 58 overseeing business operational functions Group-wide.
Remuneration Committee Details on page 51 Company Secretary Responsible for the review, Responsible for ensuring the recommendation and implementation Board complies with all legal, of the Groups remuneration strategy, regulatory and governance its framework and cost.
Details on page 64 45 | Corporate Governance
