Chairmans Corporate Governance Statement As Chairman, I am pleased to introduce you to the 2017 Corporate Governance Report.
The Board of Hansteen is committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance, which we believe enables the Board to promote the success of the Company for the benefit of itsmembers.
Melvyn Egglenton Chairman The Directors and Board are accountable to the shareholders and shareholders.
Details are also provided on the extent of the must act in the way in which they consider, in good faith, would be Companys compliance with the relevant provisions of the UK most likely to promote the success of the Company for the benefit Corporate Governance Code and the ways its principles have of its members as a whole.
This includes overseeing that all beenapplied.
colleagues act in the right way by creating the right culture and tone in which the business will operate.
The Board has maintained a set of Board changes and diversity guiding principles which defines the character of the business.
As a On 10 November 2017, Rebecca Worthington advised the Board that Board we look to lead by example by making decisions that reect she would be standing down during the first quarter of 2018.
The the culture we wish to encourage and which is then reinforced by the Board, assisted by the Nomination Committee, carried out a process Executive management and aligns with the Group values.
These to recruit a replacement and were delighted to be j oined by Jim enduring qualities are a fundamental strength of our business and Clarke as an Independent Non-Executive Director on 27 February we bring all of them to our professional and personal conduct: 2018.
Rebecca resigned from the Board with eect from 20 March 2018 and Jim Clarke replaced Rebecca as Audit Committee Chair Trust we are honest, open and direct in our dealings: with eect from that date.
Details of our Diversity Policy are given Entrepreneurship we forge opportunities by considering inthe Report of the Nominations Committee on page 31 and the investment prospects from multiple angles: Corporate and social responsibility section of the Strategic report on Teamwork our people are at the heart of our success: and page 17.
Excellence we strive for excellence in everything we do.
Board evaluation It is the Directors duty to promote the success of the Company having regard to the likely consequences of any decision in the An internal Board and Committee evaluation was undertaken during long-term and the interest of the diering stakeholders.
We the year as an external evaluation was completed in 2016 and I am considered carefully the consequences of the disposal of the pleased to confirm that the Board and Committees were found to be German and Dutchbusinesses to ensure that it was in the best working well with no significant concerns being identied.
Following interests of our stakeholders.
The disposal was in line with the the Board evaluation, I have also conducted individual Director Companys strategy adding value through its business model of evaluations and David Rough, as the Senior Independent Director led buy, work and sell.
Thedisposal of the businesses at a time when on my own evaluation.
Following these evaluations I remain satisfied not only were they athistorically high levels of occupancy and rent that the performance of all of the Directors proposed for re-election for the period of Hansteens ownership and also at a time when the and David Rough remains satisfied that my performance continues Euro Sterling exchange rate was favourable crystallised significant to be eective and that each Director demonstrates commitment to gains.
This enabled the Company to return a significant amount of their role.
cash to shareholders, bondholders and bank lenders.
The disposals were undertaken in such a way that the ongoing employment of a substantial maj ority of the employees engaged inthose businesses was protected.
This Corporate Governance Statement describes the Groups Melvyn Egglenton corporate governance framework in the context of Leadership, Chairman Eectiveness, Accountability, Remuneration and Relations with 22 19 March 2018 Hansteen Holdings PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 | Go v e rna nce
