Corporate Governance Introduction Committed to effective corporate governance Establishing our PLC Board with relevant Non-Executive expertise and industry knowledge Our commitment to corporate Bringing an experienced, highly skilled and well-balanced Board together was the realisation of one of our key purposes governance touches all aspects of our for listing we were looking for Board members who would business, from assessing our risk appetite complement the executive Board with the right balance of skills and experience both from an industry and technical skill to the creation of our talent pipeline perspective but also with experience of listed companies and resultant succession planning.
Our and people who would also partner with us through the next part of our journey.
In the appointments of Richard, Robin and commitment to the highest standards Karen, we received all of this and we are very proud that they of governance sets the strongest example sit with us today.
of the Alfa values and culture, and sets Shareholder engagement We view our relationship with all our shareholders as a the tone within our team.
partnership, and aim to maintain open and transparent communication.
We laid the foundations for this ongoing Andrew Page shareholder dialogue as we progressed through the listing Executive Chairman process, and look to continue this into 2018 and beyond.
We have held briefing meetings with analysts and institutional shareholders, primarily following the announcement of the interim results but also at other times during the year.
The CFO provides the Board with feedback from investor and analyst meetings, in addition to the formal feedback obtained from analysts and institutional shareholders via our brokers and PR advisors.
Refining our strategic aims In addition to the on-boarding process of our Non-Executive Directors in the run up to the listing, we also held a strategy day in October 2017 where we ran through certain aspects of the business and operational strategy in more detail.
This is an important part of growing our Boards continued understanding of our business and industry.
Additionally, it provides our Executive Committee with access to the Board.
Talent development and succession planning We have started to refine our talent development and succession planning programme and will continue to focus on this in the coming year.
We formed the Executive Committee Our Board was formed on 5 May 2017, following incorporation pre listing, with further details on members on pages 56 to 57 of the Company and prior to the IPO.
Since formation, the to this Annual Report, where all parts of the business are Board has focused on not only demonstrating that it is represented.
The Non-Executive Directors have spent some committed to the establishment and delivery of the highest time with the team outside formal meetings to gain a deeper standards of corporate governance, but also to delivering the insight into how we currently manage talent and remuneration, strategic aims laid out during the listing process, refining the and this is expected to increase in the coming year.
talent and succession pipeline and ensuring that all stakeholders are informed of the next stages in the Alfa Identifying and planning for stakeholder management journey.
We have identified our customers, employees, investors and the communities in which we work as our principal In preparation for listing, the Board either approved existing stakeholders.
We continue to develop and refine the way policies or established new policies, where necessary, with the we communicate and engage with each group, especially aim of further strengthening the Alfa governance framework.
employees, as we have gone through this period of change.
In 2017, the Boards principal achievements are as follows: A continued focus of the Board, through the work of the Remuneration Committee, in the coming year will be the reward and assessment of employees throughout the Company.
50 Alfa Financial Software Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017
