CHAIRMANS INTRODUCTION TO CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Leadership is set out in the Nominations Committee report on pages 64 and 65.
Nigel led the Group as As a Board, we are responsible for the Chief Executive over a period of five years and stewardship of the Company and for was a Board member for a total of 16 years, protecting and growing the long-term value and we are extremely grateful to him for his of GKN for the benefit of its shareholders.
dedication and contribution to GKN over this We are accountable to the Companys time.
We wish him well in his retirement.
shareholders for the decisions that we make.
Despite the set-back of Kevin Cummings Our governance framework helps to protect departure subsequent to his appointment as our shareholders investment by ensuring that Chief Executive Designate, we are delighted processes are in place for decisions to be made that Anne Stevens has taken on the role of Mike Turner CBE by the right people, with the right information Chief Executive, with the support of Jos Sclater, Chairman and within the right environment.
who was appointed as Group Finance Director to replace Adam Walker in November 2017.
Together with Phil Swash leading GKN Driveline Culture and their collective depth and breadth of experience across GKNs core businesses, we As a Board, we are responsible for setting and anticipate that their leadership of the executive demonstrating the values and behaviours that team will result in substantial progress on the we expect from our employees.
As I mentioned objectives of Project Boost during 2018. on page 4, in light of the balance sheet issues in Aerospace North America, we took immediate actions to address the culture in this part of Accountability the Group.
We are undertaking a Group-wide cultural review to identify any further actions The Board is ultimately responsible for we can take to ensure that we have an setting the risk appetite of the Group and for appropriate culture of transparency, maintaining appropriate risk management accountability and delivery.
Following the North American Balance Sheet Review summarised on page 26 improvement plans have been put in place Effectiveness to strengthen our risk management processes.
Maintaining a skilled, balanced and effective The details of how we have complied with the Board is crucial for the long-term success principles and provisions of the UK Corporate of the Group.
Governance Code 2016 the Code are described more fully throughout this report.
I am confident that the composition of our Board, which comprises skilled and experienced Directors, provides the appropriate balance of challenge and support to ensure that it operates effectively and makes the best possible decisions.
During the year, Nigel Stein indicated his desire to retire from the Board as Chief Executive and Mike Turner CBE the Nominations Committee began the process Chairman of planning for his succession.
More information 26 February 2018 54 GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017
