60 Governance overview extensive financial and accounting experience, including her role as Chairman of the Audit Committee for Novo Nordisk A S, Savills plc.
and the House of Lords Commission.
Mr David Lis took up the role of Chairman of the Nomination Committee on conclusion of the 2017 AGM, having served on the Committee since joining the Melrose Board in 2016.
Mr Lis brings a wealth of experience to the role, including as non-executive Director of Electra Private Equity PLC and BCA Marketplace plc.
On the recommendation of the Nomination Committee, the Board decided to increase the number of independent Directors following Mr Grants retirement so that they comprised the majority of the Christopher Miller members of the Board.
Therefore, external recruitment consultants Executive Chairman Stonehaven International were retained to identify suitable candidates for the Boards consideration.
Stonehaven International provided an initial list of potential candidates which the Nomination Committee reviewed and produced a shortlist of candidates, from T he Board remains committed to maintaining which several candidates were invited to interview with members the high standards of corporate governance of the Committee.
Mr Archie G. Kane was identified as the Boards preferred candidate and accepted the offer of appointment subject required to ensure that the Company can to certain necessary approvals.
Those approvals were granted and continue to deliver on its strategic goals and Mr Kane was appointed to the Board on 5 July 2017. to achieve long-term success for the benefit Following Mr Kanes appointment, the Committee continued its of its shareholders.
search for a fifth independent non-executive Director.
However, at the time the Companys approach to GKN plc was made public, the appropriate candidate had not been identified and the search Introduction from the Chairman for the fifth independent non-executive Director was put on hold As part of this approach, the Board supports, applies and complies until the acquisition process has concluded.
with the Main Principles, the Supporting Principles and the Remuneration respective related provisions of corporate governance contained The Directors Remuneration Report, comprising the Annual in the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code issued by the Report on Remuneration, is available on pages 80 to 90.
Financial Reporting Council the FRC and available to view on the FRCs website at: www.
uk The Companys former long-term incentive plan, the Incentive Plan 2012, crystallised on 31 May 2017 and, following shareholder In support of this commitment, the Board carried out a number approval at a general meeting on 11 May 2017 the General of key governance activities during 2017 designed to ensure that Meeting, was replaced by a new scheme, the Incentive Plan Melrose remains compliant with the provisions of the Code 2017, on equivalent economic terms.
The Incentive Plan 2012 and to enable continuous improvement in line with best practice had been central to the Companys exceptional performance since corporate governance guidelines.
its establishment in creating 3.6 billion of shareholder value over Succession planning its performance period.
Approval was also sought and granted at Succession planning was an area of focus for Melrose in 2017. the General Meeting for a new Directors Remuneration Policy to The Nomination Committee and the Board have considered the be adopted in order to incorporate, and allow for awards to be leadership needs of the Group, present and future, together with made under, the Incentive Plan 2017.
The Incentive Plan 2017 is the skills and experiences needed from its Directors going forward.
on equivalent economic principles as the Incentive Plan 2012 with We recognise that succession planning is an ongoing process and additional, shareholder focused features, as set out in the circular is critical to maintaining an effective and high-quality board.
to shareholders available at www.
The only Mr John Grant retired from the Board at the conclusion of the 2017 change to the new Directors Remuneration Policy as compared AGM in May.
At the time of his retirement, Mr Grant was the Senior to the policy approved by shareholders at the 2016 AGM is to Independent Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee.
reflect the inclusion of the Incentive Plan 2017 in place of the His departure therefore led to a change in the composition of a Incentive Plan 2012.
All other elements remained the same as number of the independent non-executive positions of the Board approved at the 2016 AGM.
Melroses remuneration philosophy remains unchanged: executive Mr Justin Dowley, who has served as a non-executive Director remuneration should be simple, transparent, support the delivery of since 2011, took up the role of Senior Independent Director of the Melrose value creation strategy and only pay for performance.
the Board at the conclusion of the 2017 AGM, while continuing to perform his role as the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Ms Liz Hewitt stood down as Chairman of the Nomination Committee on conclusion of the 2017 AGM to take up the role of Chairman of the Audit Committee vacated by Mr Grant.
Ms Hewitt had served as a member of the Audit Committee since joining the Board as a non-executive Director in 2013 and brings to the role Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2017 Governance 61 Audit Committee report p. 72 Nomination Committee report p. 78 Directors remuneration report p. 80 Board structure Board composition Board independence Board diversity Executive Chairman 1 Independent 4 Male 7 Executive Directors 3 Non-independent 4 Female 1 Non-executive Directors 4 Risk management and compliance Main responsibilities of the Board: Melrose has implemented a uniform Enterprise Risk Management Effectively manage and control the Company via a programme across all its business units.
Brush continues to formal schedule of matters reserved for its decision manage and monitor its programme and the Nortek businesses Determine and review Company strategy and policy have fully embedded our processes and procedures.
Consider acquisitions, disposals and requests for The Groups compliance policies have been fully implemented major capital expenditure across all Nortek business units and continue to be monitored to Review trading performance ensure their effectiveness for the enlarged Group.
Taken together, these initiatives have ensured the Nortek businesses effectiveness Ensure that adequate funding and personnel at identifying and managing risks and have promoted and are in place embedded a more risk-aware culture.
Further details on the Maintain sound internal control systems Groups management of risk can be found on pages 42 to 43 Report to shareholders and give consideration to all of this Annual Report.
other significant financial matters Melroses reputation for acting responsibly plays a critical role in Agree Board succession plans and consider the its success as a business and its ability to generate shareholder evaluation of the Boards performance over the value.
We maintain high standards of ethical conduct and take a preceding year zero tolerance approach to bribery, corruption, modern slavery Review the Groups risk management and internal and human trafficking and any other unethical or illegal practices.
control systems Supporting our updated compliance policies are a comprehensive Determine the nature and extent of the risks the online training platform and an industry-leading whistleblowing Group is willing to take reporting facility.
The integrity of the compliance framework is further reinforced by the use of independent assurance and Agree the Groups governance framework compliance audits.
and approve Group governance policies Engagement with shareholders During 2017, the Company continued its programme of engagement with major investors and the governance bodies in respect of our Remuneration Policy and incentive arrangements.
In particular, the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and other members of the Board met with major shareholders prior to the implementation of the Incentive Plan 2017, which was well supported by shareholders.
The Board is pleased with the support and constructive feedback throughout these discussions and it is our intention to continue this programme for the foreseeable future.
Further engagement with key shareholders and governance bodies has been a central part of our bid for GKN plc and has continued in our lead up to the 2018 AGM.
Christopher Miller Executive Chairman 20 February 2018 Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2017
