Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Chairmans Introduction to Governance A strong and effective governancestructure and how we get things done, how ourpeople act in their day-to-day roles, As we embark on this is a matter that is of importance to exciting new chapter theBoard.
It is important for the Board to understand how our people feel following the successful aboutworking for the Company, and acquisition of Regal, good what theythink we could do better.
SoIamvery pleased to report that our governance will remain employee engagement survey for 2017 akeyfocus going forward showed that employee engagement across the circuit continued to increase.
We know from previous tracking that there is a clear link between employee engagement and customer experience, as our customer satisfaction scores are consistently higher where employee engagement is highest.
Clearly, engagement has a real impact on Cineworld being the Best Place To Watch a Movie.
More detailsof how weengage with our key stakeholders areset out on page 40.
Our shareholders are a vital part of ourbroad stakeholder base.
In the context ofthe Regal acquisition, we weredelighted to receive strong support fromshareholders in approving the transaction, and by strong levels of take-up in respect of the rights issue: over 96%.
As stated previously, on behalf ofthe Board, I would like to express appreciation to shareholders Dear Shareholders for this support, and to reiterate the I am pleased to present the Corporate confidence that the Board has in this Governance Statement for 2017. important development for the Group.
One of our core objectives is ensuring As for the composition of our Board, that we make good governance an wemade a number of changes to essential part of our corporate culture.
Nisan Cohen Itsupports the implementation of our was appointed as CFO, and joined the strategy, helps ensure we can meet Board as an Executive Director.
Dean ourbusiness goals, and provides the Moore, who had been interim CFO, foundation for creating long-term value wasappointed as an independent for shareholders.
Both Nisan and Dean bring extensive experience to the Good governance is a discipline that Board, something we have already seen isparticularly important during times in action since their appointments.
Also ofgrowth and, as we embark on this in the reporting year, Martina King exciting new chapter for the Group, stepped down as a Non-Executive following the successful acquisition Director and we are grateful to Martina ofRegal, it will remain a key focus for her valuable contribution to the goingforward.
Company over the six years she served However, strong corporate governance on the Board.
Further details of the is only part of the equation for success.
It workof the Nomination Committee must be underpinned by a sound culture, throughout the year may be found onpage 41.
30 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 During the year we undertook an internalevaluation of the composition and effectiveness of the Board, and I am pleased to report that it supported the view that the Board and its Committees are operating efficiently and productively.
An external evaluation isconducted at least every third year, inaccordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
Good governance means ensuring wehave rigorous risk management andcontrol procedures.
Details of the annual risk review are contained in the Accountability section starting on page 42.
The Audit Committee plays a key role in overseeing our internal control and risk management systems, which this year included a comprehensive review ofthe effectiveness of our internal audit systems and controls, in accordance withthe requirements of the Code.
In addition, this year the Audit Committee engaged with the Financial Reporting Council FRC in relation to its thematic review of significant accounting judgements and sources of estimation uncertainty.
More details of the outcome of the review are set out in the Audit Committee Report on page 44, but no material financial reporting changes were required.
The Remuneration Committee conducted a full review of the Companys Remuneration Policy and, following a detailed consultation process, proposes to make some changes to the Policy this year to ensureit remains fit for purpose in thecontext of the Regal acquisition.
Further details of the work of the Remuneration Committee in this areamay be found onpages 48 to 67.
