Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Chairmans letter to shareholders Following recent appointments the Board has a renewed focus on the execution of the Companys strategic priorities and its governance needs.
Andrew Shilston Chairman The Board selected and appointed Jane Aikman as non-executive Dear Shareholder Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee.
This year the Board has continued to evolve with a further change to its membership and the continuing development of the non-executive The Board oversaw the induction of Jane Aikman, with a focus on Directors who joined the Board in 2016.
These appointments have increasing her knowledge of the Group and its associated markets brought additional focus to the execution of the Companys strategic in a structured and accessible way, enabling Jane to quickly make an priorities and to its governance needs.
informed and effective contribution to the Board and to participate fully in Board discussions.
I am pleased to report to you on the Boards development and activities Board visits were organised to a number of sites, which afforded and on some of the significant governance matters that the Board has Directors a better insight into our businesses and enabled them to considered during the year: meet local management and to hear more on safety performance Core focus continues to be on safety, environment and health matters, and initiatives, market trends, product development, innovation and including the objectives and targets for this key area.
In September 2017, the Board visited a site in Italy relating received regular updates on safety and environmental operational to the Companys Thermal Ceramics business, and the Board meeting performance and on initiatives undertaken to raise and renew in November 2017 was held at the Electrical Carbon site in Swansea, awareness of safety and improve our safety culture globally.
Wales, and included a tour of the site operations.
The Board continues to support the Executive Committee on the The Board reviewed the outputs from the internal Board performance implementation of the execution priorities arising from the strategic evaluation which provided further insight into the Board and its review concluded in 2016, including receiving specific strategy updates Committees on potential areas for consideration during the next on each of the global business units, presented by the respective 12 months.
These are explained further below under the heading Divisional and global business unit management, and agenda items Performance evaluation.
on talent, technology and sales effectiveness.
The Board supported the Audit Committee in its continued rigorous In February 2017, the Board approved the sale of the global Rotary review of internal controls and risk management processes, which Transfer Systems business to Moog Inc. for 40 million and the sale is described in more detail in the Report of the Audit Committee.
of its UK Electro-ceramics business to CeramTec for 47 million.
Both divestments were completed in April 2017 and form part of During 2018 the Board will look at how it can further improve its the strategy for the Company to simplify its portfolio and reinvest governance framework and performance and continue to drive the the proceeds from the sales into the core businesses.
strategic aspirations of the Group.
In May 2017, the Board reviewed and approved its Modern Slavery Act Transparency Statement, and in doing so considered how it could Andrew Shilston enhance the steps the Company already takes to prevent any form of Chairman modern slavery.
A copy of the statement is available on our website.
In March 2017, the Board approved changes to the schedule of matters reserved for the Board, which included new matters for Board approval resulting from new legislative requirements and changes to the UK Corporate Governance Code.
These included risk appetite, tax strategy and the Modern Slavery Act Transparency Statement, as well as ensuring the Board focuses on those areas which matter most to support the Group in developing a sustainable business.
Annual Report 2017 Morgan Advanced Materials 55
