STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2017 2 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Financial liabilities and equity instruments issued by the Group Leases Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified according to the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into.
Leases would be classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Group after deducting all of its liabilities.
All other leases are classified as operating leases.
Equity instruments issued by the Group are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Assets held under finance leases and hire-purchase contracts would be capitalised at their fair value on the inception of the lease Borrowings and depreciated over the shorter of the period of the lease and the estimated useful economic lives of the assets.
The corresponding Interest-bearing loans and overdrafts are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs and stated at amortised cost liability to the lessor is included in the Consolidated Balance Sheet as a finance lease obligation.
Finance charges are allocated over using the effective interest rate method.
the period of the lease in proportion to the capital amount outstanding and are charged to the Consolidated Income Statement.
Net debt Operating lease rentals are charged to the Consolidated Income Statement in equal annual amounts on a straight line basis over Net debt consists of cash and cash equivalents and includes bank overdrafts, borrowings and other loan receivables where these are the lease term.
Lease incentives where these are received from the lessor, such as rent-free periods and contributions to leasehold interest bearing and do not relate to deferred consideration arrangements and finance leases.
improvements, are treated as a reduction in lease rental expense and spread over the term of the lease.
Debt issue costs Rental income from sub-leasing property space is recognised on a straight line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
Debt issue costs, including premium payable on settlement or redemption, are accounted for on an accrual basis in the Consolidated Financial assets Income Statement using the effective interest rate method and added to the carrying amount of the instrument to the extent that they Financial assets are recognised in the Groups Consolidated Balance Sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual are not settled in the period in which they arise.
Trade payables Trade payables are initially measured at fair value, and are subsequently measured at amortised cost, using the effective interest Financial assets are classified into the following categories: trade and other receivables, and cash at bank and on hand.
Trade and other receivables Trade receivables and other receivables are measured on initial recognition at fair value, and are subsequently measured at amortised Other financial liabilities cost using the effective interest rate method, less any impairment.
Other financial liabilities are initially measured at fair value, net of transaction costs.
Other financial liabilities are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method, as set out above, with interest expense recognised on an effective yield basis.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand and balances with banks and similar institutions, which are readily convertible to Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting known amounts of cash and with a maturity of three months or less and are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
Bank The Groups activities expose it primarily to the financial risks of changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates.
The overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an integral part of the Groups cash management are included as a component of derivative instruments utilised by the Group to hedge these exposures are primarily interest rate swaps and cross currency swaps.
cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement.
The Group does not use derivative contracts for speculative purposes.
Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value at the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured to their Impairment of financial assets fair value at each reporting date.
The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on whether the derivative is designated Financial assets are assessed for indicators of impairment at each reporting date.
Financial assets are impaired where there is as a hedging instrument and, if so, the nature of the item being hedged.
The Group designates certain derivatives as either: objective evidence that, as a result of one or more events that occurred after the initial recognition of the financial asset, the estimated future cash flows of the investment have been negatively impacted.
hedges of a change of fair value of recognised assets and liabilities or firm commitments fair value hedge : For unlisted shares classified as available-for-sale, a significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of the security below its cost is hedges of a particular risk associated with a recognised asset or liability or a highly probable forecast transaction cash flow hedge : considered to be objective evidence of impairment.
or hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation net investment hedge.
For all other financial assets, objective evidence of impairment could include: The Group documents at the inception of the transaction the relationship between hedging instruments and hedged items, as well as significant financial difficulty of the issuer or counterparty: or its risk management objectives and strategy for undertaking various hedging transactions.
Furthermore, at the inception of the hedge default or delinquency in interest or principal payments: or and on an ongoing basis, the Group documents whether the hedging instrument is highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values a probability that the borrower will enter bankruptcy or financial reorganisation.
or cash flows of the hedged item.
For certain categories of financial assets, such as trade receivables, assets that are assessed not to be impaired individually are Fair value hedge subsequently assessed for impairment on a collective basis.
Objective evidence of impairment for a portfolio of receivables could Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that are designated and qualify as fair value hedges are recorded in profit include the Groups past experience of collecting payments, an increase in the number of delayed payments in the portfolio past the or loss immediately, together with any changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability that is attributable to the hedged risk.
average credit period of 30 days, as well as observable changes in national or local economic conditions that correlate with increased The change in the fair value of the hedging instrument and the change in the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk are default risk on receivables.
A specific provision will also be raised for trade receivables when there is objective evidence that the Group recognised in the line of the Consolidated Income Statement relating to the hedged item.
will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables.
Significant financial difficulties of the debtor, probability that the debtor will enter bankruptcy or financial reorganisation, and default or delinquency in payments more than Hedges of net investment in foreign operations 90 days overdue are considered indicators that the trade receivable is impaired.
Hedges of net investment in foreign operations are accounted for similarly to cash flow hedges.
Any gain or loss on the hedging instrument in relation to the effective portion of the hedge is recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated in the For financial assets carried at amortised cost, the amount of the impairment is the difference between the assets carrying amount foreign currency translation reserve.
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the Consolidated and the present value of estimated future cash flows, discounted at the financial assets original effective interest rate.
Gains and losses on the hedging instrument relating to the effective portion of the hedge accumulated in the foreign currency translation reserve are reclassified to profit or loss when the hedged item is disposed of.
The carrying amount of the financial asset is reduced by the impairment loss directly for all financial assets with the exception of trade receivables, where the carrying amount is reduced through the use of a provision account.
When a trade receivable is considered Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised in the Consolidated uncollectible, it is written off against the provision account.
Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off are credited Income Statement as they arise.
Changes in the carrying amount of the provision are recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement.
138 139 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 WWW.
COM INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2017 2 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers effective for the 2018 financial year is a new standard providing a single point Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedge instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or no longer qualifies for of reference for revenue recognition, based on a five-step model framework, which replaces all existing revenue accounting hedge accounting.
At that time, any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognised in equity is retained in equity until standards, interpretations and guidance.
The major change is the requirement to identify and assess the satisfaction of delivery the forecast transaction occurs.
If a hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss recognised of each performance obligation in contracts in order to recognise revenue.
in equity is transferred to the Consolidated Income Statement in the period.
Following an assessment of the financial impact of the changes required from the forthcoming adoption of this new standard, the A derivative is presented as a non-current asset or a non-current liability if the remaining maturity of the instrument is more than Group does not expect there to be any material change to the Consolidated Income Statement of the Group.
The Consolidated 12 months and it is not expected to be realised or settled within 12 months.
Other derivatives are presented as current assets or Balance Sheet will be adjusted by the requirement to net-down deferred income against trade receivables for amounts that have current liabilities.
been invoiced but are not yet due.
This balance sheet adjustment will not affect the net assets of the Group and will involve the reduction of approximately 70m of both the accounts receivable balance and deferred income as at 31 December 2017.
Further details of derivative financial instruments are disclosed in Note 30.
IFRS 16 Leases effective for the 2019 financial year will replace the existing leasing standard, IAS 17 Leases.
It will treat all leases Provisions in a consistent way, eliminating the distinction between operating and finance leases, and require lessees to recognise all leases, Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation as a result of a past event, and it is probable that the Group will with a term of greater than 12 months, on the balance sheet.
The most significant effect of the new requirements will be an increase be required to settle that obligation.
Provisions are measured at the Directors best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the in lease assets and lease liabilities for leases currently categorised as operating leases.
The new standard changes the nature of obligation at the reporting date, and are discounted to present value where the effect is material.
expenses related to those leases, replacing the straight line operating lease expense with a depreciation charge for the lease asset included within operating costs and an interest expense on the lease liability included within finance costs.
The Group is in the Restructuring provisions are recognised when the Group has a detailed formal plan for the restructuring that has been communicated process of assessing the impact of this new standard and will provide a further update in the half-year results for the six months to to the affected parties or implementation has commenced.
30 June 2018 and a full impact assessment in the Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ending 31 December 2018.
Adoption of new and revised International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS Note 34 provides further information on the Groups operating lease obligations.
Standards and interpretations adopted in the current year 3 CRITICAL ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS AND KEY SOURCES OF ESTIMATION UNCERTAINTY The following new standards, amendments and interpretations have been adopted in the current year: In the application of the Groups accounting policies, which are described in Note 2, the Directors are required to make judgements, Amendments to IAS 12: Recognition of Deferred Tax Assets for Unrealised Losses effective from 1 January 2017: estimates and assumptions about the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
Amendments to IAS 7: Disclosure Initiative effective from 1 January 2017: and The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and other factors that are considered to be relevant.
Annual improvements to IFRS: 2014-2016 Cycle specific items effective from 1 January 2017.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
The adoption of these standards and interpretations has not led to any changes to the Groups accounting policies or had any Critical accounting judgements other material impact on the financial position or performance of the Group.
Other amendments to IFRS effective for the year In addition to the judgement taken by the Group in selecting and applying the accounting policies set out above, the Directors have ended 31December 2017 have had no impact on the Group.
made the following judgements concerning the amounts recognised in the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Standards and interpretations in issue, but not yet effective Valuation of separately identifiable intangible assets Notes 17 and 18 At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following standards and interpretations which have not been applied To determine the value of separately identifiable intangible assets on a business combination, and deferred tax on these intangibles, in these financial statements were in issue but have not yet come into effect: the Group is required to make judgements when utilising valuation methodologies.
These methodologies include the use of discounted cash flows, revenue forecasts and the estimates for the useful economic lives of intangible assets.
Effective from 1 January 2018: There are significant judgements involved in assessing what amounts are recognised as the estimated fair value of assets and liabilities IFRS 9 Financial Instruments EU endorsed: acquired through business combinations, particularly the amounts attributed to separate intangible assets such as titles, brands, IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers EU endorsed: acquired customer lists and associated customer relationships.
These judgements impact the amount of goodwill recognised on Amendments to IFRS 4: Applying IFRS 9 Financial Instruments with IFRS 4 Insurance Contracts EU endorsed: acquisitions.
Any provisional amounts are subsequently finalised within the 12-month measurement period, as permitted by IFRS 3.
Interpretation IFRIC 22: Foreign Currency Transactions and Advance Consideration not yet EU endorsed.
Amendments to IFRS 2: Classification and Measurement of Share-based Payment Transactions not yet EU endorsed: The Group has built considerable knowledge of these valuation techniques, and for major acquisitions, defined as when consideration Annual improvements to IFRS Standards 2014-2016 Cycle certain items effective from 1 January 2017 not yet EU endorsed: is 75.0m or above, the Group also considers the advice of third party independent valuers to identify and calculate the valuation of Amendments to IAS 40: Transfer of Investment Property not yet EU endorsed.
intangible assets arising on acquisition.
Details of acquisitions in the year are set out in Note 18.
Other items applicable in subsequent periods: Key sources of estimation uncertainty The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the IFRS 16 Leases effective from 1 January 2019 EU endorsed: period in which the estimate is revised.
Interpretation IFRIC 23: Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatments not yet EU endorsed: Amendments to IFRS 9: Prepayment Features with Negative Compensation not yet EU endorsed: Impairment of assets Note 16 Amendments to IAS 28: Long-term Interests in Associates and Joint Ventures not yet EU endorsed: Identifying indicators of asset impairment involves estimating future cash flows based on a good understanding of the drivers of Annual improvements to IFRS Standards 2015-2017 Cycle not yet EU endorsed: value behind the asset.
At each reporting period, an assessment is performed to determine whether there are any such indicators IFRS 17 Insurance Contracts not yet EU endorsed.
of impairment, which involves considering the performance of our businesses, any significant changes to the markets in which we operate and future forecasts.
For impairment testing purposes, goodwill is allocated to the specific cash generating units CGUs The Directors anticipate that the adoption of these standards and interpretations in future periods will not have a material impact that are expected to benefit from the goodwill.
When there are changes in business structure, judgement is required to identify any on the financial statements of the Group, except as described in relation to IFRS 16 Leases and IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts changes to CGUs, taking account of the lowest level of independent cash inflows being generated, amongst other factors.
with Customers: The Group has considered a number of assumptions in performing impairment reviews of assets, which can be found in Note 16.
I FRS 9 Financial Instruments effective for the 2018 financial year replaces IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and The determination of whether assets are impaired requires an estimation of the value in use of the CGUs to which assets have been Measurement.
The new standard introduces new requirements for classifying and measuring financial assets and liabilities in the allocated, except where a fair value less costs to sell methodology is applied.
The value in use calculation requires the Group to Consolidated Financial Statements.
The Group has conducted an assessment of the impact of this standard and concluded there estimate the future cash flows expected to arise from each CGU, using five-year projections and determining a suitable discount is not expected to be any significant adjustment required on the measurement, presentation or disclosure of financial assets and rate to calculate present value and the long-term growth rate.
The Directors are satisfied that the majority of the Groups CGUs liabilities in the Consolidated Financial Statements when the standard is adopted.
have a value in excess of their balance sheet carrying value.
The sensitivities considered by the Directors for CGUs that have less headroom are described in Note 16.
140 141 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 WWW.
COM INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017
