44 | Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Chairmans introduction to governance Good governance is the basis on which we as a business can build an environment of trust, transparency and accountability.
Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code Dignity plc is subject to the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council available Dear Shareholder, at frc.
As a listed company, Dignity is required to report On behalf of the Board I am pleased to present the Groups on how it has applied the principles of the Code and this is Corporate Governance Report for 2017.
Our report is intended set out in the following pages.
The Board is pleased to report to provide shareholders with a clear and comprehensive that Dignity has complied with all of the provisions of the explanation of what good governance means within Dignity, Code throughout the period ended 29 December 2017 and what it means to us as the Board of Directors, how it is applied remained fully compliant at the date the 2017 Annual Report and how it guides our decision making.
was published, save for a short period, as noted in the 2016 Annual Report, between Martin Pexton stepping down from We are reporting in line with the UK Corporate Governance the Board on 3 February 2017 and the appointment of Mary Code the Code and I am pleased to advise that Dignity has McNamara on 1 March 2017 where the Group did not fully complied with all relevant provisions throughout the period comply with provision B.
1.2 of the Code which requires that at ending 29 December 2017, save for the exception noted later.
least half the board, excluding the chairman, should comprise How we have achieved this is covered in this section of our non-executive directors.
Annual Report and comprehensively explains our approach to and the application of good Corporate Governance.
At the end of 2008 Peter Hindley relinquished the role of Chief Executive and became Chairman of the Board.
This Separate reports are included from each of the Board was contrary to provision A.
3.1 of the Code as he was not Committees: we feel this gives the most comprehensive independent on appointment.
However, as suggested by the view of their activities.
Code, that appointment was only made after consultation with the major shareholders of the Group at that time.
The Board Good governance is crucial at all levels within the Group felt at the time and continues to feel today that it is important and it is the responsibility of the Board both to lead by to retain his skills and knowledge of the funeral industry example and set the tone.
It means ensuring that an effective at Dignity.
internal framework of systems and controls exists which includes clearly dened authorities and accountability which Directors Report promotes success, whilst allowing risks to be managed The Directors present their report for Dignity plc for the period to appropriate levels.
To do this the Board must make ending 29 December 2017. appropriate judgements whilst giving consideration to the views of our shareholders and other stakeholders.
Corporate Governance The Group is committed to high standards of corporate I would encourage you to attend our Annual General Meeting governance, details of which are given in this report and the on 7 June 2018 and take the opportunity to meet the separate reports from the Chairman of: management team at this important event.
We will take both formal questions at that meeting and be available for more The Audit Committee: informal conversation and questions afterwards.
The Nomination Committee: and The Remuneration Committee.
Peter Hindley Chairman The various sections of this report contain summarised 14 March 2018 information from Dignity plcs Articles of Association the Articles and the Companies Act 2006 which is the applicable English law concerning companies.
The relevant provisions of the Articles or the Companies Act should be consulted if more detailed information is needed.
Our governance principles Leadership Effectiveness Accountability Remuneration Engagement Continued close focus A strong, open and Continued close Prudent oversight Maintaining a strong scrutiny and of Executive and open and two on delivering on our effective Board with management of remuneration.
the independence of risk coupled with the shareholders.
and monitoring of effective controls.
