ACCOUNTABILITY Audit Committee Report Internal Audit effectiveness review: The Audit Committee is responsible for ASSESSING THE EFFECTIVENESS OF THE EXTERNAL AUDIT reviewing the effectiveness of the Internal Audit function each year.
This year PROCESS AND THE EXTERNAL AUDITOR an independent review of the effectiveness of Internal Audit was facilitated The Audit Committee places great importance on ensuring that there are externally by Grant Thornton UK LLP.
The review followed two years in high standards of quality and effectiveness in the external audit.
Given which an internally facilitated review had been conducted by the Company Deloitte transitioned into the external auditor role in this period, the Audit Secretary.
Grant Thornton's detailed review of Internal Audit focused on remit Committee assessment covers a shorter review period than usual although and future direction.
The review was based on interviews with a broad range the assessment still includes most of the half year review work and the year of stakeholders and members of the Internal Audit function.
The Audit Committee reviewed and approved the annual audit plan to ensure that it is consistent with the scope of the audit engagement.
The review concluded with a final report and feedback session with In reviewing the audit plan, the Audit Committee discussed the significant the Chairman and Head of Internal Audit and a discussion at the Audit and elevated risk areas identified by Deloitte most likely to give rise to a Committee meeting.
Management presented a proposed response to the material financial reporting error or those that are perceived to be of higher recommendations made in the report, which the Audit Committee discussed.
risk and requiring additional audit emphasis including those set out in the Among the recommendations to be addressed by Internal Audit were that a Independent Auditor's Report on pages 120 to 126.
The Audit Committee also detailed assurance map be presented to the Audit Committee, illustrating all considered the audit scope and materiality threshold.
The Audit Committee assurance work across the Group and detailed reasoning for work included in met with Deloitte at various stages during the period, including without the internal audit plan and better reporting of the resource allocation made management present, to discuss their remit and any issues arising from the by the Internal Audit team to different work activities.
Internal Audit expects work of the auditor.
that the balance of its roles will change in future years to reflect the ongoing shift in the business from retail only to retail and technology.
This will mean At the end of the period, the Audit Committee reviewed the performance of an increase in the amount of assurance work done with respect to the retail Deloitte based on a questionnaire that contained various criteria for judging business, while its advisory role will continue with regards to the nascent their effectiveness and on feedback from management.
The criteria for Ocado Solutions business.
Assurance work on the Ocado Solutions business is assessing the effectiveness of the audit included the robustness of the audit, expected to take place as its control environment matures.
Feedback from the the quality of the audit delivery and the quality of the people and service.
The stakeholders was consistent in acknowledging the usefulness of the work of questionnaire was completed by members of the Audit Committee, the Chief Internal Audit and the value it is delivering for the Group.
The Audit Committee Financial Officer and members of the finance department and senior members was satisfied that Internal Audit remains effective.
The Internal Audit team of management and operations teams.
The results of the questionnaire will grow slightly and is sufficiently resourced and has adequate levels of were reviewed by the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee also met with experience and expertise.
management, including without Deloitte present, to hear their views on the effectiveness of the external auditor.
Annual Review: In addition to its annual performance evaluation, discussed in the Statement of Corporate Governance on page 57, the Audit Committee The Audit Committee also reviewed the findings from the Financial Reporting carried out a review of its terms of reference.
The review resulted in changes to Councils Deloitte Audit Quality Inspection report dated June 2017.
The Audit the terms of reference to reflect the new guidance.
The Committees terms of Committee fully discussed with Deloitte the content of the report including the reference can be found on ocadogroup.
assessment of the quality of audits reviewed, Deloittes response to the report and actions taken by it, including changes to the firms audit methodology AUDITOR TRANSITION generally and taken into account in the audit plan for the period.
Deloitte was appointed by the shareholders as the Groups statutory auditor in May 2017, following a formal tender process as described in the 2016 annual The Audit Committee concluded that Deloitte had transitioned well into the report.
Mark Lee-Amies is the lead audit partner.
The tender process was role and their performance was effective.
completed in late 2016 which allowed for a smooth handover process from the Groups outgoing external auditor, .
The Audit Committee monitored this transition process.
Deloitte were given an induction process to help build on their understanding of the business.
These induction activities included: a planning meeting with management in early 2017: Deloitte observing the Audit Committee meetings in January and April 2017: and half year transition planning meetings.
In addition, Deloittes role as principal accountant on the Groups debt issue noted below in respect of the 2017 period aided their understanding of the business.
68 Ocado Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts for the 53 weeks ended 3 December 2017 25615 Proof 8 5 February 2018 8:57 PM Our Governance Independence and Objectivity: The Audit Committee considered the The Audit Committee received a regular report from management regarding safeguards in place to protect the external auditor's independence.
Deloitte the extent of non-audit services performed by the external auditor.
Deloitte reported to the Audit Committee that it had considered its independence in provided a report to the Audit Committee on the specific safeguards put in relation to the audit and confirmed to the Audit Committee that it complies place for each piece of non-audit work confirming that it was satisfied that with UK regulatory and professional requirements and that its objectivity neither the extent of the non-audit services provided nor the size of the fees is not compromised.
The Audit Committee took this into account when being 84.1% of the audit fees charged had any impact on its independence considering the external auditors independence and concluded that Deloitte as statutory auditor.
Notwithstanding that the level of non-audit fees was very remained independent and objective in relation to the audit.
high in relation to the external audit fees, it was concluded that appropriate safeguards were in place to prevent a compromise of auditor independence.
Non-Audit Work Carried Out by the External Auditor: To help protect In the case of the debt issuance review work, this was conducted by an auditor objectivity and independence, the provision of any non-audit services independent specialist team and was a natural extension of the half year provided by the external auditor requires prior approval, as set out in the table auditor review work, making the auditor most suited to providing the service.
In addition in the case of Deloitte, some of its non-audit services were Approval Thresholds for provided to the business prior to its appointment as external auditor.
The Non-Audit Work Approver Audit Committee was satisfied this was the case and so concluded that the Over 10,000 and up to 30,000 per Chief Financial Officer auditor's independence from the Group was not compromised.
engagement Audit Fees: The Audit Committee was satisfied that the level of audit fees Over 30,000 and up to 100,000 per Chief Financial Officer and Audit payable in respect of the audit services provided excluding audit-related engagement Committee Chairman services being 345,000 2016: 322,000 was appropriate and that an Greater than 100,000 per engagement, Audit Committee effective audit could be conducted for such a fee.
The existing authority for or if the value of non-audit fees to audit the Audit Committee to determine the current remuneration of the external fees reaches a ratio of 1:2 as a result of auditors is derived from the shareholder approval granted at the Companys a new engagement, regardless of value annual general meeting in 2017.
At the annual general meeting in 2017, 98.37% of votes cast by shareholders were in favour of granting the Directors An additional protection is provided by way of a non-audit services fee cap.
The Audit Committee or the Company may not approve an engagement of the external auditor if annual non-audit services fees would exceed 70% of the STATEMENT OF COMPLIANCE WITH THE COMPETITION AND average audit fees not including fees for audit-related services charged in MARKETS AUTHORITY CMA ORDER the previous three years.
Certain types of non-audit service are of sufficiently The Company confirms that it has complied with The Statutory Audit Services low risk as not to require the prior approval of the Audit Committee, such as for Large Companies Market Investigation Mandatory Use of Competitive audit-related services including the review of interim financial information.
Processes and Audit Committee Responsibilities Order 2014 Article 7.1, Prohibited services are those that have the potential to conflict directly published by the CMA on 26 September 2014, including with respect to the with the auditors role, such as the preparation of the Companys financial Audit Committees responsibilities for agreeing the audit scope and fees and statements.
Non-Audit Work Undertaken During the Period: The total of non-audit fees, audit fees and audit-related services fees paid to the external auditors during the period is set out in Note 2.5 to the consolidated financial statements on page 138.
The non-audit services fees of 310,000 paid to Deloitte during the period related to: 1 services in relation to the Ocado debt issue in June 2017: 2 audit-related assurance services for an interim review: 3 IT cyber penetration testing work carried out prior to appointment as external auditor: and 4 intellectual property legal support work carried our prior to appointment as external auditor.
Non-audit fees of 20,600 were paid to Deloitte for remuneration advice to the Remuneration Committee for more information see page 73.
With the exception of services in relation to the debt issue, all non-audit work engagements were approved by the Chief Financial Officer as the fees concerned were within the approval thresholds set under the policy.
The non-audit services fees of 155,000 2016: 50,000 paid to retiring external auditors,  related to services in relation to the Ocado debt issue and a controls programme assessment.
The appointments of Deloitte and  in relation to the debt issue work were approved by the Board.
