Strategic report Financial statements Governance William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 51 Introduction to Governance Introduction The Board commenced the 2017 financial year withrenewed optimism, which I feel on balance proved to be fully justified over the course of the last12 months.
While uncertainties remain for the industry in which the Group operates, we can be confident that the action we have taken Gareth Davis ourselves to transform the business in Chairman 2017, the customer focused improvements made by our Online business, and our robust governance processes supported In what will now be my last by new Board appointments in the year, each position us well to take on the governance report as Chairman, challenges and take advantage of potential I am delighted to report excellent opportunities in 2018 and beyond.
As Chairman, during the year I have worked progress in refreshing the with the Board to secure a more optimal composition, with three Non-executive composition of the Board.
Directors joining, the appointment of Philip Bowcock as CEO being made permanent and the appointment of Ruth Prior as CFO.
D uring the year, the Boards I consider that the changes have made good governance has supported the Board more effective, as explained further below.
solid strategic progress and the The Board made good progress in 2017 with succession planning for my planned Board is well placed to lead the retirement in 2018.
We were delighted to announce that Roger Devlin will succeed Company in its considerable me and I will provide further details in this governance report.
Governance and Board composition Having taken steps to address the Boards composition, the Board benefited considerably from the additional expertise of the newly appointed independent directors Mark Brooker, John OReilly and Robin Terrell.
This has helped by improving the blend of experience and new thinking and by also adding more industry and digital experience.
William Hill PLC 52 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Introduction to Governance continued We also formally appointed Philip Bowcock The good progress within the Board The Committee ratified certain aspects of as CEO in March, having appointed Philip during the year has also provided a firm the transformation programme on behalf as Interim CEO in July 2016, and welcomed foundation for my succession planning of the Board.
Further information regarding Ruth Prior as CFO in October to complete as Chairman.
As I disclosed in last years the Committees role and focus can be the executive element of the Board.
The governance report, I shall step down from found on page 56.
Board carefully considered both executive my position, and the Board, before this appointments, and having been delighted years AGM in May.
Industry and regulatory with Philips contribution and leadership as developments I am pleased therefore to report that Interim CEO, unanimously supported his significant progress was made during 2017 The Board has kept close to the various permanent appointment.
Ruth Prior joined with regard to identifying and appointing industry and regulatory developments WilliamHill from Worldpay Group, where my successor, with the Nomination during the year, with management she held the positions of Deputy CFO and Committee having appointed Sir Roy providing regular updates to the Board.
latterly Chief Operating Officer, and is Gardner, Senior Independent Director, Aspart of the Boards good governance, already applying her considerable digital, to lead the formal planning process, in we have made sure that sufficient time has financial and technology expertise.
Ruths conjunction with executive search firm been devoted to consider the implications experience of transformation projects is Korn Ferry.
A structured search process of such developments.
This has helped now helping to drive the business forward.
was followed, with regular reporting to to inform and guide the Boards strategic As previously highlighted to shareholders, the Board.
planning, which will remain flexible in order Ashley Highfield stepped down from to address the challenges, uncertainties and In December 2017, we announced the the Board having completed nine years opportunities which may face the business.
appointment of Roger Devlin as Chairman of service as an independent director in Designate with effect from 1 February 2018.
As discussed elsewhere in the Strategic November.
I would like to thank Ashley Roger will be appointed Chairman on 2 April Report, we await the outcome of the for his considerable contribution and 2018, when I will step down from the Board.
Triennial Review following a period of independent counsel, particularly for his The Board and the Group Executive have further consultation.
The Board discussed chairing of the Corporate Responsibility already spent time working with Roger and with management our approach and Committee.
Mark Summerfield also I am confident that he will be a very good fit the submissions made by the Company stepped down as Interim CFO although for WilliamHill as Chairman, with the Board to the Governments DCMS which hewas not appointed to the Board on benefiting from his sector and corporate set out our key positions in respect of Ruth Prior joining the business.
I will continue to contribute to Retail gaming.
Clearly, the Board will be ofthe Board I would like to thank Mark Rogers induction and handover before working with management to address the forhis valuable contribution.
impacts arising from the outcome of the Imelda Walsh, Non-executive Director Triennial Review.
and Remuneration Committee Chair, had Transformation programme The Board has also discussed and informed the Board in 2017 that after six Towards the end of 2016 the Board reviewed the circumstances which led to years as a Non-executive Director, she approved a comprehensive transformation the recent regulatory settlement with the was considering whether to take on new programme which identified a potential Gambling Commission.
She subsequently confirmed 40m of annualised savings to be delivered identification of a number of cases where that she will not seek re-election at the by the Executive team.
The programme former policies were insufficient to ensure Annual General Meeting AGM in May is discussed in more detail in the Strategic full regulatory compliance, particularly 2018.
As a result, she will step down from Report on page 10.
To ensure effective in relation to the identification of the the Board at the conclusion of the AGM.
Board oversight for such a critical possible proceeds of crime.
The Board is Imelda will also step down as Chair of the strategic initiative, the Board established fully committed to operating a sustainable Remuneration Committee with effect a Transformation Oversight Committee business and will be kept updated on an from 23 February 2018 and following in May 2017 with a remit to provide independent process review which is due to review by the Nomination Committee, independent oversight on behalf of the commence.
The Board will retain oversight Georgina Harvey will succeed her as Board of executive programme delivery, to ensure the Company works to implement Remuneration Committee Chair from the and to act as a sounding board by which any recommendations emerging from same date.
Georgina has been a member advice, input and guidance could be shared the review.
of the Remuneration Committee since by Non-executives with the executive her appointment in 2011.
I thank Imelda In the Groups other key markets, regulatory project team.
for her sterling efforts, as she leaves changes present both challenges and ourremuneration arrangements in good John OReilly agreed to chair the opportunities which the Board has regularly shape.
Imelda is already co-ordinating Committee, and I can report that under reviewed throughout the year.
In respect acomprehensive handover to Georgina.
Johns stewardship the Committee is of Australia, the Board has been kept meeting its objectives and supporting apprised and has discussed on several With such change in the Boards the governance of the transformation occasions the likely impact of increasing composition, I am very pleased with programme.
In addition to being kept regulatory headwinds.
the contribution of all Board members regularly updated as to progress against throughout the year, and I thank each of identified transformation milestones, the them for their continuing commitment.
Committee reviewed in detail a wide variety of  workstreams and plans during the year, with presentations from various Group Executive members.
Strategic report Financial statements Governance William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 53 In November 2017 the Board confirmed The Board took time to review the findings WilliamHill people that it was in very preliminary discussions of the external performance evaluation On behalf of the Board I extend my regarding a possible combination of conducted in 2016.
I consider that the thanks to our colleagues in a challenging WilliamHill Australia, but that there was no Board has made good progress against year.
The Board, in particular through the certainty that these preliminary discussions theoutcomes and that the Board continues Transformation Oversight Committee, has will lead to any transaction.
to consider how it can further improve its discussed how our colleagues are rising performance going forward.
This years In respect of the US, the Board continued to the challenge of the transformation evaluation was completed internally, programme and we have seen encouraging to monitor the developments with regard and further details are provided in the to the US Supreme Courts review of results.
Colleague engagement was governance report.
also a point of focus and the Board, PASPA.
It was prudent for the Board to through the Corporate Responsibility consider the likely outcomes and to ensure The Board has been well informed of other Committee, was kept well apprised of how that management have in place plans to significant new disclosure obligations.
This management plan to further improve take advantage of any repeal, as part of includes Payment Practices reporting and colleague engagement.
The Board fully our operational strategy.
The Board also Gender Pay reporting.
The Board will review supports those initiatives as well as reviewed and authorised the steps taken or approve the disclosures as needed and the Companys events which recognise inNovember which led to the agreement we will make the necessary information colleague excellence.
with Scientific Games Corporation and publicly available via appropriate channels NYX Gaming Group, under which we agreed and our Group website.
During the course of the year, the Board to dispose of the Groups interests in NYX met many managers across the business The key work of the Board and its and enter into commercial agreements and we were impressed by their expertise, Committees is discussed further in the withScientific Games to protect the strong alignment to our strategy and high following reports.
A compliance statement Groups US proprietary technology.
levels of energy and enthusiasm.
against the 2016 version of the Code, applicable to the Group for the first time Industry consolidation this year, can be found on page 66.
Governance It is pleasing that following the corporate The Board remains aware that the Our next AGM will be held on 8 May 2018 events of 2016, the Group has been able governance landscape in the UK continues and I would like to thank all the shareholders to focus in 2017 on the Boards strategy to evolve, in particular with the Financial who have attended past AGMs whilst I have and operational delivery through the Reporting Councils FRC announcement in been Chairman.
The AGM in 2018 will be the transformation programme, as described December of significant proposed revisions first for Roger Devlin and I am sure he looks variously throughout the Strategic to the UK Corporate Governance Code forward to welcoming all shareholders who Report.
However, sector consolidation has the Code.
As a Board, we have reviewed can attend in person.
This was evidenced the changes currently proposed to the by the announcement in December of the Gareth Davis Code and will continue to do so until the recommended offer for our closest direct Chairman final version of the Code is published.
peer Ladbrokes Coral Group from GVC Holdings, the impact of which of course In the 2016 governance report, I indicated the Board is reviewing.
Consolidation and that the Boards gender diversity ratio had significant transactions such as these temporarily reduced to 20%.
Following also inevitably generate additional media composition changes in 2017, the gender speculation which can be distracting for diversity ratio has increased to 30% as at 31 December 2017, already in line with afocused Executive team.
the ratio expected by the Davies Report Whilst consolidation continues to be by 2020.
The Board also continues to a market feature, the Boards good monitor the market response to Sir John governance processes will ensure we Parkers review regarding the ethnic keep a focus on our strategy and our diversity of boards, and has considered the duty to deliver long-term value for our reviews recommendations on nomination shareholders.
The Board will of course be committee procedures.
prepared to consider strategic alternatives where it is appropriate to do so.
