Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information CHAIRMANS INTRODUCTION TO GOVERNANCE As a Board, we are responsible for the stewardship of the business and are committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance across the Group.
This is enabling us to work to achieve our core purpose Changing Places.
Creating better futures and further establishing our reputation within the marketplace.
Our approach to governance is outlined in the following report, which describes how we integrate into our business the main principles of the 2016 UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
The Codes principles on remuneration are addressed in the Directors remuneration report which is set out on pages 86 to 109.
We were pleased to receive over 96% of votes in favour of our Remuneration Policy following our consultations with major shareholders and over 94% of votes in favour of our Remuneration report at our AGM in March and I thank our shareholders for their engagement and support.
St. Modwens risk management and internal control framework together with details of the principal risks and uncertainties that the Group faces are described on pages 56 to 60.
In line with the development of our business, our governance framework is kept under close review in order to ensure that shareholders interests OUR GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK are safeguarded and to sustain the success of the Company over IS KEPT UNDER REGULAR AND the longer term.
As our strategy progresses in the forthcoming year we will continue to further assess our governance framework CLOSE REVIEW AS OUR STRATEGY to ensure that it remains fit for purpose and effectively supports PROGRESSES.
There has been a full Board agenda this year, a calendar detailing Bill Shannon the areas of focus at our Board meetings is set out on page 71 Non-executive Chairman which has included, health and safety, people, purpose and values and a new organisational design aligned to enhance our strategy.
In March we were saddened by the sudden passing of Steve Burke, The Board remains committed to: our Group Construction Director.
Steve was with the business for Driving the Groups long-term objectives.
over 20 years, serving on the Board since 2006, and he was Overseeing the Groups operations to ensure competent and instrumental in delivering many of the large-scale projects that prudent management.
form the basis of our success.
Instead, following a review of the responsibilities of the members of our senior management team, Sound planning and internal control.
a number of individuals in the business have taken on additional Continuous leadership development and succession planning.
The number of executive director roles on the Board has therefore reduced from three to two.
Maintaining strong relationships with key stakeholders and effective communication of the business strategy.
Following his appointment in 2016, Mark Allan has completed his first anniversary as Chief Executive.
There is clear evidence of Areas of focus for 2017 18: enhanced focus and momentum in our business and the operational Continue progress with the business strategy following its governance will be reviewed to ensure that we remain fit for purpose.
successful communication in the year.
I hope that you find the corporate governance section of this report Continue to ensure the business is managed in a prudent informative and I look forward to seeing you at our AGM in March.
and agile manner against ongoing political uncertainty.
The notice of meeting, which includes the special business to be Monitor future developments in the UK Corporate Governance transacted and an explanation of all the resolutions to be considered Code and work towards continued good compliance.
at the AGM, is set out on pages 180 to 185.
Bill Shannon Chairman 5 February 2018 St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual report and financial statements 2017 63
