JOHN DALY CHAIRMANS ANSWERS QUESTIONS ON CULTURE INTRODUCTION AND THE ROLE OF THE BOARD TOGOVERNANCE What is Board culture?
John Daly Chairman Firstly, it is my responsibility to cultivate a healthy Board culture.
It is essential that the Board is engaged, can constructively challenge and support the Executive team and work together using the power of our collective contribution, personal attributes, skills and knowledge to drive the business to succeed.
It is important that the Dear Shareholder, Board sets the correct tone from the top.
I am pleased to present the Corporate Governance Report for the financial year ended 1 October 2017.
This report sets out our approach to corporate governance and serves to provide shareholders with a clear view of how governance principles How are you developing Board culture?
and practices have operated during the year.
I acknowledge the importance of building a balanced Board Board effectiveness based on diversity of background, skills and experience.
Your Board is committed to remaining effective and recognises I believe in creating an open and inclusive environment that to do so it must ensure that it has the right balance of which demonstrates the Britvic values and builds respectful skills, independence and knowledge of the company to enable and sustainable relationships amongst individual directors it to discharge its duties and responsibilities.
The Board is and the Executive team.
We design our calendar for the satisfied that each Board member is able to devote sufficient year to allow for the Board to meet formally and informally, time to the company and carefully considers additional external which we believe drives a better quality of relationship commitments on an ongoing basis.
which is not solely focused on life in the boardroom.
Board succession Following the departure of Gerald Corbett and Joanne Averiss What is the role of the Board?
during the year, the Board has continued to review the composition of the Board and its committees.
As Ben Gordon The Board is collectively responsible to shareholders for will reach his ninth year of tenure in January 2018, the Board the companys performance, the strategic direction of the has focused on succession planning and is pleased to announce Group, its values and its governance.
The Board provides the appointment of Suniti Chauhan and William Eccleshare the leadership and oversight necessary for the Group to as Non-Executive Directors, effective on 29 November 2017. meet its performance objectives and drive long-term To ensure orderly transition, Ben Gordon will remain on the sustainable value for shareholders.
Board until 30 January 2018 and will not seek re-election at the AGM on 31 January 2018.
Further details can be found in the Nomination Committees report on pages 56-57.
Board evaluation The Board has carried out an internal Board evaluation during the year and has agreed that an external facilitated evaluation will take place during the summer of 2018.
Following a tender for Board evaluation services, it has been agreed that Lintstock will conduct the evaluation.
Further information on the results of the Board evaluation for the year can be found on pages 54-55.
Fair, balanced and understandable During the year the Board reviewed the requirement for directors to make a statement that they consider the annual report and accounts, taken as a whole, to be fair, balanced and understandable.
The Audit Committee met to consider the criteria for a fair, balanced and understandable annual report and to review the processes underpinning the compilation and assurance of the report, in relation to financial and non-financial information.
On behalf of the Board, I confirm that we believe that this Annual Report and Financial Statements presents a fair, balanced and understandable assessment of the companys position, its performance and its prospects as well as its business model and strategy.
John Daly Chairman 28 November 2017 44 www.
