GOVERNANCE CHAIRMANS GOVERNANCE STATEMENT DEAR SHAREHOLDER In my statement last year, I spoke about the focus of the Company to put the customer at the heart of our organisation.
The Board shared this focus by dedicating time to getting to know our customers, our colleagues and our holiday offering more closely.
This year as part of our governance activities we have used this insight to support Management to drive the right behaviours throughout the business and ensure we have the right people in place to do this.
In spring, we reviewed our corporate values and redeveloped them based upon our Customer Promises, so that the behaviours within our own organisation align with the promises we make to our customers.
We also updated our Code of Conduct to ensure it closely reflects both our values and Customer Promises.
These initiatives reflect Managements continued commitment to instill a customer centric culture.
All of our colleagues have received training on the new values so that everybody can develop an understanding of what the values mean to them.
The behaviour of our people is key to all that we do andI believe our new values will help ensure we are doing business ina way we can be proud of.
BOARD COMPOSITION During our FY16 Board evaluation, we identified that the importance of the customer and our own-brand hotel portfolio to our strategy meant that we could benefit from additional Non-Executive expertise in these areas.
Following a comprehensive search led by the Nominations Committee, I am delighted that Jrgen Schreiber GOVERNANCE HIGHLIGHTS: and Paul Edgecliffe-Johnson agreed to join the Board.
Jrgen is a highly accomplished executive with broad international experience BOARD EVALUATION See more on pages 70 to 71 across retail and consumer goods businesses.
Paul is the CFO of InterContinental Hotels Group PLC so brings with him valuable BOARD ACTIVITY See more on pages 68 to 69 expertise and in-depth knowledge of the hotel industry.
DIVIDEND POLICY See more on page 73 During the year, the Nominations Committee continued to focus on executive succession planning and spent considerable time looking at the talent pipeline.
In September, our CFO Michael Healy decided to COMPLIANCE WITH THE UK retire following a very successful five years at Thomas Cook, during  which time he has put the business on a much more stable financial footing.
I am pleased that we were able to appoint a high-calibre This report sets out how the Company applied the successor to Michael from our own ranks.
Bill Scott, currently Director principles of the April 2016 version of the UK Corporate of Financial Reporting, has a proven track record in the business, Governance Code the Code.
It is the Boards view having taken a leading role in the Groups key corporate transactions that for the year ended 30 September 2017 the over the last five years, including the equity and debt raising as Company fully complied with the provisions applicable part of the Groups recapitalisation in 2013 and subsequent debt to this reporting period.
The Code can beread in full refinancing exercises.
As such, Bills appointment will ensure that atwww.
wecontinue on our journey with a CFO who is perfectly positioned tokeep driving the business forward in achieving its strategic goals.
Together, these three appointments further strengthen the Board and will give us, I believe, the optimal balance of skills, experience andindependence needed to deliver on our strategy.
60 THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 GOVERNANCE COMMITTEES During the year, our Committees made good progress in delivering positive change in their respective areas.
With the continuing significant threat posed by cyber-attacks and the pending implementation of the General Data Protection Regulations, our Audit Committee has been particularly focused on the risks associated with cyber and information security and the controls we have in place to deal with them.
The Committee continues closely to monitor progress in this area to ensure we do all we can to keep our customers data safe.
The Audit Committee also oversaw the transition to our new auditor Ernst & Young, with FY17 being their first audit.
I am pleased to report a smooth transition and effective audit, benefiting from the enhanced independence that a new auditor brings.
GOVERNANCE HIGHLIGHT: Our Health, Safety & Environmental Committee oversaw the introduction of a number of initiatives that demonstrate our BILL SCOTT APPOINTED commitment to doing business in a responsible way which puts our customer at the heart.
Our Group Airline introduced the Safe@ AS CFO FROM JANUARY 2018 Heart initiative which aims to enhance the culture of safety in our Group Airline through a number of measures, including providing Key strengths and skills: extra safety training to up to 7,000 Group Airline employees.
In the Extensive experience in strategic financial planning and area of sustainability, the Committee approved a new Sustainability financial reporting Strategy which aligns with our main strategy for profitable growth.
Chartered accountant with expertise in leading large corporate The Committee also oversaw the introduction of an industry-leading transactions including debt and equity refinancing Animal Welfare Policy which takes a much stronger approach to Knowledge of international markets, having worked in Asia ensuring the standard of care of the animals in attractions and Previous experience and appointments: aligns with our Customer Promises.
Director of Financial Reporting at Thomas Cook: Financial Meanwhile, our Remuneration Committee undertook the Controller at Kwik-Fit: and senior finance positions at PwC: importanttask of setting targets for our Performance Share Plan FirstPacific Company: Shell: and eBookers plc.
which are stretching but not commercially sensitive, so that we can disclose them prospectively to our Shareholders.
I believe this development represents a step forward in our reporting and BOARD EVALUATION demonstrates the Committees commitment to being as transparent Recognising the need continually to develop the effectiveness as possible and acting upon feedback from our investors.
ofthe Board this year, I engaged Dr Tracy Long of Boardroom More information about the Remuneration Committees activities Review Limited to conduct an independent evaluation of the canbe found on pages 84-108.
This rigorous and thorough assessment involvedin-depth one-to-one interviews and individual feedback, SUMMARY aswell as overall feedback to the Board.
The review provided Thomas Cook enters FY18 with a strong Board and an enhanced usefulinsight and identified practical actions that will help us to corporate culture, making us well-positioned to achieve our strategic develop.
More details about the evaluation process and outputs goals and build Shareholder value.
The actions we have taken in the canbe found on pages 70to 71. last 12 months represent positive steps forward in our governance practice and I look forward to building on this momentum in the coming year.
FRANK MEYSMAN CHAIRMAN 21 November 2017 THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 61
