Governance Chairmans introduction to governance Strong governance supports the implementation Mark Clare of our strategy Chairman The application of the skills and experience of the Directors, Highlights coupled with the substantial work ofthe Audit Committee, Full compliance with the Code during the year.
provides this for the benefit of all ourstakeholders.
As part of the Boards continued corporate culture programme details of our employees views on the Company and culture weresought.
Culture Successful Capital Markets Day held with over 60 investors The culture of a business is crucially important to its successful andanalysts.
performance over the long term.
The Financial Reporting Council Planned 2018 review of our strategy with a focus on opportunities FRC 2016 report Corporate Culture and the Role of Boards to grow PRS base, technology and culture.
External effectiveness review of the Board.
articulates how directors can influence and contribute to fostering a strong and positive corporate culture.
Whilst the culture of the organisation comes up in many aspects of the Dear shareholders, Boards work, at the September 2017 Board meeting, we spent I was delighted to have the privilege of joining Grainger as its time specifically discussing Graingers culture.
As part of this we Chairman in February 2017 following the retirement of Margaret received a presentation from the HR Director on our employee Ford.
The Directors and I are committed to applying effective engagement programme and survey, which included details corporate governance and promoting the highest standards.
of our employees views on the Company.
We provide further Iamtherefore very pleased to introduce this years corporate details on our culture and employee engagement on page 31. governance report.
Asa new member of the Grainger team, my impression of the culture of the Company is that its knowledgeable and expert Grainger has a long and established heritage in residential staff care about our tenants and customers and about leading property and is wholeheartedly leading the way in the PRS.
the professionalisation of the sector.
It is an open culture, with I have joined the Company at a very exciting and interesting a willingness across the business to share ideas and engage in time.
The strategy was already established when I was appointed, continuous improvement to achieve all parts of the strategy.
and we are now firmly in the implementation phase.
As a Board, As a Board, we need to continue to encourage this openness, we need to lead the business through this period of change, andensure we have a culture that puts customers at the heart providing the appropriate balance between supporting and ofourbusiness.
This good governance also means ensuring we have rigorous risk management and controls.
Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 42 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Diversity is of course much wider than gender.
The Board and Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Nominations Committee also have regard to the Parker Review Code 2016 the Code on ethnic diversity.
Diversity of thought is also hugely important The governance rules applying to all UK companies on the to the Board.
By bringing together Executive and Non-Executive Official List of the UK Listing Authority are set out in the Code, Directors with diverse backgrounds and experience, we gain published by the FRC.
You can obtain copies of the Code from enormously from varied perspectives across a range of issues.
The Board fully supports the principles set out in The Nominations Committee report contains further details the Code, and confirms we have complied with all its provisions of diversity in our business.
throughout the financial year ended 30 September 2017.
Board evaluation This report sets out Graingers governance policies and practices, This year the evaluation of Board effectiveness was externally and includes details of how the Company applies the principles facilitated, as it was three years since the previous external and complies with the provisions of the Code.
As a recently appointed Chairman, and with Justin Read joining as a new Non-Executive Director during the year, Board composition and independence theevaluation process had a forward-looking focus.
We provide In accordance with the Code, all current Directors, with the further details on page 50. exception of Belinda Richards, will stand for election or reelection as applicable at the 2018 Annual General Meeting Shareholder engagement AGM.
Belinda has served on the Board for over six years and The Board regards strong engagement with stakeholders and during her time has chaired the Audit, Risk and Remuneration investors as fundamental to understanding their views.
Committees as well as being the Companys Senior Independent Director.
She has made a significant contribution to Grainger Helen Gordon and Vanessa Simms had regular meetings with the during a period of substantial change.
Nick Jopling stepped Companys shareholders and analysts throughout the year and, downfrom the Board in September 2017 after seven years as in particular, held a successful Capital Markets Day in September our Property Director.
Nick played a fundamental part in making 2017.
I also met with our major shareholders as part of my Grainger the market leader in the PRS and helping create the induction process and have been clear that I am happy to engage strategy that the Company is now pursuing.
My predecessor, with them should they wish to.
We anticipate that we will engage Margaret Ford, retired from the Board in February 2017 following with fund managers and corporate governance officers of our nine years of excellent service, with the last two as Chairman.
major shareholders before the AGM in February 2018.
Onbehalf of the Board, I would like to thank Belinda, Nick and Weprovide further details of our shareholder engagement Margaret for their significant contributions to the success of the programme on pages 59 to 61.
Company and wish them well for the future.
How the Board supports strategy Details of the Directors are set out on pages 46 and 47, together Building on the progress made previously, the Board spent with a summary of their experience and skills.
asignificant portion of its time this year reviewing the key elements of the implementation of the PRS strategy, such as The Board reviews Non-Executive Director independence annually, theoperating model, development pipeline, technology strategy, and takes into account the individuals professional characteristics, asset hierarchy and customer proposition.
The Board feels it is their behaviour at Board meetings, and their contribution to important to engage with this process, and as the strategy is unbiased and independent debate.
The Board agreed that delivered there is appropriate time given to how it is adapted I was independent on my appointment as Chairman.
The Board and extended as progress is made.
We are planning to complete considers all the Non-Executive Directors to be independent.
a fullreview in mid-2018 to ensure the discussion around strategy is kept current.
In particular, we plan to spend time reviewing Diversity further opportunities to grow our PRS base over the coming Grainger believes that a diverse perspective is key to success, years and consider the implementation of the technological and andsupports the aspiration of the Hampton Alexander Review cultural changes required to implement our customer-focused topromote greater female representation on listed-company PRS strategy.
To learn more about our Board activity in 2017, boards and achieve 33% female representation.
Grainger has please see page 48. achieved in excess of this and will look to continue to follow therecommendations of the Review and the Code to maintain abalanced and diverse Board.
Mark Clare Chairman 30 November 2017 Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 43
