Strategic report Governance Financial statements Chairmans introduction to corporate governance Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code April 2016 the Code Throughout the financial year ended 30 September 2017 and to the date of this report, Sage has complied with the provisions of the Code.
The Code is publicly available at the website of the UK Financial Reporting Council at www.
This corporate governance section of the Annual Report & Accounts describes how we have applied the principles of the Code.
To assist this, the Board has created a new position of Board Associate described on page 68 to enhance the voice of employees in the Boardsdeliberations.
The Executive Team is required to provide the information to the Board that the Board needs to enable it to exercise its judgement.
It must also evidence appropriate process.
There is a very fine distinction between the approval of processes and their definition.
Only exceptionally would the Board intervene to initiate ordefine.
The Board also sets the tone for the Company.
The way in which it conducts itself, its attitude to ethical matters, its definition of success, Donald Brydon and the assessment of appropriate risk, all define the atmosphere within Chairman which the Executive Teamworks.
The Board has ultimate responsibility for ensuring an appropriate culture in the Company to act as a backdrop to the way in which the Company behaves towards all stakeholders.
Enabling our Good corporate governance is not about adhering to codes of practice although adherence may constitute a part of the evidence of good strategic ambition governance but rather about the exercise of a mindset to do what is right.
One of the challenges facing any Board isthe way in which the non-executive and the executive directors interact.
It is clear that they There has been much focus on corporate governance in the recent past each have the same legal responsibility but it is generally unrealistic to and the landscape continues to change.
Nevertheless, the core expect Executive Directors to speak individually with the same freedom principles remain intact and I am pleased to share the way we see the as the Non-executive Directors.
Equally, Executive Directors who just role of the Board.
toe the executive line in contradiction to their own views may not be It is important that we all remember the Board is not a committee where effectively contributing to good governance.
A well-functioning Board needs to find the right balance between hearing the collective executive individuals represent distinct interests but rather a risk managing and capital allocation body which, in addition to shaping the framework for view, being aware of the natural internal tensions in an executive team and allowing independent input from the .
strategic development, participates in and is accountable for the taking of appropriately calibrated risks.
One of the consequences of both increasing the watchdog role of the Board and finding this balance between individuality and team The Board of the Company is committed to ensuring that it provides effective leadership and promotes uncompromising ethical standards.
behaviour is driving more and more Boards to have fewer and fewer executive directors.
In our circumstances, the reduced Board size works One of the ways in which the Board achieves this is by requiring that good governance principles and practices are adhered to throughout effectively and an appropriate balance isstruck.
Notwithstanding the tensions created by many external expectations, which may be wholly or in part unrealistic, a successful Board should, Good governance is about helping to run theCompany well.
It involves being satisfied that aneffective internal framework of systems ideally, be composed of a diverse group of respected, experienced and competent people who coalesce around a common purpose of andcontrols is in place which clearly defines authority and accountability and promotes success whilst permitting the promoting the long-term success of the Company, provide a unified vision of the definitions of success and appropriate risk, endeavour to management ofrisk to appropriatelevels.
support management i. e. those who honestly criticise at times but It also involves the exercise of judgement as tothe definitions of encourage all the time and who create confidence in all stakeholders success for the Company, the levels of risk we are willing to take to inthe integrity of thebusiness.
achieve that success, and the levels of delegation to the executive.
The exercise of this judgement is the responsibility of the Board and involves consideration of processesand assumptions as well as outcomes.
It also involves the creation of a sensitive interface for the views of shareholders and other stakeholders to be given appropriate consideration when reaching these judgements.
Donald Brydon Chairman The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2017 63
