Governance Chairmans letter Dear shareholder, I am pleased to present our Corporate governance report for 2017, our first full year since IPO.
Your Board firmly believes that strong and effective corporate governance underpins our commitment to delivering a strong customer centric banking proposition in the UK and to generating sustainable returns for shareholders.
The Board is focused on ensuring corporate governance is embedded across our business supporting better decision making and accountability.
This report sets out our approach to governance in practice, the work of the Board in 2017 and includes reports from the Boards four principal committees.
Strategy The Boards role is to focus on the creation of long-term sustainable value for our shareholders.
During the year the Boards focus was on supporting the Executive Leadership Team to deliver Strong and effective corporate the Groups strategy.
The Board spent considerable time in 2017 governance underpins our business.
exploring the challenges arising from the evolving external economic, political and regulatory environment to ensure the continued effective execution and delivery of our strategic priorities against this backdrop and ongoing competitive success.
The Board held several strategy focused sessions which are described on pages 62 and 63 and ensured that appropriate risk monitoring and oversight was taking place with plans in place to mitigate the impact of principal risks as described on page 19 of the Strategic report.
Culture Our approach to culture and values is led by the Board which sets the tone from the top.
The Board is committed to ensuring we continue to build a high performing culture which recognises that our colleagues are integral to our business success.
During the year the Board supported the launch of our new Values and Behaviours and Great Leadership framework described on page 30 which underpin our commitment to deliver the right customer focused outcomes by encouraging colleagues to use their initiative, act with autonomy and to work together.
The Board also spent time hearing about colleague feedback from our annual MyVoice survey which highlighted colleagues commitment to deliver a strong customer-focused culture.
50 CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk report Financial statements Additional information The importance of a genuinely diverse and inclusive culture where Board effectiveness every colleague and customer feels they belong is a core part of An important part of my role as Chairman is to ensure that the our Values and Behaviours.
During the year the Board refreshed Board both collectively and its individual members operates its diversity commitment to maintain a minimum of 25% female effectively.
This year the Board undertook its first externally representation on the Board with a target to achieve 33% by 2020. facilitated performance evaluation since becoming a listed The Board recognises the value in having a membership which company.
I am pleased to report that the key conclusion of the reflects diversity in the widest sense and which represents a broad evaluation was that the Board and its committees are effective.
While we have not set any diversity The process and principal findings are described on pages 68 to target beyond gender we will take opportunities through the 70 of this report.
The Board adopts a continuous improvement natural refreshing of the Board to consider a number of diversity approach to its effectiveness with a focus on achieving best factors, however, it will always be the case that appointments practice across all aspects of corporate governance.
The Board to the Board are based on merit and breadth and depth of skills will therefore keep its corporate governance arrangements and experience.
under review through 2018 to ensure they adapt to changes in regulation or legislation and remain effective.
Building stakeholder relationships Hearing from our stakeholders supports us in delivering our Looking ahead strategy and helps us focus on the things that are important The Board remains focused on executing the agreed strategy to them.
Our stakeholders include our customers, shareholders and delivering an exceptional customer experience and and colleagues in addition to government, regulatory bodies, sustainable returns to our shareholders and will continue to our suppliers and wider society.
This year the Board adopted a strengthen the effectiveness of the corporate governance refreshed stakeholder engagement programme to broaden its framework to support this.
reach among stakeholder communities and we will further develop Finally, I would like to thank the Board and our colleagues for their this in 2018.
During the year the Board, either collectively or support and commitment throughout 2017. individually, undertook site visits, met with customers and representatives from our wider communities and the Board now receives a formal stakeholder update on a regular basis.
We engage with our shareholders through a calendar of meetings and events, including the AGM, and we use webcasting to allow all Jim Pettigrew shareholders the opportunity to join the key meetings throughout Chairman the year.
The Board is updated regularly on both retail shareholder and institutional investor feedback and my fellow Directors and I very much look forward to having the opportunity to meet with our shareholders at our 2018 AGM.
Board changes Richard Gregory retired from the Board on 10 January 2017.
Clive Adamson became Chair of the Risk Committee in January 2017 on Richards retirement and Tim Wade became Chair of the Audit Committee in November 2016.
The structure, size and composition of the Board and its committees will continue to be kept under review in 2018.
CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 51
