Chairmans introduction to governance 40 COMMITTED TO GOOD GOVERNANCE Corporate governance is a core and vital discipline to the success of the Group.
Supporting implementation of the Improving the management of risk business strategy to support implementation of the The Board has been heavily involved in monitoring Groups strategic goals and supporting the implementation across the Risk management, and in particular the Group of the strategy outlined during Countrysides principal risks faced by the Group, are key initial public offering in February 2016. elements of the Boards ongoing agenda and have been in particular focus this year as we Much progress has been made in 2017 with monitor the housebuilding market and related the further development of our Housebuilding issues following the UKs vote in June2016 and Partnerships business divisions, including a toleave the European Union.
Details of our number of changes to our Executive Committee Dear Shareholders, principal risks and uncertainties are set out on as shown on pages 44.
This has resulted in a This report sets out our approach to governance, pages 38 and 39. diverse and experienced executive team to drive and how our governance framework supported the performance of those business divisions.
Our IT governance and security were our activities throughout the year.
Asset out on pages 50 and 51, the Board has strengthened during 2017, and security The Board regards corporate governance as a combined a number of Board meetings with generally but particularly cyber security core and vital discipline complementing our site visits, atwhich we received presentations hasremained high on our agenda in 2017. desire to continually improve upon the success from the Regional Managing Directors and their TheGroup has completed a thorough risk of the Group on behalf of our shareholders.
Our site visits and the discussions assessment of information security during Our governance framework described in this between Non-Executives and members of the theyear, with regular reports on progress report allows for the continued monitoring, divisional teams have helped to inform our considered by the Audit Committee.
review, development and implementation of view of the success, and the challenges, of the the policies, procedures and culture that implementation of the Groups strategy.
Other activities in 2017 support our high governance standards.
Implementing succession planning for Health and safety The success of our strategy is very much dependent the Board and Executive Committee A focus on health and safety processes is critical on developing a culture across the Group that for our business.
Health and safety KPIs are Led by our Nomination Committee, we are supports the implementation of our strategy.
reviewed by the Board regularly.
focused on ensuring that our talent pipeline Iam pleased to report that our boardroom ismanaged to support the Groups strategy.
culture is good, with constructive challenge Our approach to health and safety, including a During 2017 we have assisted the executive flowing freely from the Non-Executive Directors, description of the metrics by which we measure management in identifying and appointing underpinned by a genuine sense of mutual our health and safety performance, are candidates for the Executive Committee and respect between all Directors.
This has been described in detail on page 34. other senior management roles, and I am borne out by our performance evaluation The Board published its first statement under delighted with the appointments we have made process for 2017, the results of which are Section 54 of the Modern Slavery Act on the which add significantly to the diversity in skills, described on page 48.
Groups website in November 2016, setting background and experience at senior management During 2017, the principal areas of focus for out the steps we have taken during the year level.
Biographies of our Executive Committee the Board have been: toensure that our operations and supply members can be found on page 44, and my chains are free from trafficking and slavery.
Nomination Committee Report on page 56 supporting implementation of the Thesecond statement, which includes further gives further detail about our input into the businessstrategy: improvements made during 2017 to combat appointment process.
implementing succession planning for the modern slavery, was published on theGroups The Board has continued to support and review Board and Executive Committee: website in October 2017. the success of our leadership development improving the management of risk to programmes.
We are confident that these, Meeting our major shareholders support implementation of the Groups ourtalent pipeline, andother initiatives such We have developed a comprehensive investor strategic goals: asour two female Non-Executive Directors relations programme with our Executive Directors talking about their careers and overcoming meeting investors and analysts regularly, supported developing policies and procedures to challenges with the senior women within the where appropriate by me and other members of address the new Consumer Code for Home business, mean that we are well set to continue the Board.
Our investor relations programme, Builders: and our success indeveloping internal staff into diverse which is described on page 50, is supported by preparing for the introduction of the Criminal and experienced managers of the future.
Victoria Prior, who weappointed as Director of Finances Act and the General Data Investor Relations in November 2015.
We have Succession planning for the Board and Protection Regulation.
carried out a series of shareholder engagement Committees has also been on the Nomination events during 2016 17, as shown on page 41.
We We have made good progress against all Committees agenda, particularly given the again received positive feedback for each event ofthese areas of focus in the year.
Board changes as a result of Oaktree Capital and see them as a valuable opportunity to Managements Oaktree share sell down.
understand the views of and develop constructive Again, more detail on our succession planning relationships with our major shareholders.
activity can be found in the Nomination Committee Report on page 56.
Countryside Properties PLC Annual report 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements 41 The Board Shareholder engagement On 26 May 2017, we announced that Oaktree had completed a sale of shares in Countryside, reducing its remaining shareholding in Countryside to approximately 23 per cent of the Companys issued share capital.
As 2016 required bythe Relationship Agreement with Oaktree as described on page 49, James Van Steenkiste stepped down from the Board on 5 June 2017.
On2 October 2017, we announced that Richard Adam had notified November December the Company of his decision to step down as a Non-Executive Director, 2016 Chairman of the Audit Committee and Senior Independent Director of Full year results and roadshow the Company, with his last day of service being 31 December 2017.
The January 2017 Board has commenced a formal search for his replacement and a further AGM Q1 trading update announcement will be made as soon as the details and commencement date of Richards successor have been agreed.
March 2017 On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank James and Richard for their valuable contributions to Countryside since joining the Board.
I would also Investor site visits to Acton and EastLondon like to thank my remaining colleagues on the Board for their continued support, commitment, challenge and passion for ourbusiness.
April 2017 Interim pre-close update and Independence of Directors conferencecall The Board reviewed the independence of all Non-Executive Directors excluding the Chairman at the Board meeting on 27 July 2017, and determined that they all continue to be independent, with the exception of Federico Canciani, who holds the position of Managing Director at Oaktree Capital Management UK Limited, a substantial shareholder ofthe Company.
The Board is satisfied that the Chairman was independent upon appointment.
May 2017 Board and Committee effectiveness Interim results and roadshow In 2017 a Board and Committee evaluation was carried out.
The decision was made to conduct an internal review, led by me and assisted by the June 2017 Company Secretary.
An externally facilitated review will be organised next year.
I am delighted to confirm that no significant issues were raised and Frankfurt roadshow the view of the Board is that the governance structure, together with the Peel Hunt investor conference Board and its Committees, all continue to operate effectively, with a positive and open culture.
The review process is described in more detail July 2017 on page 48.
Partnerships analyst and investor event I am satisfied that the Non-Executive Directors continue to be effective Q3 trading update and show a high level of commitment to their roles.
All Directors, with the exception of Richard Adam given his departure, will, as they will every September 2017 year, stand for re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Acton investor site visit JP Morgan investor conference David Howell Chairman October 2017 21 November 2017 Full year pre-close statement and conference call 2017 Compliance with the Code From 5 June 2017 until 30 September 2017, Countryside has complied Prior to 5 June 2017, Countryside complied with all the provisions of with all the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code 2016 the Code save that, excluding the independent Non-Executive Chairman, the Code.
Richard Adam will remain as the Senior Independent the Board had only three Non-Executive Directors which it considered Non-Executive Director, the Chairman of the Audit Committee and a to be independent.
This constituted non-compliance with Code provision member of both the Remuneration and Nomination Committees until B.
1.2 that recommends at least half the Board, excluding the Chairman, his last day of service to the Company on 31December2017.
During this comprises independent Non-Executive Directors.
Nonetheless, as time Countryside will remain compliant with all provisions of the Code.
reported in our previous Annual Report, the Board determined that the composition of the Board, comprising two Executive Directors and In planning for Richard Adams succession, the Nomination Committee sixNon-Executive Directors, brought a desirable range ofskills and has instigated a formal search for his replacement with the intention that experience in light of the Companys challenges and opportunities his successor take on the role of Senior Independent Non-Executive following admission to the London Stock Exchange, whileat the same Director, Chairman of the Audit Committee and join both time ensuring that no individual or small group ofindividuals could theRemuneration and Nomination Committees.
dominate the Boards decision making.
If Richard Adams successor is appointed prior to 31 December 2017, Oaktree currently has one Non-Executive Director appointed to the and there are no other changes to the Board composition, Countryside Board, following JamesVan Steenkiste stepping down on 5 June 2017 will remain compliant with all provisions of the Code.
after Oaktrees reduction of its shareholding in the Company to below 25per cent.
As and when Oaktree reduces its shareholding below 10per cent, its right to make Board appointments ceases.
Countryside Properties PLC Annual report 2017
