GOVERNANCE AND DIRECTORS REPORT CHAIRMANS LETTER DEAR SHAREHOLDER On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present Compass Group PLCs annual Corporate Governance Report for the financial year ended 30 September 2017.
It has been another year of progress and development in the Companys governance agenda.
Throughout this and other parts of theAnnual Report, we aim to provide investors and other stakeholders with an insight into the governance activities and ethical practices which have supported our corporate performance during the year.
BOARD COMPOSITION AND CHANGES As announced on 21 September 2017, Dominic Blakemore was appointed Deputy Group Chief Executive from 1 October 2017.
Following a period of transition, Dominic will succeed Richard Cousins as Group Chief Executive on 1 April 2018 and Richard Creating and willretire from the Group on 30 September 2018.
The decision to appoint Dominic as Richards successor was taken after a rigorous selection process, more detail of which can be maintaining found in the Nomination Committee Report on pages 65 to 67.
In February 2017, Susan Murray stepped down from the Board the right culture andits committees, having completed her nine year tenure as a non-executive director, and was succeeded by Nelson Silva as Chairman of the Corporate Responsibility Committee.
for growth In the run up to the Companys Annual General Meeting AGM in February, votes were lodged against Mrs Vittals reappointment as As a Board, we have an established adirector based on concerns expressed by some shareholders that she was overboarding.
Mrs Vittal has reviewed her portfolio and commitment to maintain a well defined more details of the action she has taken to address these concerns and effective system of governance which can be found in the Nomination Committee Report on page 66. supports our corporate strategy to deliver SUCCESSION PLANNING AND TALENTPIPELINE sustainable organic growth.
Succession planning continues to be an area of focus for the Board and the Nomination Committee.
In the next three years, in line with best practice, two of our longer serving non-executive directors are Integrity and trust in our Companys behaviour are more expected to retire, each having completed their nine year tenure.
important than ever in todays business world.
One of my In the coming year, we plan to undertake further work specifically key responsibilities as Chairman is to set the tone for the around succession planning, to ensure we are well placed to Company and ensure good governance and in this, I have maintain the extensive listed company experience brought to the been extremely well supported by the members of the Board by those succession directors.
We will endeavour to meet Board.
They bring balance and a wealth of skills and Lord Davies target of having 33% female representation on the experience to our organisation which complement the Board by 2020, which has been eroded by the retirement of talents of our executive team.
I thank them all for their SusanMurray, and will also consider Sir John Parkers initial valuable contribution as we continue to uphold the high recommendations on diversity.
However, we remain focused standards expected of us, to maintain oversight of the on ensuring that the Board comprises a majority of independent strategic, operational and compliance risks across the non-executive directors who have the capability, skills and Group and to define our path to success.
experience necessary to objectively challenge executive management, offset by the need to ensure continuity on the Board.
In this regard, we continue to strengthen our approach to talent management and succession planning at senior level, asubject which continues to command the Boards full attention.
42 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2017 GOVERNANCE The success of our business is dependent upon a strategy which REMUNERATION POLICY benefits our investors, employees, clients, suppliers and the wider Our current Remuneration Policy will expire next year and the stakeholder community.
We have invested time and resources in proposed policy, which is intended to apply for the coming three communicating with employees and designed training and years, will be put to shareholders for their approval at the AGM on development programmes to educate and encourage the high 8February 2018.
The proposed policy has been designed so that standards of conduct that reflect our vision to be a world-class there is close alignment between executive reward and the delivery provider of contract food and support services, renowned for our of our business strategy.
Details of the proposed policy, the outcome great people, great service, and great results.
These efforts are of the shareholder consultation process that was undertaken prior underpinned by our Codes of Business Conduct and Ethics.
tothe proposed policy being developed and the implementation of the current policy during the year can be found in the Directors THE YEAR AHEAD Remuneration Report on pages 68 to 94.
We are committed to doing things in the right way and will continue to strengthen our governance processes to ensure that we are CULTURE AND GOVERNANCE aligned with best practice and that our approach to disclosure Our corporate culture defines who we are, what we stand for and remains understandable and transparent.
how we do business and it is integral to the success of Compass.
Our good reputation has been built on the solid foundation of an ethical culture, underpinned by a well defined and effective system of governance.
It has assisted in the creation and protection of the long term value of the Company and supported our ongoing corporate strategy to deliver sustainable organic growth.
Paul Walsh Chairman The Board defines the purpose of the Company and identifies the values that guide it.
We remain committed to upholding the highest 21 November 2017 ethical standards, operating on the principle that the tone at the top sets the standard for the rest of the business.
Over the years, we have carefully developed a common set of expected behaviours based on our corporate values and an effective system of governance, both of which have been influential in shaping and embedding a strong ethical and governance culture across the Group.
The Board is responsible for changes to corporate governance andculture.
However, from a practical perspective, the executive directors and senior managers are responsible for implementing behavioural and governance changes and for clearly articulating to colleagues in the wider business the reasons for change, its benefits or the consequences of not changing.
We continuously strive to create an environment where our corporate values are not just words, but are put into practice, promoting positive and productive behaviour every day.
The Group Chief Executive and other members of the executive management team take an active lead, providing encouragement and support to colleagues to ensure that ethical standards are maintained and good governance is put into practice.
Key functions such as legal, finance, human resources and internal audit have also been empowered to promote, embed and integrate good standards of ethical behaviour and corporate governance across the Group.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2017 43
