GOVERNANCE AND DIRECTORS REPORT INTRODUCTION TO CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Committed to the highest standards HOW WE GOVERN THE COMPANY The Board leads the Groups governance framework.
It is UK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE responsible for setting the strategic targets for the Group, monitoring CODE COMPLIANCE progress made, approving proposed actions and for ensuring that Responsibility for good governance lies with the Board.
the appropriate internal controls are in place and that they are operating effectively.
The Board is accountable to shareholders and is committed to the highest standards of corporate The Board is assisted by four principal committees Audit, Corporate governance as set out in the UK Corporate Governance Responsibility, Nomination and Remuneration, each of which is Code 2016 the Code.
responsible for reviewing and dealing with matters within its own terms of reference.
The Code can be found on the Financial Reporting Council FRC website at www.
At scheduled Board meetings, the minutes of all committee meetings are circulated and a summary of committee meetings This Corporate Governance Report, together with the discussed as appropriate.
Directors Remuneration Report set out on pages 68 to 94, describes how the Board has applied the main principles All of the non-executive directors are members of all of good governance, as set out in the Code, during the principal committees.
Individual reports from each principal committee chairman COMPLIANCE STATEMENT can be found on pages 54 to 94.
It is the Boards view that for the year ended 30 September The Company also has a number of executive management 2017 the Company has been fully compliant with all of committees Disclosure, Executive Board and General Business.
the principles set out in the Code applicable to this These have been established in order to consider various issues reporting period.
and matters for recommendation to the Board and its principal The Companys auditor, KPMG LLP, is required to review committees or to deal with day to day matters within the authority granted by the Board.
whether the above statement reflects the Companys compliance with the provisions of the Code specified for This Directors Report also contains information required to be itsreview by the UK Listing Authority UKLA Rules and disclosed under the UKLAs Rules and under the Disclosure toreport if it does not reflect such compliance.
No such Guidance and Transparency Rules DGTR.
To the extent necessary, report has been made.
certain information is incorporated into this Report by reference.
The directors present their Annual Report and the audited Our governance structure comprises the functions on the opposite consolidated financial statements of the Company and its page, supported by the Groups standards, policies and internal subsidiaries for the year ended 30 September 2017. controls, which are described in more detail over the following pages.
This Corporate Governance Report on pages 42 to 94 andthe Other Statutory Disclosures on pages 95 to 100, together with the Directors Responsibilities statement on page 101 and the Strategic Report on pages 1 to 41 which have been incorporated into this Report by reference, make up the Directors Report.
44 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2017 GOVERNANCE GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE SHAREHOLDERS We have a geographically diverse shareholder base of 42,059, comprising 4,256 institutional investors and 37,803 private investors.
CHAIRMAN Responsible for the leadership of the Board and for ensuring there is effective debate and challenge.
BOARD Responsible for the performance and long term success of the Company, including health and safety, leadership, strategy, values, standards, controls and risk management.
AUDIT CORPORATE NOMINATION REMUNERATION COMMITTEE RESPONSIBILITY COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE Responsible Ensures the Board Determines the reward for the Groups Advises the Board has the necessary strategy for executive financial reporting on broad CR policy balance of skills, directors and senior and effectiveness of the taking into account the experience and diversity managers to ensure internal and external overall strategic plan to oversee the delivery reward is aligned to audit functions.
SEE PAGE 54 SEE PAGE 62 SEE PAGE 65 SEE PAGE 68 DISCLOSURE EXECUTIVE GENERAL BUSINESS COMMITTEE BOARD COMMITTEE Oversees the Day to day operational Conducts the Companys disclosure of management and business within clearly market sensitive implementation defined limits delegated information.
SEE PAGE 53 SEE PAGE 53 SEE PAGE 53 As at 30 September 2017.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2017 45 GOVERNANCE AND DIRECTORS REPORT INTRODUCTION TO CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED The Board manages the business of the Company and may, BOARD OF DIRECTORS subjectto the Articles of Association and applicable legislation, As at 30 September 2017, and as at the date of this Report, borrow money, guarantee, indemnify, mortgage or charge the the Board of Directors was made up of 11 members, comprising business, property and assets present and future, issue the non-executive Chairman, four executive directors and six debentures and other securities and give security, whether non-executive directors.
outrightor as a collateral security, for any debt, liability or The roles of Chairman and Group Chief Executive are separate and obligationof the Company or of any third party.
clearly defined, with the division of responsibilities set out in writing The Board sets the Groups values and standards and ensures and agreed by the Board.
thatitacts ethically and that its obligations to its shareholders All of the non-executive directors are considered by the Board areunderstood and met.
and by the definition contained in the Code to be independent The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved for its ofmanagement and free of any relationship which could materially decisionas follows: interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
The Board considers that each of the non-executive directors brings strategy and management their own senior level of experience, gained in each of their own Board membership and other appointments fields, predominantly in international operations.
financial reporting and controls The Companys policy relating to the terms of appointment and internal controls the remuneration of both executive and non-executive directors contracts isdetailed in the Directors Remuneration Report, which is on capital structure pages68 to 94. communication BOARD TENURE remuneration delegation of authority corporate governance matters More than 5 years other matters 3-5 years 1-3 years For example, the Board must approve any changes to the Groups 36% 46% capital structure, operating and expenditure budgets, significant capital investment or any new significant client contract.
However, the Boards primary role remains to provide 18% entrepreneurial leadership and to review the overall strategic development of the Group as a whole.
The Board has delegated day to day operational decisions to the Executive Board.
The Executive Board is supported by country and EXECUTIVE AND NON-EXECUTIVE regional management teams who are responsible for achieving DIRECTOR BALANCE agreed targets, maintaining budgetary controls and implementing policies and controls at country and business unit level.
Executive directors The work of the Board and its committees is described in the 9% Non-executive directors following pages.
In this section of the Governance Report, we Non-executive Chairman have also set out our governance structures and processes, how 36% we have applied the main principles and complied with the relevant provisions of the Code.
Activities which provide a flavour of the work undertaken by the Board and its committees during the year have 55% been highlighted.
46 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2017
