Chairmans introduction to governance We have continued to apply the main principles and provisions of the Governance Code As a reminder, at the time of the Companys Board evaluation Dear Shareholders initial public offering, the Company entered In the Corporate Governance Statement I am pleased to present ZPGs into a relationship agreement Relationship last year, I mentioned that we would consider Corporate Governance Report Agreement with Daily Mail and General undertaking an externally facilitated review Trust Plc DMGT, the ultimate parent for the year.
I am pleased to confirm of the Companys principal shareholder, that an externally facilitated review of the We have had another exciting year DMGZ Limited DMGZ.
Board was carried out and the results of the of expansion and growth across the business, evaluation were very positive.
This is discussed Under the terms of the Relationship and the Board remains fully committed to further in the Corporate Governance Agreement, DMGT can appoint two Directors promoting and maintaining the highest Statement on page 56. to the Board providing it ultimately holds standards of corporate governance.
The Board more than 25% of the votes exercisable believes that this enables the accomplishment Statement of compliance at general meetings of the Company.
I am of the Companys aims and strategies, whilst pleased to welcome James Welsh, who DMGT In the Corporate Governance Report last providing information and transparency to appointed to the Board in January 2017 to year, it was explained that the Company ZPGs various stakeholders.
James offered had applied all of the main principles and We have continued to apply the main himself up for election at the Companys complied with all of the relevant provisions principles and provisions of the UK Corporate Annual General Meeting AGM on of the Governance Code with the exception Governance Code Governance Code 2 February 2017, which took place shortly of Provision B.
1.2, which recommends that issued by the Financial Reporting Council after his appointment by DMGT.
at least half of the Board of Directors of a and the following reports, including those UK-listed company, excluding the Chairman, from the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration should comprise Non-Executive Directors Re-election of Directors Committees, should provide you with full determined by the Board to be independent Following a performance evaluation of each details of the Boards activities during the in character and judgement and free from of the Directors this year, I can confirm that year, including how it has discharged its relationships or circumstances which may all Directors have appropriate skill, experience, governance duties and applied the principles affect, or could appear to affect, the knowledge and expertise to be effective, of good corporate governance set out in the Directors judgement.
I am pleased to and that they have all demonstrated Governance Code.
Here, you will also find announce that, from July 2017, the Company commitment to the role.
I further confirm details of our governance framework, has applied all of the main principles and that all Directors have allocated sufficient including details of the appropriate risk complied fully with the relevant provisions time to the Company to discharge their management and internal control systems set out in the Governance Code.
This is responsibilities and duties effectively.
discussed further in the Corporate Accordingly, and as recommended by the Governance Statement.
Nomination Committee, all Directors will be Board changes I hope you find the Corporate Governance offering themselves up for re-election at the We have had one change to the composition Report useful and informative.
next AGM to be held on 30 January 2018. of the Board this year, which is set out below.
Biographies of all members of the Board appear on pages 50 and 51.
Mike Evans Non-Executive Chairman 48 ZPG Plc Annual Report 2017 Corporate governance Our governance framework See below for the role of the Board and its Committees.
The Board The Board comprises 10 Directors.
We have two Executive Directors, a Non-Executive Chairman, five Independent Non-Executive Directors and two further Non-Executive Directors.
Key responsibilities Matters reserved for the Boards decision Set strategy and deliver value to shareholders and stakeholders Group strategy, business objectives and annual budgets Monitor Management activity and performance against targets Annual results Provide constructive challenge to Management Material acquisitions, disposals and contracts Set parameters for promoting and deepening the interest Major changes to internal controls, risk management of shareholders or financial reporting policies and procedures Determining risk appetite Changes to the capital structure Succession planning for the Board and senior management Board composition and independence Audit Committee Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee Key responsibilities Key responsibilities Key responsibilities The Audit Committees role is to The Nomination Committee assists the The Remuneration Committee assist the Board with the discharge Board in reviewing the structure, size recommends ZPGs policy on executive of its responsibilities in relation to and composition of the Board and plays remuneration and determines the levels financial reporting.
a key role in succession planning for the of remuneration for Executive Directors, Senior Management Team.
Membership at 30 September 2017 Membership at 30 September 2017 Membership at 30 September 2017 Duncan Tatton-Brown Chair Mike Evans Chair Sherry Coutu Chair Sherry Coutu Alex Chesterman Mike Evans Robin Klein Duncan Tatton-Brown Duncan Tatton-Brown Vin Murria Grenville Turner Grenville Turner Sherry Coutu Vin Murria Robin Klein Meetings held in 2017 Meetings held in 2017 Meetings held in 2017 Three Three Four Read more on page 58 Read more on page 64 Read more on page 66 Executive Management Team www.
