STRATEGIC REPORT 1 TO 43 GOVERNANCE 44TO87 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 88 TO 139 OTHER INFORMATION 140 TO 144 Chairmans introduction to Governance Dear fellow shareholder Bob Ivell It gives me great pleasure to update you on our progress Non-Executive Chairman in corporate governance over the past year.
One of the key roles for the Board of Directors at Mitchells & Butlers is to provide leadership for around 46,000 employees and maintain the highest possible standards of corporate governance.
The Board continues to monitor developments in corporate governance and reporting regulations.
The Strategic report on pages 1 to 43 includes the Groups strategy, progress and performance for the year.
There have been no Board changes during the year and the Board as a whole has continued to work together to implement the Companys strategy in a cohesive way.
Our broad range of Board talent covers a variety of professional skills and our diverse group of Non-Executive Directors continue to bring much experience and challenge to the Board.
My focus continues to be on maintaining a strong team, with a broad range of professional backgrounds and skills to drive further improvements where possible.
One of the key roles for the Board of Directors at Mitchells & Butlers is to provide leadership For 2017 we carried out an internal review of the Boards effectiveness, for around 46,000 employees and maintain and the results of this can be found on page 61. the highest possible standards of corporate The remainder of this report contains the narrative reporting required governance.
by the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Listing Rules and the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules.
I hope that you find this report to be informative and helpful in relation to this important topic.
We are committed to maintaining an active dialogue with all our shareholders, and we continue to offer our institutional investors access to key senior management and our Investor Relations team via our Investor Roadshow programme.
I would like to encourage shareholders to attend our Annual General Meeting, details of which are set out in the separate Notice of AGM sent out with this Annual Report.
The use of our Retail Support Centre in Birmingham as a venue for our AGM has proved to be a success as well as a cost saving and so we intend to use the same facility for the 2018 AGM and we look forward to welcoming you, where I hope you will take the opportunity of meeting our Executive and Non-Executive Board Directors.
I look forward to the year ahead, confident in the knowledge that the Company is led by a highly competent, professional and motivated team.
I also look forward to the support of you, our shareholders, as our senior management team continues to focus on driving future profit growth and creating additional shareholder value.
Bob Ivell Chairman For the Companys latest financial information go to: www.
com investors Annual report and accounts 2017 | Mitchells & Butlers plc | 45
