Chairmans Introduction to Governance Following last years review of our leadership pipeline, we have strengthened our emphasis on developing talent at every level Corporate values of the organisation.
Exemplifying this approach at one end of the spectrum was the launch during the year of an apprentice at the heart of scheme, the Brewin Dolphin Financial Planning Academy.
At the other, we created and introduced an Executive Leadership Programme which aims to equip those who have governance been identified as future leaders of the business with the necessary skills to enable their development.
Further information on both initiatives can be found on page 39.
Chairmans overview We rely on our values to guide how we govern ourselves at Improving engagement every level of the organisation.
By doing so, we make every For the third year in a row, we have undertaken an all employee effort to behave as our clients, employees, shareholders and engagement survey across the organisation.
For the second regulators would expect.
successive time, this has shown substantial improvements in engagement under almost every measure.
We apply good practice to all aspects of Board leadership and governance, just as we do to providing clients with the best These results enable the Board and senior management to possible financial advisory and portfolio-management services.
understand and act on those areas of the business where there is room for improvement.
The Board was pleased this year to As a result, the desire to behave ethically and act for the benefit see significant growth in employee satisfaction with our of clients, employees and shareholders is firmly entrenched in career-development and internal communications programmes, our culture at every level of the organisation.
Brewin Dolphins two areas on which we have focused considerable attention.
values Genuine, Expert and Ambitious provide the See page 38 for more information.
foundations of our approach to governance.
We believe that the engagement survey enables Brewin Dolphin In this brief introduction to corporate governance at Brewin Dolphin to create, sustain and improve the working environment.
we highlight some of the Boards most significant actions and initiatives taken during 2017.
These are designed to ensure our Board effectiveness growth strategy is driven by our culture and values.
In last years Annual Report, I said that there would be an Leadership for growth externally facilitated performance evaluation during 2017.
We appointed the London-based corporate advisory firm, During the year, we continued to ensure that the Board Lintstock Ltd Lintstock, to carry this out.
We have collectively has the skills and experience to guide and advise subsequently engaged them to work with us for a three-year our executive management as they pursue an ambitious period.
See page 47 for more information.
The next few pages contain our Corporate Governance At our AGM in February 2017, Kath Cates became our Senior Statement and detailed reports from our Board Committees.
This followed the retirement of Angela Knight, who served the Board with great distinction for Simon Miller nine years.
Chairman As announced on 15 November 2017, Mike Kellard will join the 28 November 2017 Board as a Non-Executive Director with effect from 1 December 2017.
Mike has over 25 years experience in the life, pensions and wealth management markets and we look forward to his contribution.
We continue the search for an additional Non-Executive Director with experience to complement the Boards existing skill set.
Effective succession planning ensures that we can identify and develop those individuals with the talent, cultural awareness and ambition to assume senior positions.
