B1 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Dear Shareholder It has been a busy year for governance matters both for the Group and for the Board.
As noted elsewhere in this report the Group has undergone a strategic reorganisation over the past year or so.
One of the prime drivers behind this was to streamline the governance structures within the organisation and this has been achieved.
From late September 2017, the boards of Paragon Banking Group PLC and Paragon Bank PLC have shared the same members and now, on most occasions, the two boards will sit and operate together as though one Robert G Dench board and hold joint meetings.
This approach will be reflected in the Boards main committees excluding the Disclosure Committee and the Nomination Committee and in the executive committees of the Risk Chairman and Compliance Committee.
It will allow for greater focus on both the strategic and governance mandates of the Board as duplication is avoided.
The restructuring will therefore enhance the Boards capacity to consider the corporate governance requirements and expectations which apply to the Company as a FTSE-350 listed entity, the regulatory requirements applicable to the Bank, and the relationship between them.
One of my main areas of focus during the year has been the consideration of the structure, size and ongoing skills requirement for the Board and its committees, taking into account both the Groups strategic reorganisation and the feedback from the external board evaluation in 2016.
I was very pleased with the process that was undertaken in the year to confirm and specify in greater detail the Boards requirements.
As Chairman of the Board and of the Nomination Committee I was fully involved, together with the Groups People Director, in considering our approach to determining what skills the Board required both hard skills such as retail banking and soft skills such as cultural fit and capacity to challenge and in reviewing and interviewing potential candidates, both internal and external.
Additional data on the appointment process is provided in the Nomination Committee Section B3.2.
I am pleased with the rigour of the appointment process and with the quality of the successful candidates: Patrick Newberry and Finlay Williamson, who were already non-executive directors of the Bank, Barbara Ridpath and Graeme Yorston.
The newly appointed directors bring a wealth of experience to the Board, including the retail banking experience recommended as an enhancement to the Boards skill set by the external evaluation.
All four joined the Board on 20 September 2017.
I welcome them to the Board and look forward to working with them in future years.
The first meeting of the joint boards, including the newly appointed directors, was held in late September 2017.
This went well and I intend to build on and develop that solid start over the coming year.
All the newly appointed non-executive directors will be undertaking an induction, tailored to their specific requirements and needs, over the coming financial year and this has already commenced.
Follow up to the external board evaluation occurred during the year and I am happy to report that the Board concluded satisfactorily on all the points raised.
Further detail on this is provided in Section B3.1.
PAGE 58 Corporate Governance PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2017 Annual Report and Accounts During the year ended 30 September 2017 in addition to its regular business items the Board has: Discussed, considered and approved the Groups strategic reorganisation Reviewed the Groups funding strategy and position in the light of changes in the business and market conditions Agreed the targets for gender and ethnic diversity and other statements in relation to the Groups signing of the Women in Finance charter Reviewed and approved the Groups policy on Modern Slavery and the Boards Modern Slavery statement Considered preliminary work undertaken examining the potential impact of the proposals in the UK Governments green paper on corporate governance Engaged in reviewing, approving and overseeing implementation of acquisitions or potential acquisitions Kept under review strategic non-organic growth opportunities within the market Kept under review the Groups pilot project entering the owner-occupied mortgage market I regularly meet with shareholders to discuss general matters affecting the Group and, on an annual basis, the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and I meet investors to discuss governance and remuneration matters.
These meetings assist in the development of governance within the organisation and ensure proper account is taken of shareholders views.
I would like to thank shareholders for their continued interest in the Group and the challenges they raise at these discussions.
Alan Fletcher stepped down as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee in late September and was succeeded by Fiona Clutterbuck, with Fionas position chairing the Risk and Compliance Committee taken by Finlay Williamson.
I would like to thank Alan for his work as Remuneration Committee Chairman since July 2011, in particular over the last few years when the focus on this area, and how it is reported, has changed significantly.
The Board has determined that Alan will cease, in accordance with the recommendation of the UK Code on Corporate Governance the Code to be an independent non-executive director in February 2018 but we have agreed that he will remain on the Board, so that his valuable experience of the Group can be utilised to assist with governance related items including training and development and the further consideration of the potential impact of the green paper.
I would like to extend my personal thanks as well as those of the Group to Stephen Blaney, Chairman of Paragon Bank since its launch, for steering it through the important initial phase of its development and for his support through the transition process over the past year.
Stephen retired as Bank Chairman on 20 September 2017.
As the strategic reorganisation is embedded over the next year it will be of upmost importance to ensure that the Groups strong governance ethic is maintained and enhanced and I look forward to leading the Board through this significant stage in the Groups development.
Robert G Dench Chairman 23 November 2017 PAGE 59 Corporate Governance PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2017 Annual Report and Accounts
