Corporate governance Introduction from the Chairman As part of our regular cycle of business, presentations to the Board are provided by members of the executive and wider management team on programmes and initiatives concerned with the delivery ofour strategy.
Such presentations support understanding of the progress in meeting important milestones, including strategic engagements with third parties for example, linked to our investment in Magma or our aerospace joint venture TxV Aero Composites and new opportunities and the associated challenges in execution one example of which is the evolving opportunities inElectronics, where our ability to respond expeditiously to market changes is an important part in success.
We remain cognisant of the strong relationship between ethics andgovernance and the role the Board plays in demonstrating ethical leadership.
We continue to embed our Victrex Global Codeof Conduct across all areas of the business and all territories.
Further information on ethics and social responsibility is contained inour Sustainability report on pages 37 to 39.
We operate a clear line of distinction between management led by To our shareholders and stakeholders, the Chief Executive, who is responsible for the day to day running of the business, and the Board, acting under my leadership, which The Board is accountable to our shareholders and stakeholders provides constructive challenge to management ensuring an open forcreating and delivering sustainable value through the management culture of debate that contributes to creating and preserving value of the Groups business.
We believe good governance is the foundation for how we should Our Corporate Governance Report is set out on pages 44 to 66, operate, and an enabler in the development, implementation and including the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 54 to 66. oversight of policies and procedures, sound business practices This section of the Annual Report sets out how we manage the and ethical judgement, informing how we work together as a Group and comply with the provisions of the Code.
It also outlines company and in our engagement with customers, suppliers and any governance initiatives undertaken in the year.
Finally, our Statement of Compliance with the UK Corporate The responsibilities of the Board include setting the Groups Governance Code is set out on page 44. strategic aims, providing the leadership to deliver them, holding management to account in the conduct of the business and reporting to our shareholders.
The Board recognises that for Victrex Larry Pentz to remain a world leader, we need to continually innovate not only Chairman in the products and solutions we provide but also in our working 5 December 2017 practices as your Company grows and develops.
Significant progress has been made by management and employees during the year, not only in delivering the day to day business that has underpinned our strong performance, but on completing the implementation of a global business information system intended tosupport business decision making, reporting and enabling growth for the future.
This Group-wide project has been the subject of detailed planning and considerable scrutiny by the Board and Audit Committee, given that the system has implications for many of the aspects which impact sound governance.
On page 52, we provide additional information on the project.
For more information visit www.
com Annual Report 2017 Victrex plc 41
