Governance Chairmans Statement on Corporate Governance We also host informal Chairmans dinners where senior management I am responsible for meet members of the Board.
ensuring that the The Chairman meets with individual directors on a regular basis outside of correct cultural tone Board meetings.
This process allows is set from the top.
for two-way discussion enabling the Chairman to act as necessary to deal with any issues relating to John Watson Board effectiveness.
Executive Chairman Board effectiveness There were no changes to the Board during the year but the Nomination Committee continue to review succession planning and the composition of the Board with regard The non-executive directors meet Dear Shareholder to the balance of relevant skills.
to review the performance of As Chairman of the Board I am management and they also meet The Board has been strengthened responsible for leading the Board without me being present to appraise by the appointment of an additional and ensuring that we play a full and my performance.
These meetings are executive director and two new constructive part in the development chaired by the senior independent non-executive directors who join and delivery of the Groups strategy non-executive director.
the business during the 2017 18 and overall commercial objectives.
I am also responsible for promoting the Throughout the year the Board visited highest standards of integrity, probity seven divisions and also received Mike Toms will be stepping down and corporate governance throughout regular reports from the Regional from the Board at the conclusion of the Group and particularly at Board Chairmen and local management on the Annual General Meeting AGM.
level including ensuring that the the opportunities and challenges they I would like to place on record correct cultural tone is set from the top.
The meetings with operational my thanks, and that of the whole The Board believes that instilling high management ensured that the Boards Board, to Mike for his hard work and standards of corporate governance standards and values for integrity and commitment both as a non-executive throughout all areas of our operations honesty are disseminated.
Each of our director and Chairman of the Board will help to deliver our strategy of 19 divisions has its own management Committee on Executive Directors building shareholder value as well as team and staff who manage and Remuneration.
take pride in the success of their All directors have access to the advice own operational business within the strategy set by the Board.
In this way and services of the Group General Main activities of the Board Counsel and Company Secretary we create a culture that motivates and during the year rewards our colleagues.
We promote and his department who ensure that The Board meets formally and directors take independent professional a supportive culture that enables our informally during the year to consider employees to develop their talents advice when judged necessary in strategy, performance, risk, major order to discharge their responsibilities.
land acquisitions, potential conflicts During the year an externally Each year we also hold separate of interest and reports from senior annual conferences for the divisional facilitated evaluation of the Board employees and external advisers.
and its committees was conducted Managing Directors, Finance Directors, One meeting a year is devoted entirely Sales Directors, Technical and with the assistance of Lintstock to the consideration of strategy where Limited.
These evaluations concluded Commercial Directors and Planning the Board agrees the way forward and Managers which are attended by the that the Board and committees ensures that the necessary financial, were well run and continued to be executive directors or members of the human, land and other resources Head Office senior management team.
are in place to meet its objectives.
The Board also takes regular reports Areas focused on during the strategy from the Group General Counsel day were the opening of new divisions, and Company Secretary on legal, integration of new Head Office commercial and insurance matters.
functions, house building efficiency During the year we reviewed and savings, dividend policy, government refreshed our Whistleblowing policy and succession planning.
Procedure and Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy and procedures.
38 Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2017 About Us Strategic Report Governance Accounts Other Information The main areas highlighted for further The whole Board is available for Diversity development or improvement were: questions at the AGM, to which The Board is committed to making institutional and private investors are succession planning.
appointments on merit, against invited to attend.
I am pleased to report objective criteria and the Board that at the last AGM over 92% of the continue to focus on strategy as a strongly supports the principle of votes cast were cast in favour of the top priority.
boardroom diversity in all its aspects.
resolutions put to shareholders by The Board and the Group General As at 31 July 2017 our female employees the Board.
made up 29% 2016 28% of our total Counsel and Company Secretary will work with senior management workforce, while 14% 2016 14% of The Chairman and senior independent the Board and 14% 2016 13% of our non-executive director are always to develop and improve these areas during the year and the progress made senior management were women.
available to discuss issues with current Following the appointment of two new and prospective shareholders and will be reported on in next years report.
directors since 31 July 2017, women institutions, as and when required.
The areas highlighted for improvement now make up 22% of the Board.
In addition, the whole Board is in last years Board evaluation and regularly updated at Board meetings progress made are set out in the table on shareholder and investor views and Shareholder engagement at the bottom of this page.
activities by the Chief Executive and the The Company encourages active Group Finance Director.
dialogue with its private and Conflicts of interest Further information for shareholders institutional shareholders, both current Pursuant to the provisions of the and prospective, and the directors is available in the Shareholder Companies Act 2006 relating to Information section of this report on communicate with both existing and conflicts of interest, the Board has put prospective institutional shareholders page 116 and also on our website at in place a register to deal with the www.
on a regular basis and as requested.
notification, authorisation, recording During the year our executive directors and monitoring of directors interests hosted a presentation attended by a and these procedures have operated number of institutional investors as well John Watson throughout the year.
Executive Chairman as meeting analysts and shareholders after our results announcements, 16 October 2017 Compliance with the UK with other members of the senior management team.
The Board receives Corporate Governance Code regular updates from our advisers the Code on investors and analysts views on I am pleased to confirm that the the Company.
Board considers that it has complied Shareholders are also kept up-to-date throughout the year with the detailed with our progress throughout the provisions of the Code published in year through the Annual Report and 2016.
The Code is available, free of announcements to the Stock Exchange charge, from the Financial Reporting for the full year and half year results and Council, online at www.
Board evaluation 2015 16 update Action Progress Greater prominence and discussion - This is now a standing item for discussion at each Board meeting.
- The KPIs Schedule has been updated and continues to evolve.
Further evolution in relation to the - Risk is now a standing item in the Group Finance Directors Report.
- A full Board discussion on risk takes place once a year.
Board papers agendas to be more - Board agendas have been reorganised to give more focus on strategy or areas where decisions forward-looking and strategy focused.
- Board papers have been refreshed and management reports have improved significantly.
Greater clarity on the Groups culture.
- Work on this area is ongoing in conjunction with Group Human Resources.
The Board recognises its importance in setting the Groups culture from the top.
Succession planning at and below - An immediate disaster plan has been agreed and the finalisation of a detailed longer-term Board level.
succession plan at and below Board level is underway.
39 Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2017
