Corporate governance Introduction to governance I am pleased to confirm thatyour Company has complied in full with the 2016UK Corporate Governance Code.
Brian Wallace, Chairman Dear shareholder the Boards understanding of business operations as well as providing an opportunity for Directors to have an open question I am pleased to confirm that your Company has complied in and answer session with employees.
This has been particularly fullwith the principles and provisions of the 2016 UK Corporate helpful this year as it has allowed us a clear view ofhow well Governance Code the Code during the year.
ourstrategy is translating into the day-to-day activities of the 2017 has been a very busy year for the Company.
We are pleased business as a whole.
that the Company continued to perform well with strong profit On 10 July 2017, I held my annual scheduled meeting with the growth and cash generation.
In his overview, our Chief Executive, Non-Executive Directors without the executive management Martin Hellawell, explains both the reasons for this outperformance present.
Our discussions focused on succession planning and and also the actions that the leadership team is taking to capitalise Board composition and, linked to that, the culture of the Board on the opportunities ahead.
Changes to the Board We evaluated the performance of the Board for the first time We announced in May 2017 that Martin had decided to step down thisyear.
I led the process which is described on page 36. as Chief Executive once his successor is in place.
Following that Iampleased to report that the outcome of the evaluation announcement the Nomination Committee initiated a search for a waspositive and confirmed that the Board and Committees new Chief Executive which is ongoing.
Once his successor is in areoperating effectively.
Particular strengths identified were place, the Board intends to appoint Martin as Non-Executive therelationship between Directors and senior management, Chairman and I will retire from the Board.
Details of the search thequality of information supplied to the Board and the open are set out on page 43.
Martin will not be independent on andconstructive atmosphere in Board meetings.
When deciding on his appointment, the Board recognised that the Code states that the Chairman Risk management should on appointment meet the independence criteria set out Risk management and in particular the principal risks faced by in the Code and that ordinarily the Chief Executive should not go the Company are key elements of the Boards ongoing agenda.
The Boards intention to appoint Martin Our IT governance and security was strengthened during the as Non-Executive Chairman was discussed at that time with year following a thorough risk assessment of information security.
anumber of the Companys largest shareholders.
Details of our principal risks and uncertainties and how we manage and mitigate these risks are set out on pages 24 and 25.
Iwould like to thank my colleagues on the Board for their continued support, commitment, challenge and passion for our business.
Listening to our shareholders Board effectiveness Effective communication with our shareholders is fundamental toour success.
We strive to communicate our strategy and I am in frequent and open contact with Martin and the rest of activities clearly to all our shareholders.
We also welcome active theBoard, and I aim to ensure that at all times the Board fully engagement with all of our shareholders to answer their questions understands how the business is operating and any risks or and receive their feedback.
Further details of our approach to challenges in our future.
Our programme of Board visits to shareholder engagement can be found on page 37.
Softcat regional offices has continued in 2017, including visits toour London and Bristol offices.
These visits help to enhance Brian Wallace Non-Executive Chairman 18 October 2017 Softcat plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 31
