INTRODUCTION TO CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Developing the Boards role in culture Dear Shareholder, Go-Ahead prides itself on its solid reputation for conducting business activities to the highest ethical and professional standards.
We are guided by our corporate governance principles and benefit from strong Board oversight.
We look continually to improve and adapt to the changing needs of our business and society as a whole, to ensure weare always operating in accordance with best practice and to deliver long term sustainable value for our customers, colleagues, shareholders and other stakeholders.
Our culture agenda A key focus for the Board this year has been corporate culture.
Over the course of the year, the Board has spent a significant amount oftime discussing culture and has used the Financial Reporting Councils recently published Report of Observations on Corporate Culture and the Role of Boards to facilitate initial debate.
From this, the Board has developed its own culture agenda, supported by a new Board development programme which has also been implemented during the year.
At our November 2016 Board meeting, which was dedicated to culture, the Board spent time discussing what culture really meant to individual Board members and the Board as a whole.
Using a structured framework, led by theGroup Company Secretary, the Board considered culture in the context of strategic direction, risk and the business model.
The role of the Board, including behaviours By aligning business decisions to and accountability was also debated, as was the governance the long term interests of Go-Ahead, framework that needed to be in place to deliver the culture agenda.
wecan create sustainable value for all It is important that the Board sets the right tone from the top and we are accountable for how we behave.
The Board has a significant role stakeholders and the society we serve.
to play in determining the purpose of the Group and ensuring that the Andrew Allner, Groups values, strategy and business model are all aligned.
Having Chairman aclear line of sight between the decisions we take and how these impact the business is a key priority for the Board.
We believe that byaligning business decisions to the long term interests of Go-Ahead, we can create sustainable value for all stakeholders andthe society we serve.
While the collective Board is responsible for culture, it is the executive directors and senior management teams who are responsible for leading and implementing the cultural change with our colleagues across the business and providing assurance to the Board.
Oversight Compliance with and bringing our vision, beliefs and attitudes to life is therefore a key Our strategic response: area for the Board.
Culture is a stand-alone agenda item at all Board the UK Corporate meetings and updates are provided from the Group Chief Executive Governance Code on the progress being made across our operating companies.
Our culture agenda is cascaded down to the audit, remuneration and nomination committees which all work to the same principles.
Go-Ahead complied in full with the provisions of the UKCorporate Governance Code published in April 2016 theCode which applied throughout the financial year ended 1 July 2017.
The Code is issued by the Financial Reporting Council FRC and is available for review on the FRCs website: http: www.
uk 46 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information We have agreed cultural indicators which will enable the Board to Governance monitor progress and hold the executive directors to account and As a Board, we believe that good governance is crucial to the wewill measure the key outputs in working towards achieving our successful delivery of Go-Aheads strategic priorities.
These include improved performance, better issupported by a strong and effective governance structure which customer service and reputation, high colleague and stakeholder starts with the Board and permeates throughout the organisation.
engagement, with Go-Ahead a more attractive place to work and This is an integral part of the way we design and deliver our strategy, representative of the people and societies we serve.
We know that supporting effective decision-making and ensuring there is clear weneed to be aware of Go-Aheads overall social impact and our accountability up to the Board.
Corporate governance underpins how accountability to a wide range of stakeholders and, to reflect this, we we conduct our business, our culture and our behaviours and a have also linked our key cultural indicators to executive remuneration.
summary of the Boards robust governance framework is set out on page 53.
Developing the Board We also ensure that we remain abreast of best practice and actively The Board has an important role to play regarding its own behaviour participate in debates and consultations on matters which are and all Board members need to bring the right values to Go-Ahead important to our business and the communities in which we operate.
tocreate the blend which is vital to a healthy boardroom culture.
An example of this was our participation in the consultation on the Ensuring all Board members are aligned to Go-Aheads corporate Governments green paper on corporate governance, where we culture has therefore been another key area of focus during the year.
support the drive for greater stakeholder involvement at Board level and agree that there need to be changes around executive To make certain that the work of the Board was closely aligned with remuneration policies.
the Group-wide culture change programme, we brought forward our external Board evaluation scheduled for 2018 to this year.
With a different emphasis from the more traditional board evaluations we Accountability have previously undertaken, the focus was more about actual Board The Board understands its responsibility to present a fair, development.
With a Board development programme designed in balancedand understandable assessment of the Groups position conjunction with Better Boards Ltd, the objective was to provide each andprospects in this 2016 17 Annual Report and Accounts.
This Board member with insights about themselves and their colleagues includes assessing the principal risks facing the Group, ensuring that on the Board, providing a foundation upon which individuals could effective systems of risk management and internal control are in increase their personal impact and the overall effectiveness of place and providing a statement as to the Groups long term viability.
The steps that we have taken during the year to comply with these The review established that Go-Ahead has a strong Board, with requirements can allbe found in the following corporate governance report and the managing risk section on pages 40 to 45. relationships built on trust and its size is a key strength to ensuring that everyone can contribute.
The Board is open and collegiate, with a good quality of debate and the opportunity to challenge constructively Engagement with shareholders where appropriate.
The review did, however, highlight the levers for We place considerable importance on the views of our shareholders.
Board members both individually and collectively to further increase The Group investor relations IR programme, managed by the Group their effectiveness through an appreciation of the roles and IR team, includes regular dialogue between the executive directors responsibilities on the Board, supporting colleagues to harness their and current and potential shareholders through group and one-toskills on the Board and facilitating the right discussion and quality of one meetings, presentations and conferences.
You can read in full the process through which the Board engagement activities are undertaken by the executive directors, went and the outcomes of the review on pages 60 and 61.
We also overall responsibility for ensuring that there is regular and effective describe the actions we took during the year to address matters dialogue with investors and ensuring the Board collectively highlighted from the previous years internal Board evaluation.
understands their views rests with me.
I held a number of meetings with shareholders during the year and Im available to meet with Board composition and changes investors as appropriate.
Private shareholders have the opportunity In accordance with our succession plan, Nick Horler will retire tospeak with the Board and raise any concerns at the Annual fromthe Board at the 2017 Annual General Meeting and I am grateful General Meeting.
To understand how we work together with our wider to Nick for his contribution to the Board during his tenure of what will stakeholders, please see pages 6 and 7 of the strategic report.
For be six years at the date of his retirement.
Through the work further information on our IR programme and how we listen to and undertaken as part of our external Board development programme, engage with our stakeholders, please read pages 62 and 63. which involved assessing the Boards existing skill set against key know-how areas and role behaviours, we created a detailed job specification to guide the search process for his replacement.
This ensured that any new non-executive director would bring the skills Andrew Allner, and behaviours we needed to best complement the existing Board Chairman and support our strategy and culture.
6 September 2017 Following a rigorous selection process, which was carried out by the nomination committee, we are pleased to welcome Harry Holt and Leanne Wood as non-executive directors to the Board in October 2017.
Full details can be found in the nomination committee report on pages 73 to 76. www.
com 47 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE HIGHLIGHTS Highlights of Board Highlights of what Highlights of Board objectives 2016 17 we have done focus 2017 18 Drive culture change and ensure all Externally facilitated Board A Board commitment to focus on three strategic decisions are underpinned by development programme undertaken, core areas: resolving the issues at GTR, the Groups new vision, beliefs to align with the Group-wide culture developing our strategy for sustainable and attitudes change programme but specifically, growth and improving the culture of Board focused the Group Continue to build relationships with key stakeholders, with a focus Improved collaboration with Network Implement the actions from the Board on partnership Rail and established frameworks to development programme to maximise improve working relationships with all Board effectiveness Ensure the Groups strategy supports key stakeholders delivering value for our customers, Restore investor confidence in the Group employees, shareholders, stakeholders Evolved our approach to strategy Increase levels of engagement and the wider society Bid submitted for the West Midlands and open communications with Focus on improving performance and franchise, which was unsuccessful all stakeholders customer service at GTR Continued focus on the operational Continue to explore other bus and Bid for third tranche of work for the and financial performance of the rail opportunities in targeted Singaporean bus market GTR contract international markets Continued refinement of dividend and Bid for the third tranche of work for the Maintain investment grade rating capital allocation policy and return to Singaporean bus market Review remuneration policy in the shareholders where appropriate Maintained progressive dividend policy context of best practice and emerging Schedule deep dive reviews into key with interim and final dividend developments ahead of the new policy risk areas and continue to develop risk increases of 6.5% being put to shareholders at the 2018 appetite discussions and assessment Annual General Meeting Dedicated time given in Board meetings to deep-dive risk focus areas such as franchise bid process, reputation and cyber security The above are highlights only and for the full list of Board objectives, with what we have done in 2016 17 and Board focus for the forthcoming year, please see pages 57 and 58 Board composition Attendance Directors attendance at scheduled and unscheduled meetings they were eligible to attend: Chairman Independent non-executive directors Board Audit committee Remuneration committee Nomination committee Executive directors Board attendance Scheduled Unscheduled Scheduled Unscheduled Scheduled Unscheduled Scheduled Unscheduled 17% 14% Total meetings 9 5 4 5 2 2 Andrew Allner 9 9 5 5 5 5 2 2 2 2 57% 50% 1 David Brown 9 9 5 5 1 Patrick Butcher 9 9 5 5 2 Katherine Innes Ker 9 9 4 4 4 4 5 5 2 2 2 2 23 Nick Horler 8 9 4 4 4 4 4 5 2 2 2 2 4 Adrian Ewer 9 9 3 5 4 4 5 5 2 2 2 2 33% 29% 1.
Members of the executive team attended committee meetings by invitation as appropriate which are not included in the above attendance.
A sub-committee meeting comprising the Chairman, Audit Committee Chair and executive directors was held on 8 September 2016.
Katherine Innes Ker and Nick Horler were therefore eligible to attend four The above charts show Board unscheduled Board meetings.
composition as at the year ended 3.
Nick Horler was unable to attend one scheduled Board and remuneration committee meeting on 1 July 2017 and what it will be for 7 June 2017 due to a long standing prior commitment.
Nick was sent all papers in advance, with the the forthcoming year following the opportunity to provide input before and after the meeting via the Group Company Secretary.
appointment of two new non-executive 4.
Adrian Ewer was unable to attend two unscheduled Board meetings, one of which was due to illness and the directors on 23 October 2017 and other due to a long standing prior commitment.
Adrian was sent all papers in advance, with the opportunity the retirement of Nick Horler at the to provide input before and after the meeting via the Group Company Secretary.
2017 Annual General Meeting on 2 November 2017.
48 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information The Board has focused on areas that have impacted the key performance areas of society and people Responsibility of the Board Culture Board Leading by example in building corporate culture Governing the Groups vision, values and culture and reputation Approval of the Boards policies and procedures Setting the Boards own culture agenda manual, including delegated authorities and the terms of reference of all committees of the Board Oversight and assessment of culture change across the Group Supported by a new Board development programme, reviewing the performance of the Board, its committees Regular evaluation of boardroom behaviours and individual directors on an annual basis with a focus Individual and collective accountability of how the more on individual and collective development actions of Board members contribute to culture Determining the remuneration policy for the executive For further information on how we lead by example directors and senior management and set the correct tone from the top, please see page 52.
Succession planning and appointments to the Board and senior managers Approval of all share schemes and any share buyStrategy back programmes Setting the long term strategy, targets and objectives to deliver value for our customers, employees, shareholders and other stakeholders Approval of the corporate plan for the Group and Contracts, bids and acquisitions individual operating companies, oversight Approval of material capital projects, investments, and monitoring acquisitions, franchises and disposals Setting and monitoring the Key Performance Indicators Approval of changes to the Groups corporate structure that support the delivery of strategy, including safety and constitution targets for continuous improvement Finance Risk and governance Approval of the Groups Annual Report and Managing a sound framework of risk management and Accounts and ensuring that they are fair, balanced internal controls and setting the Boards risk appetite and understandable Approval of the Groups key policies, including health Approval of dividend policy and recommending and safety, corporate social responsibility and dividends payable sustainability Approval of key financial policies including accounting, Ongoing review of the Groups corporate governance fuel hedging, tax and treasury policies framework and policies against best practice The UK Corporate Governance Code Go-Ahead is committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance.
For information on how we have complied with the UK Corporate Governance Code published in April 2016, please read the following: Leadership pages 50 to 59 Effectiveness pages 60 to 61 and pages 73 to 76 Relations with stakeholders pages 62 and 63 Accountability pages 64 to 72 Remuneration pages 77 to 95 www.
