Governance Chairmans Letter In August, John Browett, our Chief Other bodies, such as the Financial Executive, stepped down from the Reporting Council and the Business, Board.
I would like to thank John for Energy and Industrial Strategy his contribution to the business and Committee, have also issued guidance the strategic progress made under about the importance of instilling a his leadership, most notably the strong corporate culture, and made exciting acquisition of Worldstores.
recommendations about how Boards The Nominations Committee has should engage with their employees, commenced a search for his successor, customers, suppliers and other to lead the Group in the next stage of stakeholders, as well as the conduct of our growth, with a leadership style that Boards and executive remuneration.
is fully consistent with our culture.
We are always keen to improve how we operate, and so we will be reviewing This year the Boards focus has been these with interest.
on the implementation of the Business Dear Shareholder During the year, we have refreshed our Plans developed by the executive team We continue to believe strongly that in January 2016, together with the Business Principles first articulated by good corporate governance is a central Will Adderley to describe our corporate important strategic acquisition of the pillar of building a strong business Worldstores Group in November 2016. culture.
We shall take further steps which delivers sustainable value to embed these more deeply in our Worldstores brings an important new creation for all our stakeholders.
Our dimension and new skills to Dunelm.
recruitment, appraisal and colleague approach has always been to apply best communication processes.
We are We have used this opportunity to rene practice in a practical way which adds our vision and rearticulate our strategy, looking further at practical ways that the value to our business.
Furthermore, Board can monitor and inuence the which you can see set out in the good governance is an integral part of Strategic Report.
positive culture which already exists in our corporate culture, which is centred the business.
around our customers, our colleagues We asked Simon Emeny to serve an and the family origins of our business.
additional year beyond the expiry of At our AGM this year, as usual, Taking long term decisions and treating his nine year term and to continue as all Directors will be seeking our customers, colleagues, suppliers our Senior Independent Director and reappointment.
In addition, in and communities with respect will Chair of our Remuneration Committee, accordance with the Listing Rules, each always be an integral part of how we providing continuity and stability as our of the Non-Executive Directors will also conduct our business.
new Board members and myself settle be subject to a vote of shareholders into our roles.
Simon will be leaving us independent of the Adderley family.
In 2016 we carried out our regular as planned at the AGM in November external Board review, just after I look forward to meeting shareholders and we are well advanced with the the appointment of two new Nonat the AGM.
Details Executives, as well as my appointment of the new Non-Executive Director, Yours sincerely, as Chairman.
This year we asked and the rearrangement of committee Lorna Parker, the independent Board responsibilities, will be announced in Evaluation specialist who carried out Andy Harrison due course.
the 2016 review, to do a follow-up Chairman evaluation.
This concluded that while The past year has seen a great deal of 13 September 2017 the Group has faced the expected change to the environment in which challenges in a fast moving and we are operating.
The government increasingly competitive retail market, has recently outlined its proposed our Board processes have been regulatory changes which are designed effective, efficient and thorough, and to build on the strong governance we have clarity, alignment and a mutual regime in the United Kingdom, to excitement around the medium term ensure that business in general strategy.
A number of actions were maintains the trust of the public after agreed, and further details are set out in some high prole corporate failures.
53 DUNELM GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE PERIOD ENDED 1 JULY 2017 25445.02 5-10-2017 Proof 9 Dunelm AR2017-Back.
