Corporate Governance Statement Chairmans introduction The 2017 Board evaluation was externallyQ facilitated what issues did it identify?
The 2017 Board  the Board is A effective, with a strong mix of skills.
The evaluation also provided a number of areas for usto focus on in 2018, including ensuring that time is set aside to continue to review progress against the Groups strategy and to oversee the continued review of the Groups risk management framework.
Italso confirmed that the Board has made good progress with respect to theaction plan which was agreed following the 2016 Board evaluation process.
Further details are set out on pages 68 and 69.
The Board is accountable for the Groups Q management of risk.
How has the Board discharged its responsibilities?
Q&A During the year, the Board assessed the principal risks A and uncertainties facing the Group, together with its with Philip Cox CBE appetite with respect to each of these risks.
In light of these assessments, the Board, via the Risk Management and Audit Committee the RMAC, reviewed the effectiveness of the As the new Chairman, what is your view on the Groups systems of risk management and internal control.
details of how the Group manages risk are set out on pages 34 to Good governance is essential to the way in which our 36 inclusive.
Please also see page 62 for the statements which, A business operates on a day-to-day basis: one of the key under the Code, the Board is required to provide with respect to responsibilities of the Board is to oversee the continuous the management of risk and other matters.
development of the Groups governance structure so as to support Are there material changes to Kiers the effective delivery of its strategy.
In this part of the Annual Report, we describe governance at During the summer of 2017, Constance Baroudel led the Kier, the principal activities of the Board and its committees A consultation with shareholders with respect to a new throughout the year and how Kier has complied with the remuneration policy, which is set out on pages 86 to 93 UKCorporate Governance Code April 2016 edition theCode.
inclusive and is subject to approval by shareholders at the What role does the Board playin setting the forthcoming AGM.
We were grateful to shareholders for the level Q culture of the Group?
ofengagement and their positive feedback.
Shareholders will note that, following the consultation, the Remuneration Committee We play an important role in setting the Groups culture decided that there was no need to make significantchanges to A and, in my initial months at Kier, it is clear that the Board the policy which was approved at the 2014 AGM.
demonstratesthe Groups core values forward-thinking, collaborative and enthusiastic.
Throughout the year, theBoard has What engagement with shareholders has the worked well, managing the Groups growth closely and its progress Q Board had during the year?
against Vision 2020, in light of some challenging market We remain committed to regular and active dialogue conditions.
It is also important for us to be visible within the A withour shareholders.
During the year, and in addition business and, during the year, members of the Board have visited toConstances meetings with shareholders, our Senior a number of the Groups sites, providing an opportunity to hear Independent Director, Justin Atkinson, and Phil White met major employees views on a range of matters.
As part of my induction, shareholders to understand their views on a range of issues Ihave also visited a number of sites and have found this a very including the Chairmans succession and risk management.
useful way of developing my understanding of the business.
Anumber of other investor relations events took place during Have there been any changes to the Board theyear, details of which are provided on page 81.
As the new Chairman, I have written to a number of major The principal focus of the Nomination Committee was shareholders to offer a meeting to introduce myself.
I also A toidentify a successor to Phil White as Chairman.
The lookforward to meeting shareholders at the AGM on process undertaken by the Committee is summarised on 17 November 2017. page 71.
I am delighted to have been appointed to the role and look forward to working with the Board over the years to come.
The only other change to the Board during the year was the appointment of Constance Baroudel as Chair of the Remuneration Committee following the 2016 AGM when Amanda Mellor, the previous Chair, did not stand for re-election.
Philip Cox CBE Chairman 20 September 2017 60 Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2017
