Governance Chairmans introduction Dear shareholder On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present the Groups Governance report for the year.
Sound and effective governance is at the heart of the Board and the report which follows details how we and our Committees have discharged these responsibilities during the year.
Role of the Board The Boards role is to set the Groups strategy, ensure it has the right leadership, oversee its risk management structure and monitor the performance of the business.
We are focused on ensuring good outcomes for our clients and looking after the interests of our shareholders and other stakeholders.
The Board considers that the Groups long-term success is best supported by having members with a wide range of skills and experience and it is vital that the Board has sufficient diversity and independence of both thought and action.
All Board appointments are made on merit, while at the same time considering the diversity required for an effective Board, including diversity of skills, experience, background and gender.
Details of our diversity policy are contained later in this section, and a copy of our full statement on Board diversity can be found at www.
co. uk Sound and effective The Board governance is integral to There have been a number of changes to the composition of the Board during the year on both Executive and Non-Executive sides.
As previously announced, Ian Gorham stood down from the Board in February 2017 after six and a half years as CEO.
Chris Hill was appointed as CEO in his place, having previously held the position of CFO and Deputy Chief Executive from September 2016.
Philip Johnson joined as CFO in February 2017 and was appointed to the Board in April 2017 after receiving regulatory approval.
Philip brings considerable experience as a plc CFO and expertise from across the financial services industry.
34 Hargreaves Lansdown Report and Financial Statements 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information In May 2017, I advised the Board of my intent to stand down from Working effectively the position as Chairman once a suitable replacement has been As Chairman, my primary responsibility is to ensure that the Board identified.
Chairing Hargreaves Lansdown over the past eight years is operating effectively and focusing its time, attention and efforts has been a real privilege as I have seen the Group grow significantly on the right matters.
The 2017 Board Effectiveness Review was and establish itself as the UKs leading retail savings and facilitated by me, with one-to-one discussions with each of the investments platform over this period.
The search process for a new Directors undertaken towards the end of the year.
This identified a Chairman is making good progress and we expect to be able to number of modest changes to the way we work together, which I am make an announcement after regulatory clearance in the final confident will enhance the quality of strategic debate around the quarter of 2017.
We have also recommended the appointment of table.
two new independent Non-Executive Directors who will be appointed as soon as regulatory approval is received.
This will General meeting ensure that we have the appropriate range of skills and experience During the year, the Group received correspondence from the FRC going forward.
regarding a technical issue concerning historic dividend payments.
This centred on the timing of dividend payments in relation to the Our committees filing of interim accounts and, at the year end, the circulation of the Our Board Committees play an integral role in supporting the Board audited financial statements.
Upon investigation it became clear and their roles, composition and work performed are outlined later that this was a long-standing issue and in order to rectify, the in this section.
It has been a busy year in particular for the Company was required to take action to release both shareholders Nomination Committee, as discussed above, and also for our newly and Directors from the potential liability to repay the technically formed Investment Committee, which has implemented and unlawful distributions.
This took the form of a special resolution at overseen its first annual schedule of work.
ageneral meeting on the 7 March 2017 which was passed with 99.6% approval.
Attracting and retaining talented employees is essential to the sustainable delivery of our strategy.
The Remuneration Committee Compliance statement has reviewed our arrangements this year to ensure that employee The Board has continued to apply good governance practices and reward is aligned with the experience of our clients and supports the principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code the shareholders while maintaining our performance related culture.
The Code sets out the standards of good practice in relation Asa result, it has recommended that we seek approval of a new to how a company should be directed and governed.
The Code is Remuneration Policy this year, which is intended to deliver these published by the FRC and further information can be found on its features within a simplified remuneration structure.
include an increased minimum shareholding requirement, a lower overall bonus cap and a restricted stock option incentive Having reviewed the provisions of the Code, the Board is satisfied arrangement.
Good governance requires open engagement with that the Company has fully complied with them throughout the stakeholders and we have sought and responded to feedback in year ended 30 June 2017 and confirms that the Board believes the relation to these proposed changes, and we hope to receive your Report and Financial Statements taken as a whole, are fair, continued support of our Remuneration Policy going forward.
balanced, understandable and provide the information necessary for shareholders to assess the position and our performance, The Executive Committee, which is now led by Chris Hill, is the key business model and strategy.
More information is contained within operational committee tasked with strategic delivery.
It was the Corporate governance and Remuneration Committee reports.
strengthened in February by our Chief People Officer, Heather Cooper, joining the Committee and by the appointment of Philip I look forward to receiving your feedback at and in advance of our Johnson.
The Board is keen to ensure that the strategic aims of the AGM on 11 October 2017.
Group are known to all colleagues and work is being done to ensure that these are fully embedded in the business.
The Executive Committee has been reviewing its effectiveness against this Mike Evans objective, and has recently increased its meeting frequency.
It is Chairman also looking at further ways of improving the Groups execution 14 August 2017 capabilities throughout the upcoming year.
35 Hargreaves Lansdown Report and Financial Statements 2017
