Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information 2.20 Section 303A of the NYSE-Listed Company Manual contains a broad Conformance with corporate regime of corporate governance requirements for NYSE-listed governance standards companies.
Under the NYSE rules, foreign private issuers, such as ourselves, are permitted to follow home country practice in lieu Our compliance with the governance standards in our home of the requirements of Section 303A, except for the rule relating jurisdictions of Australia and the United Kingdom, and with the to compliance with Rule 10A-3 of the Exchange Act audit committee governance requirements that apply to us as a result of our New York independence and certain notification provisions contained in Stock Exchange NYSE listing and our registration with the SEC Section 303A of the Listed Company Manual.
11 in the United States, is summarised in this Corporate Governance of the Listed Company Manual, however, requires us to disclose Statement, the Remuneration Report, the Directors Report and any significant ways in which our corporate governance practices the Financial Statements.
differ from those followed by US companies under the NYSE The Listing Rules and the Disclosure and Transparency Rules corporate governance standards.
After a comparison of our of the UK Financial Conduct Authority require companies listed corporate governance practices with the requirements of Section in the United Kingdom to report how they have applied the Main 303A of the Listed Company Manual followed by US companies, Principles and the extent to which they have complied with the the following significant difference was identified: provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code UK Code, Rule 10A-3 of the Exchange Act requires NYSE-listed companies and explain the reasons for any non-compliance.
The UK Code to ensure their audit committees are directly responsible for is available online at frc.
uk Our-Work  appointment, compensation, retention and oversight of the Reporting Corporate-governance.
work of the External Auditor unless the companys governing law or documents or other home country legal requirements The Listing Rules of the ASX require ASX-listed companies require or permit shareholders to ultimately vote on or approve to report on the extent to which they meet the ASX Principles these matters.
While the RAC is directly responsible for and Recommendations and explain the reasons for any remuneration and oversight of the External Auditor, the ultimate non-compliance.
The ASX Principles and Recommendations responsibility for appointment and retention of the External are available online at asx.
au regulation corporateAuditor rests with our shareholders, in accordance with UK law governance-council.
The RAC does, however, Both the UK Code and the ASX Principles and Recommendations make recommendations to the Board on these matters, which require the Board to consider the application of the relevant are in turn reported to shareholders.
corporate governance principles, while recognising that departures While the Board is satisfied with its level of compliance with the from those principles are appropriate in some circumstances.
governance requirements in Australia, the United Kingdom and We have applied the Main Principles and complied with the the United States, it recognises that practices and procedures can provisions set out in the UK Code and with the ASX Principles always be improved and there is merit in continuously reviewing and Recommendations during the financial period, with its own standards against those in a variety of jurisdictions.
The Boards program of review will continue throughout the year ahead.
Appendix 4G, summarising our compliance with the ASX Principles and Recommendations is available online at bhp.
2.21 Additional UK disclosure BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc are registrants with the SEC in the United States.
Each company is classified as a foreign The information specified in the UK Financial Conduct Authority private issuer and each has American Depositary Shares listed Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules, DTR 7.2.
elsewhere in this Annual Report.
The Directors Report in section 4 provides cross-references to where the information is located.
We have reviewed the governance requirements applicable to foreign private issuers under SOX, including the rules This Corporate Governance Statement was current, and approved promulgated by the SEC and the rules of the NYSE and are by the Board, on 7 September 2017 and signed on its behalf by: satisfied that we comply with those requirements.
Ken MacKenzie Chairman 7 September 2017 124 BHP Annual Report 2017 In this section Section 3 3.1 Annual statement by the Remuneration Committee Chairman 3.2 Remuneration policy report Remuneration policy for the Executive Director Remuneration policy for Non-executive Directors Remuneration 3.3 Annual report on remuneration Remuneration outcomes for the Executive Director the CEO Report Remuneration for members of the OMC other than the CEO Remuneration outcomes for Non-executive Directors Remuneration governance Other statutory disclosures Abbreviation Item This Remuneration Report describes the remuneration policies, practices, outcomes and governance for the KMP of BHP.
AGM Annual General Meeting CEO Chief Executive Officer BHPs dual listed structure means that we are subject to DEP Dividend Equivalent Payment remuneration disclosure requirements in both the United DLC Dual Listed Company Kingdom and Australia.
This results in some complexity EBITDA Earnings Before Interest, Tax, in our disclosures, as there are some key differences in Depreciation and Amortisation the requirements, as explained below.
GSTIP Group Short-Term Incentive Plan HSEC Health, Safety, Environment and The UK requirements focus on the remuneration of executive Community and non-executive directors.
At BHP, this is our Board and IFRS International Financial our CEO, who is our sole Executive Director.
In contrast, Reporting Standards the Australian requirements focus on the remuneration of KMP Key Management Personnel KMP, defined as those who have authority and responsibility KPI Key Performance Indicator for planning, directing and controlling the activities of the LTI Long-Term Incentive Group directly or indirectly.
KMP includes the Board, as well LTIP Long-Term Incentive Plan as our senior executive team who are members of our OMC.
MAP Management Award Plan The role of the OMC is to make key management decisions MSR Minimum Shareholding Requirement under the authorities that have been delegated to it by OMC Operations Management Committee STI Short-Term Incentive the Board.
STIP Short-Term Incentive Plan The following individuals have held their positions and were TRIF Total Recordable Injury Frequency KMP for the whole of FY2017, unless stated otherwise: TSR Total Shareholder Return CEO and Executive Director, Andrew Mackenzie: UAP Underlying Attributable Profit Non-executive Directors see section 3.3.
11 for details of the Non-executive Directors, including dates of appointment or cessation where relevant : OMC members, as set out in the table below.
Name Title Peter Beaven Chief Financial Officer Geoff Healy Chief External Affairs Officer Mike Henry President Operations, Minerals Australia Daniel Malchuk President Operations, Minerals Americas Steve Pastor President Operations, Petroleum Athalie Williams Chief People Officer The information that must be disclosed also differs in the United Kingdom and Australia.
For example, UK requirements give shareholders the right to a binding vote on remuneration policy every three years, and as a result, the remuneration policy needs to be described in a separate section in the Remuneration Report.
Our remuneration policy is set out in section 3.2.
In Australia, BHP is required to make certain disclosures for KMP as defined by the Australian Corporations Act 2001, Australian Accounting Standards and IFRS.
BHP Annual Report 2017 125 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information 3.1 Annual statement by the Remuneration Committee Chairman Our remuneration policy continues to serve shareholders well by aligning remuneration to performance.
Carolyn Hewson Chairman, Remuneration Committee Dear Shareholder, I am pleased to introduce BHPs Remuneration Report for the The exercise of appropriate downward discretion where the financial year to 30 June 2017.
First, a key focus for the Remuneration status quo or a formulaic outcome does not align with the overall Committee this year has been a detailed review of our remuneration shareholder experience has been a feature of BHPs approach policy ahead of it being submitted for shareholder approval at over many years, and this will continue unchanged.
You will see we are not proposing any significant in recent years include reducing the CEOs remuneration package change, as the Board and Committee believe the current policy by 25 per cent in 2013, reducing the LTIP award vesting by remains appropriate and has served all stakeholders well over many 35 per cent in 2013, zero STI outcomes for the CEO and Chief years, a view supported by extensive shareholder consultation.
Executive Petroleum in 2012 as a result of shale impairments, the Secondly, the Committee has continued its work to achieve reduction in Chairman and Non-executive Director fees in 2015, remuneration outcomes that fairly reflect the performance of and the zero STI outcome for the CEO in 2016 as a result of the BHP, its businesses and individuals.
FY2017 has seen a significant dam failure at Samarco, and the ongoing decline in commodity improvement in performance in comparison with last year, markets and the associated negative impact on our performance.
and this is reflected in the FY2017 remuneration outcomes.
We will continue to balance our judgements on remuneration to be fair to all stakeholders and, as a consequence, remuneration Link to strategy outcomes will continue to appropriately reflect the performance Our Charter sets out our values, placing health and safety first, of BHP, of businesses and of individuals.
upon which the Remuneration Committee places great weight in We are aware of various proposals put forward by some the determination of performance-based remuneration outcomes shareholders and other groups to consider alternative remuneration for BHP executives.
Our Charter also sets out our purpose, our arrangements, particularly in the United Kingdom, but we also note strategy and how we measure success.
The Committee is guided there is not an aligned view on the way forward.
While our recent by those measures and aims to support our executives in taking review has confirmed the appropriateness of our current approach, a long-term approach to decision-making in order to build a we will continue to monitor the debate, as our shareholders would sustainable and value-adding business.
We are keen to understand any alternate arrangements Our approach that simplify remuneration, drive a balanced focus on the short The Committee commenced its review of our remuneration and long-term, align outcomes with Group performance, limit policy in mid-2016 with a remuneration risk assessment, together the potential for excessive outcomes, and yet still deliver on with selected Board, Committee and management interviews.
the primary purpose: to attract, retain and appropriately reward Key items reviewed included the level of remuneration and of talented executives.
We will continue to have discussions with the individual components, measures used in the STIP and LTIP, our shareholders on these matters.
the method of delivery of LTIP awards, the LTIP vesting schedule Remuneration outcomes for the CEO and minimum shareholding requirements.
In addition, the Andrew Mackenzie, on his appointment as CEO in 2013, supported Committee reviewed the alignment of the policy with the critical the view of the Board and Committee that his remuneration package need to attract, retain and appropriately reward world-class talent.
should be rebased downwards relative to that of the former CEO.
The Committee has incorporated shareholder feedback into His base salary has not been increased since then, and again, our deliberations on executive and Non-executive Director pay after review in 2017, it will remain unchanged at US$1.700 million through shareholder consultations.
In addition, the other components of his total target The conclusion reached at the end of the review was that significant remuneration pension contributions, benefits and short-term change was not required, consistent with the Committees view and long-term incentive targets are also unchanged since 2013. that our policy has served us well.
This also aligns with the views Mr Mackenzie is BHPs only Executive Director.
of our shareholders who have given strong support to our approach Mr Mackenzies annual STI is focused on incentivising controllable to remuneration, with over 97 per cent voting for the Remuneration annual performance and is at-risk with a target of 160 per cent of Report at last years AGMs, and over 96 per cent support in each base salary linked to achieving stretching performance, a maximum of the prior five years.
of 240 per cent of base salary only realisable in circumstances A minor change has been proposed in the remuneration policy to of significant outperformance, and a minimum outcome of zero.
the LTIP vesting schedule for future LTIP grants, whereby in future, The scorecard against which his short-term performance maximum vesting may only occur where BHPs TSR equals or is assessed comprises stretching performance measures, exceeds the weighted 80th percentile of the relevant comparator including HSEC, financial and personal elements.
For FY2017, group, rather than equalling or exceeding the prior fixed 5.5 per cent the Remuneration Committee has assessed Mr Mackenzies per annum, or a compounded 30.7 per cent, outperformance over performance and determined a STI outcome of 86 per cent the five-year performance period.
This proposed change is more of the target of 100 per cent or 138 per cent of base salary.
aligned to contemporary market practice in Australia and the United Kingdom, and back-testing has confirmed that it would not have had any material impact on LTIP vesting outcomes in prior years.
In discussions with shareholders earlier in the year, the proposed change was widely supported.
126 BHP Annual Report 2017 Remuneration Report This outcome took into account HSEC performance, which primarily an aspiration to have gender balance by 2025 and progress made reflects the fatality that occurred at Escondida in October 2016, towards this in FY2017.
with the Remuneration Committee, after taking advice from the Mr Mackenzies LTI is also at-risk, and forms an important part Sustainability Committee, giving the Groups safety performance of recognising long-term performance, including the impacts of the greatest weighting when determining the CEOs HSEC STI long-dated capital allocation and portfolio decisions.
On other HSEC measures, positive outcomes were to the LTI awards granted in 2012, BHPs five-year TSR performance achieved, such as lower injury frequency rates, occupational was negative 32.0 per cent over the five-year period from 1 July 3 illnesses and significant events with injury potential.
This is below the weighted median TSR BHPs overall financial performance was significantly improved of peer companies of negative 23.3 per cent and below the in FY2017, however, controllable financial performance was below TSR of the MSCI World index of positive 69.0 per cent.
This level the stretching financial target set at the commencement of the of performance results in zero vesting for the 2012 LTIP awards, year.
This was mainly due to the negative impacts on production and accordingly the awards have lapsed.
volumes and operating costs at Escondida as a consequence of Overall, Mr Mackenzies actual total remuneration for FY2017 industrial action in early 2017.
While the idle capacity impacts of the was US$4.554 million, compared with US$2.241 million for industrial action at Escondida have been reported as an exceptional FY2016.
The key driver of this difference is that Mr Mackenzie item in the accounts, the Committee concluded the entire negative did not receive any STI in FY2016 as a consequence of the dam impact of this event should be included in measuring STI outcomes.
failure at Samarco, along with the ongoing decline in commodity The Committee also considered the CEOs strong performance markets and its associated impact on our performance, in that year.
against personal objectives, including delivering significant further The LTI outcome in FY2016 was also zero, the same as in FY2017.
material productivity and capital expenditure improvements, In line with the approach for Mr Mackenzie, the base salaries and delivery on key strategic milestones, and an acceleration of BHPs total target remuneration packages for all other OMC members inclusion and diversity objectives through the public adoption of will also be held constant in FY2018.
FY2017 CEO remuneration FY2017 actual 49% 51% 4,554 Minimum 100% 2,215 Target 29% 35% 36% 7,723 Maximum 17% 31% 52% 13,095 0 1,000 2,000 3,000 4,000 5,000 6,000 7,000 8,000 9,000 10,000 11,000 12,000 13,000 14,000 Total remuneration US$000 Fixed remuneration STI LTI FY2018 CEO remuneration Fixed remuneration STI LTI Base salary US$1.700 million per annum Target STI of 160 per cent of base salary The normal LTI grant is based on a face maximum 240 per cent of base salary value of 400 per cent of base salary Pension contributions of 25 per cent of base salary No change to either target or Our LTI awards have rigorous relative maximum percentages for FY2018 TSR performance hurdles measured No change to either base salary or pension over five years contribution for FY2018 Three performance categories: HSEC 25 per cent Financial 45 per cent Individual performance 30 per cent Remuneration outcomes for the Chairman and Summary Non-executive Directors The remuneration outcomes for FY2017 are aligned with the Groups Fee levels for the Chairman and Non-executive Directors are performance during the year.
In late 2017, our remuneration policy reviewed annually, including benchmarking against peer will be put before shareholders at the AGMs for the required companies.
Based on the most recent review, a decision has three-yearly re-approval.
After our review this year, the Committee been made to reduce the Chairmans fee by approximately concluded that, at this time, we should not make any material eight per cent from US$0.960 million to US$0.880 million with change to the policy which has been supported strongly by effect from 1 July 2017, an outcome supported by the new shareholders through their votes at BHPs AGMs over many years.
This follows an earlier reduction, We remain confident our philosophy, framework and remuneration effective 1 July 2015, of approximately 13 per cent from policy continue to be appropriate and support long-term value US$1.100 million to US$0.960 million per annum.
Base fee levels creation, but we will continue to look for opportunities to improve for Non-executive Directors were also reduced, effective 1 July it.
We welcome shareholder feedback and comments on the review 2015, by approximately six per cent from US$0.170 million to outcomes, or on any other aspect of this Report.
US$0.160 million per annum and fees will remain at these levels.
Prior to the above reductions in fee levels for the Chairman and Non-executive Directors, their fees had remained unchanged since 2011.
Carolyn Hewson Chairman, Remuneration Committee 7 September 2017 BHP Annual Report 2017 127 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information 3.2 Remuneration policy report BHP has an overarching remuneration policy that guides the Remuneration Committees decisions.
The Committee undertook a review of the policy during the past year and determined that the policy remains appropriate and aligned to the delivery of our strategic priorities.
This remuneration policy is subject to a binding vote by shareholders at the 2017 AGMs, and if approved, will apply with effect from the November 2017 AGM.
This remuneration policy contains no material changes from the previous remuneration policy approved by shareholders in 2014 other than those set out in sections 3.2.
1 Framework BHPs remuneration policy is designed to reward and recognise the delivery of our strategy, promote long-term success, align management and shareholder interests and encourage behaviours to be aligned to the values in Our Charter, as set out in the framework below.
Strategic driver Remuneration principles Mechanisms Provide competitive rewards to attract and retain highly skilled executives.
Salary and benefits positioned competitively against Productivity: Reflect the level of responsibility key global markets and peer comparator companies.
operational excellence for delivering business strategy STIP and LTIP performance measures support operational and results.
excellence, risk management and strategy execution.
Sustainable HSEC and financial performance measures are built into incentive plans.
Significant portion of pay at risk.
STIP awards delivered half in cash and half in deferred equity.
Sustainability: long-term Long-term strategic plans and market expectations are taken Encourage long-term, sustainable growth and success growth aligned to the interests into account when setting performance criteria and goals.
Five-year performance period of LTI and use of relative TSR performance condition.
Retention through long-term share exposure over five-year performance period.
Align performance-related pay to delivery of shareholder value.
Stretch goals, balance business objectives and market Corporate planning: conditions, and align performance and shareholder experience.
Ensure appropriate executive, shareholder value creation Non-executive Director and Relative TSR performance condition.
Prohibition on hedging of incentive instruments.
Ensure rewards are appropriate Annual review of remuneration against relevant markets.
for actual performance and Board discretion to reduce incentive outcomes.
capital discipline Deferred STI equity component.
Control cost to shareholders and governance Malus and clawback provisions.
by paying competitive but not Severance payments limited to contractual agreements.
Our Charter values: Sustainability, Integrity, Respect, Performance, Simplicity, Accountability.
2 How remuneration policy is set The Remuneration Committee sets the remuneration policy for the CEO and KMP based on the principles and framework outlined above.
The Committee is briefed on and considers prevailing market conditions, the competitive environment and the positioning and relativities of pay and employment conditions across the wider BHP workforce.
The Committee takes into account the annual base salary increases for our employee population when determining any change in the CEOs base salary.
Salary increases in Australia, where the CEO is located, are particularly relevant, as they reflect the local economic conditions.
Although BHP does not consult directly with employees on CEO and KMP remuneration, BHP conducts regular employee engagement surveys that give employees an opportunity to provide feedback on a wide range of employee matters.
Further, many employees are ordinary shareholders through our all-employee share purchase plan, Shareplus, and therefore have the opportunity to vote on AGM resolutions.
As part of the Boards commitment to good governance, the Committee also considers shareholder views when setting the remuneration policy for the CEO and KMP.
We are committed to engaging and communicating with shareholders regularly and, as our shareholders are spread across the globe, we are proactive with our engagement on remuneration and governance matters with institutional shareholders and investor representative organisations.
Feedback from shareholders and investors is shared with, and used as input into decision-making by, the Board and Remuneration Committee in respect of our remuneration policy and its application.
The Committee considers that this approach provides a robust mechanism to ensure Directors are aware of matters raised, have a good understanding of current shareholder views, and can formulate policy and make decisions as appropriate.
We encourage shareholders to always make their views known to us by directly contacting our Investor Relations team contact details available on our website at bhp.
128 BHP Annual Report 2017 Remuneration Report Remuneration policy for the Executive Director This section only refers to the remuneration policy for our CEO, who is our sole Executive Director.
If any other executive were to be appointed an Executive Director, this remuneration policy would apply to that new role.
The principles that underpin the remuneration policy for the CEO are the same as those that apply to other employees, although the CEOs arrangements have a greater emphasis on, and a higher proportion of remuneration in the form of, performance-related variable pay.
Similarly, the performance measures used to determine STI outcomes for the CEO and all other employees are linked to the delivery of our strategy and behaviours that are aligned 3 to the values in Our Charter.
3 Components of remuneration The following table shows the components of total remuneration, the link to strategy, the applicable operation and performance frameworks, and the maximum opportunity for each component.
The Remuneration Committees discretion in respect of each remuneration component applies up to the maximum shown.
Any remuneration elements awarded or granted under the previous remuneration policy approved by shareholders in 2014, but which have not yet vested or been paid, shall continue to be capable of vesting and payment on their existing terms.
Remuneration component 1 and link to strategy Operation and performance framework Maximum Base salary Base salary, denominated in US dollars, is broadly aligned with salaries for comparable 8% increase per roles in global companies of similar global complexity, size, reach and industry, annum annualised, A competitive base salary and reflects the CEOs responsibilities, location, skills, performance, qualifications or inflation if higher is paid in order to attract and experience.
and retain a high-quality Base salary is reviewed annually with effect from 1 September.
Reviews are informed, and experienced CEO, and to provide appropriate but not led, by benchmarking to comparable roles as above, changes in responsibility and general economic conditions.
Substantial weight is also given to the general base remuneration for this salary increases for employees.
important role in the Group.
Base salary is not subject to separate performance conditions.
Pension contributions Pension contributions are benchmarked to comparable roles in global companies 25% of base salary.
and have been determined after considering the pension contributions provided Provides a market-competitive to the wider workforce.
level of post-employment benefits provided to attract A choice of funding vehicles is offered, including a defined contribution plan, an and retain a high-quality and unfunded retirement savings plan, an international retirement plan or a self-managed experienced CEO.
Alternatively, a cash payment may be provided in lieu.
Benefits Benefits may be provided, as determined by the Committee, and currently include Benefits as determined costs of private family health insurance, death and disability insurance, car parking, by the Committee but Provides personal insurances, and personal tax return preparation in the required countries where BHP has requested to a limit not exceeding relocation benefits and the CEO relocate internationally, or where BHPs DLC structure requires personal tax 10% of base salary tax assistance where returns in multiple jurisdictions.
and if applicable BHPs structure gives rise Costs associated with business-related travel for the CEOs spouse partner, including a one-off taxable to tax obligations across relocation allowance for Board meetings, may be covered.
Where these costs are deemed to be taxable multiple jurisdictions, benefits for the CEO, BHP may reimburse the CEO for these tax costs.
and a market-competitive level of benefits to attract The CEO is eligible to participate in Shareplus, BHPs all-employee share purchase plan.
and retain a high-quality A relocation allowance and assistance is provided only where a change of location and experienced CEO.
The Groups mobility policies provide one-off payments with no trailing entitlements.
STI Setting performance measures and targets Maximum award The purpose of STI is to The Committee sets a balanced scorecard of HSEC, financial and individual 240% of base salary encourage and focus the CEOs performance measures, with targets and relative weightings, at the beginning cash 120% and 120% of the financial year in order to appropriately motivate the CEO to achieve efforts on the delivery of the in deferred equity.
outperformance that contributes to the long-term sustainability of the Group Groups strategic priorities Target performance and shareholder wealth creation.
for the relevant financial year, 160% of base salary and to motivate the CEO Specific financial measures will constitute the largest weighting and are derived cash 80% and 80% to strive to achieve stretch from the annual budget as approved by the Board for the relevant financial year.
Appropriate HSEC measures and weightings are determined by the Remuneration Committee with the assistance of the Sustainability Committee.
The performance measures Threshold for each year are chosen For HSEC and for individual measures the target is ordinarily expressed in narrative performance on the basis that they are form and will be disclosed near the beginning of the performance period.
However, 80% of base salary expected to have a significant the target for each financial measure will be disclosed retrospectively.
In the rare cash 40% and 40% shortand long-term impact instances where this may not be prudent on grounds of commercial sensitivity, we in deferred equity.
on the success of the Group.
will seek to explain why and give an indication of when the target may be disclosed.
Minimum award Should any other performance measures be added at the discretion of the Committee, Deferral of a portion of STI we will determine the timing of disclosure of the relevant target with due consideration Zero.
awards in deferred equity over of commercial sensitivity.
BHP shares encourages a longer-term focus aligned Assessment of performance to that of shareholders.
At the conclusion of the financial year, the CEOs achievement against each measure is assessed by the Remuneration Committee and the Board, with guidance provided by other relevant Board Committees in respect of HSEC and other measures, and an STI award determined.
If performance is below the Threshold level for any measure, no STI will be provided in respect of that portion of the STI opportunity.
The Board believes this method of assessment is transparent, rigorous and balanced, and provides an appropriate, objective and comprehensive assessment of performance.
In the event that the Remuneration Committee does not consider the outcome that would otherwise apply to be a true reflection of the performance of the Group or should it consider that individual performance or other circumstances makes this an inappropriate outcome, it retains the discretion to not provide all or a part of any STI award.
This is an important mitigation against the risk of unintended award outcomes.
BHP Annual Report 2017 129 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information Remuneration component 1 and link to strategy Operation and performance framework Maximum Delivery of award STI awards are provided under the STIP and the value is delivered half in cash and half in an award of the equivalent value of BHP equity, which is deferred for two years and may be forfeited if the CEO leaves the Group within the deferral period.
The award of deferred equity comprises rights to receive ordinary BHP shares in the future at the end of the deferral period.
Before the awards vest or are exercised, these rights are not ordinary shares and do not carry entitlements to ordinary dividends or other shareholder rights: however, a DEP is provided on vested awards.
The Committee also has a discretion to settle STI awards in cash.
Both cash and equity STI awards are subject to malus and clawback as described below.
LTI Relative TSR performance condition Normal Maximum 2 Award The purpose of the LTI is to The LTIP award is conditional on achieving five-year relative TSR performance focus the CEOs efforts on the conditions as set out below.
Face value of 400% achievement of sustainable of base salary.
The relevant comparator group s and the weighting between relevant comparator long-term value creation and group s will be determined by the Committee in relation to each LTIP grant.
Exceptional Maximum success of the Group including 3 Award Level of performance required for vesting appropriate management Face value of 488% Vesting of the award is dependent on BHPs TSR relative to the TSR of relevant of business risks.
comparator group s over a five-year performance period.
It also encourages retention 25% of the award will vest where BHPs TSR is equal to the median TSR of the relevant through long-term share comparator group s, as measured over the performance period.
Where TSR is below exposure for the CEO over the the median, awards will not vest.
five-year performance period consistent with the long-term Vesting occurs on a sliding scale between the median TSR of the relevant comparator 4 group s up to a nominated level of TSR outperformance over the relevant nature of resources, and aligns comparator group s, as determined by the Committee, above which 100% of the the long-term interests of the award will vest.
Where the TSR performance condition is not met, there is no retesting and awards will The LTI aligns the CEOs reward lapse.
The Committee also retains discretion to lapse any portion or all of the award with sustained shareholder where it considers the vesting outcome is not appropriate given Group or individual wealth creation in excess of performance.
This is an important mitigation against the risk of unintended outcomes.
that of relevant comparator group s, through the relative Further performance measures TSR performance condition.
The Committee may add further performance conditions, in which case the vesting of a portion of any LTI award may instead be linked to performance against the new Relative TSR has been chosen as an appropriate measure as it condition s. However, the Committee expects that in the event of introducing an additional performance condition s, the weighting on relative TSR would remain the allows for an objective external majority weighting.
assessment over a sustained period on a basis that is familiar Delivery of award to shareholders.
LTI awards are provided under the LTIP approved by shareholders at the 2013 AGMs.
When considering the value of the award to be provided, the Committee primarily considers the face value of the award, and also considers its fair value which includes 5 consideration of the performance conditions.
LTI awards consist of rights to receive ordinary BHP shares in the future if the performance and service conditions are met.
Before vesting or exercise, these rights are not ordinary shares and do not carry entitlements to ordinary dividends or other shareholder rights: however, a DEP is provided on vested awards.
The Committee has a discretion to settle LTI awards in cash.
LTI awards are subject to malus and clawback as described below.
1 UK regulations require the disclosure of the maximum that may be paid in respect of each remuneration component.
Where that is expressed as a maximum annual percentage increase which is annualised it should not be interpreted that it is BHPs current intention to award an increase of that size in total in any one year, or in each year, and instead it is a maximum required to be disclosed under the regulations.
2 BHPs TSR is a weighted average of the TSRs of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc.
3 The Exceptional Maximum Award permitted under the LTIP rules is expressed as a fair value equal to 200 per cent of base salary which represents 41 per cent of face value 200 per cent divided by 41 per cent 488 per cent.
All LTI awards to the CEO will only be provided with prior approval by shareholders in the relevant AGMs.
4 The updated remuneration policy for the Executive Director contains no material changes from the previous policy with the exception of the Committees revised approach to measuring TSR outperformance when determining whether the award vests at maximum.
Maximum vesting will now be determined with reference to a position against each comparator group, instead of specifically measuring TSR relative to the weighted median TSR and index value and a fixed level of outperformance.
Consistent with this, the policy wording now describes outperformance more broadly, instead of stipulating it be measured on a per annum basis or on a compounded basis over the five-year period, as was provided for in the 2014 policy.
The Committee consulted with shareholders and shareholder groups on these changes and took their feedback into account.
5 Fair value is calculated by the Committees independent adviser and is different to fair value used for IFRS disclosures which do not take into account forfeiture conditions on the awards.
It reflects outcomes weighted by probability, taking into account the difficulty of achieving the performance conditions and the correlation between these and share price appreciation, together with other factors, including volatility and forfeiture risks.
The current fair value is 41 per cent of the face value of an award, which may change should the Committee vary elements such as adding a performance measure or altering the level of relative TSR outperformance.
4 Malus and clawback The STIP and LTIP provisions allow the Committee to reduce or clawback awards in the following circumstances: the participant acting fraudulently or dishonestly or being in material breach of their obligations to the Group: where BHP becomes aware of a material misstatement or omission in the financial statements of a Group company or the Group: or any circumstances occur that the Committee determines in good faith to have resulted in an unfair benefit to the participant.
These malus and clawback provisions apply whether or not awards are made in the form of cash or equity, and whether or not the equity has vested.
130 BHP Annual Report 2017 Remuneration Report 3.2.
5 Potential remuneration outcomes The Remuneration Committee recognises that market forces necessarily influence remuneration practices and it strongly believes the fundamental driver of remuneration outcomes should be business performance.
It also believes that overall remuneration should be both fair to the individual, such that remuneration levels accurately reflect the CEOs responsibilities and contributions, and align with the expectations of our shareholders, while considering the positioning and relativities of pay and employment conditions across the wider BHP workforce.
The amount of remuneration actually received each year depends on the achievement of superior business and individual performance 3 generating sustained shareholder value.
Before deciding on the final incentive outcomes for the CEO, the Committee first considers the achievement against the pre-determined performance conditions.
The Committee then applies its overarching discretion on the basis of what it considers to be a fair and commensurate remuneration level to decide if the outcome should be reduced.
When the CEO was appointed in May 2013, the Board advised him that the Committee would exercise its discretion on the basis of what it considered to be a fair and commensurate remuneration level to decide if the outcome should be reduced.
In this way, the Committee believes it can set a remuneration level for the CEO that is sufficient to incentivise him and that is also fair to him and commensurate with shareholder expectations and prevailing market conditions.
The diagram below provides the scenario for the potential total remuneration of the CEO at different levels of performance.
Remuneration mix for the CEO Minimum 100% 2,215 Target 29% 35% 36% 7,723 Maximum 17% 31% 52% 13,095 0 1,000 2,000 3,000 4,000 5,000 6,000 7,000 8,000 9,000 10,000 11,000 12,000 13,000 14,000 Total remuneration US$000 Fixed remuneration STI LTI Minimum: consists of fixed remuneration, which comprises base salary US$1.700 million, pension contributions 25 per cent of base salary and other benefits US$0.090 million.
Target: consists of fixed remuneration, target STI 160 per cent of base salary and target LTI.
The LTI target value is based on the fair value of the award, which is 41 per cent of the face value of 400 per cent of base salary.
The potential impact of future share price movements is not included in the value of deferred STI awards or LTI awards.
Maximum: consists of fixed remuneration, maximum STI 240 per cent of base salary, and maximum LTI face value of 400 per cent of base salary.
This is lower than the maximum permissible award size under the plan rules.
The maximum opportunity represented above is the most that could potentially be paid of each remuneration component, as required by UK regulations.
It does not reflect any intention by the Group to award that amount.
The Remuneration Committee reviews relevant benchmarking data and industry practices, and believes the maximum remuneration opportunity is appropriate and in line with our remuneration principles.
6 Approach to recruitment and promotion remuneration The remuneration policy as set out in section 3.2 of this Report will apply to the remuneration arrangements for a newly recruited or promoted CEO, or for another Executive Director should one be appointed.
A market-competitive level of remuneration comprising base salary, pension contributions, benefits, STI and LTI will be provided.
Having considered views expressed by shareholders, the Committee has determined it will review the maximum pension contributions for any newly recruited or promoted CEO, or for another Executive Director should one be appointed, based on market practice at the time.
The same maximum STI and LTI opportunity will continue to apply as detailed in the remuneration policy.
For external appointments, the Remuneration Committee may determine that it is appropriate to provide additional cash and or equity components to replace any remuneration forfeited from a former employer.
It is anticipated that any foregone equity awards would be replaced by equity.
The value of the replacement remuneration would not be any greater than the fair value of the awards forgone as determined by the Committees independent adviser.
The Committee would determine appropriate service conditions and performance conditions within BHPs framework, taking into account the conditions attached to the forgone awards.
The Committee is mindful of limiting such payments and not providing any more compensation than is necessary.
For any internal CEO or another Executive Director appointment, any entitlements provided under former arrangements will be honoured according to their existing terms.
BHP Annual Report 2017 131 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information 3.2.
7 Service contracts and policy on loss of office The terms of employment for the CEO are formalised in his employment contract.
Key terms of the current contract and relevant payments on loss of office are shown below.
If a new CEO or another Executive Director was appointed, similar contractual terms would apply, other than where the Remuneration Committee determines that different terms should apply for reasons specific to the individual.
The CEOs current contract has no fixed term.
It can be terminated by BHP on 12 months notice.
BHP can terminate the contract immediately by paying base salary plus pension contributions for the notice period.
The CEO must give six months notice for voluntary resignation.
The table below sets out the basis on which payments on loss of office may be made.
1 2 Leaving reason Death, serious injury, illness, disability or total and permanent Cessation of employment 3 Voluntary resignation Termination for cause disablement as agreed with the Board Base salary Paid as a lump sum No payment will be made.
Paid for a period of up to Paid as a lump sum for the for the notice period four months, after which notice period or progressively or progressively over time employment may cease.
Pension Paid as a lump sum No contributions will Paid for a period of up to Paid as a lump sum for the contributions for the notice period be provided.
four months, after which notice period or progressively or progressively over time employment may cease.
Benefits May continue to be provided No benefits will be provided.
May continue to be provided May continue to be provided for during the notice period.
year in which employment ceases.
Accumulated annual Accumulated annual leave leave entitlements and Accumulated annual leave Accumulated annual leave entitlements and any any statutory payments entitlements and any entitlements and any statutory statutory payments will will be paid.
statutory payments will payments will be paid.
May pay repatriation May pay repatriation expenses May pay repatriation expenses to the home May pay repatriation to the home location where expenses to the home location where a relocation expenses to the home a relocation was at the request location where a relocation was at the request of BHP.
location where a relocation of BHP.
Any unvested Shareplus Any unvested Shareplus Matched Any unvested Shareplus Matched Shares held Any unvested Shareplus Shares held will vest in full.
Matched Shares held will lapse.
Matched Shares held will will lapse.
STI cash and No cash STI will be paid.
The Committee has discretion The Committee has discretion deferred equity to pay and or award an to pay and or award an amount Unvested STIP will lapse.
amount in respect of the in respect of the CEOs Where CEO leaves Vested but unexercised STIP Vested but unexercised STIP CEOs performance for performance for that year.
either during or will remain exercisable for will remain exercisable for that year.
after the end of Unvested STIP continue to be the remaining exercise the remaining exercise the financial year, Unvested STIP will vest in held on the existing terms for period unless the Committee period unless the Committee but before an full and, where applicable the deferral period before vesting determines they will lapse.
subject to Committee discretion to lapse some or all of the award.
Vested but unexercised STIP will remain exercisable for the Vested but unexercised STIP remaining exercise period.
remain exercisable for the remaining exercise period, or a reduced period, or may lapse, as determined by the Committee.
Unvested and vested but unexercised awards remain subject to malus and clawback.
LTI unvested Unvested awards will lapse.
Unvested awards will vest A pro-rata portion of unvested and vested but in full.
awards based on the proportion Vested but unexercised Vested but unexercised unexercised awards of the performance period awards will remain awards will remain Vested but unexercised served will continue to be held exercisable for the exercisable for the awards will remain subject to the LTIP rules and remaining exercise remaining exercise exercisable for remaining terms of grant.
The balance period, or for a reduced period, or for a reduced exercise period.
period, or may lapse, period, or may lapse, as determined by as determined by Vested but unexercised awards the Committee.
will remain exercisable for the remaining exercise period, or for a reduced period, or may lapse, as determined by the Committee.
1 If the Committee deems it necessary, BHP may enter into agreements with a CEO, which may include the settlement of liabilities in return for payment s, including reimbursement of legal fees subject to appropriate conditions: or to enter into new arrangements with the departing CEO for example, entering into consultancy arrangements.
2 In the event of a change in control event for example, takeover, compromise or arrangement, winding up of the Group as defined in the STIP and LTIP rules: base salary, pension contributions and benefits will be paid until the date of the change of control event: the Committee may determine that a cash payment be made in respect of performance during the current financial year and all unvested STI equity awards would vest in full: the Committee may determine that unvested LTI awards will either i be pro-rated based on the proportion of the performance period served up to the date of the change of control event and vest to the extent the Committee determines appropriate with reference to performance against the performance condition up to the date of the change of control event and expectations regarding future performance or ii be lapsed if the Committee determines the holders will participate in an acceptable alternative employee equity plan as a term of the change of control event.
3 Defined as occurring when a participant leaves BHP due to forced early retirement, retrenchment or redundancy, termination by mutual agreement or retirement with the agreement of the Group, or such other circumstances that do not constitute resignation or termination for cause.
132 BHP Annual Report 2017 Remuneration Report Remuneration policy for Non-executive Directors Our Non-executive Directors are paid in line with the UK Corporate Governance Code April 2016 and the ASX Corporate Governance Councils Principles and Recommendations 3rd Edition.
8 Components of remuneration 3 The following table shows the components of total remuneration, the link to strategy, the applicable operation and performance frameworks, and the maximum opportunity for each component.
Remuneration component 1 and link to strategy Operation and performance framework Maximum 2 Fees The Chairman is paid a single fee for all responsibilities.
8% increase per annum annualised, or inflation if higher in the location Non-executive Directors are paid a base fee and relevant committee Competitive base fees are in which duties are primarily paid in order to attract and membership fees.
performed, on a per fee basis.
retain high-quality individuals, Committee Chairmen and the Senior Independent Director are paid and to provide appropriate an additional fee to reflect their extra responsibilities.
remuneration for the All fee levels are reviewed annually and any changes are effective role undertaken.
Committee fees are provided Fees are set at a competitive level based on benchmarks and advice to recognise the additional provided by external advisers.
Fee levels reflect the size and complexity responsibilities, time and of the Group, the multi-jurisdictional environment arising from the DLC commitment required.
structure, the multiple stock exchange listings and the geographies in which the Group operates.
The economic environment and the financial performance of the Group are taken into account.
Consideration is also given to salary reviews across the rest of the Group.
Where the payment of pension contributions is required by law, these contributions are deducted from the Directors overall fee entitlements.
2 Benefits Travel allowances are paid on a per-trip basis reflecting the considerable 8% increase per annum annualised, travel burden imposed on members of the Board as a consequence of the or inflation if higher in the location Competitive benefits are paid global nature of the organisation and apply when a Director needs to travel in which duties are primarily in order to attract and retain internationally to attend a Board meeting or site visits at our multiple performed, on a per-trip basis.
high-quality individuals and geographic locations.
adequately remunerate them for the role undertaken, including the considerable travel burden.
As a consequence of the DLC structure, Non-executive Directors are Up to a limit not exceeding 20% required to prepare personal tax returns in both Australia and the UK, of fees.
regardless of whether they reside in one or neither of those countries.
They are accordingly reimbursed for the costs of personal tax return preparation in whichever of the UK and or Australia is not their place of residence including payment of the tax cost associated with the provision of the benefit.
STI and LTI Non-executive Directors are not eligible to participate in any STI or LTI arrangements.
Payments on early termination There are no provisions in any of the Non-executive Directors appointment arrangements for compensation payable on early termination of their directorship.
2 The updated remuneration policy for Non-executive Directors contains no material changes from the previous policy with the exception of the inclusion of pension contributions in total fees and the removal of the spouse partner travel benefit.
Approach to recruitment remuneration The ongoing remuneration arrangements for a newly recruited Non-executive Director will reflect the remuneration policy in place for other Non-executive Directors, comprising fees and benefits as set out in the table above.
No variable remuneration STI and LTI will be provided to newly recruited Non-executive Directors.
Letters of appointment and policy on loss of office The standard letter of appointment for Non-executive Directors is available on our website.
The Board has adopted a policy consistent with the UK Corporate Governance Code, under which all Non-executive Directors must seek re-election by shareholders annually if they wish to remain on the Board.
As such, no Non-executive Directors seeking re-election have an unexpired term in their letter of appointment.
A Non-executive Director may resign on reasonable notice.
No payments are made to Non-executive Directors on loss of office.
BHP Annual Report 2017 133 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information 3.3 Annual report on remuneration This section of the Report shows the impact of the remuneration policy in FY2017 and how remuneration outcomes are linked to actual performance.
Remuneration outcomes for the Executive Director the CEO 3.3.
1 Single total figure of remuneration This section shows a single total figure of remuneration as prescribed under UK requirements.
It is a measure of actual remuneration, rather than a figure calculated in accordance with IFRS which is detailed in section 5.1.
The components of remuneration are detailed in the remuneration policy table in section 3.2.
1 2 US$ 000 Base salary Benefits STI LTI Pension Total Andrew Mackenzie FY2017 1,700 90 2,339 0 425 4,554 FY2016 1,700 116 0 0 425 2,241 1 Includes private family health insurance, spouse business-related travel and personal tax return preparation in required countries provided during FY2017.
2 Provided half in cash and half in deferred equity on the terms set out in section 3.2.
3 as shown in the table below.
For the CEO, the single total figure of remuneration is calculated on the same basis as at his appointment in 2013.
There have been no changes to his base salary, benefit entitlements or pension since that date.
Changes from prior year outcomes of STI and LTI are set out below.
FY2017 FY2016 STI STI awarded for FY2017 performance.
Half was provided in cash in September Zero STI was awarded for FY2016 performance.
2017, and half deferred in an equity award which is due to vest in FY2020.
LTI Based on performance during the five-year period to 30 June 2017, all of Based on performance during the five-year period to 30 June 2016, Andrew Mackenzies 151,609 awards from the 2012 LTIP did not vest and have all of Andrew Mackenzies 158,290 awards from the 2011 LTIP did not lapsed.
The value of the awards is zero and no DEP has been paid in respect vest and have lapsed.
The value of the awards is zero and no DEP has of these awards.
been paid in respect of these awards.
2 FY2017 STI performance outcomes The Board and Remuneration Committee have reviewed the CEOs STI outcome in light of the Groups performance in FY2017, taking into account the CEOs performance against the KPIs in his STI scorecard.
The Board and Committee determined that the STI outcome for the CEO for FY2017 is 86 per cent, and believe this outcome is appropriately aligned with the shareholder experience and the interests of the Groups other stakeholders.
The CEOs STI scorecard outcomes for FY2017 are summarised in the following tables, including a narrative description of each performance measure and the CEOs level of achievement, as determined by the Remuneration Committee.
The level of performance for each measure is determined based on a range of threshold the minimum necessary to qualify for any reward outcome, target where the performance requirements are met, and stretch where the performance requirements are significantly exceeded.
Performance for FY2017 Outcomes Weighting Percentage STI Performance measure for FY2017 Threshold Target Stretch outcome US$ 000 HSEC 25% 16% 435 UAP 45% 35% 952 Individual measures 30% 35% 952 Total 100% 86% 2,339 HSEC The HSEC targets for the CEO are aligned to the Groups suite of HSEC five-year public targets as set out in BHPs Sustainability Report.
As it has done for several years, the Remuneration Committee seeks guidance each year from the Sustainability Committee when assessing HSEC performance against scorecard targets.
The Remuneration Committee has taken a holistic view of Group performance in critical areas, including any matters outside the scorecard targets which the Sustainability Committee considers relevant.
The performance commentary below is provided against the scorecard targets, which were set on the basis of operated assets only.
HSEC Scorecard Targets Performance against Scorecard Targets Fatalities, environmental and community incidents: Fatalities, environmental and community incidents: Tragically, we lost one of our colleagues Nil fatalities and nil actual significant environmental and in October 2016 at Escondida and this is without question an unacceptable outcome.
As a community incidents at operated assets.
Year-on-year Company, we need to continue to build our focus on safety and fatality prevention through improvement in trends for events with potential for leadership, verification and effective risk management.
This was evidenced through a further such outcomes.
fatality at our Queensland Coal operations in August 2017, which will impact on the STI determinations for FY2018.
No significant environment or community incidents occurred TRIF and occupational illness: Improved performance during FY2017.
compared with FY2016 results, with severity and trends to be considered as a moderating influence on the overall TRIF and occupational illness: Our TRIF performance in FY2017 of 4.2 has improved by HSEC assessment.
2% across BHP as a whole compared with 4.3 for FY2016.
We have continued to significantly reduce the number of high potential injury events and we have recorded positive outcomes Risk management: For all material risks, operated assets on the numbers of occupational illnesses being experienced.
to have all critical control execution and critical control verification tasks evaluated and recorded with controls Risk management: All operated assets completed reviews of critical control execution and in place as part of Field Leadership activities.
Year-on-year verification tasks for all material HSEC risks and met targets for critical control execution and improvement in trends for potential events associated with critical control verification tasks.
Health, environment and community initiatives: Greenhouse gas reduction targets set at the Health, environment and community initiatives: All assets commencement of the year were exceeded at all operated assets.
Water management projects to achieve 100% of planned targets in respect of were completed consistent with the achievement of targets in all assets.
All occupational occupational exposure reduction, water and greenhouse exposure and community targets were also achieved by the assets.
gas, social investment, quality of life, community perceptions and community complaints.
The outcome against the HSEC KPI for FY2017 was 16 per cent against the target of 25 per cent.
134 BHP Annual Report 2017 Remuneration Report Underlying attributable profit UAP is the profit after taxation attributable to members of the Group, excluding Discontinued operations and exceptional items see section 1.12.5 for a more detailed explanation of UAP.
UAP is the key KPI against which STI outcomes for our senior executives are measured and is, in our view, the most relevant measure to assess the financial performance of the Group for this purpose.
At the commencement of the financial year when the target is approved, attributable profit is usually equal to UAP as there are usually no exceptional items.
During the assessment of managements performance, adjustments to the UAP result are made to allow for changes in commodity prices, foreign exchange movements and other material items to ensure the assessment appropriately measures outcomes that are within the 3 control and influence of the Group and its executives.
Of these, changes in commodity prices has historically been the most material due to volatility in prices and the impact on Group revenue.
However, the Remuneration Committee still reviews each exceptional item to assess if it should be included in the result for the purposes of deriving the UAP STI outcome.
Financial Scorecard Targets Performance against Scorecard Targets In respect of FY2017, the Board determined a Target for UAP of US$6.7 billion was reported by BHP for FY2017.
Adjusted for the factors outlined UAP of US$2.2 billion, with a Threshold of US$1.1 billion below, UAP is US$1.7 billion, which is between Threshold and Target as determined by the and a Stretch of US$2.8 billion.
The following adjustments were made to ensure the outcomes appropriately reflect the performance of management for the year: The Target UAP is based on the Groups approved annual Adjustments for movements in prices of commodities and exchange rates for operated budget.
It is the Groups practice to build a material element asset reduced UAP by US$4.6 billion.
of stretch performance into the budget, to include a high level of operational integrity with assets typically assumed Adjustments for other material items ordinarily made to ensure the outcomes reflect the to run at full design capacity, and to not make allowance for performance of management for the year reduced UAP by US$0.2 billion, mainly due to the material unforeseen downside events.
Achievement of this exclusion of the commodity price impacts on non-controlled equity accounted investments stretching UAP budget will result in a target STI outcome.
and the profit on the sale of Scarborough gas field, partly offset by the exclusion of the The Threshold and Stretch are a fair range of UAP outcomes impacts of Cyclone Debbie in Queensland on third party service providers.
which represent a lower limit of underperformance below Having reviewed all FY2017 exceptional items as described in section 5.1.
6 note 2, which no STI award should be made, and an upper limit the Committee determined that the exceptional item for idle capacity costs in relation of outperformance which would represent the maximum to the Escondida industrial action should be considered for the purposes of determining STI award.
the UAP STI outcome, thus ensuring the full negative financial impact of the Escondida industrial action was taken into account.
This adjustment reduced UAP by US$0.2 billion.
For the reasons set out above, the performance range around Target is subject to a greater level of downside risk The key driver of the UAP performance being below Target at US$1.7 billion was the full financial than there is upside opportunity, and accordingly, the range impact of the industrial action at Escondida.
Other factors impacting UAP during FY2017 between Threshold and Target is greater than that between included variable production performance across the different operated assets, with overall Target and Stretch.
For Stretch, the Committee takes care volumes below expectations, mainly in iron ore, copper and coal.
Cost performance, excluding not to create leveraged incentives that encourage executives the impact of exchange rates, was generally aligned with the targets set for the Group at the to push for short-term performance that goes beyond our commencement of the year.
risk appetite and current operational capacity.
Using the mid-point of the Threshold and Stretch range as Target would provide a symmetrical distribution: however, this would not provide sufficient stretch for management to achieve a target STI outcome.
The Committee retains, and has a track record of applying, downward discretion to ensure that the STI outcome is appropriately aligned with the overall performance of the Group for the year, and is fair to management and shareholders.
The outcome against the UAP KPI for FY2017 was 35 per cent against the target of 45 per cent.
Individual performance measures for the CEO Individual measures for the CEO are determined at the commencement of the financial year.
The application of personal, qualitative measures remains an important element of effective performance management.
These measures seek to provide a balance between the financial and non-financial performance requirements that maintain our position as a leader in our industry.
The CEOs individual measures for FY2017 included contribution to BHPs overall performance and the management team, and also the delivery of projects and initiatives within the scope of the CEO role as specified by the Board, as set out in the table below.
Measures Individual Scorecard Targets Performance against Scorecard Targets Strategy Strategy implementation.
Significant portfolio review work undertaken during the year and progressed with the Board.
Execution of growth aspirations as communicated externally.
Strategic initiatives on track, including US Onshore Hedging: Mad Dog 2 and Spence: and Olympic Dam expansion advanced.
Delivery of latent capacity enhancement projects.
BHPs value increased consistent with the plan outlined in 2016, driven not only by commodity price appreciation, but also by management actions on productivity refer also further below and other strategic initiatives.
Latent capacity projects on track to meet expected milestones and benefits.
Productivity Delivery of productivity initiatives.
Productivity gains of US$1.3 billion were achieved during FY2017, taking to US$12 billion the annualised productivity gains accumulated over the past five years.
Basis for further productivity gains through the Maintenance Centre of Excellence, globalised supply function and integrated leadership for General Managers.
Sustainability Positive progress on the Samarco Samarco Foundation activity and spend has met the defined schedule.
Strong representation on key issues such as inclusion and diversity, transparency, Enhanced reputation of BHP.
Shareholder engagement strengthened through close communication, regular updates and relationship building.
People and culture Achievement of culture initiatives improvement Year-on-year improvement in workforce leadership capabilities, employee in Company-wide leadership capabilities, engagement and the inclusion index, as measured by the annual employee employee engagement, diversity and inclusion.
OMC member development and succession.
Strong leadership on inclusion and diversity, with the announcement of, and significant progress on, the goal to increase female representation in the workforce globally.
Continued focus on development of a strong long-term talent pool of candidates for Asset President and OMC roles, including additional coaching and development opportunities.
It was considered that the performance of the CEO against the personal measures KPI has been strong and warranted an outcome for FY2017 of 35 per cent against the target of 30 per cent.
BHP Annual Report 2017 135 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information 3.3.
4 LTI performance outcomes LTI allocated during FY2017 LTI vesting based on performance to June 2017 Following shareholder approval at the 2016 AGMs, an LTI award in the form of performance rights was granted to the CEO on The five-year performance period for the 2012 LTIP ended on 9 December 2016.
The face value and fair value of the award are 30 June 2017.
The CEOs 2012 LTI comprised 151,609 awards shown in the table below.
inclusive of an uplift of 11,283 awards due to the demerger of South32, subject to achievement of the relative TSR The face value of the award is ordinarily determined as 400 per cent performance conditions and any discretion applied by the of the CEOs base salary of US$1.700 million.
The fair value of Remuneration Committee.
the award is ordinarily calculated by multiplying the face value of the award by the fair value factor of 41 per cent for the current Testing the performance condition plan design, as determined by the independent adviser to the For the award to vest in full, TSR must exceed the Peer Group Committee.
The number of LTI awards is determined using the TSR for 67 per cent of the award and the Index TSR for 33 per cent share price and US$ A$ exchange rate over the 12 months up of the award by an average of 5.5 per cent per year for five years, to and including the prior 30 June.
Using a 12-month average share being 30.7 per cent in total compounded over the performance price of A$20.3326 and a 12-month average US$ A$ exchange period from 1 July 2012 to 30 June 2017.
TSR includes returns rate of 0.728415 each up to and including 30 June 2016, the to BHP shareholders in the form of share price movements along number of LTI awards derived from a grant of 400 per cent of base with dividends paid and reinvested in BHP including cash and salary with a face value of US$6.800 million was 459,190 LTI awards.
However, in light of the recent history of BHPs share price, the BHPs TSR performance was negative 32.0 per cent over the Board was conscious of shareholder expectations in this respect five-year period from 1 July 2012 to 30 June 2017.
This is below the and on advice from the Committee instead granted 339,753 LTI weighted median Peer Group TSR of negative 23.3 per cent and awards to the CEO in FY2017: the same number that was granted below the Index TSR of positive 69.0 per cent over the same period.
to the CEO in December 2015 and 26 per cent lower than the This level of performance results in zero vesting for the 2012 LTIP 459,190 LTI awards determined formulaically as described.
The face awards, and accordingly all of the CEOs awards have lapsed.
value of 339,753 LTI awards was US$5.032 million compared with No compensation or DEP was paid in relation to the lapsed awards.
the normal maximum face value of US$6.800 million, a reduction The graph below shows BHPs performance relative to of US$1.768 million, or 26 per cent.
Number of LTI Facevalue Facevalue Fairvalue Fairvalue %of 1 awards US$ 000 %ofsalary US$ 000 %ofsalary max BHP vs.
Peer Group and Index TSR 339,753 5,032 296 2,063 121 61 TSR since 1 July 2012, % three-month average 1 The allocation is 61 per cent of the maximum award that may be provided under the LTIP rules.
The maximum is a fair value of 200 per cent of base salary or 80 BHP face value of 488 per cent of base salary, based on the fair value of 41 per cent Peer Group for the current plan design 488 per cent x 41 per cent 200 per cent.
60 Index MSCI Terms of the LTI award 40 In addition to those LTI terms set in the remuneration policy for the CEO, the Remuneration Committee has determined: 20 Performance 1 July 2016 to 30 June 2021.
0 period Performance An averaging period of six months will be used in the -20 conditions TSR calculations.
BHPs TSR relative to the weighted median TSR of sector -40 peer companies selected by the Committee Peer Group TSR and the MSCI World index Index TSR will determine the vesting of 67% and 33% of the award, respectively.
-60 Each company in the peer group is weighted by market capitalisation.
The maximum weighting for any one -80 company is 20% and the minimum is set at 1% to reduce June 12 June 13 June 14 June 15 June 16 June 17 sensitivity to any single peer company.
Years ended 30 June For the whole of either portion of the award to vest, BHPs TSR must exceed the Peer Group TSR or the Index TSR as applicable by an average of 5.5% per annum.
Threshold vesting 25% of each portion of the award occurs where BHPs TSR equals the Peer Group TSR or the Index TSR as applicable.
Overarching discretion Sector peer Resources 75% : Anglo American, CONSOL The rules of the LTIP and the terms and conditions of the award group Energy and Fortescue Metals from December 2013, give the Committee an overarching discretion to reduce the 1 2 3 companies Freeport-McMoRan, Glencore, Rio Tinto, Southern number of awards that will vest, notwithstanding the fact that Copper, Teck Resources, Vale.
the performance condition for partial or full vesting, as tested Oil and Gas 25% : Apache, BP, Devon Energy, ExxonMobil, Royal Dutch Shell, Woodside Petroleum, following the end of the performance period, has been met.
and from December 2013, Anadarko Petroleum, This qualitative judgement, which is applied before final vesting Canadian Natural Res.
Chevron, ConocoPhillips, is confirmed, is an important risk management aspect to ensure EOG Resources, Occidental Petroleum.
that vesting is not simply driven by a formula that may give 1 From December 2016, BG Group and Peabody Energy have both been removed unexpected or unintended remuneration outcomes.
The Committee from the comparator group.
BG Group was acquired by Royal Dutch Shell and considers its discretion carefully each year.
It considers performance Peabody Energy has become a significantly less comparable peer.
2 From December 2015, Alcoa, Cameco and MMC Norilsk Nickel were removed holistically over the five-year period, including a five-year view from the sector peer group following the demerger of South32 as they were on HSEC statistics, profitability, cash flow, balance sheet health, less relevant comparator companies.
returns to shareholders, production volumes and unit costs.
3 Glencore Xstrata replaced Xstrata in the peer group for December 2010 to December 2012 awards after the merger of Glencore and Xstrata in May 2013.
The Committee believes this is the most appropriate process Glencore Xstrata was included in its own right for grants made from December of measurement for the LTI performance condition.
2013 onwards and was renamed Glencore in May 2014.
As the formulaic outcome of the 2012 LTIP was a zero vesting, there is no discretion available to the Remuneration Committee, as the overarching discretion may only reduce the number of awards that may vest.
136 BHP Annual Report 2017 Remuneration Report 3.3.
5 CEO remuneration and returns to shareholders Eight-year CEO remuneration The table below shows the total remuneration earned by Andrew Mackenzie and Marius Kloppers over the last eight years along with the proportion of maximum opportunity earned for each type of incentive.
1 Financial year FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 3 Andrew Mackenzie Total single figure remuneration, US$ 000 2,468 7,988 4,582 2,241 4,554 STI % of maximum 47 77 57 0 57 LTI % of maximum 65 58 0 0 0 Marius Kloppers Total single figure remuneration, US$ 000 14,789 15,755 16,092 15,991 STI % of maximum 71 69 0 47 LTI % of maximum 100 100 100 65 1 As Mr Mackenzie assumed the role of CEO in May 2013, the FY2013 total remuneration shown relates only to the period 10 May to 30 June 2013.
The FY2013 total remuneration for Mr Kloppers relates only to the period 1 July 2012 to 10 May 2013.
Eight-year TSR The graph below shows BHPs TSR against the performance of relevant indices over the same eight-year period.
The indices shown in the graph were chosen as being broad market indices, which include companies of a comparable size and complexity to BHP.
Value of US$100 invested over the eight-year period to 30 June 2017 with dividends reinvested Value of investment US$ $250 BHP Billiton Limited BHP Billiton Plc FTSE 100 $200 ASX 100 $150 $100 $50 $0 June 09 June 10 June 11 June 12 June 13 June 14 June 15 June 16 June 17 Years ended 30 June 3.3.
6 Changes in the CEOs remuneration in FY2017 The table below sets out the CEOs base salary, benefits and STI amounts earned in respect of FY2017, with the percentage change from FY2016.
The table also shows the average change in each element for current employees in Australia being approximately 16,000 employees during FY2017.
This has been chosen by the Committee as the most appropriate comparison, as the CEO is located in Australia.
Base salary Benefits STI CEO US$ 000 1,700 90 2,339 % change 0.0 22.4 n a Australian employees % change average 0.9 26.4 66.7 The ratio of the total remuneration of the CEO to the median total remuneration of all BHP employees for FY2017 was 38:1 2016: 19:1 with the increase in FY2017 over FY2016 mainly due to the CEO having earned an STI in FY2017, whereas FY2016 was zero.
BHP Annual Report 2017 137 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information 3.3.
7 Remuneration for the CEO in FY2018 The remuneration for the CEO in FY2018 will be set in accordance with the remuneration policy approved by shareholders at the AGMs in October and November 2017.
Base salary increase in September 2017 Base salary is reviewed annually and increases are applicable from 1 September.
The CEO will not receive a base salary increase in September 2017 and it will remain unchanged at US$1.700 million per annum for FY2018.
FY2018 STI performance measures For FY2018, the Remuneration Committee has set the following STI scorecard performance measures: Performance measure Weighting Target performance HSEC 25% Fatalities, environmental and community incidents: Nil fatalities and nil actual significant environmental and community incidents.
Year-on-year improvement in trends for events with potential for such outcomes.
TRIF and occupational illness: Improved performance compared with FY2017 results, with severity and trends to be considered as a moderating influence on the overall HSEC assessment.
Risk management: Operated assets to have identified risks with material safety impacts, evaluated and recorded these risks in a system with controls in place and verified as part of Field Leadership activities.
Achieve 88% compliance for Critical Control Verification and Execution tasks.
Health, environment and community initiatives: All operated assets to achieve 100% of planned targets in respect of occupational exposure reduction, water and greenhouse gas, social investment, quality of life, community perceptions and community complaints.
UAP 45% UAP is profit after taxation attributable to members of the BHP Group, excluding Discontinued operations and exceptional items.
When we are assessing managements performance, we make adjustments to the UAP result to allow for changes in commodity prices, foreign exchange movements and other material items to ensure the assessment appropriately measures outcomes that are within the control and influence of the Group and its executives.
For reasons of commercial sensitivity, the target for UAP will not be disclosed in advance: however, we plan to disclose targets and outcomes retrospectively in our next Remuneration Report, following the end of each performance year.
In the rare instances where this may not be prudent on grounds of commercial sensitivity, we will explain why and give an indication of when they will be disclosed.
Individual performance 30% The CEOs individual measures for FY2018 comprise contribution to BHPs overall performance and the management team and the delivery of projects and initiatives within the scope of the CEO role as set out by the Board, including strategy implementation, execution of growth options as communicated externally, continued enhancement of BHPs reputation, achievement of culture initiatives improvement in Group-wide leadership capabilities, employee engagement, diversity and inclusion, delivery of productivity initiatives, delivery of latent capacity enhancement projects, and OMC member development and succession.
FY2018 LTI award The normal maximum face value of the CEOs award is US$6.800 million, being 400 per cent of the CEOs base salary.
The number of LTI awards in FY2018 has been determined using the share price and US$ A$ exchange rate over the 12 months up to and including 30 June 2017.
Based on this, a grant of 385,075 LTI awards is proposed.
The FY2018 LTI award will use the same performance, service conditions and peer groups as the FY2017 LTI award, except that for all of the award to vest, BHPs TSR must be at or exceed the weighted 80th percentile of the Peer Group TSR or the Index TSR as applicable.
Threshold vesting of each portion of the award is unchanged and occurs where BHPs TSR equals the weighted Peer Group TSR or Index TSR as applicable.
This new approach to maximum vesting moves from a set percentage TSR target for outperformance to a target that considers a percentile ranking of TSR outcomes.
Analysis using previous LTIP awards confirms that the new vesting schedule is no less stretching.
The Committee consulted with shareholders and shareholder groups on these changes, and took their feedback into account.
Approval for the proposed FY2018 LTI grant of 385,075 LTI awards will be sought from shareholders at the 2017 AGMs.
If approved, the award will be granted following the AGMs i. e. in or around December 2017.
138 BHP Annual Report 2017 Remuneration Report Remuneration for members of the OMC other than the CEO The information in this section contains details of the remuneration policy that guided the Remuneration Committees decisions and resulted in the remuneration outcomes for members of the OMC other than the CEO.
The remuneration policy and structures for the members of the OMC are essentially the same as those already described for the CEO in previous sections of the Remuneration Report, including the treatment of remuneration on loss of office as detailed in section 3.2.
8 Components of remuneration The components of remuneration for members of the OMC are the same as for the CEO, with any differences described below.
STI STI performance measures for members of the OMC are similar to those of the CEO: however, the weighting of each performance measure will vary to reflect the focus required from each OMC role.
Individual performance measures are determined at the start of the financial year.
These include the OMC members contribution to the delivery of projects and initiatives within the scope of their role and the overall performance of the Group.
Individual performance of OMC members was reviewed against these measures by the Committee and, on average, was considered ahead of target.
The diagram below represents the STI outcomes against the original scorecard.
FY2017 performance measures and outcomes Weightings Performance for FY2017 OMC members with Region Other OMC Performance measure responsibility members Threshold Target Stretch HSEC Group 12.5% 25% Region 12.5% 0% UAP adjusted for commodity prices and 22.5% 45% foreign exchange movements Underlying EBITDA adjusted for commodity 22.5% 0% prices and foreign exchange movements Individual performance measures 30% 30% BHP Group Minerals Australia Minerals Americas Petroleum LTI The Committee considered the following information: LTI awards granted to members of the OMC generally have our relative TSR performance was below the weighted median a maximum face value of 350 per cent of base salary, which is of our peers over the relevant periods: a fair value of 143.5 per cent of base salary under the current Group performance to which Mr Beaven and Mr Malchuk plan design with a fair value of 41 per cent, taking into account contributed effectively has been largely in line with expectations, the performance condition: 350 per cent x 41 per cent with positive performance across a range of factors within 143.5 per cent.
The exception is for Athalie Williams, for whom managements control, most notably production, costs and capital the maximum face value is 300 per cent of base salary or a fair expenditure across all years and safety performance in FY2014, value of 123 per cent of base salary.
being offset by the five fatalities in FY2015, one fatality in FY2017, and the tragic events at Samarco and the commodity price Transitional OMC awards related impacts in FY2016: Transitional OMC awards were granted to new OMC members the CEOs view that Mr Beaven and Mr Malchuk had performed recruited from within BHP to bridge the gap created by the well in their respective roles.
different timeframes of BHPs long-term incentive program The Committee exercised its discretion and determined to reduce for OMC members LTIP and for senior management MAP.
vesting by 31 per cent for each award, as set out in the table below.
Peter Beaven and Daniel Malchuk were holding Transitional OMC The awards which did not vest lapsed.
awards, as set out in the adjacent table, with a service condition to 30 June 2017.
As the service condition was satisfied, the OMC Awards Maximum Actual Awards member Period held vesting vesting vesting Committee then assessed if the performance condition has been met and whether any, all or part of the award will vest.
In making Peter 1 July 2013 to that assessment, the Committee considers but is not limited to Beaven 30 June 2017 19,641 100% 69% 13,552 BHPs TSR over the relevant performance period, the participants Daniel 1 July 2013 to contribution to Group outcomes and the participants personal Malchuk 30 June 2017 16,695 100% 69% 11,520 performance with guidance on this assessment from the CEO.
At the time of grant, the target was 80 per cent vesting of awards Equity awards provided for pre-OMC service granted, with a maximum of 100 per cent and a minimum of zero.
Members of the OMC who were promoted from executive roles within BHP may hold GSTIP and MAP awards that were granted to them in respect of their service in non-OMC roles.
Members of the OMC are eligible to participate in Shareplus.
For administrative simplicity, members of the OMC, including the CEO, do not currently participate in Shareplus.
No member of the OMC, including the CEO, had any holdings under the Shareplus program during FY2017 while a KMP.
BHP Annual Report 2017 139 Base salary Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information 3.3.
9 Remuneration mix A significant portion of OMC remuneration is at-risk, in order to provide strong alignment between remuneration outcomes and the interests of BHP shareholders.
The diagram below sets out the relative mix of each remuneration component for other members of the OMC.
Each component is determined as a percentage of base salary at the minimum, target and maximum levels of performance-based remuneration.
Remuneration mix for other OMC members The percentage numbers in the bars represent the percentage of base salary Minimum Base salary 25% 10% Target Base salary 25% 10% 80% 80% 143% Maximum 25% 10% 120% 120% 350% 0 10% 20% 30% 40% 50% 60% 70% 80% 90% 100% % share of total remuneration 1 3 4 Base salary Other benefits Deferred STI 2 4 5 Retirement benefits Cash STI LTI 1 Base salary earned by each member of the OMC is set out in section 3.3.
2 Retirement benefits are 25 per cent of base salary.
3 Other benefits is based on a notional 10 per cent of base salary.
4 As for the CEO, the minimum STI award is zero, with an award of 80 per cent of base salary in cash and 80 per cent of salary in deferred equity for target performance, and a maximum award of 120 per cent cash and 120 per cent deferred equity for exceptional performance against KPIs.
5 Other members of the OMC have a maximum LTI award with a face value of 350 per cent of base salary as shown in the chart, with the exception of Athalie Williams, who has a maximum LTI award with a face value of 300 per cent of base salary.
10 Employment contracts The terms of employment for members of the OMC are formalised in employment contracts, which have no fixed term.
They typically outline the components of remuneration paid to the individual, but do not prescribe how remuneration levels are to be modified from year-to-year.
An OMC employment contract may be terminated by BHP on up to 12 months notice or can be terminated immediately by BHP making a payment of up to 12 months base salary plus pension contributions for the relevant period.
The OMC member must give six months notice for voluntary resignation.
140 BHP Annual Report 2017 Remuneration Report Remuneration outcomes for Non-executive Directors The remuneration outcomes described below have been provided in accordance with the remuneration policy approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGMs.
The maximum aggregate fees payable to Non-executive Directors including the Chairman were approved by shareholders at the 2008 AGMs at US$3.800 million per annum.
This sum includes base fees, Committee fees and pension contributions.
Travel allowances and non-monetary benefits are not included in this limit.
11 Single total figure of remuneration This section shows a single total figure of remuneration as prescribed under UK requirements.
It is a measure of actual remuneration.
Fees include the annual base fee, plus additional fees as applicable for the Senior Independent Director, Committee Chairmen and Committee memberships.
Non-executive Directors do not have any at-risk remuneration or receive any equity awards as part of their remuneration.
This table also meets the requirements of the Australian Corporations Act 2001 and relevant accounting standards.
In addition, amounts of between US$ nil and US$3,000 are included in respect of tax return preparation: and amounts of between US$ nil and US$15,000 are included in respect of reimbursement of the tax cost associated with the provision of taxable benefits.
2 BHP Billiton Limited made minimum superannuation contributions of 9.5 per cent of fees for FY2017 in accordance with Australian superannuation legislation.
3 Jac Nasser retired from the Board as Non-executive Director and Chairman on 31 August 2017 and was succeeded by Ken MacKenzie as of 1 September 2017.
Malcolm Brinded will retire from the Board on 18 October 2017.
Grant King retired from the Board on 31 August 2017.
4 The FY2017 remuneration for Pat Davies and John Schubert relates to part of the year only, as they retired from the Board on 6 April 2017 and 17 November 2016, respectively.
5 The FY2017 remuneration for Ken MacKenzie and Grant King relates to part of the year only, as they joined the Board on 22 September 2016 and 1 March 2017, respectively.
12 Non-executive Directors remuneration in FY2018 In FY2018, the remuneration for the Non-executive Directors will Levels of fees and travel allowances for From 1 July be paid in accordance with the remuneration policy approved Non-executive Directors in US$ 2017 by shareholders at the 2017 AGMs.
Base annual fee 160,000 Fee levels for the Non-executive Directors and the Chairman Plus additional fees for: are reviewed annually.
The review includes benchmarking, Senior Independent Director with the assistance of external advisers, against peer companies.
of BHP Billiton Plc 48,000 Based on the most recent review, a decision has been made to Committee Chair: reduce the Chairmans fee by approximately eight per cent from Risk and Audit 60,000 US$0.960 million to US$0.880 million with effect from 1 July 2017, Remuneration 45,000 an outcome supported by the new Chairman, Mr Ken MacKenzie.
Sustainability 45,000 This is in addition to the reduction of approximately 13 per cent Nomination and Governance No additional fees from US$1.100 million to US$0.960 million per annum effective Committee membership: 1 July 2015.
Base fee levels for Non-executive Directors will remain Risk and Audit 32,500 at the reduced levels that took effect from 1 July 2015, at which Remuneration 27,500 time they were reduced by approximately six per cent from Sustainability 27,500 US$0.170 million to US$0.160 million per annum.
The adjacent Nomination and Governance No additional fees table sets out the annualised fee levels for FY2018.
1 Travel allowance: Greater than 3 but less than 10 hours 7,000 10 hours or more 15,000 Chairmans fee 880,000 1 In relation to travel for Board business, the time thresholds relate to the flight time to travel to the meeting location i. e. one way flight time.
BHP Annual Report 2017 141 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information Remuneration governance 3.3.
13 Board oversight and the Remuneration Committee  is currently the only remuneration adviser Board appointed by the Committee.
Management also appoints external The Board is responsible for ensuring the Groups remuneration firms from time-to-time to assist with remuneration benchmarking, arrangements are equitable and aligned with the long-term data provision and the like.
While other external firms can and interests of BHP and its shareholders.
In performing this function, do provide certain information to management to assist them it is critical that the Board is independent of management when in deliberations, only  may provide making decisions affecting remuneration of the CEO, other remuneration recommendations in relation to KMP.
members of the OMC and the Groups employees.
Advice provided in FY2017 The Board has therefore established a Remuneration Committee to assist it in making such decisions.
The Committee is comprised During the year,  provided advice and solely of Non-executive Directors, all of whom are independent.
assistance to the Committee on a wide range of matters, including: To ensure that it is fully informed, the Committee regularly invites benchmarking of pay of senior executives including the CEO and members of management to attend meetings to provide reports other members of the OMC against comparable roles at a range and updates.
The Committee can draw on services from a range of relevant comparator companies, including information and of external sources, including remuneration consultants.
commentary on global trends in executive remuneration: review of the sector peer group: Remuneration Committee calculation of fair values for accounting and remuneration The activities of the Remuneration Committee are governed setting purposes of equity awards and performance analysis by Terms of Reference approved by the Board in June 2016, for LTI awards: which are available on our website.
The Remuneration Committee members comprise Carolyn Hewson Chairman, Malcolm Brinded, advice on Remuneration Report disclosures: Pat Davies to 6 April 2017, Wayne Murdy from 6 April 2017 review of and commentary on management proposals, including and Shriti Vadera.
The role and focus of the Committee and in relation to the arrangements for the CEO and other members details of meeting attendances can be found in section 2.13.2. of the OMC: Other Directors and employees who regularly attended meetings other ad-hoc support and advice as requested by the Committee.
were: Jac Nasser Chairman : Andrew Mackenzie CEO, Athalie  provided no remuneration Williams Chief People Officer, Andrew Fitzgerald Vice President recommendations during the period 1 July 2016 to 30 June 2017.
Reward, Margaret Taylor Group Company Secretary and Geof Stapledon Vice President Governance.
These individuals were Remuneration recommendations not present when matters associated with their own remuneration If  were to provide a remuneration were considered.
recommendation, it would include a declaration that the remuneration recommendation was made free from undue Engagement of independent remuneration advisers influence by the individual to whom the recommendation relates.
The Committee seeks and considers advice from independent Based on the processes outlined above, the constraints incorporated remuneration advisers where appropriate.
Remuneration consultants into  terms of engagement, the are engaged by, and report directly to, the Committee.
Potential implementation of a comprehensive protocol for the engagement conflicts of interest are taken into account when remuneration of remuneration advisers and a receipt of the declaration of no consultants are selected and their terms of engagement regulate undue influence, the Board would be in a position to satisfy itself their level of access to, and require their independence from, that a remuneration recommendation from  BHPs management.
The advice of external advisers, and any was made free from undue influence by any member of the KMP recommendations they provide where requested, are used as a to whom the recommendation related.
guide, but do not serve as a substitute for thorough consideration of the issues by each Director.
Total fees paid to the  team advising the Committee on remuneration related matters for the period from  was appointed by the Committee in 1 July 2016 to 30 June 2017 were 184,700.
These fees are based March 2016 to act as an independent remuneration adviser.
As part on an agreed fee for regular items with additional work charged of its role,  may provide remuneration at agreed rates.
Total fees paid to  for recommendations as defined in the Australian Corporations Act other services to the Group for the period from 1 July 2016 to 2001 to the Committee.
The  team that 30 June 2017 were approximately US$20 million.
advises the Remuneration Committee does not provide any other services to the Group.
Other parts of  provide services to the Group in the areas of forensic and general technology, internal audit and international assignment solutions.
Processes and arrangements are in place to protect independence for example, ring-fencing of teams and to manage any conflicts of interest that may arise.
14 Statement of voting at the 2016 AGMs BHPs remuneration resolutions have attracted a high level of support by shareholders.
Voting in regard to those resolutions put to shareholders at the 2016 AGMs is shown below.
1 AGM resolution Requirement % vote for % vote against Votes withheld 2 Remuneration Report excluding remuneration policy UK 98.9 1.1 14,415,364 Remuneration Report whole report Australia 97.4 2.6 12,391,694 Approval of grants to Executive Director Australia 96.9 3.1 13,803,863 1 The sum of votes marked Vote Withheld at BHP Billiton Plcs AGM and votes marked Abstain at BHP Billiton Limiteds AGM.
2 The UK requirement for approval of the remuneration policy was met at the 2014 AGMs where the following outcomes were recorded: a 97.19 per cent vote for and a 2.81 per cent vote against, with 29,834,918 votes withheld.
This resolution was not required in 2015 or 2016.
142 BHP Annual Report 2017 Remuneration Report Other statutory disclosures This section provides details of any additional statutory disclosures required by Australian or UK regulations that have not been included in the previous sections of the Remuneration Report.
15 OMC remuneration table 3 The table below has been prepared in accordance with relevant accounting standards and remuneration data for members of the OMC are for the periods of FY2016 and FY2017 that they were KMP.
More information on the policy and operation of each element of remuneration is provided in prior sections of this Report.
Share-based payments The figures included in the shaded columns of the statutory table below for share-based payments were not actually provided to the KMP during FY2016 or FY2017.
These amounts are calculated in accordance with accounting standards and are the amortised IFRS fair values of equity and equity-related instruments that have been granted to the executives.
For information on awards allocated during FY2016 and FY2017, refer to section 3.3.
Steve Pastors base salary was set by the Remuneration Committee in April 2016 at US$0.800 million per annum, which was 20 per cent below that of Steves predecessor Tim Cutt, in the role of President Petroleum and at a lower level than the base salary of other OMC members with operational roles.
It was the Committees intention to review this positioning after a year to confirm that Steve was meeting the scope and complexity requirements of the role.
The Committee believes this approach to salary increases is in the interests of shareholders, as it saves expenditure not only on base salary, but also on pension contributions, STI and LTI, all of which are tied to the level of base salary, until the appropriate level of performance and contribution has been demonstrated.
In April 2017, the Committee assessed Steves performance in the President Operations Petroleum role and it was confirmed that Steve was operating as expected and performing consistently with the other OMC members in operational roles.
The Committee also considered market factors, job relativities and contribution in role.
Accordingly, the Committee increased Steves base salary to US$1.000 million per annum with effect from 4 April 2017, which is consistent with the range of base salaries of BHPs other OMC operational roles from US$1.000 million to US$1.100 million per annum.
There were no other changes to OMC base salaries during the year.
2 Annual cash incentive is the cash portion of STI awards earned in respect of performance during each financial year for each executive.
STI is provided half in cash and half in deferred equity which are included in the share-based payments columns of the table.
The cash portion of STI awards was paid to OMC members in September of the year following the relevant financial year.
The minimum possible value awarded to each individual is nil and the maximum is 240 per cent of base salary 120 per cent in cash and 120 per cent in deferred equity.
For FY2017, OMC members earned the following STI awards as a percentage of the maximum the remaining portion has been forfeited : Andrew Mackenzie 57 per cent, Peter Beaven 63 per cent, Geoff Healy 59 per cent, Mike Henry 57 per cent, Daniel Malchuk 49 per cent, Steve Pastor 63 per cent, and Athalie Williams 57 per cent.
3 Non-monetary benefits are non-pensionable and include such items as health and other insurances, fees for tax return preparation if required in multiple jurisdictions and travel costs.
4 Other benefits are non-pensionable and for FY2017 include an encashment of annual leave entitlements under the US Annual Leave policy for Steve Pastor, an international relocation benefit provided to Danny Malchuk, and a domestic relocation benefit provided to Mike Henry.
5 Retirement benefits are 25 per cent of base salary for each OMC member.
6 The IFRS fair value of both STI and LTI awards is estimated at grant date.
BHP Annual Report 2017 143 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information 3.3.
16 Equity awards The interests held by OMC members under the Groups employee equity plans are set out below.
Each equity award is a right to acquire one ordinary share in BHP Billiton Limited or in BHP Billiton Plc upon satisfaction of the vesting conditions.
The vesting conditions will include performance and or service requirements as relevant to the purpose of the award and as described in each of the following sections.
BHP Billiton Limited share awards are shown in Australian dollars.
BHP Billiton Plc awards are shown in Pounds Sterling.
Our Requirements for Securities Dealing governs and restricts dealing arrangements and the provision of shares on vesting or exercise of awards.
No interests under the Groups employee equity plans are held by related parties of OMC members.
Dividend Equivalent Payments DEP applies to awards provided to OMC members under the STIP and LTIP as detailed in section 3.2.
No DEP is payable on Transitional OMC awards, GSTIP awards or MAP awards.
Equity awards provided for OMC service STI awards under the STIP The STIP applied from FY2014, with awards allocated from December 2014.
Awards under the STIP will not deliver any value to the holder for at least two years from the beginning of the financial year in which they are granted unless the executives employment with the Group ends earlier in specific circumstances, such as death, serious injury, disability or illness that prohibits continued employment, or total and permanent disablement.
LTI awards under the LTIP The current LTIP is effective for grants from December 2013.
The terms and conditions, including the performance conditions, are described in sections 3.2.
7 of this Report and the LTIP rules are available on the BHP website.
Awards under the LTIP will not deliver any value to the holder for at least five years from the beginning of the financial year in which they are granted unless the executives employment with the Group ends earlier in specific termination circumstances, such as death, serious injury, disability or illness that prohibits continued employment, or total and permanent disablement.
Transitional OMC awards The Remuneration Committee may determine that new OMC members recruited from within BHP receive Transitional OMC awards to bridge the gap between MAP awards, which have a three-year service condition and the LTIP awards, which have a five-year service and performance condition.
Transitional OMC awards have two tranches.
Tranche one has a three-year service and performance condition.
Tranche two has a four-year service and performance condition.
The Committee has absolute discretion to determine if the performance condition has been met and whether any, all or part of the award will vest or otherwise lapse, having regard to but not limited to BHPs TSR over the threeor four-year performance period respectively, the participants contribution to Group outcomes and the participants personal performance with guidance on this assessment from the CEO.
The treatment of Transitional OMC awards on cessation of employment will depend on the circumstances and is similar to those for LTIP awards as described in section 3.2.
Equity awards provided for pre-OMC service STI awards under the GSTIP STI awards held by executives at the time they were appointed to the OMC or which were allocated for performance and service before they became OMC members were allocated under the GSTIP.
The GSTIP has applied for the non-OMC management of BHP since FY2009 for FY2008 performance.
The terms and conditions of the GSTIP awards are essentially the same as those provided under the STIP.
Under each plan, participants must satisfy applicable STl performance conditions to be eligible for any award.
LTI awards under the MAP LTI awards held by executives at the time they were appointed to the OMC were allocated under the MAP, which has applied for non-OMC management since FY2009.
As the primary purpose of the MAP is the retention of key senior management employees, the plan has no performance conditions after awards are granted and the vesting of MAP awards is subject to continued employment with the Group through to the vesting date as shown in the table below.
Where a participant resigns or is terminated for cause prior to the vesting date, their unvested MAP awards are forfeited.
If a participants employment ends due to redundancy, retirement, death, illness or injury, a pro-rata number of unvested awards will vest based on the portion of the relevant vesting period served.
Where awards lapse, the lapse date is shown.
If the vesting conditions are met, awards will vest on, or as soon as practicable after, the first non-prohibited period date occurring after 30 June of the preceding year of vest.
The year of vest is the second STIP and GSTIP, third Transitional tranche one and MAP, fourth Transitional tranche two or fifth LTIP financial year after grant.
Except for the LTIP awards granted on 5 December 2011 and 5 December 2012, all awards are conditional awards and have no exercise period, exercise price or expiry date: instead ordinary fully paid shares are automatically delivered upon the vesting conditions being met.
Where vesting conditions are not met, the conditional awards will immediately lapse.
The LTIP awards granted on 5 December 2011 and 5 December 2012 are non-conditional awards which have an exercise period and an expiry date of the day prior to the fifth anniversary of the vesting date.
No price is payable on exercise of these awards.
None of these awards had vested and were exercisable or had vested but were not exercisable at the end of the reporting period.
2 The market price shown is the closing price of BHP shares on the relevant date of grant.
No price is payable by the individual to receive a grant of awards.
The grant date IFRS fair value of the awards is estimated as at the start of the vesting period, being 1 July 2016 for awards granted during FY2017, and is as follows: STIP A$19.09: LTIP A$10.80: GSTIP A$18.41: MAP vesting date Aug 18 A$18.41: MAP vesting date Aug 19 A$18.08 and MAP vesting date Aug 20 A$17.75.
3 The market price shown is the closing price of BHP shares on the relevant date of vest.
4 The gain on awards is calculated using the market price on date of vesting or exercise as applicable less any exercise price payable.
The amount that vested and were lapsed for the awards during FY2017 is as follows: STIP 100 per cent vested: LTIP 100 per cent lapsed: Transitional Peter Beaven 67 per cent vested, 33 per cent lapsed: Transitional Mike Henry 73 per cent vested, 27 per cent lapsed: Transitional Daniel Malchuk 69 per cent vested, 31 per cent lapsed: GSTIP 100 per cent vested: MAP 100 per cent vested.
BHP Annual Report 2017 145 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information 3.3.
17 Estimated value range of equity awards The current face value and estimate of the maximum possible total value of equity awards allocated during FY2017 and yet to vest are the awards as set out in the previous table multiplied by the current share price of BHP Billiton Limited or BHP Billiton Plc as applicable.
The minimum possible total value of the awards is nil.
The actual value that may be received by participants in the future cannot be determined as it is dependent on and therefore fluctuates with the share prices of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc at the date that any particular award vests or is exercised.
The table below provides five-year share price history for BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc, history of dividends paid and the Groups earnings.
Five-year share price, dividend and earnings history FY2017 FY2016 FY2015 FY2014 FY2013 BHP Billiton Limited Share price at beginning of year A$19.09 A$26.58 A$36.00 A$30.94 A$31.72 Share price at end of year A$23.28 A$18.65 A$27.05 A$35.90 A$31.37 1 Dividends paid A$0.72 A$1.09 A$3.72 A$1.29 A$1.10 BHP Billiton Plc Share price at beginning of year 9.40 12.58 19.45 17.15 18.30 Share price at end of year 11.76 9.43 12.49 18.90 16.82 1 Dividends paid 0.44 0.51 1.95 0.73 0.73 BHP Attributable profit loss US$M, as reported 5,890 6,385 1,910 13,832 11,223 1 The FY2015 dividends paid includes A$2.25 or 1.15 in respect of the in-specie dividend associated with the demerger of South32.
The highest share prices during FY2017 were A$27.89 for BHP Billiton Limited shares and 14.81 for BHP Billiton Plc shares.
The lowest share prices during FY2017 were A$18.71 and 9.21, respectively.
18 Ordinary share holdings and transactions The number of ordinary shares in BHP Billiton Limited or in BHP Billiton Plc held directly, indirectly or beneficially, by each individual including shares held in the name of all close members of the Directors or OMC members family and entities over which either the Director or OMC member or the family member has, directly or indirectly, control, joint control or significant influence are shown below.
In addition, there have been no changes in the interests of any Directors in the period to 23 August 2017 being not less than one month prior to the date of the notice of the 2017 AGMs.
These are ordinary shares held without performance conditions or restrictions and are included in MSR calculations for each individual.
The interests of Directors and members of the OMC in the ordinary shares of each of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc as at 30 June 2017 did not exceed on an individual basis or in the aggregate one per cent of BHP Billiton Limiteds or BHP Billiton Plcs issued ordinary shares.
2 The following BHP Billiton Limited shares and BHP Billiton Plc shares are held in the form of American Depositary Shares: Wayne Murdy 4,000 BHP Billiton Limited: 12,000 BHP Billiton Plc, Jac Nasser 5,200 BHP Billiton Limited: 40,600 BHP Billiton Plc and Steve Pastor 1,574 BHP Billiton Limited.
3 The closing balances for Pat Davies and John Schubert reflect their shareholdings on the date that each ceased being KMP being 6 April 2017 and 17 November 2016, respectively.
4 The opening balances for Grant King and Ken MacKenzie reflect their shareholdings on the date that each became KMP being 1 March 2017 and 22 September 2016, respectively.
146 BHP Annual Report 2017 Remuneration Report 3.3.
22 Prohibition on hedging of BHP shares Relative importance of spend on pay and equity instruments The table below sets out the total spend on employee remuneration during FY2017 and the prior year compared with other significant The CEO and other members of the OMC may not use unvested expenditure items.
The table includes items as prescribed in the BHP equity awards as collateral, or protect the value of any UK requirements and further details and definitions are in sections unvested BHP equity awards or the value of shares and securities 5.1.
BHP has included tax payments and purchases held as part of meeting the MSR.
3 of property, plant and equipment being the most significant Any securities that have vested and are no longer subject to other outgoings in monetary terms.
restrictions may be subject to hedging arrangements or used US$ million FY2017 FY2016 as collateral, provided that prior consent is obtained.
20 Dividends paid to BHP shareholders 2,921 4,130 Share ownership guidelines and the MSR Share buy-backs The share ownership guidelines and the MSR help to ensure the Income tax paid and royalty-related taxation interests of Directors, executives and shareholders remain aligned.
paid net of refunds 2,084 1,645 The CEO and OMC are expected to grow their holdings to the MSR Purchases of property, plant and equipment 4,252 6,946 from the scheduled vesting of their employee awards over time.
The MSR is tested at the time that shares are to be sold.
Shares may be sold to satisfy tax obligations arising from the granting, holding, 3.3.
23 Transactions with KMP vesting, exercise or sale of the employee awards or the underlying shares whether the MSR is satisfied at that time or not.
During the financial year, there were no transactions between the Group and its subsidiaries and KMP including their related parties For FY2017: 2016: US$ nil: 2015: US$ nil.
There are no amounts payable at the MSR for the CEO was five times annual pre-tax base salary 30 June 2017 2016: US$ nil.
There are US$ nil loans 2016: US$ nil and while he has met this requirement in the past, subsequent with KMP including their related parties.
movements in foreign exchange rates and share prices have resulted in Andrew Mackenzies shareholding being three A number of KMP hold or have held positions in other companies i. e. personally related entities, where it is considered they control times his annual pre-tax base salary at the end of FY2017: or significantly influence the financial or operating policies of those the MSR for other members of the OMC was three times annual entities.
There have been no transactions with those entities and pre-tax base salary.
At the end of FY2017, Peter Beaven and no amounts were owed by the Group to personally related entities Mike Henry met the MSR, while the remaining members or any other related parties 2016: US$ nil.
of the OMC did not meet the MSR.
No OMC members sold shares during FY2017, other than to satisfy taxation obligations, This Remuneration Report was approved by the Board on consistent with the policy.
7 September 2017 and signed on its behalf by: Subject to securities dealing constraints, Non-executive Directors have agreed to apply at least 25 per cent of their remuneration base fees plus Committee fees to the purchase of BHP shares until they achieve an MSR equivalent in value to one years remuneration base fees plus Committee fees.
Thereafter, they must maintain at least that level of shareholding throughout their tenure.
At the Carolyn Hewson end of FY2017, each Non-executive Director met the MSR.
21 Payments to past Directors and for loss of office UK regulations require the inclusion in the Remuneration Report of certain payments to past Directors and payments made for loss of office.
Other than the disclosure below in relation to John Schubert, there is nothing to disclose for these payments for FY2017.
The Remuneration Committee has adopted a fide minimis threshold of US$7,500 for disclosure of payments to past Directors under UK requirements.
Upon John Schuberts departure from the Board on 17 November 2016, a payment of US$271,633 was made to him, representing his accrued retirement benefits balance in the legacy BHP Billiton Limited Retirement Plan which was closed on 24 October 2003, as described in the 2016 Remuneration Report.
BHP Annual Report 2017 147 Section 4 Directors Report In this section 4.1 Review of operations, principal activities and state of affairs 4.2 Share capital and buy-back programs 4.3 Results, financial instruments and going concern 4.4 Directors 4.5 Remuneration and share interests 4.6 Secretaries 4.7 Indemnities and insurance 4.8 Employee policies 4.9 Corporate governance 4.10 Dividends 4.11 Auditors 4.12 Non-audit services 4.13 Political donations 4.14 Exploration, research and development 4.15 ASIC Instrument 2016 191 4.16 Proceedings on behalf of BHP Billiton Limited 4.17 Performance in relation to environmental regulation 4.18 Share capital, restrictions on transfer of shares and other additional information 148 BHP Annual Report 2017 Directors Report The information presented by the Directors in this Directors Report 4.1 Review of operations, principal relates to BHP Billiton Limited, BHP Billiton Plc and their respective activities and state of affairs subsidiaries.
Section 1 Strategic Report which includes the Chairmans Review in section 1.1 and the Chief Executive Officers A review of the operations of BHP during FY2017, the results Report in section 1.2, and incorporates the operating and financial of those operations during FY2017 and the expected results of review, section 2 Governance at BHP, section 3 Remuneration those operations in future financial years are set out in section 1, Report, section 5.5 Lead Auditors Independence Declaration in particular in sections 1.1 to 1.7, 1.12 and 1.13 and in other material and section 7 Shareholder information are each incorporated in this Annual Report.
Information on the development of BHP and by reference into, and form part of, this Directors Report.
In addition, likely developments in future years also appears in those sections.
for the purposes of UK law, the Strategic Report in section 1 and We have excluded certain information from the Strategic Report 4 the Remuneration Report in section 3 form separate reports and in section 1 which forms part of this Directors Report, to the have been separately approved by the Board for that purpose.
extent permitted by UK and Australian law, on the basis that such For the purpose of the UK Listing Authoritys UKLA Listing Rule information relates to impending developments or matters in the 9.8.
4C R, the applicable information required to be disclosed course of negotiation and disclosure would be seriously prejudicial in accordance with UKLA Listing Rule 9.8.
4 R is set out in the to the interests of BHP.
This is because such disclosure could be sections below.
misleading due to the fact it is premature or preliminary in nature, relates to commercially sensitive contracts, would undermine Applicable information required confidentiality between BHP and our suppliers and clients, by UKLA Listing Rule 9.8.
4 R Section in this Annual Report or would otherwise unreasonably damage BHP.
The categories 1 Interest capitalised by the Group Section 5, note 20 of information omitted include forward looking estimates and projections prepared for internal management purposes, information 6 Waiver of future emoluments Section 3.3.
1 regarding BHPs assets and projects, which is developing and 12 Shareholder waivers of dividends Section 5, note 23 susceptible to change, and information relating to commercial 13 Shareholder waivers of future dividends Section 5, note 23 contracts and pricing modules.
Our principal activities during FY2017 are disclosed in section 1.
Paragraphs 2, 4, 5, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11 and 14 of Listing Rule We are among the worlds top producers of major commodities, 9.8.
including iron ore, metallurgical coal and copper.
We also have The Directors confirm, on the advice of the Risk and Audit substantial interests in oil, gas and energy coal.
No significant Committee, that they consider the Annual Report including changes in the nature of BHPs principal activities occurred the Financial Statements, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced during FY2017.
and understandable, and provides the information necessary There were no significant changes in BHPs state of affairs that for shareholders to assess BHPs position, performance, occurred during FY2017 and no significant post balance date business model and strategy.
events other than as disclosed in section 1.
No other matter or circumstance has arisen since the end of FY2017 that has significantly affected or is expected to significantly affect the operations, the results of operations or state of affairs of BHP in future years.
BHP Annual Report 2017 149 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information 4.2 Share capital and buy-back programs At the Annual General Meetings held in 2015 and 2016, shareholders authorised BHP Billiton Plc to make on-market purchases of up to 211,207,180 of its ordinary shares, representing 10 per cent of BHP Billiton Plcs issued share capital at that time.
During FY2017, we did not make any on-market or off-market purchases of BHP Billiton Limited shares or BHP Billiton Plc shares under any share buy-back program.
As at the date of this Directors Report, there were no current on-market buy-backs.
Shareholders will be asked at the 2017 Annual General Meetings to renew this authority.
As at the date of this Directors Report, the Directors have no present intention to exercise the buy-back authority, if granted.
Some of our executives receive rights over BHP shares as part of their remuneration arrangements.
Entitlements may be satisfied by the transfer of existing shares, which are acquired on-market by the Employee Share Ownership Plan ESOP Trusts or, in respect of some entitlements, by the issue of shares.
The number of shares referred to in column A below were purchased to satisfy awards made under the various BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc employee share schemes during FY2017.
2 BHP Billiton Limited is able to buy-back and cancel BHP Billiton Limited shares within the 10 12 limit without shareholder approval in accordance with section 257B of the Australian Corporations Act 2001.
Any future on-market share buy-back program will be conducted in accordance with the Australian Corporations Act 2001 and with the ASX Listing Rules.
3 At the Annual General Meetings held during 2015 and 2016, shareholders authorised BHP Billiton Plc to make on-market purchases of up to 211,207,180 of its ordinary shares, representing 10 per cent of BHP Billiton Plcs issued capital at the time.
4.3 4.4 Results, financial instruments and Directors going concern The Directors who served at any time during FY2017 or up until the date of this Directors Report were Jac Nasser, Andrew Mackenzie, Information about the Groups financial position and financial Malcolm Brinded, Malcolm Broomhead, Pat Davies, Anita Frew, results is included in the Financial Statements in this Annual Report.
Carolyn Hewson, Grant King, Ken MacKenzie, Lindsay Maxsted, The Consolidated Income Statement shows profit attributable to Wayne Murdy, John Schubert and Shriti Vadera.
Further details BHP members of US$5.9 billion in FY2017, compared with a loss of the current Directors of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc of US$6.4 billion in FY2016.
These details include the period for which BHPs business activities, together with the factors likely to affect each Director held office up to the date of this Directors Report, its future development, performance and position are discussed their qualifications, experience and particular responsibilities, in section 1.
In addition, sections 1.4 to 1.8 and 2.14, and note 21 the directorships held in other listed companies since 1 July 2014 Financial risk management in section 5 outline BHPs capital and the period for which each directorship has been held.
management objectives, its approach to financial risk management John Schubert served as a Non-executive Director of BHP Limited and exposure to financial risks, liquidity and borrowing facilities.
since June 2000 and a Non-executive Director of BHP Billiton The Directors, having made appropriate enquiries, have a reasonable Limited and BHP Billiton Plc from June 2001 until his retirement expectation that BHP has adequate resources to continue in on 17 November 2016. operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Therefore, they Pat Davies served as a Non-executive Director of BHP Billiton continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in Limited and BHP Billiton Plc from June 2012 until his retirement preparing the annual Financial Statements.
Grant King was appointed as a Non-executive Director of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc with effect from 1 March 2017.
Mr King elected not to stand for election at the 2017 Annual General Meetings and retired as a Non-executive Director on 31 August 2017.
150 BHP Annual Report 2017 Directors Report 4.5.
3 Ken MacKenzie was appointed as a Non-executive Director Operations Management of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc with effect from Committee members 22 September 2016.
In accordance with the BHP Billiton Limited Constitution and the BHP Billiton Plc Articles of Association, Section 3.3.
18 sets out the relevant interests in shares in he stood for election, and was elected, at the 2016 Annual BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc held directly, indirectly General Meetings.
or beneficially at the beginning and end of FY2017 by those senior executives who were members of the OMC other Jac Nasser retired as Chairman and a Director of BHP Billiton than the Executive Director during FY2017.
Where applicable, Limited and BHP Billiton Plc on 31 August 2017, having been a the information includes shares held in the name of a spouse, Director of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc since June superannuation fund, nominee and or other controlled entities.
2006 and Chairman of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc 4 Interests held by members of the OMC under employee equity since March 2010.
Ken MacKenzie assumed the role of Chairman plans as at 30 June 2017 are set out in the tables contained of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc from 1 September 2017. in section 3.3.
Malcolm Brinded has decided not to stand for re-election at the The table below sets out the relevant interests in shares in 2017 Annual General Meetings and will retire as a Non-executive BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc held directly, indirectly Director of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc on or beneficially, as at the date of this Directors Report by those 18 October 2017. senior executives who were members of the OMC other than the Terry Bowen was appointed as a Non-executive Director of Executive Director on that date.
Where applicable, the information BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc with effect from 1 October also includes shares held in the name of a spouse, superannuation 2017.
In accordance with the BHP Billiton Limited Constitution and fund, nominee and or other controlled entities.
BHP Billiton Plc Articles of Association, he will seek election at the 2017 Annual General Meetings.
As at date of OMC member BHP Billiton entity Directors Report John Mogford was appointed as a Non-executive Director of Peter Beaven BHP Billiton Limited 296,690 BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc with effect from 1 October BHP Billiton Plc 2017.
In accordance with the BHP Billiton Limited Constitution and Geoff Healy BHP Billiton Limited 54,298 BHP Billiton Plc Articles of Association, he will seek election at the BHP Billiton Plc 2017 Annual General Meetings.
Mike Henry BHP Billiton Limited 91,993 The number of meetings of the Board and its Committees held BHP Billiton Plc 196,262 during the year and each Directors attendance at those meetings Daniel Malchuk BHP Billiton Limited 164,054 are set out in section 2.12.
BHP Billiton Plc Steve Pastor BHP Billiton Limited 52,953 4.5 Remuneration and share interests BHP Billiton Plc Athalie Williams BHP Billiton Limited 47,099 BHP Billiton Plc 4.5.
1 Remuneration The policy for determining the nature and amount of emoluments 4.6 of members of the Operations Management Committee OMC Secretaries including the Executive Director and the Non-executive Directors, Margaret Taylor is the Group Company Secretary.
Details of her and information about the relationship between that policy and qualifications and experience are set out in section 2.2.
The following BHPs performance, are set out in sections 3.2 and 3.3. people also act, or have acted during FY2017, as company The remuneration tables contained in section 3.3 set out the secretaries of BHP Billiton Limited, BHP Billiton Plc or both remuneration of members of the OMC including the Executive as indicated : Rachel Agnew, BComm Economics, LLB Hons Director and the Non-executive Directors.
BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc, Kathryn Griffiths, BA, LLB Hons, GDipACG, FCIS, FGIA, GAICD BHP Billiton Limited, 4.5.
2 Megan Pepper, BA Hons, LLB Hons, GDipACG, FCIS, FGIA, Directors GAICD BHP Billiton Limited and Geof Stapledon, BEc, LLB Hons, Section 3.3.
18 sets out the relevant interests in shares in DPhil, FCIS BHP Billiton Plc.
Each such individual has experience BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc of the Directors who held in a company secretariat role or other relevant fields arising from office during FY2017, at the beginning and end of FY2017.
No rights time spent in such roles within BHP, large listed companies or or options over shares in BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc other relevant entities.
are held by any of the Non-executive Directors.
Interests held by the Executive Director under employee equity plans as at 30 June 4.7 2017 are set out in the tables showing interests in incentive plans Indemnities and insurance contained in section 3.3.
Except for Andrew Mackenzie and Ken Rule 146 of the BHP Billiton Limited Constitution and Article 146 MacKenzie, as at the date of this Directors Report, the information of the BHP Billiton Plc Articles of Association require each Company pertaining to shares in BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc held to indemnify, to the extent permitted by law, each Officer of directly, indirectly or beneficially by Directors is the same as set BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc, respectively, against out in the table in section 3.3.
Where applicable, the information liability incurred in, or arising out of, the conduct of the business includes shares held in the name of a spouse, superannuation fund, of BHP or the discharge of the duties of the Officer.
The Directors nominee and or other controlled entities.
named in section 2.2, the Company Secretaries and other Officers As at the date of this Directors Report, Andrew Mackenzie holds: of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc have the benefit either directly, indirectly or beneficially 266,205 shares in of this requirement, as do individuals who formerly held one BHP Billiton Plc and 93,051 shares in BHP Billiton Limited: of those positions.
rights and options over nil shares in BHP Billiton Plc and In accordance with this requirement, BHP Billiton Limited and 1,118,066 shares in BHP Billiton Limited.
BHP Billiton Plc have entered into Deeds of Indemnity, Access and Insurance Deeds of Indemnity with each of their respective As at the date of this Directors Report, Ken MacKenzie indirectly Directors.
The Deeds of Indemnity are qualifying third party holds 47,856 shares in BHP Billiton Limited.
indemnity provisions for the purposes of the UK Companies We have not made available to any Director any interest Act 2006 and each of these qualifying third party indemnities in a registered scheme.
was in force as at the date of this Directors Report.
BHP Annual Report 2017 151 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information We have a policy that BHP will, as a general rule, support and 4.9 Corporate governance hold harmless an employee, including an employee appointed The UK Financial Conduct Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency as a Director of a subsidiary who, while acting in good faith, incurs personal liability to others as a result of working for BHP.
Rules DTR 7.2 require that certain information be included in a corporate governance statement.
BHP has an existing practice In addition, as part of the arrangements to effect the demerger of issuing a corporate governance statement as part of our Annual of South32, we agreed to indemnify certain former Officers of Report that is incorporated into the Directors Report by reference.
BHP who transitioned to South32 from certain claims and liabilities The information required by the Disclosure and Transparency Rules incurred in their capacity as Directors or Officers of South32.
and the UK Financial Conduct Authoritys Listing Rules LR 9.8.
6 is From time-to-time, we engage our External Auditor, KPMG, to located in section 2, with the exception of the information referred conduct non-statutory audit work and provide other services to in LR 9.8.
6, which is located in in accordance with our policy on the provision of other services sections 4.2, 4.3, 4.5.
2 and 4.18. by the External Auditor.
The terms of engagement in the United Kingdom include that we must compensate and reimburse 4.10 Dividends KPMG LLP for, and protect KPMG LLP against, any loss, damage, expense, or liability incurred by KPMG LLP in respect of third party A final dividend of 43 US cents per share will be paid on claims arising from a breach by BHP of any obligation under the 26 September 2017, resulting in total dividends determined engagement terms.
in respect of FY2017 of 83 US cents per share.
Details of We have insured against amounts that we may be liable to pay the dividends paid are set out in note 15 Share capital and to Directors, Company Secretaries or certain employees including note 17 Dividends in section 5, and details of the Groups former Officers pursuant to Rule 146 of the Constitution of dividend policy are set out in sections 1.5.
BHP Billiton Limited and Article 146 of the Articles of Association of BHP Billiton Plc or that we otherwise agree to pay by way of 4.11 Auditors indemnity.
The insurance policy also insures Directors, Company Secretaries and some employees including former Officers A resolution to reappoint KPMG LLP as the auditor of BHP Billiton Plc against certain liabilities including legal costs they may incur will be proposed at the 2017 Annual General Meetings in accordance in carrying out their duties.
For this Directors and Officers with section 489 of the UK Companies Act 2006. insurance, we paid premiums of US$2,522,787 net during FY2017.
A copy of the declaration given by our External Auditor to During FY2017, BHP paid defence costs for: the Directors in relation to the auditors compliance with the certain employees and former employees of BHP Affected independence requirements of the Australian Corporations Act Individuals in relation to the charges filed by the Federal 2001 and the Professional Code of Conduct for External Auditors Prosecution Office against BHP Billiton Brasil and the is set out in section 5.5.
Affected Individuals: Consistent with the UK and EU requirements in regard to audit certain employees and former employees of BHP in relation firm tender and rotation, BHP conducted an audit tender during to the putative class action complaint that was filed in the FY2017.
After a comprehensive tender process, the Board has US District Court for the Southern District of New York on selected EY to be appointed as the Groups External Auditor behalf of purchasers of American Depositary Receipts of from the financial year beginning 1 July 2019, subject to shareholder BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc between 25 September approval.
The Board intends to put EY forward for shareholder 2014 and 30 November 2015: approval at the Annual General Meetings in 2019.
KPMG, BHPs certain employees and former employees of BHP in relation current External Auditor, did not participate in the tender due to a putative class action complaint filed in the US District Court to UK and EU requirements which require a new External Auditor for the Southern District of New York on behalf of all purchasers to be in place by 1 July 2023.
KPMG will continue in its role and of Samarcos 10-year bond notes due 20222024 between will undertake the audit of BHP for the 2017, 2018 and 2019 financial 31 October 2012 and 30 November 2015. years, subject to reappointment by shareholders at the 2017 and Other than this, no indemnity in favour of a current or former 2018 Annual General Meetings.
Further information on the tender officer of BHP Billiton Limited or BHP Billiton Plc, or in favour process is outlined in the Risk and Audit Committee Report in of the External Auditor, was called on during FY2017.
During FY2017, Lindsay Maxsted was the only officer of BHP 4.8 who previously held the role of director or partner of the Groups Employee policies External Auditor at a time when the Groups External Auditor Our people are fundamental to our success.
We are committed conducted an audit of BHP.
His prior relationship with KPMG to shaping a culture where our employees are provided with is outlined in section 2.10.
Lindsay Maxsted was not part of the opportunities to develop, are valued and are encouraged KPMG audit practice after 1980 and, while at KPMG, was not to contribute towards making work safer, simpler and more in any way involved in, or able to influence, any audit activity productive.
We strongly believe that having employees who associated with BHP.
are engaged and connected to our organisation reinforces Each person who held the office of Director at the date the Board our shared purpose aligned to Our Charter and will result approved this Directors Report made the following statements: in a more harmonious workplace.
so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit For more information on employee engagement and employee information of which BHPs External Auditor is unaware: policies, including communications and regarding disabilities, the Director has taken all steps that he or she ought to refer to section 1.9. have taken as a Director to make him or herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that BHPs External Auditor is aware of that information.
This confirmation is given pursuant to section 418 of the UK Companies Act 2006 and should be interpreted in accordance with, and subject to, those provisions.
152 BHP Annual Report 2017 Directors Report 4.12 Fines and prosecutions Non-audit services For the purposes of section 299 1 f of the Australian Corporations Details of the non-audit services undertaken by BHPs External Act 2001, in FY2017 BHP received three fines in relation to Australian Auditor, including the amounts paid for non-audit services, are set environmental laws and regulations at our operated assets, the out in note 36 Auditors remuneration in section 5.
All non-audit total amount payable being US$27,580.
One fine of US$12,500 services were approved in accordance with the process set out in was received at BHP Nickel West Kambalda Nickel Concentrator the Policy on Provision of Audit and Other Services by the External for failing to maintain a 300 millimetre freeboard at its return water Auditor.
No non-audit services were carried out that were specifically dam.
BHP Coal at Peak Downs Coal Mine received two fines related excluded by the Policy on Provision of Audit and Other Services to storage and handling of chemicals and failure to comply with by the External Auditor.
Based on advice provided by the Risk plan of operations.
4 and Audit Committee, the Directors have formed the view that Greenhouse gas emissions the provision of non-audit services is compatible with the general The UK Companies Act 2006 requires BHP, to the extent practicable, standard of independence for auditors, and that the nature of to obtain relevant information on the Groups annual quantity of non-audit services means that auditor independence was not greenhouse gas emissions, which is reported in tonnes of carbon compromised.
For more information about our policy in relation dioxide equivalent.
For information on BHPs total FY2017 greenhouse to the provision of non-audit services by the auditor, refer to gas emissions and intensity, refer to sections 1.6.
For more information on environmental performance, including environmental regulation, refer to section 1.10 and the Sustainability 4.13 Political donations Report 2017, which is available online at bhp.
No political contributions donations for political purposes were made by BHP to any political party, politician, elected official or 4.18 1 Share capital, restrictions on candidate for public office during FY2017.
transfer of shares and other additional information 4.14 Exploration, research and Information relating to BHP Billiton Plcs share capital structure, development restrictions on the holding or transfer of its securities or on the exercise of voting rights attaching to such securities, certain Companies within the Group carry out exploration and research agreements triggered on a change of control and the existence and development necessary to support their activities.
Details are of branches of BHP outside of the United Kingdom, is set out provided in sections 1.8.
2, 1.11 to 1.13 and 6.3. in the following sections: Section 1.4.
2 Where we are 4.15 ASIC Instrument 2016 191 Section 4.2 Share capital and buy-back programs Section 7.3 Organisational structure BHP Billiton Limited is an entity to which Australian Securities Section 7.4 Material contracts and Investments Commission ASIC Corporations Rounding in Section 7.5 Constitution Financial Directors Reports Instrument 2016 191 dated 24 March 2016 applies.
Amounts in this Directors Report and the Financial Section 7.6 Share ownership Statements, except estimates of future expenditure or where Section 7.10 Government regulations otherwise indicated, have been rounded to the nearest million Note 15 Share capital and note 23 Employee share ownership dollars in accordance with ASIC Instrument 2016 191. plans in section 5.
As at the date of this Directors Report, there were 16,452,544 4.16 Proceedings on behalf unvested equity awards outstanding in relation to BHP Billiton Limited ordinary shares and 544,522 unvested equity awards of BHP Billiton Limited outstanding in relation to BHP Billiton Plc ordinary shares.
The expiry dates of these unvested equity awards range between February No proceedings have been brought on behalf of BHP Billiton 2018 and August 2021 and there is no exercise price.
No options Limited, nor has any application been made, under section 237 over unissued shares or unissued interests in BHP have been of the Australian Corporations Act 2001. granted since the end of FY2017 and no shares or interests were issued as a result of the exercise of an option over unissued shares 4.17 Performance in relation to or interests since the end of FY2017.
Further details are set out in note 23 Employee share ownership plans in section 5.
Details of environmental regulation movements in share capital during and since the end of FY2017 BHP seeks to be compliant with all applicable environmental laws are set out in note 15 Share capital in section 5. and regulations relevant to its operations.
We monitor compliance The Directors Report is approved in accordance with a resolution on a regular basis, including through external and internal means, of the Board.
to ensure the risk of non-compliance is minimised.
For more information on BHPs performance in relation to health, safety and the environment, refer to section 1.10.
Ken MacKenzie Andrew Mackenzie Chairman Chief Executive Officer Dated: 7 September 2017 1 Note that Australian Electoral Commission AEC disclosure requirements are broad, such that amounts that are not political donations can be reportable for AEC purposes.
For example, where a political party or organisation owns shares in BHP, the AEC filing requires the political party or organisation to disclose the dividend payments received in respect of their shareholding.
BHP Annual Report 2017 153 In this section Section 5 Financial Statements 5.1 Consolidated Financial Statements 5.1.
2 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income Financial 5.1.
5 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity Statements 5.1.
6 Notes to the Financial Statements 5.2 BHP Billiton Plc 5.3 Directors declaration 5.4 Statement of Directors responsibilities in respect of the Annual Report and the Financial Statements 5.5 Lead Auditors Independence Declaration under Section 307C of the Australian Corporations Act 2001 5.6 Independent Auditors reports 5.7 Supplementary oil and gas information unaudited Notes to the Financial Statements About these Financial Statements Performance Reporting entity 1 Segment reporting In 2001, BHP Billiton Limited previously known as BHP Limited, 2 Exceptional items an Australian-listed company, and BHP Billiton Plc previously 3 Significant events Samarco dam failure known as Billiton Plc, a UK listed company, entered into 4 Expenses and other income a Dual Listed Company DLC merger.
These entities and their 5 Income tax expense subsidiaries operate together as a single for-profit economic 6 Earnings per share entity referred to as BHP or the Group with a common Board Working capital of Directors, unified management structure and joint objectives.
7 Trade and other receivables In effect, the DLC structure provides the same voting rights 8 Trade and other payables and dividend entitlements from BHP Billiton Limited and 9 Inventories BHP Billiton Plc irrespective of whether investors hold shares Resource assets in BHP Billiton Limited or BHP Billiton Plc.
10 Property, plant and equipment 11 Intangible assets Group and related party information is presented in note 31 12 Impairment of non-current assets Related party transactions in section 5.1.
This details the 13 Deferred tax balances Groups subsidiaries, associates, joint arrangements and the 14 Closure and rehabilitation provisions nature of transactions between these and other related parties.
Capital structure The nature of the operations and principal activities of the 15 Share capital Group are described in the segment information refer to note 1 16 Other equity Segment reporting in section 5.1.
17 Dividends Presentation of the Consolidated Financial Statements 18 Provisions for dividends and other liabilities BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc Directors have Financial management included information in this report they deem to be material 19 Net debt and relevant to the understanding of the Consolidated 20 Net finance costs Financial Statements the Financial Statements.
Disclosure 21 Financial risk management may be considered material and relevant if the dollar amount Employee matters is significant due to its size or nature, or the information is 22 Key management personnel important to understand the: 23 Employee share ownership plans Groups current year results: 24 Employee benefits, restructuring and post-retirement employee benefits provisions impact of significant changes in the Groups business: or 25 Pension and other post-retirement obligations aspects of the Groups operations that are important 26 Employees to future performance.
Group and related party information These Financial Statements were approved by the Board 27 Discontinued operations of Directors on 7 September 2017.
The Directors have the 28 Subsidiaries authority to amend the Financial Statements after issuance.
29 Investments accounted for using the equity method 30 Interests in joint operations 31 Related party transactions Unrecognised items and uncertain events 32 Commitments 33 Contingent liabilities 34 Subsequent events Other items 35 Acquisitions and disposals of subsidiaries, operations, joint operations and equity accounted investments 36 Auditors remuneration 37 BHP Billiton Limited 38 Deed of Cross Guarantee 39 New and amended accounting standards and interpretations issued but not yet effective 154 BHP Annual Report 2017 Financial Statements 5.1 Consolidated Financial Statements 5.1.
1 Consolidated Income Statement for the year ended 30 June 2017 2017 2016 2015 Notes US$M US$M US$M Continuing operations Revenue 1 38,285 30,912 44,636 Other income 4 736 444 496 Expenses excluding net finance costs 4 27,540 35,487 37,010 Profit loss from equity accounted investments, related impairments and expenses 29 272 2,104 548 Profit loss from operations 11,753 6,235 8,670 5 Financial expenses 1,574 1,161 702 Financial income 143 137 88 Net finance costs 20 1,431 1,024 614 Profit loss before taxation 10,322 7,259 8,056 Income tax expense benefit 3,933 1,297 2,762 Royalty-related taxation net of income tax benefit 167 245 904 Total taxation expense benefit 5 4,100 1,052 3,666 Profit loss after taxation from Continuing operations 6,222 6,207 4,390 Discontinued operations Loss after taxation from Discontinued operations 27 1,512 Profit loss after taxation from Continuing and Discontinued operations 6,222 6,207 2,878 Attributable to non-controlling interests 332 178 968 Attributable to BHP shareholders 5,890 6,385 1,910 Basic earnings loss per ordinary share cents 6 110.7 120.0 35.9 Diluted earnings loss per ordinary share cents 6 110.4 120.0 35.8 Basic earnings loss from Continuing operations per ordinary share cents 6 120.0 65.5 110.7 Diluted earnings loss from Continuing operations per ordinary share cents 6 110.4 120.0 65.3 Dividends per ordinary share paid during the period cents 17 54.0 78.0 124.0 Dividends per ordinary share determined in respect of the period cents 17 83.0 30.0 124.0 The accompanying notes form part of these Financial Statements.
2 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income for the year ended 30 June 2017 2017 2016 2015 Notes US$M US$M US$M Profit loss after taxation from Continuing and Discontinued operations 6,222 6,207 2,878 Other comprehensive income Items that may be reclassified subsequently to the income statement: Available for sale investments: Net valuation losses gains taken to equity 1 2 21 Net valuation losses gains transferred to the income statement 1 115 Cash flow hedges: Gains losses taken to equity 351 566 1,797 Gains losses transferred to the income statement 432 664 1,815 Exchange fluctuations on translation of foreign operations taken to equity 1 1 2 Exchange fluctuations on translation of foreign operations transferred to income statement 10 Tax recognised within other comprehensive income 5 24 30 29 Total items that may be reclassified subsequently to the income statement 59 60 91 Items that will not be reclassified to the income statement: Remeasurement gains losses on pension and medical schemes 36 20 28 Tax recognised within other comprehensive income 5 26 17 17 Total items that will not be reclassified to the income statement 10 37 45 Total other comprehensive loss income 49 23 136 Total comprehensive income loss 6,173 6,184 2,742 Attributable to non-controlling interests 332 176 973 Attributable to BHP shareholders 5,841 6,360 1,769 The accompanying notes form part of these Financial Statements.
BHP Annual Report 2017 155 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information 5.1.
3 Consolidated Balance Sheet as at 30 June 2017 2017 2016 Notes US$M US$M ASSETS Current assets Cash and cash equivalents 19 14,153 10,319 Trade and other receivables 7 2,836 3,155 Other financial assets 21 72 121 Inventories 9 3,673 3,411 Current tax assets 195 567 Other 127 141 Total current assets 21,056 17,714 Non-current assets Trade and other receivables 7 803 867 Other financial assets 21 1,281 2,680 Inventories 9 1,095 764 Property, plant and equipment 10 80,497 83,975 Intangible assets 11 3,968 4,119 Investments accounted for using the equity method 29 2,448 2,575 Deferred tax assets 13 5,788 6,147 Other 70 112 Total non-current assets 95,950 101,239 Total assets 117,006 118,953 LIABILITIES Current liabilities Trade and other payables 8 5,551 5,389 Interest bearing liabilities 19 1,241 4,653 Other financial liabilities 21 394 5 Current tax payable 2,119 451 Provisions 3, 14, 18, 24 1,959 1,765 Deferred income 102 77 Total current liabilities 11,366 12,340 Non-current liabilities Trade and other payables 8 5 13 Interest bearing liabilities 19 29,233 31,768 Other financial liabilities 21 1,106 1,778 Deferred tax liabilities 13 4,324 3,765 Provisions 3, 14, 18, 24 8,445 8,381 Deferred income 360 278 Total non-current liabilities 42,914 46,542 Total liabilities 54,280 58,882 60,071 Net assets 62,726 EQUITY Share capital BHP Billiton Limited 1,186 1,186 Share capital BHP Billiton Plc 1,057 1,057 Treasury shares 3 33 Reserves 16 2,400 2,538 Retained earnings 52,618 49,542 Total equity attributable to BHP shareholders 57,258 54,290 Non-controlling interests 16 5,468 5,781 Total equity 62,726 60,071 The accompanying notes form part of these Financial Statements.
The Financial Statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 7 September 2017 and signed on its behalf by: Ken MacKenzie Andrew Mackenzie Chairman Chief Executive Officer 156 BHP Annual Report 2017 Financial Statements 5.1.
4 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement for the year ended 30 June 2017 2017 2016 2015 Notes US$M US$M US$M Operating activities Profit loss before taxation from Continuing operations 10,322 7,259 8,056 Adjustments for: Non-cash or non-operating exceptional items 350 9,645 3,196 Depreciation and amortisation expense 7,719 8,661 9,158 Impairments of property, plant and equipment, financial assets and intangibles 188 210 828 Net finance costs 1,304 1,024 614 Share of operating profit of equity accounted investments 444 276 548 Other 290 459 503 5 Changes in assets and liabilities: Trade and other receivables 315 1,714 1,431 Inventories 679 527 151 Trade and other payables 337 1,661 990 Provisions and other assets and liabilities 325 373 779 Cash generated from operations 19,377 12,671 21,620 Dividends received 636 301 740 Interest received 164 128 86 Interest paid 1,149 830 627 Settlement of cash management related instruments 140 Net income tax and royalty-related taxation refunded 501 641 348 Net income tax and royalty-related taxation paid 2,585 2,286 4,373 Net operating cash flows from Continuing operations 16,804 10,625 17,794 Net operating cash flows from Discontinued operations 27 1,502 Net operating cash flows 16,804 10,625 19,296 Investing activities Purchases of property, plant and equipment 4,252 6,946 11,947 Exploration expenditure 968 765 816 Exploration expenditure expensed and included in operating cash flows 612 430 670 Net investment and funding of equity accounted investments 234 40 117 Proceeds from sale of assets 648 107 74 Proceeds from divestment of subsidiaries, operations and joint operations, net of their cash 35 186 166 256 Other investing 153 277 144 Net investing cash flows from Continuing operations 4,161 7,245 11,502 Net investing cash flows from Discontinued operations 27 1,066 Cash disposed on demerger of South32 27 586 Net investing cash flows 4,161 7,245 13,154 Financing activities Proceeds from interest bearing liabilities 1,577 7,239 3,440 Proceeds settlements from debt related instruments 156 33 36 Repayment of interest bearing liabilities 7,120 2,788 4,135 Proceeds from ordinary shares 9 Distributions contributions to from non-controlling interests 16 53 Purchase of shares by Employee Share Ownership Plan ESOP Trusts 108 106 355 Dividends paid 2,921 4,130 6,498 Dividends paid to non-controlling interests 581 87 554 Net financing cash flows from Continuing operations 9,133 284 8,073 Net financing cash flows from Discontinued operations 27 203 Net financing cash flows 9,133 284 8,276 Net increase decrease in cash and cash equivalents from Continuing operations 3,510 3,664 1,781 Net increase in cash and cash equivalents from Discontinued operations 27 233 Cash and cash equivalents, net of overdrafts, at the beginning of the financial year 10,276 6,613 8,752 Cash disposed on demerger of South32 27 586 Foreign currency exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents 322 1 5 Cash and cash equivalents, net of overdrafts, at the end of the financial year 19 14,108 10,276 6,613 The accompanying notes form part of these Financial Statements.
BHP Annual Report 2017 157 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information 5.1.
5 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity for the year ended 30 June 2017 Attributable to BHP shareholders Share capital Treasury shares Total equity BHP BHP BHP BHP attributable NonBilliton Billiton Billiton Billiton Retained to BHP controlling Total US$M Limited Plc Limited Plc Reserves earnings shareholders interests equity Balance as at 1 July 2016 1,186 1,057 7 26 2,538 49,542 54,290 5,781 60,071 Total comprehensive income 59 5,900 5,841 332 6,173 Transactions with owners: Purchase of shares by ESOP Trusts 105 3 108 108 Employee share awards exercised net of employee contributions 110 28 167 29 Employee share awards forfeited 18 18 Accrued employee entitlement for unexercised awards 106 106 106 Distribution to non-controlling interests 16 16 Dividends 2,871 2,871 601 3,472 Divestment of subsidiaries, operations and joint operations 28 28 Balance as at 30 June 2017 1,186 1,057 2 1 2,400 52,618 57,258 5,468 62,726 Balance as at 1 July 2015 1,186 1,057 19 57 2,557 60,044 64,768 5,777 70,545 Total comprehensive loss 60 6,420 6,360 176 6,184 Transactions with owners: Purchase of shares by ESOP Trusts 106 106 106 Employee share awards exercised net of employee contributions 118 31 193 46 2 2 Employee share awards forfeited 26 26 Accrued employee entitlement for unexercised awards 140 140 140 Dividends 4,154 4,154 172 4,326 Balance as at 30 June 2016 1,186 1,057 7 26 2,538 49,542 54,290 5,781 60,071 Balance as at 1 July 2014 1,186 1,069 51 536 2,927 74,548 79,143 6,239 85,382 Total comprehensive income 96 1,865 1,769 973 2,742 Transactions with owners: Shares cancelled 12 501 12 501 Purchase of shares by ESOP Trusts 232 123 355 355 Employee share awards exercised net of employee contributions and other adjustments 264 99 461 101 3 3 Employee share awards forfeited 13 13 Accrued employee entitlement for unexercised awards 247 247 247 Distribution to option holders 1 1 1 2 Dividends 6,596 6,596 639 7,235 In-specie dividend on demerger refer to note 27 Discontinued operations 9,445 9,445 9,445 Equity contributed 1 1 52 53 Transfers within equity on demerger 59 59 Conversion of controlled entities to equity accounted investments 2 2 847 845 Balance as at 30 June 2015 1,186 1,057 19 57 2,557 60,044 64,768 5,777 70,545 The accompanying notes form part of these Financial Statements.
158 BHP Annual Report 2017 Financial Statements Principles of consolidation Basis of preparation The Groups Financial Statements as at and for the year ended In preparing the Financial Statements the effects of all intragroup 30 June 2017: balances and transactions have been eliminated.
is a consolidated general purpose financial report: A list of significant entities in the Group, including subsidiaries, joint has been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the: arrangements and associates at year-end is contained in note 28 Australian Corporations Act 2001: Subsidiaries, note 29 Investments accounted for using the equity method and note 30 Interests in joint operations.
UK Companies Act 2006: has been prepared in accordance with accounting standards and Subsidiaries: The Financial Statements of the Group include interpretations collectively referred to as IFRS in this report, which the consolidation of BHP Billiton Limited, BHP Billiton Plc and their encompass the: respective subsidiaries being the entities controlled by the parent International Financial Reporting Standards and interpretations entities during the year.
Control exists where the Group is: as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board: exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement Australian Accounting Standards, being Australian equivalents with the entity: 5 to International Financial Reporting Standards and interpretations has the ability to affect those returns through its power to direct as issued by the Australian Accounting Standards Board AASB : the activities of the entity.
International Financial Reporting Standards and interpretations The ability to approve the operating and capital budget of a adopted by the European Union EU : subsidiary and the ability to appoint key management personnel is prepared on a going concern basis: are decisions that demonstrate that the Group has the existing measures items on the basis of historical cost principles, except for rights to direct the relevant activities of a subsidiary.
Where the the following items: Groups interest is less than 100 per cent, the interest attributable derivative financial instruments and certain other financial assets, to outside shareholders is reflected in non-controlling interests.
which are carried at fair value: The Financial Statements of subsidiaries are prepared for the same reporting period as the Group, using consistent accounting policies.
non-current assets or disposal groups that are classified as The acquisition method of accounting is used to account for the held-for-sale or , which are measured at Groups business combinations.
the lower of carrying amount and fair value less cost to dispose: includes significant accounting policies in the notes to the Joint arrangements: The Group undertakes a number of business Financial Statements that summarise the recognition activities through joint arrangements, which exist when two or more and measurement basis used and are relevant to an understanding parties have joint control.
Joint arrangements are classified as either of the Financial Statements: joint operations or joint ventures, based on the contractual rights includes selected financial information of the BHP Billiton Limited and obligations between the parties to the arrangement.
parent entity in note 37 BHP Billiton Limited.
Financial Statements The Group has two types of joint arrangements: of the BHP Billiton Plc parent entity are presented in section 5.2 Joint operations: A joint operation is an arrangement in which BHP Billiton Plc: the Group shares joint control, primarily via contractual applies a presentation currency of US dollars, consistent with the arrangements with other parties.
In a joint operation, the Group predominant functional currency of the Groups operations.
Amounts has rights to the assets and obligations for the liabilities relating are rounded to the nearest million dollars, unless otherwise stated, to the arrangement.
This includes situations where the parties in accordance with ASIC Rounding in Financial Directors Reports benefit from the joint activity through a share of the output, Instrument 2016 191: rather than by receiving a share of the results of trading.
In relation presents reclassified comparative information where required for to the Groups interest in a joint operation, the Group recognises: consistency with the current years presentation: its share of assets and liabilities: revenue from the sale of its share adopts all new and amended standards and interpretations under of the output and its share of any revenue generated from the IFRS issued by the relevant bodies listed above, that are mandatory sale of the output by the joint operation: and its share of expenses.
for application beginning on or after 1 July 2016.
None had a All such amounts are measured in accordance with the terms significant impact on the Financial Statements: of the arrangement, which is usually in proportion to the Groups has not early adopted any standards and interpretations that have interest in the joint operation.
been issued or amended but are not yet effective.
Joint ventures: A joint venture is a joint arrangement in which the parties that share joint control have rights to the net assets The accounting policies have been consistently applied by all entities of the arrangement.
A separate vehicle, not the parties, will have included in the Financial Statements and are consistent with those the rights to the assets and obligations to the liabilities relating applied in all prior years presented.
More than an insignificant share of output from a joint venture is sold to third parties, which indicates the joint venture is not dependent on the parties to the arrangement for funding, nor do the parties have an obligation for the liabilities of the arrangement.
Joint ventures are accounted for using the equity accounting method.
Associates: The Group accounts for investments in associates using the equity accounting method.
An entity is considered an associate where the Group is deemed to have significant influence but not control or joint control.
Significant influence is presumed to exist where the Group: has over 20 per cent of the voting rights of an entity, unless it can be clearly demonstrated that this is not the case: or holds less than 20 per cent of the voting rights of an entity: however, has the power to participate in the financial and operating policy decisions affecting the entity.
The Group uses the term equity accounted investments to refer to joint ventures and associates collectively.
BHP Annual Report 2017 159 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information Foreign currencies Critical accounting policies, judgements and estimates Transactions related to the Groups worldwide operations are conducted in a number of foreign currencies.
The majority of The Group has identified a number of critical accounting operations have assessed US dollars as the functional currency, policies under which significant judgements, estimates and however, some subsidiaries, joint arrangements and associates assumptions are made.
Actual results may differ for these have functional currencies other than US dollars.
estimates under different assumptions and conditions.
This may materially affect financial results and the carrying Monetary items denominated in foreign currencies are translated amount of assets and liabilities to be reported in the next into US dollars as follows: and future periods.
Foreign currency item Applicable exchange rate Additional information relating to these critical accounting policies is embedded within the following notes: Transactions Date of underlying transaction Monetary assets and liabilities Period-end rate Note 5 Taxation Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from translation are 9 Inventories recognised in the income statement, except for qualifying cash flow hedges which are deferred to equity and foreign exchange 10 and 11 Exploration and evaluation gains or losses on foreign currency provisions for site closure 10 Development expenditure and rehabilitation costs which are capitalised in property, plant and equipment for operating sites.
10 Overburden removal costs 10 Depreciation of property, plant and On consolidation, the assets, liabilities, income and expenses equipment of non-US dollar denominated functional operations are translated into US dollars using the following applicable exchange rates: 10, 11 and 12 Property, plant and equipment, Intangible assets and Impairments of non-current Foreign currency amount Applicable exchange rate assets recoverable amount 14 Closure and rehabilitation provisions Income and expenses Date of underlying transaction Assets and liabilities Period-end rate Reserve estimates Equity Historical rate Reserves are estimates of the amount of product that Reserves Historical and period-end rate can be economically and legally extracted from the Groups properties.
In order to estimate reserves, estimates are required for a range of geological, technical and Foreign exchange differences resulting from translation are initially economic factors, including quantities, grades, production recognised in the foreign currency translation reserve and techniques, recovery rates, production costs, transport subsequently transferred to the income statement on disposal costs, commodity demand, commodity prices and of a foreign operation.
Estimating the quantity and or grade of reserves requires the size, shape and depth of ore bodies or fields to be determined by analysing geological data such as drilling samples.
This process may require complex and difficult geological judgements to interpret the data.
Additional information on the Groups mineral and oil and gas reserves and resources can be viewed within section 6.3.
Section 6.3 is unaudited and does not form part of these Financial Statements.
Reserve impact on financial reporting Estimates of reserves may change from period-to-period as the economic assumptions used to estimate reserves change and additional geological data is generated during the course of operations.
Changes in reserves may affect the Groups financial results and financial position in a number of ways, including: asset carrying values may be affected due to changes in estimated future production levels: depreciation, depletion and amortisation charged in the income statement may change where such charges are determined on the units of production basis, or where the useful economic lives of assets change: overburden removal costs recorded on the balance sheet or charged to the income statement may change due to changes in stripping ratios or the units of production basis of depreciation: decommissioning, site restoration and environmental provisions may change where changes in estimated reserves affect expectations about the timing or cost of these activities: the carrying amount of deferred tax assets may change due to changes in estimates of the likely recovery of the tax benefits.
160 BHP Annual Report 2017 Financial Statements 5.1.
6 Notes to the Financial Statements Performance 1 | Segment reporting Reportable segments The Group operated four reportable segments during FY2017, which are aligned with the commodities that are extracted and marketed and reflect the structure used by the Groups management to assess the performance of the Group.
Reportable segment Principal activities 5 Petroleum Exploration, development and production of oil and gas Copper Mining of copper, silver, lead, zinc, molybdenum, uranium and gold Iron Ore Mining of iron ore Coal Mining of metallurgical coal and energy coal The segment reporting information for FY2015 has been presented on a Continuing operations basis to exclude the contribution from assets that were demerged with South32.
Group and unallocated items includes functions and other unallocated operations, including Potash, Nickel West and consolidation adjustments.
Revenue not attributable to reportable segments comprises the sale of freight and fuel to third parties, as well as revenues from unallocated operations.
Exploration and technology activities are recognised within relevant segments.
Group and unallocated Year ended 30 June 2017 items US$M Petroleum Copper Iron Ore Coal eliminations Group total Revenue 6,789 8,335 14,606 7,578 977 38,285 Inter-segment revenue 83 18 101 Total revenue 6,872 8,335 14,624 7,578 876 38,285 Underlying EBITDA 4,063 3,545 9,077 3,784 173 20,296 Depreciation and amortisation 3,395 1,525 1,828 719 252 7,719 Impairment losses 102 14 52 15 5 188 Underlying EBIT 566 2,006 7,197 3,050 430 12,389 1 Exceptional items 546 203 164 51 636 Net finance costs 1,431 Profit before taxation 10,322 Capital expenditure cash basis 1,472 1,484 805 246 245 4,252 Profit loss from equity accounted investments, related impairments and expenses 3 295 172 152 272 Investments accounted for using the equity method 264 1,306 873 5 2,448 Total assets 28,984 26,743 22,781 11,996 26,502 117,006 Total liabilities 5,803 2,643 3,606 1,860 40,368 54,280 BHP Annual Report 2017 161 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information 1 | Segment reporting continued Group and unallocated Year ended 30 June 2016 items US$M Petroleum Copper Iron Ore Coal eliminations Group total Revenue 6,776 8,249 10,516 4,518 853 30,912 Inter-segment revenue 118 22 140 Total revenue 6,894 8,249 10,538 4,518 713 30,912 Underlying EBITDA 3,658 2,619 5,599 635 171 12,340 Depreciation and amortisation 4,147 1,560 1,817 890 247 8,661 Impairment losses 48 17 42 94 9 210 Underlying EBIT 537 1,042 3,740 349 427 3,469 1 Exceptional items 7,184 2,388 132 9,704 Net finance costs 1,024 Loss before taxation 7,259 Capital expenditure cash basis 2,517 2,786 1,061 298 284 6,946 Profit loss from equity accounted investments, related impairments and expenses 7 155 2,244 9 1 2,104 Investments accounted for using the equity method 280 1,388 901 6 2,575 Total assets 30,476 26,143 24,330 12,754 25,250 118,953 Total liabilities 5,308 2,299 3,789 2,103 45,383 58,882 Group and unallocated Year ended 30 June 2015 items US$M Petroleum Copper Iron Ore Coal eliminations Group total Revenue 11,180 11,453 14,649 5,885 1,469 44,636 Inter-segment revenue 267 104 371 Total revenue 11,447 11,453 14,753 5,885 1,098 44,636 Underlying EBITDA 7,201 5,205 8,648 1,242 444 21,852 Depreciation and amortisation 4,738 1,545 1,698 875 302 9,158 Impairment losses 477 307 18 19 7 828 Underlying EBIT 1,986 3,353 6,932 348 753 11,866 Exceptional items 2,787 409 3,196 Net finance costs 614 Profit before taxation 8,056 Capital expenditure cash basis 5,023 3,822 1,930 729 443 11,947 Profit loss from equity accounted investments, related impairments and expenses 175 371 1 1 548 Investments accounted for using the equity method 287 1,422 1,044 956 3 3,712 Total assets 40,325 26,340 26,808 14,182 16,925 124,580 Total liabilities 6,722 2,639 2,854 2,413 39,407 54,035 1 Exceptional items of US$ 51 million FY2016: US$ 62 million reported in Group and unallocated also related to the Samarco dam failure.
Refer to note 2 Exceptional items for further information.
Underlying EBITDA Recognition and measurement Underlying EBITDA is earnings before net finance costs, depreciation, Revenue amortisation and impairments, taxation expense, Discontinued Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received operations and any exceptional items.
Underlying EBITDA includes or receivable.
BHPs share of profit loss from investments accounted for using the Sale of products equity method including net finance costs, depreciation, amortisation and impairments and taxation expense.
Revenue is recognised when the risk and rewards of ownership of the goods have passed to the buyer based on agreed delivery terms and Underlying EBITDA is the key alternate performance measure that it can be measured reliably.
Depending on customer terms this can management uses internally to assess the performance of the Groups be based on issuance of a bill of lading or when delivery is completed segments and make decisions on the allocation of resources and, as per the agreement with the customer.
in the Groups view, is more relevant to capital intensive industries with long-life assets.
Provisionally priced sales Revenue on provisionally priced sales is initially recognised at the Prior to FY2016, we reported Underlying EBIT as a key alternate estimated fair value of consideration receivable with reference to the performance measure of operating results.
Management believes relevant forward and or contractual price and the determined mineral focusing on Underlying EBITDA more closely reflects the operating or hydrocarbon specifications.
Subsequently, provisionally priced cash generative capacity and hence the underlying performance sales are marked to market at each reporting period up until when of the Groups business.
Management also uses this measure because final pricing and settlement is confirmed with the fair value adjustment financing structures and tax regimes differ across the Groups assets recognised in revenue in the period identified.
Refer to note 21 and substantial components of the Groups tax and interest charges Financial risk management for details of provisionally priced sales are levied at a Group level rather than an operational level.
The period between provisional pricing We exclude exceptional items from Underlying EBITDA in order to and final invoicing is typically between 60 and 120 days.
enhance the comparability of such measures from period-to-period and provide our investors with further clarity in order to assess the underlying performance of our operations.
Management monitors exceptional items separately.
Refer to note 2 Exceptional items for additional detail.
Segment assets and liabilities Total segment assets and liabilities of reportable segments represents operating assets net of operating liabilities, including the carrying amount of equity accounted investments and predominantly excludes cash balances, loans to associates, interest bearing liabilities and deferred tax balances.
The carrying value of investments accounted for using the equity method represents the balance of the Groups investment in equity accounted investments, with no adjustment for any cash balances, interest bearing liabilities or deferred tax balances of the equity accounted investment.
BHP Annual Report 2017 163 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information 2 | Exceptional items Exceptional items are those items where their nature, including the expected frequency of the events giving rise to them, and amount is considered material to the Financial Statements.
Such items included within the Groups profit for the year are detailed below: Gross Tax Net Year ended 30 June 2017 US$M US$M US$M Exceptional items by category Samarco dam failure 381 381 Escondida industrial action 546 179 367 Cancellation of the Caroona exploration licence 164 49 115 Withholding tax on Chilean dividends 373 373 Total 763 243 1,006 Attributable to non-controlling interests Escondida industrial action 232 68 164 Attributable to BHP shareholders 531 311 842 Samarco Minerao S. A. Samarco dam failure The FY2017 exceptional loss of US$381 million related to the Samarco dam failure in November 2015 comprises the following: Year ended 30 June 2017 US$M Expenses excluding net finance costs: Costs incurred directly by BHP Billiton Brasil Ltda and other BHP entities in relation to the Samarco dam failure 82 Loss from equity accounted investments, related impairments and expenses: Share of loss relating to the Samarco dam failure 134 Samarco dam failure provision 38 Net finance costs 127 1 Total 381 1 Refer to note 3 Significant events Samarco dam failure for further information.
Escondida industrial action Our Escondida asset in Chile began negotiations with Union N1 on a new collective agreement in December 2016, as the existing agreement was expiring on 31 January 2017.
Negotiations, including government-led mediation, failed and the union commenced strike action on 9 February 2017 resulting in a total shutdown of operations, including work on the expansion of key projects.
On 24 March 2017, following a 44-day strike and a revised offer being presented to union members, Union N1 exercised its rights under Article 369 of the Chilean Labour Code to extend the existing collective agreement for 18 months.
Industrial action through this period resulted in a reduction to FY2017 copper production of 214 kt and gave rise to idle capacity charges of US$546 million, including depreciation of US$212 million.
Cancellation of the Caroona exploration licence Following the Groups agreement with the New South Wales Government in August 2016 to cancel the exploration licence of the Caroona Coal project, a net gain of US$115 million after tax expense has been recognised.
Withholding tax on Chilean dividends BHP Billiton Chile Inversiones Limitada paid a one-off US$2.3 billion dividend to its parent in April 2017 while a concessional tax rate was available, resulting in withholding tax of US$373 million.
Gross Tax Net Year ended 30 June 2016 US$M US$M US$M Exceptional items by category Samarco dam failure 2,450 253 2,197 Impairment of Onshore US assets 7,184 2,300 4,884 Global taxation matters 70 500 570 Total 9,704 2,053 7,651 Attributable to non-controlling interests Impairment of Onshore US assets 80 29 51 Attributable to BHP shareholders 9,624 2,024 7,600 Samarco Minerao S. A. Samarco dam failure The exceptional loss of US$2,450 million before tax related to the Samarco dam failure in November 2015 comprises the following: Year ended 30 June 2016 US$M Expenses excluding net finance costs: Costs incurred directly by BHP Billiton Brasil Ltda and other BHP entities in relation to the Samarco dam failure 70 Loss from equity accounted investments, related impairments and expenses: Share of loss relating to the Samarco dam failure 655 Impairment of the carrying value of the investment in Samarco 525 Samarco dam failure provision 1,200 1 Total 2,450 1 BHP Billiton Brasil Ltda has adjusted its investment in Samarco to US$ nil resulting from US$ 655 million share of loss from Samarco and US$ 525 million impairment, recognised a provision of US$ 1,200 million for potential obligations under the Framework Agreement and together with other BHP entities incurred US$ 70 million of direct costs in relation to the Samarco dam failure.
US$ 572 million of the US$ 1,200 million provision represents an additional share of loss from Samarco with the remaining US$ 628 million recognised as provision expense.
Refer to note 3 Significant events Samarco dam failure for further information.
164 BHP Annual Report 2017 Financial Statements 2 | Exceptional items continued Impairment of Onshore US assets The Group recognised an impairment charge of US$4,884 million after tax benefit against the carrying value of its Onshore US assets in the year ended 30 June 2016.
The impairment reflects changes to price assumptions, discount rates and development plans.
This follows significant volatility and much weaker prices experienced in the oil and gas industry, which have more than offset the Groups substantial productivity improvements.
Global taxation matters Global taxation matters include amounts provided for unresolved tax matters and other claims for which the timing of resolution and potential economic outflow are uncertain.
Gross Tax Net Year ended 30 June 2015 US$M US$M US$M Exceptional items by category 5 Impairment of Onshore US assets 2,787 829 1,958 Impairment of Nickel West assets 409 119 290 Repeal of Minerals Resource Rent Tax legislation 698 698 Total 3,196 250 2,946 Attributable to non-controlling interests Repeal of Minerals Resource Rent Tax legislation 12 12 Attributable to BHP shareholders 3,196 262 2,934 Impairment of Onshore US assets The Group recognised an impairment charge of US$1,958 million after tax benefit in relation to its Onshore US assets.
The gas-focused Hawkville field accounts for the substantial majority of this charge reflecting its geological complexity, product mix, acreage relinquishments and amended development plans.
The remainder relates to the impairment of goodwill associated with the Petrohawk acquisition.
Impairment of Nickel West assets The Group announced on 12 November 2014 that the review of its Nickel West business was complete and the preferred option, the sale of the business, was not achieved on an acceptable basis.
As a result of operational decisions made subsequent to the conclusion of this process, an impairment charge of US$290 million after tax benefit was recognised in the year ended 30 June 2015.
Repeal of Minerals Resource Rent Tax legislation The legislation to repeal the Minerals Resource Rent Tax MRRT in Australia took effect on 30 September 2014.
As a result, the Group derecognised a MRRT deferred tax asset of US$809 million and corresponding taxation charges of US$698 million related to Continuing operations and US$111 million related to Discontinued operations were recognised in the year ended 30 June 2015.
3 | Significant events Samarco dam failure On 5 November 2015, the Samarco Minerao S. A. Samarco iron ore operation in Minas Gerais, Brazil, experienced a tailings dam failure that resulted in a release of mine tailings, flooding the communities of Bento Rodrigues, Gesteira and Paracatu and impacting other communities downstream the Samarco dam failure.
Samarco is jointly owned by BHP Billiton Brasil Ltda BHP Billiton Brasil and Vale S. A. Vale.
BHP Billiton Brasils 50 per cent interest is accounted for as an equity accounted joint venture investment.
BHP Billiton Brasil does not separately recognise its share of the underlying assets and liabilities of Samarco, but instead records the investment as one line on the balance sheet.
Each period, BHP Billiton Brasil recognises its 50 per cent share of Samarcos profit or loss and adjusts the carrying value of the investment in Samarco accordingly.
Such adjustment continues until the investment carrying value is reduced to US$ nil, with any additional share of Samarco losses only recognised to the extent that BHP Billiton Brasil has an obligation to fund the losses, or when future investment funding is provided.
After applying equity accounting, any remaining carrying value of the investment is tested for impairment.
Any charges relating to the Samarco dam failure incurred directly by BHP Billiton Brasil or other BHP entities are recognised 100 per cent in the Groups results.
The financial impacts of the Samarco dam failure on the Groups income statement, balance sheet and cash flow statement for the year ended 30 June 2017 are shown in the table below and have been treated as an exceptional item.
The table below does not include BHP Billiton Brasils share of the results of Samarco prior to the Samarco dam failure, which is disclosed in note 29 Investments accounted for using the equity method, along with the summary financial information related to Samarco as at 30 June 2017.
2017 2016 Financial impacts of Samarco dam failure US$M US$M Income statement Expenses excluding net finance costs: 1 2 Costs incurred directly by BHP Billiton Brasil and other BHP entities in relation to the Samarco dam failure 82 70 Loss from equity accounted investments, related impairments and expenses: 2 3 Share of loss relating to the Samarco dam failure 134 655 3 Impairment of the carrying value of the investment in Samarco 525 2 3 Samarco dam failure provision 38 1,200 Loss from operations 254 2,450 Net finance costs 127 Loss before taxation 381 2,450 Income tax benefit 253 Loss after taxation 381 2,197 Balance sheet movement Trade and other payables 3 11 Investments accounted for using the equity method 1,180 Deferred tax assets 158 Provisions 143 1,200 Deferred tax liabilities 411 Net assets liabilities 140 2,138 BHP Annual Report 2017 165 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information 3 | Significant events Samarco dam failure continued 2017 2016 US$M US$M Cash flow statement Loss before taxation 381 2,450 Comprising: Costs incurred directly by BHP Billiton Brasil and other BHP entities in relation 82 70 1 2 to the Samarco dam failure 2 3 Share of loss relating to the Samarco dam failure 134 655 3 Impairment of the carrying value of the investment in Samarco 525 2 3 Samarco dam failure provision 38 1,200 Net finance costs 127 Non-cash or non-operating exceptional items 302 2,391 Net operating cash flows 79 59 4 Net investment and funding of equity accounted investments 442 Net investing cash flows 442 59 Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents 521 1 Includes legal and advisor costs incurred.
2 Financial impacts of US$ 381 million from the Samarco dam failure relates to US$ 134 million share of loss from US$ 134 million funding provided during the period, US$ 82 million direct costs incurred by BHP Billiton Brasil Ltda and other BHP entities, US$ 127 million amortisation of discounting impacting net finance costs and US$ 38 million other movements in the Samarco dam failure provision including foreign exchange.
3 At 30 June 2016, BHP Billiton Brasil Ltda adjusted its investment in Samarco to US$ nil resulting from US$ 655 million share of loss from Samarco and US$ 525 million impairment and recognised a provision of US$ 1,200 million for obligations under the Framework Agreement.
4 Includes US$ 134 million funding provided during the period and US$ 308 million utilisation of the Samarco dam failure provision, of which US$ 278 million allowed for the continuation of reparatory and compensatory programs in relation to the Framework Agreement and a further US$ 30 million for dam stabilisation.
Equity accounted investment in Samarco BHP Billiton Brasils investment in Samarco remains at US$ nil.
BHP Billiton Brasil provided US$134 million funding under a working capital facility during the period and recognised additional share of losses of US$134 million.
No dividends have been received by BHP Billiton Brasil from Samarco during the period.
Samarco currently does not have profits available for distribution and is legally prevented from paying previously declared and unpaid dividends.
Provision for Samarco dam failure 2017 2016 US$M US$M At the beginning of the financial year 1,200 Provision recognition, comprising: Share of loss relating to the Samarco dam failure 572 Samarco dam failure provision expense 628 Movement in provision 143 Comprising: Utilised 308 Adjustments charged to the income statement: Amortisation of discounting impacting net finance costs 127 1 Other 38 At the end of the financial year 1,057 1,200 Comprising: Current 310 300 Non-current 747 900 At the end of the financial year 1,057 1,200 1 US$38 million relates to other movements in the Samarco dam failure provision including foreign exchange.
166 BHP Annual Report 2017 Financial Statements 3 | Significant events Samarco dam failure continued Dam failure provisions and contingencies As at 30 June 2017, BHP Billiton Brasil has identified provisions and On 30 June 2017, BHP Billiton Brasil approved a further US$174 million contingent liabilities arising as a consequence of the Samarco dam to support Fundao Renova, in the event Samarco does not meet its failure as follows: funding obligations under the Framework Agreement.
Any support to Fundao Renova provided by BHP Billiton Brasil will be offset Environment and socio-economic remediation against the provision for the Samarco dam failure.
Framework Agreement Preliminary Agreement On 2 March 2016, BHP Billiton Brasil, together with Samarco and Vale, On 18 January 2017, BHP Billiton Brasil, together with Samarco entered into a Framework Agreement with the Federal Government and Vale, entered into a Preliminary Agreement with the Federal of Brazil, the states of Esprito Santo and Minas Gerais and certain Prosecutors Office in Brazil, which outlines the process and other public authorities to establish a foundation Fundao Renova timeline for further negotiation towards a settlement regarding that will develop and execute environmental and socio-economic 5 the R$20 billion approximately US$6.1 billion public civil claim programs to remediate and provide compensation for damage and R$155 billion approximately US$47 billion Federal Public caused by the Samarco dam failure.
On 5 May 2016, the Framework Prosecution Office claim relating to the dam failure.
Agreement was ratified by the Federal Court of Appeal.
The Preliminary Agreement provides for the appointment of The Federal Prosecutors Office appealed the ratification of the experts to advise the Federal Prosecutors in relation to social and Framework Agreement and on 30 June 2016, the Superior Court environmental remediation and the assessment and monitoring of Justice in Brazil issued a preliminary order Interim Order of programs under the Framework Agreement.
The expert suspending the 5 May 2016 ratification of the Framework Agreement.
advisors conclusions are not binding on BHP Billiton Brasil, BHP Billiton Brasil, Vale and Samarco have appealed the Interim Vale or Samarco but will be considered in the negotiation Order before the Superior Court of Justice.
While a final decision of a final settlement arrangement with the FederalProsecutors.
on ratification is pending, and negotiations, under the Preliminary Under the Preliminary Agreement, BHP Billiton Brasil, Vale and Agreement defined below, towards a settlement of the R$20 billion Samarco agreed interim security Interim Security comprising approximately US$6.1 billion public civil claim and R$155 billion R$1.3 billion approximately US$395 million in insurance bonds, approximately US$47 billion Federal Public Prosecution Office claim R$100 million approximately US$30 million in liquid assets, are ongoing, the Framework Agreement remains binding between the a charge of R$800 million approximately US$245 million over parties and Fundao Renova will continue to implement the Samarcos assets, and R$200 million approximately US$60 million programs under the Framework Agreement.
to be allocated within the next four years through existing The term of the Framework Agreement is 15 years, renewable for Framework Agreement programs in the Municipalities of Barra periods of one year successively until all obligations under the Longa, Rio Doce, Santa Cruz do Escalvado and Ponte Nova.
Framework Agreement have been performed.
Under the Framework On 24 January 2017, BHP Billiton Brasil, Vale and Samarco provided Agreement, Samarco is responsible for funding Fundao Renova the Interim Security to the Court which was to remain in place with calendar year contributions as follows: until the earlier of 30 June 2017 and the date that a final settlement R$2 billion US$599 million in 2016: arrangement was agreed between the Federal Prosecutors, R$1.2 billion approximately US$365 million in 2017: and BHP Billiton Brasil, Vale and Samarco.
On 29 June 2017, R$1.2 billion approximately US$365 million in 2018: the Court extended the final date for negotiation of a settlement R$500 million approximately US$150 million for a special until 30October 2017, allowing for the continuation of the Interim project to be spent on sewage treatment and landfill works Security arrangements and the provision of ongoing expert advice from 20162018. to the Federal Prosecutors in respect of the programs.
The parties will use best efforts to achieve a final settlement arrangement Annual contributions for each of the years 2019, 2020 and 2021 will by 30 October 2017 under the timeframe established in the be in the range of R$800 million approximately US$245 million Preliminary Agreement.
and R$1.6 billion approximately US$485 million, depending on the remediation and compensation projects which are to be undertaken Legal in the particular year.
Annual contributions may be reviewed under The following matters are disclosed as contingent liabilities: the Framework Agreement.
To the extent that Samarco does not meet BHP Billiton Brasil is among the companies named as defendants in a its funding obligations under the Framework Agreement, each of Vale number of legal proceedings initiated by individuals, non-governmental and BHP Billiton Brasil has funding obligations under the Framework organisations NGOs, corporations and governmental entities in Agreement in proportion to its 50 per cent shareholding in Samarco.
Brazilian federal and state courts following the Samarco dam failure.
Mining and processing operations remain suspended following The other defendants include Vale, Samarco and Fundao Renova.
Samarco is currently progressing plans to resume The lawsuits include claims for compensation, environmental operations, however significant uncertainties surrounding the rehabilitation and violations of Brazilian environmental and other laws, nature and timing of ongoing future operations remain.
In light of among other matters.
The lawsuits seek various remedies, including these uncertainties and based on currently available information, rehabilitation costs, compensation to injured individuals and families at 30 June 2017, BHP Billiton Brasil has recognised a provision of of the deceased, recovery of personal and property losses, moral US$1.1 billion before tax and after discounting 30 June 2016: damages and injunctive relief.
It is not possible at this time to provide US$1.2 billion, in respect of its obligations under the a range of possible outcomes or a reliable estimate of potential future Framework Agreement.
exposures for BHP Billiton Brasil.
The measurement of the provision requires the use of estimates In addition, government inquiries and investigations relating to the and assumptions and may be affected by, amongst other factors, Samarco dam failure have been commenced by numerous agencies potential changes in scope of work and funding amounts required of the Brazilian government and are ongoing.
under the Framework Agreement including further technical analysis Ultimately, all the legal matters disclosed as contingent liabilities required under the Preliminary Agreement, the outcome of the could have a material adverse impact on BHPs business, competitive ongoing negotiations with Federal Prosecutors, costs incurred in position, cash flows, prospects, liquidity and shareholder returns.
respect of programs delivered, resolution of uncertainty in respect of operational restart, updates to discount and foreign exchange Public civil claim rates, resolution of existing and potential legal claims and the status Among the claims brought against BHP Billiton Brasil, is a public of the Framework Agreement.
As a result, future actual expenditures civil claim commenced by the Federal Government of Brazil, may differ from the amounts currently provided and changes to key states of Esprito Santo, Minas Gerais and other public authorities assumptions and estimates could result in a material impact to the on 30 November 2015, seeking the establishment of a fund of amount of the provision in future reporting periods.
up to R$20 billion approximately US$6.1 billion in aggregate for As at 30 June 2017, BHP Billiton Brasil has paid US$278 million to clean-up costs and damages.
allow for the continuation of reparatory and compensatory programs On 2 March 2016, BHP Billiton Brasil, together with Samarco and Vale, in relation to the Framework Agreement and a further US$30 million entered into the Framework Agreement.
Ratification of the Framework for dam stabilisation, with the total US$308 million offset against the Agreement by the Federal Court of Appeal on 5 May 2016 suspended provision for the Samarco dam failure.
However, it was reinstated on 30 June 2016 upon issue of the Interim Order by the Superior Court of Justice in Brazil.
BHP Annual Report 2017 167 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information 3 | Significant events Samarco dam failure continued The amount of damages sought by the plaintiff on behalf of the While a final decision by the Court on the issue of ratification of putative class is unspecified.
Given the preliminary status of this the Framework Agreement is pending, the Preliminary Agreement matter, it is not possible at this time to provide a range of possible suspends a R$1.2 billion approximately US$365 million injunction order under the public civil claim.
outcomes or a reliable estimate of potential future exposures to BHP Billiton Limited, BHP Billiton Plc and BHP Billiton Brasil Ltda.
The Preliminary Agreement also requests suspension of the public civil claim with a decision from the Court pending.
The R$1.2 billion Criminal charges approximately US$365 million injunction order may be reinstated The Federal Prosecutors Office has filed criminal charges against if a final settlement arrangement is not agreed by 30 October 2017.
BHP Billiton Brasil, Samarco and Vale and certain employees and former employees of BHP Billiton Brasil Affected Individuals As noted above, BHP Billiton Brasil has recognised a provision in the Federal Court of Ponte Nova, Minas Gerais.
On 3 March 2017, as of 30 June 2017 of US$1.1 billion before tax and after discounting BHP Billiton Brasil filed its preliminary defences.
BHP Billiton Brasil 30 June 2016: US$1.2 billion in respect of its obligations under rejects outright the charges against the company and the Affected the Framework Agreement.
While a final decision on ratification Individuals and will defend the charges and fully support each of the Framework Agreement is pending, and negotiation of a of the Affected Individuals in their defence of the charges.
settlement of the R$20 billion approximately US$6.1 billion public civil claim and R$155 billion approximately US$47 billion Federal Under the criminal charges against BHP Billiton Brasil, Vale and Samarco Public Prosecution Office claim noted below under the Preliminary and certain individuals, a R$20 billion approximately US$6.1 billion Agreement are ongoing, the Framework Agreement remains binding asset freezing order application was made by the Federal Prosecutors.
between the parties and Fundao Renova will continue to In July 2017, the Federal Court of Ponte Nova denied the Federal implement the programs under the Framework Agreement.
Prosecutors application for an asset freezing order.
Given the status of these proceedings, it is not possible at this Given the status of this matter it is not possible at this time to provide time to provide a range of possible outcomes or a reliable estimate a range of possible outcomes or a reliable estimate of potential future of potential future exposures for BHP Billiton Brasil.
Federal Public Prosecution Office claim Other claims BHP Billiton Brasil is among the defendants named in a claim The civil public actions filed by State Prosecutors in Minas Gerais brought by the Federal Public Prosecution Office on 3 May 2016, claiming damages of approximately R$7.5 billion, US$2.3 billion, seeking R$155 billion approximately US$47 billion for reparation, State Prosecutors in Esprito Santo claiming damages of compensation and moral damages in relation to the Samarco approximately R$2 billion, US$605 million, and public defenders dam failure.
in Minas Gerais claiming damages of approximately R$10 billion, US$3 billion, have been consolidated before the 12th Federal Court.
With regard to the Preliminary Agreement the 12th Federal Court All of those civil public actions except the latter have also been suspended the Federal Public Prosecution Office claim, including suspended by the 12th Federal Court.
Given the preliminary status a R$7.7 billion approximately US$2.3 billion injunction request.
of these proceedings, and the duplicative nature of the damages However, proceedings may be resumed if a final settlement sought in these proceedings and the R$20 billion approximately arrangement is not agreed by 30 October 2017.
US$6.1 billion and R$155 billion approximately US$47 billion claims it is not possible at this time to provide a range of possible Given the status of these proceedings it is not possible at this outcomes or a reliable estimate of potential future exposures for time to provide a range of possible outcomes or a reliable estimate BHP Billiton Brasil.
of potential future exposures for BHP Billiton Brasil.
Additional lawsuits and government investigations relating to the Class action complaint shareholders Samarco dam failure may be brought against BHP Billiton Brasil and In February 2016, a putative class action complaint Complaint possibly other BHP entities in Brazil or other jurisdictions.
was filed in the U. S. District Court for the Southern District of New York on behalf of purchasers of American Depository Receipts BHPs potential liabilities, if any, resulting from other pending and of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc between 25 September future claims, lawsuits and enforcement actions relating to the 2014 and 30 November 2015 against BHP Billiton Limited and Samarco dam failure, together with the potential cost of implementing BHP Billiton Plc and certain of its current and former executive remedies sought in the various proceedings, cannot be reliably officers and directors.
The Complaint asserts claims under U. S. estimated at this time and therefore a provision has not been federal securities laws and indicates that the plaintiff will seek recognised and nor has any contingent liability been quantified for certification to proceed as a class action.
The amount of damages sought by the plaintiff on behalf of the BHP insurance putative class is unspecified.
On 14 October 2016, the defendants BHP has third party liability insurance for claims related to the moved to dismiss the Complaint.
In a decision of the District Samarco dam failure made directly against BHP Billiton Brasil or other Court dated 28 August 2017, the claims were dismissed in part, BHP entities.
External insurers have been advised of the Samarco including the claims against the current and former executive dam failure and a formal claim has been prepared and submitted.
At 30 June 2017, an insurance receivable has not been recognised for any potential recoveries under insurance arrangements.
Given the preliminary status of this matter, it is not possible at this time to provide a range of possible outcomes or a reliable Commitments estimate of potential future exposures to BHP Billiton Limited Under the terms of the Samarco joint venture agreement, and BHP Billiton Plc.
BHP Billiton Brasil does not have an existing obligation to fund Samarco.
For the year ended 30 June 2017, BHP Billiton Brasil Class action complaint bond holders has provided US$134 million funding to support Samarcos On 14 November 2016, a putative class action complaint Complaint operations and a further US$30 million for dam stabilisation, was filed in the U. S. District Court for the Southern District of New York with undrawn amounts of US$67 million expiring as at on behalf of all purchasers of Samarcos ten-year bond notes due 30 June 2017.
On 30 June 2017, BHP Billiton Brasil made available 20222024 between 31 October 2012 and 30 November 2015 a new short-term facility of up to US$76 million to carry out against Samarco and the former chief executive officer of Samarco.
remediation and stabilisation work and support Samarcos operations.
The Complaint asserts claims under the U. S. federal securities laws Funds will be released to Samarco only as required and subject and indicates that the plaintiff will seek certification to proceed to the achievement of key milestones with amounts undrawn as a class action.
On 6 March 2017, the Complaint was amended to include Any additional requests for funding or future investment provided BHP Billiton Limited, BHP Billiton Plc, BHP Billiton Brasil Ltda and would be subject to a future decision, accounted for at that time.
Vale S. A. and officers of Samarco, including four of Vale S. A. and BHP Billiton Brasil Ltdas nominees to the Samarco Board.
On 5 April 2017, the plaintiff dismissed the claims against the individuals.
The remaining corporate defendants filed a joint motion to dismiss the plaintiffs Complaint on 26 June 2017.
168 BHP Annual Report 2017 Financial Statements 3 | Significant events Samarco dam failure continued The following section includes disclosure required by IFRS of Preliminary Agreement Samarco Minerao S. A. s provisions, contingencies and other On 18 January 2017, Samarco, together with Vale and BHP Billiton matters arising from the dam failure.
Brasil, entered into a Preliminary Agreement with the Federal Prosecutors Office in Brazil, which outlines the process and Samarco timeline for further negotiations towards a settlement regarding Dam failure related provisions and contingencies the R$20 billion approximately US$6.1 billion public civil claim As at 30 June 2017, Samarco has identified provisions and and R$155 billion approximately US$47 billion Federal Public contingent liabilities arising as a consequence of the Samarco Prosecution Office claim relating to the dam failure.
dam failure as follows: The Preliminary Agreement provides for the appointment of Environment and socio-economic remediation experts to advise the Federal Prosecutors in relation to social and Framework Agreement environmental remediation and the assessment and monitoring 5 On 2 March 2016, Samarco, together with Vale and BHP Billiton of programs under the Framework Agreement.
The expert Brasil, entered into a Framework Agreement with the Federal advisors conclusions are not binding on Samarco, Vale or Government of Brazil, the states of Esprito Santo and Minas Gerais BHP Billiton Brasil but will be considered in the negotiation and certain other public authorities to establish a foundation of a final settlement arrangement with the FederalProsecutors.
Fundao Renova that will develop and execute environmental Under the Preliminary Agreement, Samarco, Vale and BHP Billiton and socio-economic programs to remediate and provide Brasil agreed interim security Interim Security comprising compensation for damage caused by the Samarco dam failure.
R$1.3 billion approximately US$395 million in insurance bonds, On 5 May 2016, the Framework Agreement was ratified by the R$100 million approximately US$30 million in liquid assets, Federal Court of Appeal.
a charge of R$800 million approximately US$245 million over The Federal Prosecutors Office appealed the ratification of the Samarcos assets, and R$200 million approximately US$60 million Framework Agreement and on 30 June 2016, the Superior Court of to be allocated within the next four years through existing Justice in Brazil issued a preliminary order Interim Order suspending Framework Agreement programs in the Municipalities of Barra the 5 May 2016 ratification of the Framework Agreement.
Longa, Rio Doce, Santa Cruz do Escalvado and Ponte Nova.
Samarco, Vale and BHP Billiton Brasil have appealed the Interim On 24 January 2017, Samarco, Vale and BHP Billiton Brasil provided Order before the Superior Court of Justice.
While a final decision the Interim Security to the Court which was to remain in place on ratification is pending, and negotiations, under the Preliminary until the earlier of 30 June 2017 and the date that a final settlement Agreement, towards a settlement of the R$20 billion approximately arrangement was agreed between the Federal Prosecutors, and US$6.1 billion public civil claim and R$155 billion approximately Samarco, Vale and BHP Billiton Brasil.
On 29 June 2017, the Court US$47 billion Federal Public Prosecution Office claim are ongoing, extended the final date for negotiation of a settlement until the Framework Agreement remains binding between the parties and 30 October 2017, allowing for the continuation of the Interim Fundao Renova will continue to implement the programs under Security arrangements and the provision of ongoing expert advice the Framework Agreement.
to the Federal Prosecutors in respect of the programs.
The parties will use best efforts to achieve a final settlement arrangement The term of the Framework Agreement is 15 years, renewable for by 30 October 2017 under the timeframe established in the periods of one year successively until all obligations under the Preliminary Agreement.
Under the Framework Agreement, Samarco is responsible for funding Fundao Renova Other with calendar year contributions as follows: As at 30 June 2017, Samarco has recognised provisions of R$2 billion approximately US$599 million in 2016: US$0.3 billion 30 June 2016: US$0.2 billion, in addition to its obligations under the Framework Agreement, based on currently R$1.2 billion approximately US$365 million in 2017: available information.
The magnitude, scope and timing of these R$1.2 billion approximately US$365 million in 2018: additional costs are subject to a high degree of uncertainty and R$500 million approximately US$150 million for a special Samarco has indicated that it anticipates that it will incur future project to be spent on sewage treatment and landfill works costs beyond those provided.
These uncertainties are likely to from 20162018. continue for a significant period and changes to key assumptions Annual contributions for each of the years 2019, 2020 and 2021 will could result in a material change to the amount of the provision be in the range of R$800 million approximately US$245 million in future reporting periods.
Any such unrecognised obligations are and R$1.6 billion approximately US$485 million, depending on the therefore contingent liabilities and, at present, it is not practicable remediation and compensation projects which are to be undertaken to estimate their magnitude or possible timing of payment.
Annual contributions may be reviewed under Accordingly, it is also not possible to provide a range of possible the Framework Agreement.
outcomes or a reliable estimate of total potential future exposures at this time.
As at 30 June 2017, Samarco has a provision of US$2.1 billion before tax and after discounting 30 June 2016: US$2.4 billion, in relation Legal to its obligations under the Framework Agreement based on Samarco has been named as defendant in a number of legal currently available information.
proceedings initiated by individuals, NGOs, corporations and governmental entities in Brazilian federal and state courts The measurement of the provision requires the use of estimates following the Samarco dam failure.
These lawsuits include claims and assumptions and may be affected by, amongst other factors, for compensation, environmental rehabilitation and violations potential changes in scope of work and funding amounts required of Brazilian environmental and other laws, among other matters.
under the Framework Agreement including further technical The lawsuits seek various remedies, including rehabilitation costs, analysis required under the Preliminary Agreement, the outcome compensation to injured individuals and families of the deceased, of ongoing negotiations with Federal Prosecutors, costs incurred in recovery of personal and property losses, moral damages and respect of programs delivered, resolution of uncertainty in respect injunctive relief.
It is not possible at this time to provide a range of operational restart, updates to discount and foreign exchange of possible outcomes or a reliable estimate of potential future rates, resolution of existing and potential legal claims and the status exposures for Samarco.
As a result, future actual expenditures may differ from the amounts currently provided and changes to key In addition, government investigations of the Samarco dam assumptions and estimates could result in a material impact to the failure by numerous agencies of the Brazilian government have amount of the provision in future reporting periods.
BHP Annual Report 2017 169 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information 3 | Significant events Samarco dam failure continued Public civil claim Criminal charges Among the claims brought against Samarco, is a public civil The Federal Prosecutors Office has filed criminal charges against claim commenced by the Federal Government of Brazil, states Samarco, Vale and BHP Billiton Brasil and certain employees and of Esprito Santo, Minas Gerais and other public authorities former employees of Samarco Affected Individuals in the Federal on 30 November 2015, seeking the establishment of a fund Court of Ponte Nova, Minas Gerais.
On 2 March 2017, Samarco filed its of up to R$20 billion approximately US$6.1 billion in aggregate preliminary defences.
Samarco rejects outright the charges against for clean-up costs and damages.
the company and the Affected Individuals and will defend the charges.
On 2 March 2016, Samarco, together with Vale and BHP Billiton Under the criminal charges against Samarco, Vale and BHP Billiton Brasil, entered into the Framework Agreement.
Ratification Brasil and certain individuals, a R$20 billion approximately of the Framework Agreement by the Federal Court of Appeal US$6.1 billion asset freezing order application was made by the on 5 May 2016 suspended this public civil claim.
In July 2017, the Federal Court of Ponte Nova it was reinstated on 30 June 2016 upon issue of the Interim denied the Federal Prosecutors application for an asset freezing order.
Order by the Superior Court of Justice in Brazil.
Given the status of this matter, it is not possible at this time While a final decision by the Court on the issue of ratification of to provide a range of possible outcomes or a reliable estimate the Framework Agreement is pending, the Preliminary Agreement of potential future exposures for Samarco.
suspends a R$1.2 billion approximately US$365 million injunction Other claims order under the public civil claim.
The civil public actions filed by State Prosecutors in Minas Gerais The Preliminary Agreement also requests suspension of the public claiming damages of approximately R$7.5 billion, US$2.3 billion, civil claim with a decision from the Court pending.
The R$1.2 billion State Prosecutors in Esprito Santo claiming damages of approximately US$365 million injunction order may be reinstated approximately R$2 billion, US$605 million, and public defenders if a final settlement arrangement is not agreed by 30 October 2017. in Minas Gerais claiming damages of approximately R$10 billion, US$3 billion, have been consolidated before the 12th Federal Court.
As noted above, Samarco has recognised a provision as of All of those civil public actions except the latter have also been 30 June 2017 of US$2.1 billion before tax and after discounting suspended by the 12th Federal Court.
Given the preliminary status 30 June 2016: US$2.4 billion in respect of its obligations under of these proceedings, and the duplicative nature of the damages the Framework Agreement.
While a final decision on ratification sought in these proceedings and the R$20 billion approximately of the Framework Agreement is pending, and negotiation of US$6.1 billion and R$155 billion approximately US$47 billion claims a settlement of the R$20 billion approximately US$6.1 billion it is not possible at this time to provide a range of possible outcomes public civil claim and R$155 billion approximately US$47 billion or a reliable estimate of potential future exposures forSamarco.
Federal Public Prosecution Office claim noted below under the Preliminary Agreement are ongoing, the Framework Other pending lawsuits and investigations are at the early stages Agreement remains binding between the parties and Fundao of proceedings.
Until further facts are developed: court rulings Renova will continue to implement the programs under clarify the issues in dispute, liability and damages: trial activity nears, the Framework Agreement.
or other actions such as possible settlements occur, it is not possible to arrive at a range of outcomes, or a reliable estimate of Samarcos Given the status of these proceedings, it is not possible at this obligations arising from these matters and therefore Samarco time to provide a range of possible outcomes or a reliable estimate has not recognised a provision or quantified a contingent liability.
of potential future exposures for Samarco.
Additional claims may be brought against Samarco.
A provision Federal Public Prosecution Office claim has not been made by Samarco for claims yet to be filed.
Given the Samarco is among the defendants named in a claim brought by the significant uncertainties surrounding possible outcomes it is not Federal Public Prosecution Office on 3 May 2016, seeking R$155 billion possible for Samarco to arrive at a range of outcomes or a reliable approximately US$47 billion for reparation, compensation and estimate of the liability for any unfiled claims.
moral damages in relation to the Samarco dam failure.
Samarco insurance With regard to the Preliminary Agreement, the 12th Federal Court Samarco has standalone insurance policies in place with Brazilian suspended the Federal Public Prosecution Office claim, including and global insurers.
Samarco has notified insurers, including those a R$7.7 billion approximately US$2.3 billion injunction request.
covering property, project and liability risks.
Insurers loss adjusters However, proceedings may be resumed if a final settlement or claims representatives continue to investigate and assist with the arrangement is not agreed by 30 October 2017. claims process.
An insurance receivable has not been recognised by Samarco for any recoveries under insurance arrangements Given the status of these proceedings, it is not possible at this at 30 June 2017. time to provide a range of possible outcomes or a reliable estimate of potential future exposures for Samarco.
Samarco commitments Class action complaint bond holders At 30 June 2017, Samarco has commitments of US$1.5 billion 30 June 2016: US$1.5 billion.
Following the dam failure On 14 November 2016, a putative class action complaint Samarco invoked force majeure clauses in a number of long-term Complaint was filed in the U. S. District Court for the Southern contracts with suppliers and service providers to suspend District of New York on behalf of all purchasers of Samarcos contractual obligations.
ten-year bond notes due 20222024 between 31 October 2012 and 30 November 2015 against Samarco and the former chief Samarco non-dam failure related contingent liabilities executive officer of Samarco.
The Complaint asserts claims under The following non-dam failure related contingent liabilities pre-date the U. S. federal securities laws and indicates that the plaintiff and are unrelated to the Samarco dam failure.
Samarco is currently will seek certification to proceed as a class action.
contesting both of these matters in the Brazilian courts.
Given the status of the proceedings, the timing of resolution and potential On 6 March 2017, the Complaint was amended to include economic outflow are uncertain.
BHP has no legal obligation in BHP Billiton Limited, BHP Billiton Plc, BHP Billiton Brasil Ltda and relation to these matters as no BHP entity is a party to any claim.
Brazilian Social Contribution Levy On 5 April 2017, the plaintiff dismissed the claims against the Samarco has received tax assessments for the alleged non-payment individuals.
The remaining corporate defendants filed a joint of Brazilian Social Contribution Levy for the calendar years motion to dismiss the plaintiffs Complaint on 26 June 2017.
20072014 totalling approximately R$4.9 billion approximately The amount of damages sought by the plaintiffs on behalf of the US$1.5 billion.
Given the preliminary status of this Brazilian corporate income tax rate matter, it is not possible at this time to provide a range of possible Samarco has received tax assessments for alleged incorrect outcomes or a reliable estimate of potential future exposures calculation of Corporate Income Tax IRPJ in respect of the to Samarco.
20002003 and 20072014 income years totalling approximately R$4.1 billion approximately US$1.2 billion.
170 BHP Annual Report 2017 Financial Statements 4 | Expenses and other income 2017 2016 2015 US$M US$M US$M Employee benefits expense: Wages, salaries and redundancies 3,474 3,414 4,537 Employee share awards 106 140 203 Social security costs 3 2 2 Pension and other post-retirement obligations 284 232 358 Less employee benefits expense classified as exploration and evaluation expenditure 80 86 129 Changes in inventories of finished goods and work in progress 745 294 139 Raw materials and consumables used 3,908 4,063 4,667 Freight and transportation 2,284 2,226 2,644 5 External services 4,765 4,984 6,284 Third party commodity purchases 1,157 1,013 1,165 Net foreign exchange losses gains 103 153 469 Government royalties paid and payable 1,986 1,349 1,708 Exploration and evaluation expenditure incurred and expensed in the current period 612 430 670 Depreciation and amortisation expense 7,931 8,661 9,158 Net impairments: Property, plant and equipment 160 7,377 3,445 Goodwill and other intangible assets 33 17 570 Available for sale financial assets 9 Operating lease rentals 469 528 636 All other operating expenses 1,090 996 1,413 Total expenses 27,540 35,487 37,010 Gains losses on disposal of property, plant and equipment 359 13 7 Other income 377 457 503 Total other income 736 444 496 Other income is generally income earned from transactions outside the course of the Groups ordinary activities and may include certain management fees from non-controlling interests and joint venture arrangements, dividend income, royalties, commission income and gains or losses on divestment of subsidiaries or operations.
Recognition and measurement Income is recognised when it is probable that the economic benefits associated with a transaction will flow to the Group and they can be reliably measured.
Dividends are recognised upon declaration.
5 | Income tax expense 2017 2016 2015 US$M US$M US$M Total taxation expense benefit comprises: Current tax expense 4,288 2,456 3,168 Deferred tax benefit expense 188 3,508 498 4,100 1,052 3,666 2017 2016 2015 US$M US$M US$M Factors affecting income tax expense for the year Income tax expense differs to the standard rate of corporation tax as follows: Profit loss before taxation 10,322 7,259 8,056 Tax on profit loss at Australian prima facie tax rate of 30 per cent 3,097 2,178 2,417 Tax on remitted and unremitted foreign earnings 478 376 58 Non-tax effected operating losses and capital gains 259 671 143 Amounts under over provided in prior years 199 28 138 Foreign exchange adjustments 88 125 339 Tax rate changes 25 14 137 Investment and development allowance 53 36 190 1 Tax effect of profit loss from equity accounted investments, related impairments and expenses 82 631 164 Recognition of previously unrecognised tax assets 106 36 212 Impact of tax rates applicable outside of Australia 189 620 301 Other 217 536 397 Income tax expense benefit 3,933 1,297 2,762 Royalty-related taxation net of income tax benefit 167 245 904 Total taxation expense benefit 4,100 1,052 3,666 1 The profit loss from equity accounted investments, related impairments and expenses is net of income tax.
This item removes the prima facie tax effect on such profits, related impairments and expenses.
BHP Annual Report 2017 171 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information 5 | Income tax expense continued Income tax recognised in other comprehensive income is as follows: 2017 2016 2015 US$M US$M US$M Income tax effect of: Items that may be reclassified subsequently to the income statement: Available for sale investments: Net valuation losses gains taken to equity 1 1 Net valuation losses gains transferred to the income statement 34 Cash flow hedges: Gains losses taken to equity 105 170 539 Gains losses transferred to the income statement 129 199 545 Income tax credit charge relating to items that may be reclassified subsequently to the income statement 24 30 29 Items that will not be reclassified to the income statement: Remeasurement gains losses on pension and medical schemes 12 5 14 Employee share awards transferred to retained earnings on exercise 14 22 31 Income tax charge credit relating to items that will not be reclassified to the income statement 26 17 17 1 Total income tax charge credit relating to components of other comprehensive income 2 47 12 1 Included within total income tax relating to components of other comprehensive income is US$12 million relating to deferred taxes and US$ 14 million relating to current taxes 2016: US$ 25 million and US$ 22 million: 2015: US$43 million and US$ 31 million.
Recognition and measurement Taxation on the profit loss for the year comprises current and deferred tax.
Taxation is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case the tax effect is also recognised in equity.
Current tax Deferred tax Royalty-related taxation Current tax is the expected Deferred tax is provided in full, on temporary differences Royalties and resource rent taxes are treated as taxation tax on the taxable income for arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities arrangements impacting income tax expense benefit the year, using tax rates and and their carrying amounts in the Financial Statements.
when they are imposed under government authority laws enacted or substantively Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that and the amount payable is calculated by reference to enacted at the reporting it is probable that future taxable profits will be revenue derived net of any allowable deductions after date, and any adjustments available against which the temporary differences adjustment for temporary differences.
Obligations to tax payable in respect can be utilised.
arising from royalty arrangements that do not satisfy of previous years.
these criteria are recognised as current provisions and Deferred tax is not recognised for temporary differences included in expenses.
relating to: initial recognition of goodwill: initial recognition of assets or liabilities in a transaction that is not a business combination and that affects neither accounting nor taxable profit: investment in subsidiaries, associates and jointly controlled entities where the Group is able to control the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that they will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax is measured at the tax rates that are expected to be applied when the asset is realised or the liability is settled, based on the laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the reporting date.
Current and deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when the Group has a legally enforceable right to offset and when the tax balances are related to taxes levied by the same tax authority and the Group intends to settle on a net basis, or realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
172 BHP Annual Report 2017 Financial Statements 5 | Income tax expense continued Uncertain tax and royalty matters The Group operates across many tax jurisdictions.
Application of tax law can be complex and requires judgement to assess risk and estimate outcomes, particularly in relation to the Groups cross-border operations and transactions.
The evaluation of tax risks considers both amended assessments received and potential sources of challenge from tax authorities.
The status of proceedings for these matters will impact the ability to determine the potential exposure and in some cases, it may not be possible to determine a range of possible outcomes or a reliable estimate of the potential exposure.
The Group has unresolved tax and royalty matters for which the timing of resolution and potential economic outflow are uncertain.
Tax and royalty matters with uncertain outcomes arise in the normal course of business and occur due to changes in tax law, changes in interpretation of tax law, periodic challenges and disagreements with tax authorities, and legal proceedings.
Tax and royalty obligations assessed as having probable future economic outflows capable of reliable measurement are adequately provided for at 30 June 2017.
Matters without a probable economic outflow and or presently incapable of being measured reliably are contingent liabilities 5 and disclosed in note 33 Contingent liabilities.
Irrespective of whether the potential economic outflow of the matter has been assessed as probable or possible, individually significant matters are included below, to the extent that disclosure does not prejudice the Group.
Transfer pricing Sales of The Group is currently in dispute with the Australian Taxation Office ATO regarding the price at which the Groups commodities to BHP Billiton Australian entities sell commodities to the Groups principal marketing entity in Singapore, BHP Billiton Marketing AG.
Marketing AG in Singapore In April 2014, the Group received amended assessments for 2003-2008 totalling US$278 million A$362 million inclusive of interest and penalties.
In May 2016, the Group received further amended assessments totalling US$413 million A$537 million inclusive of interest and penalties for 20092013.
The ATO is currently auditing the 20142016 income years.
The Group has formally objected to the amended assessments.
The ATO has yet to advise its decision on the objections to these amended assessments.
The Group has made payments of approximately US$221 million A$276 million to the ATO in relation to the assessments under dispute pending resolution of the matter.
As a consequence of the finalisation of the transfer pricing audit for 20092013, in June 2016, the Group also received an amended assessment in relation to its 2013 MRRT return totalling US$90 million A$117 million.
The Group has formally objected to the amended assessment and has made a partial payment of US$39 million A$52 million in respect of the MRRT amended assessment.
Controlled Foreign The Group is currently in dispute with the ATO regarding whether profits earned globally by the Groups marketing Companies dispute organisation from the on-sale of commodities acquired from Australian subsidiaries of BHP Billiton Plc are subject to top-up tax in Australia under the Controlled Foreign Companies rules.
In June 2011 and December 2014, the Group received amended assessments relating to the 20062010 income years.
The Group has objected to these amended assessments.
On 30 June 2016, the Group received the ATOs decision relating to the Groups objection against these amended assessments.
The objections were allowed in part by the ATO.
The ATO also determined that the Group was not liable for any penalties.
As a result of the objections being determined, it is estimated the primary tax subject to dispute for the 20062010 income years will total US$33 million A$43 million.
The Group has sought review of the disallowed objections.
Between May 2016 and May 2017, the Group received amended assessments for primary tax of US$30 million A$39 million relating to the 20122015 income years, and interest of US$4 million A$5 million with nil penalties.
Royalty reassessments The Group has commenced proceedings in the Supreme Court of Queensland pertaining to disputed royalty dispute with Queensland reassessments issued by the Queensland Office of State Revenue OSR in relation to its share of BHP Billiton Office of State Revenue Mitsubishi Alliance BMA coal.
The dispute relates primarily to the basis for calculating the value of coal for royalty purposes under Queensland law.
The reassessments relate to the period from 1 July 2005 30 September 2015.
The reassessments total US$173 million A$225 million in royalties and US$80 million A$104 million in interest BHP share.
Samarco tax assessments Details of uncertain tax and royalty matters relating to Samarco are disclosed in note 3 Significant events Samarco dam failure.
Key judgements and estimates Income tax classification Uncertain tax matters The Groups accounting policy for taxation, including Judgements are required about the application of income royalty-related taxation, requires managements judgement tax legislation and its interaction with income tax accounting as to the types of arrangements considered to be a tax on principles.
These judgements are subject to risk and uncertainty, income in contrast to an operating cost.
hence there is a possibility that changes in circumstances will alter expectations, which may impact the amount of deferred Deferred tax tax assets and deferred tax liabilities recognised on the balance Judgement is required to determine the amount of deferred sheet and the amount of other tax losses and temporary tax assets that are recognised based on the likely timing and differences not yet recognised.
the level of future taxable profits.
The Group assesses the Where the final tax outcomes are different from the amounts recoverability of recognised and unrecognised deferred taxes, that were initially recorded, these differences impact the including losses in Australia, the United States and Canada current and deferred tax provisions in the period in which and the recognition of deferred tax assets of capital allowances the determination is made.
in Australia, on a consistent basis, using assumptions and projected cash flows as applied in the Group impairment Measurement of uncertain tax and royalty matters considers reviews for associated operations.
a range of possible outcomes, including assessments received from tax authorities.
Where management is of the view that Deferred tax liabilities arising from temporary differences potential liabilities have a low probability of crystallising, or in investments, caused principally by retained earnings held it is not possible to quantify them reliably, they are disclosed in foreign tax jurisdictions, are recognised unless repatriation as contingent liabilities refer to note 33 Contingent liabilities.
of retained earnings can be controlled and are not expected to occur in the foreseeable future.
BHP Annual Report 2017 173 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information 6 | Earnings per share 2017 2016 2015 Earnings loss attributable to BHP shareholders US$M Continuing operations 5,890 6,385 3,483 Total 5,890 6,385 1,910 Weighted average number of shares Million Basic 5,323 5,322 5,318 Diluted 5,336 5,322 5,333 Basic earnings loss per ordinary share US cents Continuing operations 110.7 120.0 65.5 Total 110.7 120.0 35.9 Diluted earnings loss per ordinary share US cents Continuing operations 110.4 120.0 65.3 Total 110.4 120.0 35.8 Refer to note 27 Discontinued operations for basic earnings per share and diluted earnings per share for Discontinued operations.
Earnings on American Depositary Shares represent twice the earnings for BHP Billiton Limited or BHP Billiton Plc ordinary shares.
Recognition and measurement Diluted earnings attributable to BHP shareholders are equal to the earnings attributable to BHP shareholders.
The calculation of the number of ordinary shares used in the computation of basic earnings per share is the aggregate of the weighted average number of ordinary shares of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc outstanding during the period after deduction of the number of shares held by the Billiton Employee Share Ownership Plan Trust and the BHP Billiton Limited Employee Equity Trust.
For the purposes of calculating diluted earnings per share, the effect of 13 million dilutive shares has been taken into account for the year ended 30 June 2017 2016: nil: 2015: 15 million shares.
The Groups only potential dilutive ordinary shares are share awards granted under the employee share ownership plans for which terms and conditions are described in note 23 Employee share ownership plans.
Diluted earnings per share calculation excludes instruments which are considered antidilutive.
The conversion of options and share rights would decrease the loss per share for the year ended 30 June 2016 and therefore its impact has been excluded from the diluted earnings per share calculation.
At 30 June 2017, there are no instruments which are considered antidilutive 2015: 160,116 antidilutive shares.
Working capital 7 | Trade and other receivables 2017 2016 US$M US$M Trade receivables 1,855 1,730 Loans to equity accounted investments 644 897 Other receivables 1,140 1,395 Total 3,639 4,022 Comprising: Current 2,836 3,155 Non-current 803 867 Recognition and measurement Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less an allowance for impairment.
The collectability of trade receivables is assessed continuously.
At the reporting date, specific allowances are made for any doubtful receivables based on a review of all outstanding amounts at reporting period-end.
Individual receivables are written off when management deems them unrecoverable.
The net carrying amount of trade and other receivables approximates their fair values.
Credit risk Trade receivables generally have terms of less than 30 days.
The Group has no material concentration of credit risk with any single counterparty and is not dominantly exposed to any individual industry.
Credit risk can arise from the non-performance by counterparties of their contractual financial obligations towards the Group.
To manage credit risk, the Group maintains Group-wide procedures covering the application for credit approvals, granting and renewal of counterparty limits, proactive monitoring of exposures against these limits and requirements triggering secured payment terms.
As part of these processes, the credit exposures with all counterparties are regularly monitored and assessed on a timely basis.
The credit quality of the Groups customers is reviewed and assessed for impairment where indicators of such impairment exist.
The solvency of each debtor and their ability to pay on the receivable is considered in assessing receivables for impairment.
Receivables are deemed to be past due or impaired in accordance with the Groups terms and conditions.
These terms and conditions are determined on a case-by-case basis with reference to the customers credit quality, payment performance and prevailing market conditions.
At 30 June 2017, trade receivables are stated net of provisions for doubtful debts of US$ nil 2016: US$ nil.
As of 30 June 2017, trade receivables of US$19 million 2016: US$12 million were past due but not impaired.
The majority of these receivables were less than 30 days overdue.
As at the reporting date, there are no indications that the debtors will not meet their payment obligations.
174 BHP Annual Report 2017 Financial Statements 8 | Trade and other payables 2017 2016 US$M US$M Trade creditors 3,996 3,662 Other creditors 1,560 1,740 Total 5,556 5,402 Comprising: Current 5,551 5,389 Non-current 5 13 5 9 | Inventories 2017 2016 US$M US$M Definitions Raw materials and consumables 1,241 1,394 Spares, consumables and other supplies yet to be utilised in the production process or in the rendering of services.
Work in progress 2,852 2,149 Commodities currently in the production process that require further processing by the Group to a saleable form.
Finished goods 675 632 Commodities held-for-sale and not requiring further processing by the Group.
1 Total 4,768 4,175 Comprising: Inventories classified as non-current are not expected to be utilised or sold within 12 months after the reporting date.
Current 3,673 3,411 Non-current 1,095 764 1 Inventory write-downs of US$112 million were recognised during the year 2016: US$118 million: 2015: US$182 million.
Inventory write-downs of US$19 million made in previous periods were reversed during the year 2016: US$118 million: 2015: US$42 million.
Recognition and measurement Regardless of the type of inventory and its stage in the production process, inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost is determined primarily on the basis of average costs.
For processed inventories, cost is derived on an absorption costing basis.
Cost comprises costs of purchasing raw materials and costs of production, including attributable mining and manufacturing overheads taking into consideration normal operating capacity.
Minerals inventory quantities are assessed primarily through surveys and assays, while petroleum inventory quantities are derived through flow rate or tank volume measurement and the composition is derived via sample analysis.
Key judgements and estimates Accounting for inventory involves the use of judgements and estimates, particularly related to the measurement and valuation of inventory on hand within the production process.
Certain estimates, including expected metal recoveries and work in progress volumes, are calculated by engineers using available industry, engineering and scientific data.
Estimates used are periodically reassessed by the Group taking into account technical analysis and historical performance.
Changes in estimates are adjusted for on a prospective basis.
BHP Annual Report 2017 175 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information Resource assets 10 | Property, plant and equipment Land and Plant and Other mineral Assets under Exploration buildings equipment assets construction and evaluation Total US$M US$M US$M US$M US$M US$M Net book value 30 June 2017 At the beginning of the financial year 9,005 47,766 15,942 9,561 1,701 83,975 1 2 Additions 809 416 3,773 314 5,312 Depreciation for the year 552 6,419 765 7,736 Impairments, net of reversals 8 83 69 160 Disposals 27 56 25 1 152 261 Divestment and demerger of subsidiaries and operations 47 105 42 194 Exchange variations taken to reserve 1 1 Transfers and other movements 176 7,515 10 7,755 364 438 At the end of the financial year 8,547 49,427 15,557 5,536 1,430 80,497 Cost 12,387 106,332 31,196 5,538 2,213 157,666 Accumulated depreciation and impairments 3,840 56,905 15,639 2 783 77,169 Net book value 30 June 2016 At the beginning of the financial year 8,762 48,361 21,069 14,502 1,378 94,072 1 2 Additions 4 89 750 5,337 344 6,346 Depreciation for the year 574 6,780 1,090 4 8,440 Impairments, net of reversals 49 2,892 4,432 4 7,377 Disposals 15 64 8 13 10 110 Divestment and demerger of subsidiaries and operations 39 120 5 3 167 Exchange variations taken to reserve 2 2 Transfers and other movements 916 9,348 342 10,262 11 351 At the end of the financial year 9,005 47,766 15,942 9,561 1,701 83,975 Cost 12,425 98,688 30,924 9,562 2,612 154,211 Accumulated depreciation and impairments 3,420 50,922 14,982 1 911 70,236 1 Includes net foreign exchange gains losses related to the closure and rehabilitation provisions.
Refer to note 14 Closure and rehabilitation provisions.
2 Property, plant and equipment of US$593 million 2016: US$ nil: 2015: US$10 million was acquired under finance lease.
This is a significant non-cash investing transaction that has been excluded from the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement.
Recognition and measurement Property, plant and equipment Exploration and evaluation Property, plant and equipment is recorded at cost less accumulated Exploration costs are incurred to discover mineral and petroleum depreciation and impairment charges.
Cost is the fair value of resources.
Evaluation costs are incurred to assess the technical consideration given to acquire the asset at the time of its acquisition feasibility and commercial viability of resources found.
or construction and includes the direct costs of bringing the asset Exploration and evaluation expenditure is charged to the income to the location and the condition necessary for operation and the statement as incurred, except in the following circumstances in estimated future costs of closure and rehabilitation of the facility.
which case the expenditure may be capitalised: Equipment leases In respect of minerals activities: Assets held under lease, which result in the Group receiving the exploration and evaluation activity is within an area of interest substantially all of the risk and rewards of ownership are capitalised that was previously acquired as an asset acquisition or in a business as property, plant and equipment at the lower of the fair value of the combination and measured at fair value on acquisition: or leased assets or the estimated present value of the minimum lease the existence of a commercially viable mineral deposit has payments.
Leased assets are depreciated on the same basis as been established.
owned assets or, where shorter, the lease term.
The corresponding finance lease obligation is included within interest bearing liabilities.
In respect of petroleum activities: The interest component is charged to the income statement over the exploration and evaluation activity is within an area of interest the lease term to reflect a constant rate of interest over the remaining for which it is expected that the expenditure will be recouped by balance of the obligation.
future exploitation or sale: or exploration and evaluation activity has not reached a stage that Operating leases are not capitalised and rental payments are permits a reasonable assessment of the existence of commercially included in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the recoverable reserves.
Ongoing contracted commitments under finance and operating leases are disclosed within note 32 Commitments.
176 BHP Annual Report 2017 Financial Statements 10 | Property, plant and equipment continued Other mineral assets A regular review of each area of interest is undertaken to determine the appropriateness of continuing to carry forward costs in relation Other mineral assets comprise: to that area.
Capitalised costs are only carried forward to the extent capitalised exploration, evaluation and development expenditure that they are expected to be recovered through the successful for assets in production: exploitation of the area of interest or alternatively by its sale.
mineral rights and petroleum interests acquired: To the extent that capitalised expenditure is no longer expected capitalised development and production stripping costs.
to be recovered, it is charged to the income statement.
Overburden removal costs The process of removing overburden and other waste materials to access mineral deposits is referred to as stripping.
Stripping Key judgements and estimates is necessary to obtain access to mineral deposits and occurs Exploration and evaluation expenditure results in certain throughout the life of an open-pit mine.
Development and production 5 items of expenditure being capitalised for an area of stripping costs are classified as other mineral assets in property, interest where it is considered likely to be recoverable plant and equipment.
by future exploitation or sale, or where the activities Stripping costs are accounted for separately for individual have not reached a stage that permits a reasonable components of an ore body.
The determination of components is assessment of the existence of reserves.
This policy dependent on the mine plan and other factors, including the size, requires management to make certain estimates and shape and geotechnical aspects of an ore body.
The Group accounts assumptions as to future events and circumstances, for stripping activities as follows: in particular whether an economically viable extraction operation can be established.
These estimates and Development stripping costs assumptions may change as new information becomes These are initial overburden removal costs incurred to obtain access available.
If, after having capitalised the expenditure to mineral deposits that will be commercially produced.
These costs under the policy, a judgement is made that recovery are capitalised when it is probable that future economic benefits of the expenditure is unlikely, the relevant capitalised access to mineral ores will flow to the Group and costs can be amount will be written off to the income statement.
Once the production phase begins, capitalised development stripping costs are depreciated using the units of production method based on Development expenditure the proven and probable reserves of the relevant identified component When proven mineral reserves are determined and development of the ore body to which the initial stripping activity benefits.
is sanctioned, capitalised exploration and evaluation expenditure is reclassified as assets under construction within property, plant and equipment.
All subsequent development expenditure is capitalised and classified as assets under construction, provided commercial viability conditions continue to be satisfied.
The Group may use funds sourced from external parties to finance the acquisition and development of assets and operations.
Finance costs are expensed as incurred, except where they relate to the financing of construction or development of qualifying assets.
Borrowing costs directly attributable to acquiring or constructing a qualifying asset are capitalised during the development phase.
Development expenditure is net of proceeds from the saleable material extracted during the development phase.
On completion of development, all assets included in assets under construction are reclassified as either plant and equipment or other mineral assets and depreciation commences.
Key judgements and estimates Development activities commence after project sanctioning by the appropriate level of management.
Judgement is applied by management in determining when a project is economically viable.
In exercising this judgement, management is required to make certain estimates and assumptions as to future events and circumstances, including reserve estimates, existence of an accessible market and forecast prices and cash flows.
Estimates and assumptions may change as new information becomes available.
If, after having commenced the development activity, a judgement is made that a development asset is impaired, the appropriate amount will be written off to the income statement.
BHP Annual Report 2017 177 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information 10 | Property, plant and equipment continued Production stripping costs These are interburden removal costs incurred during the normal course of production activity, which commences after the first saleable minerals have been extracted from the component.
Production stripping costs can give rise to two benefits, the accounting for which is outlined below: Production stripping activity Benefits of stripping activity Extraction of ore inventory in current period.
Improved access to future ore extraction.
Period benefited Current period Future period s Recognition and When the benefits of stripping activities are realised When the benefits of stripping activities are improved measurement criteria in the form of inventory produced: the associated access to future ore: production costs are capitalised costs are recorded in accordance with the Groups when all the following criteria are met: inventory accounting policy.
the production stripping activity improves access to a specific component of the ore body and it is probable that economic benefit arising from the improved access to future ore production will be realised: the component of the ore body for which access has been improved can be identified: costs associated with that component can be measured reliably.
Allocation of costs Production stripping costs are allocated between the inventory produced and the production stripping asset using a life-of-component waste-to-ore or mineral contained strip ratio.
When the current strip ratio is greater than the estimated life-of-component ratio a portion of the stripping costs is capitalised to the production stripping asset.
Asset recognised from Inventory Other mineral assets within property, plant and equipment.
stripping activity Depreciation basis Not applicable On a  basis using the units of production method based on proven and probable reserves.
Key judgements and estimates The identification of components of an ore body, as well as estimation of stripping ratios and mineral reserves by component require critical accounting judgements and estimates to be made by management.
Changes to estimates related to life-of-component waste-to-ore or mineral contained strip ratios and the expected ore production from identified components are accounted for prospectively and may affect depreciation rates and asset carrying values.
Where assets are dedicated to a mine or petroleum lease, the below useful lives are subject to the lesser of the asset categorys useful life and the life of the mine or petroleum lease, unless those assets are readily transferable to another productive mine or lease.
Depreciation The estimation of useful lives, residual values and depreciation methods require significant management judgement and are reviewed annually.
Any changes to useful lives may affect prospective depreciation rates and asset carrying values.
Depreciation of assets, other than land, assets under construction and capitalised exploration and evaluation that are not depreciated, is calculated using either the straight-line SL method or units of production UoP method, net of residual values, over the estimated useful lives of specific assets.
The depreciation method and rates applied to specific assets reflect the pattern in which the assets benefits are expected to be used by the Group.
The Groups reported reserves are used to determine UoP depreciation unless doing so results in depreciation charges that do not reflect the assets useful life.
Where this occurs, alternative approaches to determining reserves are applied, such as using managements expectations of future oil and gas prices rather than yearly average prices, to provide a phasing of periodic depreciation charges that better reflects the assets expected useful life.
The table below summarises the principal depreciation methods and rates applied to major asset categories by the Group.
Mineral rights and Capitalised exploration, evaluation Category Buildings Plant and equipment petroleum interests and development expenditure Typical depreciation methodology SL SL UoP UoP Depreciation rate 2550 years 330 years Based on the rate of Based on the rate of depletion depletion of reserves of reserves 178 BHP Annual Report 2017 Financial Statements 11 | Intangible assets 2017 2016 Other Other Goodwill intangibles Total Goodwill intangibles Total US$M US$M US$M US$M US$M US$M Net book value At the beginning of the financial year 3,273 846 4,119 3,274 1,018 4,292 Additions 81 81 78 78 Amortisation for the year 195 195 221 221 Impairments for the year 33 33 1 16 17 Disposals 4 4 10 10 Other 3 3 5 At the end of the financial year 3,269 699 3,968 3,273 846 4,119 Cost 3,269 1,722 4,991 3,273 1,813 5,086 Accumulated amortisation and impairments 1,023 1,023 967 967 Recognition and measurement Goodwill Where the fair value of the consideration paid for a business acquisition exceeds the fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired, the difference is treated as goodwill.
Where consideration is less than the fair value of acquired net assets, the difference is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Goodwill is not amortised and is measured at cost less any impairment losses.
Other intangibles The Group capitalises amounts paid for the acquisition of identifiable intangible assets, such as software, licences and initial payments for the acquisition of mineral lease assets, where it is considered that they will contribute to future periods through revenue generation or reductions in cost.
These assets, classified as finite life intangible assets, are carried in the balance sheet at the fair value of consideration paid less accumulated amortisation and impairment charges.
Intangible assets with finite useful lives are amortised on a straight-line basis over their useful lives.
The estimated useful lives are generally no greater than eight years.
Initial payments for the acquisition of intangible mineral lease assets are capitalised and amortised over the term of the permit.
A regular review is undertaken of each area of interest to determine the appropriateness of continuing to carry forward costs in relation to that area.
Capitalised costs are only carried forward to the extent that they are expected to be recovered through the successful exploitation of the area of interest or alternatively by its sale.
To the extent that capitalised expenditure is no longer expected to be recovered, it is charged to the income statement.
12 | Impairment of non-current assets Year ended 30 June 2017 Year ended 30 June 2016 Property, Goodwill Property, Goodwill Cash plant and and other Cash plant and and other generating equipment intangibles Total generating equipment intangibles Total unit Segment US$M US$M US$M unit Segment US$M US$M US$M Fayetteville Petroleum 1,913 1,913 Haynesville Petroleum 2,585 2,585 Black Hawk Petroleum 1,861 1,861 Hawkville Petroleum 825 825 7,184 7,184 Other Various 160 33 193 Other Various 193 17 210 Total impairment of non-current assets 160 33 193 Total impairment of non-current assets 7,377 17 7,394 Reversal of impairment Reversal of impairment Net impairment of non-current assets 160 33 193 Net impairment of non-current assets 7,377 17 7,394 Recognition and measurement Impairment tests are carried out annually for goodwill.
In addition, impairment tests for all assets are performed when there is an indication of impairment.
If the carrying amount of the asset exceeds its recoverable amount, the asset is impaired and an impairment loss is charged to the income statement so as to reduce the carrying amount in the balance sheet to its recoverable amount.
Previously impaired assets excluding goodwill are reviewed for possible reversal of previous impairment at each reporting date.
Impairment reversal cannot exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined net of depreciation had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset or cash generating units CGUs.
There were no reversals of impairment in the current or prior year.
How recoverable amount is calculated The recoverable amount is the higher of an assets fair value less cost of disposal FVLCD and its value in use VIU.
For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable cash flows.
Valuation methods Fair value less cost of disposal FVLCD is an estimate of the amount that a market participant would pay for an asset or CGU, less the cost of disposal.
Fair value for mineral and petroleum assets is generally determined using independent market assumptions to calculate the present value of the estimated future post-tax cash flows expected to arise from the continued use of the asset, including the anticipated cash flow effects of any capital expenditure to enhance production or reduce cost, and its eventual disposal where a market participant may take a consistent view.
Cash flows are discounted using an appropriate post-tax market discount rate to arrive at a net present value of the asset, which is compared against the assets carrying value.
Value in use VIU is determined as the present value of the estimated future cash flows expected to arise from the continued use of the asset in its present form and its eventual disposal.
VIU is determined by applying assumptions specific to the Groups continued use and cannot take into account future development.
These assumptions are different to those used in calculating fair value and consequently the VIU calculation is likely to give a different result usually lower to a fair value calculation.
BHP Annual Report 2017 179 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information 12 | Impairment of non-current assets continued Impairment of non-current assets excluding goodwill Impairments of Petroleum CGUs of US$ nil 2016: US$7,184 million have been recognised during the year.
Property, plant and equipment including other intangible asset impairments of US$193 million 2016: US$210 million were recognised during the year.
Petroleum year ended 30 June 2016 What has been recognised?
The Group recognised an impairment charge of US$7,184 million US$4,884 million after tax benefit against the carrying value of individual Onshore US CGUs.
What were the drivers As a result of significant volatility and weaker prices experienced in the oil and gas industry, management of impairment?
adjusted its medium-term and long-term price assumptions and discount rates, which had a significant flow through impact on asset valuations.
How were the valuations Using these updated assumptions, valuations of the relevant Onshore US CGUs were calculated using calculated?
FVLCD methodology, applying discounted cash flow techniques.
The recoverable amount in each instance is equal to its estimated FVLCD.
Calculations are based primarily on Level 3 inputs as defined in note 21 Financial risk management.
What were the significant The valuations are most sensitive to changes in crude oil and natural gas prices, estimated future production assumptions and estimates volumes and discount rates.
Key judgements and estimates used in determining FVLCD are disclosed below.
Impairment test for goodwill The carrying amount of goodwill has been allocated to the CGUs, or groups of CGUs, as follows: 2017 2016 US$M US$M Onshore US 3,026 3,022 Other 247 247 Total 3,269 3,273 For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill has been allocated to CGUs or groups of CGUs, that are expected to benefit from the synergies of previous business combinations, which represent the level at which management will monitor and manage goodwill.
Onshore US goodwill is the most significant goodwill balance and has been tested for impairment after an assessment of the individual CGUs that it comprises.
Onshore US goodwill Carrying value US$3,022 million 2016: US$3,026 million.
Impairment test conclusion No impairment charge is required as at 30 June 2017 30 June 2016: US$ nil.
The recoverable amount of Onshore as at 30 June 2017 US CGUs is estimated to exceed the carrying amount of the CGUs at 30 June 2017 by US$4,305 million 30 June 2016: US$1,141 million.
How did the goodwill arise?
Goodwill arose on the Petrohawk acquisition in August 2011 and is attributable to synergies associated with the Groups US unconventional petroleum assets Onshore US.
This comprises the Permian, Haynesville, Fayetteville, Black Hawk and Hawkville group of CGUs, which includes the Groups natural gas and liquid reserves and resources, production wells and associated infrastructure, including gathering systems and processing facilities in Texas and Louisiana US.
Segment Onshore US is part of the Petroleum reportable segment.
How were the valuations FVLCD methodology using discounted cash flow techniques has been applied in determining the recoverable calculated?
value of the Onshore US business.
Level of fair value hierarchy Calculations are based primarily on Level 3 inputs as defined in note 21 Financial risk management.
Significant assumptions The calculation of FVLCD for Onshore US is most sensitive to changes in a market participants perspective and sensitivities of crude oil and natural gas prices, production volumes and discount rates.
Key accounting judgements and estimates used in forming the valuations are disclosed below.
Reasonably possible changes in circumstances may affect significant assumptions and the estimated fair value.
Isolated changes in these significant assumptions could result in an impairment charge being recognised against goodwill.
The reasonably possible changes that would result in the estimated recoverable amount being equal to the carrying amount of Onshore US, including goodwill are: A production volume decrease of 11.0 per cent from estimates contained in managements long-term plans: A decrease in crude oil prices of 20.4 per cent from prices assumed in the valuations: or A decrease in natural gas prices of 23.7 per cent from prices assumed in the valuations.
Crude oil and natural gas price assumptions used in FVLCD impairment testing are consistent with the range of prices published by market commentators, as set out within the following key judgements and estimates section.
The isolated increase in the discount rate that would result in the estimated recoverable amount being equal to the carrying amount of Onshore US, including goodwill, is not considered to be reasonably possible.
Typically changes in any one of the aforementioned assumptions including operating performance would be accompanied by a change in another assumption which may have an offsetting impact.
Action is usually taken to respond to adverse changes in assumptions to mitigate the impact of any such change.
Other goodwill Goodwill held by other CGUs is US$247 million 2016: US$247 million.
This represents less than one per cent of net assets at 30 June 2017 2016: less than one per cent.
This goodwill has been allocated across a number of CGUs in different reportable segments.
There was no impairment of other goodwill in the year to 30 June 2017 2016: US$1 million.
180 BHP Annual Report 2017 Financial Statements 12 | Impairment of non-current assets continued Key judgements and estimates Recoverable amount testing In determining the recoverable amount of assets, in the absence of quoted market prices, estimates are made regarding the present value of future post-tax cash flows.
These estimates require significant management judgement and are subject to risk and uncertainty that may be beyond the control of the Group: hence, there is a possibility that changes in circumstances will materially alter projections, which may impact the recoverable amount of assets at each reporting date.
The estimates are made from the perspective of a market participant and include prices, future production volumes, operating costs, tax attributes and discount rates.
The most significant estimates impacting asset recoverable amount valuations for Onshore US assets, including goodwill are: Crude oil and natural gas prices Crude oil and natural gas prices used in valuations were consistent with the following range of prices published by 5 market commentators: 2017 2016 West Texas Intermediate crude oil price US$ bbl 51.48 89.31 49.00 81.00 Henry Hub natural gas price US$ MMBtu 2.68 4.44 2.74 5.55 Oil and gas prices were derived from consensus and long-term views of global supply and demand, built upon past experience of the industry and consistent with external sources.
Prices are adjusted based upon premiums or discounts applied to global price markers based on the location, nature and quality produced at a field, or to take into account contracted oil and gas prices.
Future production volumes Estimated production volumes were based on detailed data for the fields and took into account development plans for the fields established by management as part of the long-term planning process.
Production volumes are dependent on variables, such as the recoverable quantities of hydrocarbons, the production profile of the hydrocarbons, the cost of the development of the infrastructure necessary to recover the hydrocarbons, the production costs and the contractual duration of the production leases.
As each producing field has specific reservoir characteristics and economic circumstances, the cash flows of the fields were computed using appropriate individual economic models and key assumptions established by management.
When estimating FVLCD, assumptions reflect all reserves and resources that a market participant would consider when valuing the Onshore US business, which in some cases are broader in scope than the reserves that would be used in a VIU test.
In determining FVLCD, risk factors may be applied to reserves and resources which do not meet the criteria to be treated as proved.
Impact of oil and gas reserves and future anticipated production levels on testing for impairment Production volumes and prices used in estimating FVLCD valuations may not be consistent with those disclosed as proved reserves under SEC Rule 4-10 a of Regulation S-X in section 6.3.
1 Petroleum reserves is unaudited and does not form part of these Financial Statements.
FVLCD requires the use of assumptions and estimates that a typical market participant would assume, which include having regard to future forecast oil and gas prices and anticipated field production estimates.
This contrasts with SEC requirements to use unweighted 12-month average historical prices for reserve definitions.
Under SEC requirements, certain previously reported proved reserves may temporarily not meet the definition of proved reserves due to decreases in price in the previous 12 months.
This does not preclude these reserves from being reinstated as proved reserves in future periods when prices recover.
Short-term changes in SEC reported oil and gas reserves do not affect the Groups perspective on underlying project valuations due to the long lives of the assets and future forecast prices.
Discount rates A real post-tax discount rate of 7.0 per cent 2016: 6.5 per cent was applied to post-tax cash flows.
The discount rate is derived using the weighted average cost of capital methodology and has increased from the prior year due to volatility in oil and gas markets.
13 | Deferred tax balances The movement for the year in the Groups net deferred tax position is as follows: 2017 2016 2015 US$M US$M US$M Net deferred tax asset liability At the beginning of the financial year 1,823 1,681 670 Income tax credit charge recorded in the income statement 188 3,508 864 Income tax credit charge recorded directly in equity 12 25 9 1 Other movement 21 156 At the end of the financial year 2,023 1,823 1,681 1 Includes deferred tax assets divested as part of the demerger of South32 for the year ended 30 June 2015.
BHP Annual Report 2017 181 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information 13 | Deferred tax balances continued For recognition and measurement refer to note 5 Income tax expense.
The composition of the Groups net deferred tax assets and liabilities recognised in the balance sheet and the deferred tax expense credited charged to the income statement is as follows: Deferred tax assets Deferred tax liabilities Credited charged to the income statement 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2015 US$M US$M US$M US$M US$M US$M US$M Type of temporary difference Depreciation 3,454 3,223 1,411 1,259 391 2,282 204 Exploration expenditure 543 656 22 3 117 Employee benefits 379 342 3 6 37 56 58 Closure and rehabilitation 1,809 1,711 230 177 151 36 41 Resource rent tax 559 661 1,614 1,905 189 8 925 Other provisions 131 145 1 1 14 8 103 Deferred income 2 10 11 3 49 17 Deferred charges 443 470 322 372 77 62 66 Investments, including foreign tax credits 1,145 1,327 648 844 17 284 58 Foreign exchange gains and losses 87 77 69 156 77 310 210 Tax losses 5,352 5,006 381 809 945 Other 144 69 61 17 355 75 126 Total 5,788 6,147 3,765 4,324 188 3,508 864 The Group recognises the benefit of tax losses amounting to US$5,352 million 2016: US$5,006 million only to the extent of anticipated future taxable income or gains in relevant jurisdictions.
The amounts recognised in the Financial Statements in respect of each matter are derived from the Groups best judgements and estimates as described in note 5 Income tax expense.
The composition of the Groups unrecognised deferred tax assets and liabilities is as follows: 2017 2016 US$M US$M Unrecognised deferred tax assets 1 Tax losses and tax credits 2,687 2,549 2 Investments in subsidiaries 856 1,185 3 Deductible temporary differences relating to PRRT 2,293 2,048 4 Mineral rights 2,293 2,279 5 Other deductible temporary differences 478 460 Total unrecognised deferred tax assets 8,607 8,521 Unrecognised deferred tax liabilities 2 Investments in subsidiaries 2,500 2,615 3 Taxable temporary differences relating to unrecognised deferred tax asset for PRRT 694 614 Total unrecognised deferred tax liabilities 3,194 3,229 1 At 30 June 2017, the Group had income and capital tax losses with a tax benefit of US$1,844 million 2016: US$1,781 million and tax credits of US$843 million 2016: US$768 million, which are not recognised as deferred tax assets.
The gross amount of tax losses carried forward that have not been recognised are as follows: Total Year of expiry US$M Income tax losses Not later than one year 1,199 Later than one year and not later than two years 747 Later than two years and not later than five years 1,288 Later than five years and not later than 10 years 365 Later than 10 years and not later than 20 years 1,358 Unlimited 848 5,805 Capital tax losses Not later than one year 238 Later than two years and not later than five years 144 Unlimited 3,389 Gross amount of tax losses not recognised 9,576 Tax effect of total losses not recognised 1,844 Of the US$843 million of tax credits, US$775 million expires not later than 10 years and US$68 million expires later than 10 years and not later than 20 years.
2 The Group had deferred tax assets of US$856 million at 30 June 2017 2016: US$1,185 million and deferred tax liabilities of US$2,500 million 2016: US$2,615 million associated with undistributed earnings of subsidiaries that have not been recognised because the Group is able to control the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences and it is not probable that these differences will reverse in the foreseeable future.
3 The Group had US$2,293 million of unrecognised deferred tax assets relating to Australian Petroleum Resource Rent Tax PRRT at 30 June 2017 2016: US$2,048 million relating to Australian PRRT, with a corresponding unrecognised deferred tax liability for income tax purposes of US$694 million 2016: US$614 million.
Recognition of a deferred tax asset for PRRT depends on benefits expected to be obtained from the deduction against PRRT liabilities.
4 The Group had deductible temporary differences relating to mineral rights for which deferred tax assets of US$2,293 million at 30 June 2017 2016: US$2,279 million had not been recognised because it is not probable that future capital gains will be available, against which the Group can utilise the benefits.
The deductible temporary differences do not expire under current tax legislation.
5 The Group had deductible temporary differences for which deferred tax assets of US$478 million at 30 June 2017 2016: US$460 million had not been recognised because it is not probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the Group can utilise the benefits.
182 BHP Annual Report 2017 Financial Statements 14 | Closure and rehabilitation provisions 2017 2016 US$M US$M At the beginning of the financial year 6,502 6,701 Capitalised amounts for operating sites: Change in estimate 71 58 Exchange translation 99 112 Adjustments charged credited to the income statement: Increases to existing and new provisions 127 18 Exchange translation 9 8 Released during the year 120 81 Other adjustments to the provision: 5 Amortisation of discounting impacting net finance costs 330 305 Expenditure on closure and rehabilitation activities 132 111 Exchange variations impacting foreign currency translation reserve 1 1 Divestment and demerger of subsidiaries and operations 146 138 Transfers and other movements 1 13 At the end of the financial year 6,738 6,502 Comprising: Current 255 171 Non-current 6,483 6,331 Operating sites 5,462 5,241 Closed sites 1,276 1,261 The Group is required to rehabilitate sites and associated facilities at the end of, or in some cases, during the course of production, to a condition acceptable to the relevant authorities, as specified in licence requirements and the Groups environmental performance requirements as set out within Our Charter.
The key components of closure and rehabilitation activities are: the removal of all unwanted infrastructure associated with an operation: the return of disturbed areas to a safe, stable, productive and self-sustaining condition, consistent with the agreed end land use.
Recognition and measurement Provisions for closure and rehabilitation are recognised by the Group when: it has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events: it is more likely than not that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation: the amount can be reliably estimated.
Initial recognition Subsequent remeasurement Closure and rehabilitation provisions are initially The closure and rehabilitation asset, recognised within property, plant and equipment, is recognised when an environmental disturbance depreciated over the life of the operations.
The value of the provision is progressively increased first occurs.
The individual site provisions are over time as the effect of discounting unwinds, resulting in an expense recognised in net an estimate of the expected value of future finance costs.
cash flows required to rehabilitate the relevant The closure and rehabilitation liability is reviewed at each reporting date to assess if the estimate site using current restoration standards and continues to reflect the best estimate of the obligation.
If necessary, the provision is remeasured techniques and taking into account risks and to account for factors, including: uncertainties.
Individual site provisions are revisions to estimated reserves, resources and lives of operations: discounted to their present value using country developments in technology: specific discount rates aligned to the estimated timing of cash outflows.
regulatory requirements and environmental management strategies: changes in the estimated extent and costs of anticipated activities, including the effects When provisions for closure and rehabilitation of inflation and movements in foreign exchange rates: are initially recognised, the corresponding cost is capitalised as an asset, representing movements in interest rates affecting the discount rate applied.
part of the cost of acquiring the future Changes to the closure and rehabilitation estimate are added to, or deducted from, the related economic benefits of the operation.
asset and amortised on a prospective basis accordingly over the remaining life of the operation, generally applying the units of production method.
Costs arising from unforeseen circumstances, such as the contamination caused by unplanned discharges, are recognised as an expense and liability when the event gives rise to an obligation that is probable and capable of reliable estimation.
Closed sites Where future economic benefits are no longer expected to be derived through operation, changes to the associated closure and remediation costs are charged to the income statement in the period identified.
This amounted to US$33 million in the year ended 30 June 2017 2016: US$18 million.
BHP Annual Report 2017 183 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information 14 | Closure and rehabilitation provisions continued Key judgements and estimates The recognition and measurement of closure and rehabilitation provisions requires the use of significant judgements and estimates, including, but not limited to: the extent due to legal or constructive obligations of potential activities required for the removal of infrastructure and rehabilitation activities: costs associated with future rehabilitation activities: applicable real discount rates: the timing of cash flows and ultimate closure of operations.
Rehabilitation activities are generally undertaken at the end of production life at the individual site.
Remaining production lives range from 3128 years with an average for all sites, weighted by current closure provision, of approximately 26 years.
A 0.5 per cent decrease in the real discount rates applied at 30 June 2017 would result in an increase to the closure and rehabilitation provision of US$632 million, an increase in property, plant and equipment of which US$542 million relating to operating sites and an income statement charge of US$90 million in respect of closed sites.
In addition, the change would result in an increase of approximately US$52 million to depreciation expense and an immaterial reduction in net finance costs for the year ending 30 June 2018.
Estimates can also be impacted by the emergence of new restoration techniques and experience at other operations.
These uncertainties may result in future actual expenditure differing from the amounts currently provided for in the balance sheet.
2 No fully paid ordinary shares in BHP Billiton Limited or BHP Billiton Plc were issued on the exercise of Group Incentive Scheme awards during the period 1 July 2017 to 7 September 2017.
Recognition and measurement Share capital of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc is composed of the following classes of shares: Ordinary shares fully paid Special Voting shares Preference shares BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc Each of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc Preference shares have the right to repayment ordinary shares fully paid of US$0.50 par value issued one Special Voting share to facilitate of the amount paid up on the nominal value represent 99.99 per cent of the total number joint voting by shareholders of BHP Billiton and any unpaid dividends in priority to the of shares.
Any profit remaining after payment Limited and BHP Billiton Plc on Joint Electorate holders of any other class of shares in of preferred distributions is available for Actions.
There has been no movement in BHP Billiton Plc on a return of capital or distribution to the holders of BHP Billiton these shares.
The holders of preference shares Limited and BHP Billiton Plc ordinary shares have limited voting rights if payment of the in equal amounts per share.
preference dividends are six months or more in arrears or a resolution is passed changing the rights of the preference shareholders.
There has been no movement in these shares, all of which are held by JP Morgan Limited.
Equalisation share DLC Dividend share Treasury shares An Equalisation share US$0.50 par value The DLC Dividend share supports the Dual Treasury shares are shares of BHP Billiton Limited has been authorised to be issued to enable a Listed Company DLC equalisation principles and BHP Billiton Plc and are held by the ESOP distribution to be made by BHP Billiton Plc to in place since the merger in 2001, including Trusts for the purpose of issuing shares to BHP Billiton Limited should this be required the requirement that ordinary shareholders employees under the Groups Employee under the terms of the DLC merger.
The Directors of BHP Billiton Plc and BHP Billiton Limited Share Plans.
Treasury shares are recognised have the ability to issue the Equalisation share if are paid equal cash dividends per share.
This at cost and deducted from equity, net of any required under those terms.
The Constitution of share enables efficient and flexible capital income tax effects.
When the treasury shares are BHP Billiton Limited allows the Directors of that management across the DLC and was issued subsequently sold or reissued any consideration company to issue a similar Equalisation share.
on 23 February 2016 at par value of US$10.
received, net of any directly attributable costs No shares have been issued.
On 22 March 2017, BHP Billiton Limited paid and income tax effects, is recognised as an a dividend of US$440 million under the increase in equity.
Any difference between the DLC dividend share arrangements.
This carrying amount and the consideration, if dividend is eliminated on consolidation.
reissued, is recognised in retained earnings.
184 BHP Annual Report 2017 Financial Statements 16 | Other equity 2017 2016 2015 US$M US$M US$M Recognition and measurement Share premium 518 518 518 The share premium account represents the premium paid on the issue account of BHP Billiton Plc shares recognised in accordance with the UK Companies Act 2006.
Foreign currency 40 41 52 The foreign currency translation reserve represents exchange differences translation reserve arising from the translation of non-US dollar functional currency operations within the Group into US dollars.
Employee share 214 293 372 The employee share awards reserve represents the accrued employee awards reserve entitlements to share awards that have been charged to the income statement and have not yet been exercised.
5 Once exercised, the difference between the accumulated fair value of the awards and their historical on-market purchase price is recognised in retained earnings.
Hedging reserve 153 210 141 The hedging reserve represents hedging gains and losses recognised on the effective portion of cash flow hedges.
The cumulative deferred gain or loss on the hedge is recognised in the income statement when the hedged transaction impacts the income statement, or is recognised as an adjustment to the cost of non-financial hedged items.
The hedging reserve records the portion of the gain or loss on a hedging instrument in a cash flow hedge that is determined to be an effective hedge relationship.
Financial assets 10 11 9 The financial assets reserve represents the revaluation of available for sale reserve financial assets.
Where a revalued financial asset is sold or impaired, the relevant portion of the reserve is transferred to the income statement.
Share buy-back 177 177 177 The share buy-back reserve represents the par value of BHP Billiton Plc reserve shares that were purchased and subsequently cancelled.
The cancellation of the shares creates a non-distributable reserve.
Non-controlling interest 1,288 1,288 1,288 The non-controlling interest contribution reserve represents the excess contribution reserve of consideration received over the book value of net assets attributable to equity instruments when acquired by non-controlling interests.
Total reserves 2,400 2,538 2,557 Summarised financial information relating to each of the Groups subsidiaries with non-controlling interests NCI that are material to the Group before any intra-group eliminations is shown below: 2017 2016 Other individually Other individually immaterial immaterial Minera subsidiaries incl.
Escondida intra-group Escondida intra-group US$M Limitada eliminations Total Limitada eliminations Total Group share per cent 57.5 57.5 Current assets 2,107 2,033 Non-current assets 14,528 14,241 Current liabilities 1,339 2,240 Non-current liabilities 4,300 2,316 Net assets 10,996 11,718 Net assets attributable to NCI 4,673 795 5,468 4,980 801 5,781 Revenue 4,576 5,071 Profit after taxation 516 505 Other comprehensive income 5 Total comprehensive income 516 500 Profit after taxation attributable to NCI 219 113 332 214 36 178 Other comprehensive income attributable to NCI 2 2 Net operating cash flow 1,964 1,868 Net investing cash flow 999 2,268 Net financing cash flow 968 507 Dividends paid to NCI 507 74 581 87 87 While the Group controls Minera Escondida Limitada, the non-controlling interests hold certain protective rights that restrict the Groups ability to sell assets held by Minera Escondida Limitada, or use the assets in other subsidiaries and operations owned by the Group.
Minera Escondida Limitada is also restricted from paying dividends without the approval of the non-controlling interests.
BHP Annual Report 2017 185 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information 17 | Dividends Year ended 30 June 2017 Year ended 30 June 2016 Year ended 30 June 2015 Per share Total Per share Total Per share Total US cents US$M US cents US$M US cents US$M 1 Dividends paid during the period Prior year final dividend 14.0 749 62.0 3,299 62.0 3,292 Interim dividend 40.0 2,130 16.0 855 62.0 3,304 54.0 2,879 78.0 4,154 124.0 6,596 1 5.5 per cent dividend on 50,000 preference shares of 1 each determined and paid annually 2016: 5.5 per cent: 2015: 5.5 per cent.
The Dual Listed Company merger terms require that ordinary shareholders of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc are paid equal cash dividends on a per share basis.
Each American Depositary Share ADS represents two ordinary shares of BHP Billiton Limited or BHP Billiton Plc.
Dividends determined on each ADS represent twice the dividend determined on BHP Billiton Limited or BHP Billiton Plc ordinary shares.
Dividends are determined after period-end and announced with the results for the period.
Interim dividends are determined in February and paid in March.
Final dividends are determined in August and paid in September.
Dividends determined are not recorded as a liability at the end of the period to which they relate.
Subsequent to year-end, on 22 August 2017, BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc determined a final dividend of 43.0 US cents per share US$2,289 million, which will be paid on 26 September 2017 30 June 2016: final dividend of 14.0 US cents per share US$746 million: 30 June 2015: final dividend of 62.0 US cents per share US$3,301 million.
BHP Billiton Limited dividends for all periods presented are, or will be, fully franked based on a tax rate of 30 per cent.
2017 2016 2015 US$M US$M US$M Franking credits as at 30 June 10,155 9,640 11,295 Franking credits debits arising from the payment refund of current tax 1,239 81 428 1 Total franking credits available 11,394 9,721 10,867 1 The payment of the final 2017 dividend determined after 30 June 2017 will reduce the franking account balance by US$592 million.
18 | Provisions for dividends and other liabilities The disclosure below excludes closure and rehabilitation provisions refer to note 14 Closure and rehabilitation provisions, employee benefits, restructuring and post-retirement employee benefits provisions refer to note 24 Employee benefits, restructuring and post-retirement employee benefits provisions and the Samarco dam failure provision refer to note 3 Significant events Samarco dam failure.
2017 2016 US$M US$M Movement in provision for dividends and other liabilities At the beginning of the financial year 930 364 Dividends determined 2,871 4,154 Charge credit for the year: Underlying 316 709 Discounting 5 Exchange variations 53 28 Released during the year 122 82 Utilisation 223 141 Dividends paid 2,921 4,130 Transfers and other movements 75 84 1 930 At the end of the financial year 984 Comprising: Current 332 306 Non-current 652 624 1 Includes unpaid dividend determined to non-controlling interest of US$105 million 2016: US$85 million.
186 BHP Annual Report 2017 Financial Statements Financial management 19 | Net debt The Groups corporate purpose is to own and operate large, long-life, low-cost, expandable, upstream assets diversified by commodity, geography and market.
The Group will invest capital in assets where they fit its strategy.
The Group monitors capital using a gearing ratio, being the ratio of net debt to net debt plus net assets.
2017 2016 US$M Current Non-current Current Non-current Interest bearing liabilities Bank loans 192 2,089 1,240 796 5 Notes and debentures 771 26,270 3,280 30,515 Finance leases 82 815 40 306 Bank overdraft and short-term borrowings 45 43 Other 151 59 50 151 Total interest bearing liabilities 1,241 29,233 4,653 31,768 Less cash and cash equivalents Cash 882 491 Short-term deposits 13,271 9,828 Total cash and cash equivalents 14,153 10,319 Net debt 16,321 26,102 Net assets 62,726 60,071 Gearing 20.6% 30.3% Cash and short-term deposits are disclosed in the cash flow statement net of bank overdrafts and interest bearing liabilities at call.
2017 2016 2015 US$M US$M US$M Total cash and cash equivalents 14,153 10,319 6,753 Bank overdrafts and short-term borrowing 45 43 140 Total cash and cash equivalents, net of overdrafts 14,108 10,276 6,613 Recognition and measurement Cash and short-term deposits in the balance sheet comprise cash at bank and on hand and highly liquid cash deposits with short-term maturities and are readily convertible to known amounts of cash with insignificant risk of change in value.
The Group considers that the carrying value of cash and cash equivalents approximate fair value due to their short term to maturity.
Cash and cash equivalents includes US$180 million 2016: US$248 million restricted by legal or contractual arrangements.
Interest bearing liabilities and cash and cash equivalents include balances denominated in the following currencies: Interest bearing liabilities Cash and cash equivalents 2017 2016 2017 2016 US$M US$M US$M US$M USD 14,035 19,600 7,980 10,083 EUR 10,324 10,419 4,663 GBP 3,520 3,886 1,318 37 AUD 1,987 1,870 9 38 CAD 608 646 77 89 Other 106 72 Total 30,474 36,421 14,153 10,319 Liquidity risk The Groups liquidity risk arises from the possibility that it may not be able to settle or meet its obligations as they fall due and is managed as part of the portfolio risk management strategy.
Operational, capital and regulatory requirements are considered in the management of liquidity risk, in conjunction with short-term and long-term forecast information.
Recognising the cyclical volatility of operating cash flows, the Group has defined minimum target cash and liquidity buffers to be maintained to mitigate liquidity risk and support operations through the cycle.
The Groups strong credit profile, diversified funding sources, its minimum cash buffer and its committed credit facilities ensure that sufficient liquid funds are maintained to meet its daily cash requirements.
The Groups policy on counterparty credit exposure ensures that only counterparties of an investment grade standing are used for the investment of any excess cash.
Standard & Poors credit rating of the Group remained at the A level throughout FY2017.
They affirmed this rating and changed their outlook on 20January 2017 from negative to stable.
Moodys maintained their credit rating for the Group of A3 throughout FY2017 and improved their outlook from stable to positive on 3 May 2017.
There were no defaults on loans payable during the period.
BHP Annual Report 2017 187 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information 19 | Net debt continued Counterparty risk The Group is exposed to credit risk from its financing activities, including short-term cash investments such as deposits with banks and derivative contracts.
This risk is managed by Group Treasury in line with the counterparty risk framework, which aims to minimise the exposure to a counterparty and mitigate the risk of financial loss through counterparty failure.
Exposure to counterparties is monitored at a Group level across all products and includes exposure with derivatives and cash investments.
Investments and derivatives are transacted with approved counterparties who have been assigned specific limits based on a quantitative credit risk model.
The policy is reviewed annually and limits are updated at least bi-annually.
Derivatives must be transacted with approved counterparties and are subject to tenor limits.
Standby arrangements and unused credit facilities The Groups committed revolving credit facility operates as a back-stop to the Groups uncommitted commercial paper program.
The combined amount drawn under the facility or as commercial paper will not exceed US$6.0 billion.
As at 30 June 2017, US$ nil commercial paper was drawn 2016: US$ nil.
The revolving credit facility has a five-year maturity ending 7 May 2021.
A commitment fee is payable on the undrawn balance and an interest rate comprising an interbank rate plus a margin applies to any drawn balance.
The agreed margins are typical for a credit facility extended to a company with the Groups credit rating.
Maturity profile of financial liabilities The maturity profile of the Groups financial liabilities based on the contractual amounts, taking into account the derivatives related to debt, is as follows: Bank loans, Expected Obligations debentures future Derivatives under Trade and 2017 and other interest related to Other finance other US$M loans payments net debt derivatives leases payables Total Due for payment: In one year or less or on demand 1,157 686 267 144 135 5,417 7,806 In more than one year but not more than two years 2,471 1,022 245 4 132 5 3,879 In more than two years but not more than five years 8,279 2,611 503 7 343 11,743 In more than five years 16,706 6,248 1,975 705 25,634 Total 28,613 10,567 2,990 155 1,315 5,422 49,062 Carrying amount 29,577 1,345 155 897 5,422 37,396 Bank loans, Expected Obligations debentures future Derivatives under Trade and 2016 and other interest related to Other finance other US$M loans payments netdebt derivatives leases payables Total Due for payment: In one year or less or on demand 4,568 826 118 5 49 5,125 10,691 In more than one year but not more than two years 938 1,151 409 3 66 1 2,568 In more than two years but not more than five years 9,447 3,014 837 7 155 5 13,465 In more than five years 18,847 7,250 1,997 115 7 28,216 Total 33,800 12,241 3,361 15 385 5,138 54,940 Carrying amount 36,075 1,768 15 346 5,138 43,342 20 | Net finance costs 2017 2016 2015 US$M US$M US$M Financial expenses Interest on bank loans, overdrafts and all other borrowings 1,131 971 526 1 Interest capitalised at 3.25% 2016: 2.61%: 2015: 1.94% 113 123 148 Discounting on provisions and other liabilities 462 313 333 Fair value change on hedged loans 1,185 1,444 372 Fair value change on hedging derivatives 1,244 1,448 358 Exchange variations on net debt 23 24 63 Other financial expenses 58 28 40 1,574 1,161 702 Financial income Interest income 143 137 88 Net finance costs 1,431 1,024 614 1 Interest has been capitalised at the rate of interest applicable to the specific borrowings financing the assets under construction or, where financed through general borrowings, at a capitalisation rate representing the average interest rate on such borrowings.
Tax relief for capitalised interest is approximately US$34 million 2016: US$37 million: 2015: US$42 million.
Recognition and measurement Interest income is accrued using the effective interest rate method.
188 BHP Annual Report 2017 Financial Statements 21 | Financial risk management Financial and capital risk management strategy The financial risks arising from the Groups operations comprise market, liquidity and credit risk.
These risks arise in the normal course of business and the Group manages its exposure to them in accordance with the Groups portfolio risk management strategy.
The objective of the strategy is to support the delivery of the Groups financial targets, while protecting its future financial security and flexibility by taking advantage of the natural diversification provided by the scale, diversity and flexibility of the Groups operations and activities.
A Cash Flow at Risk CFaR framework is used to measure the aggregate and diversified impact of financial risks upon the Groups financial targets.
The principal measurement of risk is CFaR measured on a portfolio basis, which is defined as the worst expected loss relative to projected business plan cash flows over a one-year horizon under normal market conditions at a confidence level of 90 per cent.
Market risk The Groups activities expose it to market risks associated with movements in interest rates, foreign currencies and commodity prices.
Under the strategy outlined above, the Group seeks to achieve financing costs, currency impacts, input costs and commodity prices on a floating or index 5 basis.
This strategy gives rise to a risk of variability in earnings, which is measured under the CFaR framework.
In executing the strategy, financial instruments are potentially employed in three distinct but related activities.
The following table summarises these activities and the key risk management processes: Activity Key risk management processes 1 Risk mitigation On an exception basis, hedging for the purposes of mitigating risk related to specific Execution of transactions within approved mandates.
and significant expenditure on investments or capital projects will be executed if necessary to support the Groups strategic objectives.
2 Economic hedging of commodity sales, operating costs and debt instruments Where Group commodity production is sold to customers on pricing terms that deviate Measuring and reporting the exposure in customer from the relevant index target and where a relevant derivatives market exists, financial commodity contracts and issued debt instruments.
instruments may be executed as an economic hedge to align the revenue price exposure Executing hedging derivatives to align the total group with the index target.
exposure to the index target.
Where debt is issued in a currency other than the US dollar and or at a fixed interest rate, fair value and cash flow hedges may be executed to align the debt exposure with the Groups functional currency of US dollars and or to swap to a floating interest rate.
3 Strategic financial transactions Opportunistic transactions may be executed with financial instruments to capture Execution of transactions within approved mandates.
value from perceived market over under valuations.
Primary responsibility for the identification and control of financial Currency risk risks, including authorising and monitoring the use of financial The US dollar is the predominant functional currency within the instruments for the above activities and stipulating policy thereon, Group and as a result, currency exposures arise from transactions rests with the Financial Risk Management Committee under authority and balances in currencies other than the US dollar.
The Groups delegated by the Chief Executive Officer.
potential currency exposures comprise: translational exposure in respect of non-functional currency Interest rate risk monetary items: The Group is exposed to interest rate risk on its outstanding transactional exposure in respect of non-functional currency borrowings and investments from the possibility that changes in expenditure and revenues.
interest rates will affect future cash flows or the fair value of fixed interest rate financial instruments.
Interest rate risk is managed The Groups foreign currency risk is managed as part of the portfolio as part of the portfolio risk management strategy.
The majority of the Groups debt is issued at fixed interest rates.
Translational exposure in respect of non-functional currency The Group has entered into interest rate swaps and cross currency monetary items interest rate swaps to convert most of its fixed interest rate exposure Monetary items, including financial assets and liabilities, denominated to floating US dollar interest rate exposure.
As at 30 June 2017, in currencies other than the functional currency of an operation are 90 per cent of the Groups borrowings were exposed to floating periodically restated to US dollar equivalents and the associated interest rates inclusive of the effect of swaps 2016: 91 per cent.
gain or loss is taken to the income statement.
The exception is The fair value of interest rate swaps and cross currency interest rate foreign exchange gains or losses on foreign currency denominated swaps in hedge relationships used to hedge both interest rate and provisions for closure and rehabilitation at operating sites, which are foreign currency risks are shown in the fair values section of this note.
capitalised in property, plant and equipment.
Based on the net debt position as at 30 June 2017, taking into The principal non-functional currencies to which the Group is account interest rate swaps and cross currency interest rate swaps, exposed are the Australian dollar and the Chilean peso: however, it is estimated that a one percentage point increase in the US LIBOR 86 per cent 2016: 91 per cent of the Groups net financial liabilities interest rate will decrease the Groups equity and profit after taxation are denominated in US dollars.
Based on the Groups net financial by US$92 million 2016: decrease of US$156 million.
This assumes assets and liabilities as at 30 June 2017, a weakening of the US dollar the change in interest rates is effective from the beginning of the against these currencies one cent strengthening in Australian dollar financial year and the fixed floating mix and balances are constant and 10 pesos strengthening in Chilean peso, with all other variables over the year.
However, interest rates and the net debt profile of the held constant, would decrease the Groups equity and profit after Group may not remain constant over the coming financial year and taxation by US$16 million 2016: decrease of US$15 million.
therefore such sensitivity analysis should be used with care.
Transactional exposure in respect of non-functional currency expenditure and revenues Certain operating and capital expenditure is incurred in currencies other than their functional currency.
To a lesser extent, certain sales revenue is earned in currencies other than the functional currency of operations and certain exchange control restrictions may require that funds be maintained in currencies other than the functional currency of the operation.
These currency risks are managed as part of the portfolio risk management strategy.
The Group enters into forward exchange contracts when required under this strategy.
BHP Annual Report 2017 189 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information 21 | Financial risk management continued prices upon provisionally invoiced sales and purchases volumes was Commodity price risk predominately around copper.
Contracts for the sale and physical delivery of commodities are executed whenever possible on a pricing basis intended to achieve a The Group had 213,000 tonnes of copper exposure at 30 June 2017 relevant index target.
While the Group has succeeded in transitioning 2016: 277,000 tonnes that was provisionally priced.
The final price the majority of Group commodity production sales to market-based of these sales or purchases will be determined during the first half index pricing terms, derivative commodity contracts may from of FY2018.
A 10 per cent change in the price of copper realised on time to time be used to align realised prices with the relevant index.
the provisionally priced sales, with all other factors held constant, Due to the nature of the economic returns from our shale assets, would increase or decrease profit after taxation by US$90 million from time to time the Group enters into natural gas futures contracts 2016:US$98 million.
The relationship between commodity prices to manage price risk on gas production.
Contracts for the physical and foreign currencies is complex and movements in foreign delivery of commodities are not typically financial instruments and exchange rates can impact commodity prices.
The sensitivities are carried in the balance sheet at cost typically at US$ nil : they should therefore be used with care.
are therefore excluded from the fair value and sensitivity analysis.
Liquidity risk Accordingly, the financial instrument exposures set out below do Refer to note 19 Net debt for details on the Group liquidity risk.
not represent all of the commodity price risks managed according to the Groups objectives.
Movements in the fair value of contracts Credit risk included are offset by movements in the fair value of the physical Refer to note 7 Trade and other receivables for details on the Group contracts: however, only the former movement is recognised in the credit risk.
Groups income statement prior to settlement.
The risk associated with commodity prices is managed as part of the portfolio risk Financial assets and liabilities management strategy.
The financial assets and liabilities are presented by class in the tables on page 192 at their carrying amounts, which generally approximate Financial instruments with commodity price risk are forward to fair value.
commodity and other derivative contracts with a net assets fair value of US$358 million 2016: US$229 million.
Significant items Recognition and measurement are primarily derivatives embedded in physical commodity purchase All financial assets and liabilities, other than derivatives, are initially and sales contracts of gas in Trinidad and Tobago with a net assets recognised at the fair value of consideration paid or received, net fair value of US$370 million 2016:US$220 million.
of transaction costs as appropriate, and subsequently carried at fair The potential effect of using reasonably possible alternative value or amortised cost.
Derivatives are initially recognised at fair assumptions in these models, based on a change in the most value on the date the contract is entered into and are subsequently significant input, such as commodity prices, by an increase remeasured at their fair value.
decrease of 10 per cent while holding all other variables constant The Group classifies its financial assets and liabilities into: will increase decrease profit after taxation by US$62 million loans and receivables: 2016: US$34 million.
available for sale securities: Provisionally priced commodity sales and purchases contracts held at fair value through profit or loss: Provisionally priced sales or purchases volumes are those for which cash flow hedges: price finalisation, referenced to the relevant index, is outstanding at financial assets and liabilities at amortised cost.
Provisional pricing mechanisms embedded within these sales and purchases arrangements have the character of a The classification depends on the purpose for which the financial commodity derivative and are carried at fair value through profit assets and liabilities are held.
Management determines the and loss as part of trade receivables or trade payables.
The Groups classification of its financial assets at initial recognition.
exposure at 30 June 2017 to the impact of movements in commodity Loans and receivables Available for sale securities Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or Available for sale financial assets are measured at fair value.
Gains and determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market and losses on the remeasurement of trading investments are recognised include cash and cash equivalents and trade receivables.
They are directly in the income statement.
Gains and losses on the remeasurement included in current assets, except for those with maturities greater than of available for sale securities and investments are recognised directly 12 months after the reporting date, which are classified as non-current in equity and subsequently recognised in the income statement when assets.
Loans and receivables are initially measured at fair value of realised by sale or redemption, or when a reduction in fair value is consideration paid and subsequently carried at either fair value or judged to represent an impairment.
At the end of each reporting period, loans and receivables are assessed for objective evidence that they are impaired.
The amount of loss is measured as the difference between its carrying amount and the present value of its estimated future cash flows.
The loss is recognised in the income statement.
Other financial liabilities at amortised cost Trade and other payables represents amounts that are non-interest bearing.
The carrying value approximates their fair value, which represents liabilities for goods and services provided to the Group prior to the end of the reporting period that are unpaid.
Interest bearing liabilities are initially recognised at fair value of the consideration received, net of transaction costs.
Borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Borrowings are removed from the balance sheet when the obligation specified in the contract is discharged, cancelled or expired.
The difference between the carrying amount of a financial liability that has been extinguished or transferred to another party and the consideration paid, including any non-cash assets transferred or liabilities assumed, is recognised in the income statement as other income or finance costs.
The Group has finance lease liabilities in relation to certain items of property, plant and equipment.
Finance lease liabilities are initially recognised at the fair value of the underlying assets or, if lower, the estimated present value of the minimum lease payments.
Each lease payment is allocated between the liability and finance cost, and the finance cost is charged to the income statement over the lease period to reflect a constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability for each period.
Derivatives and hedging Derivatives, including embedded derivatives separated from the host contracts, are included within financial assets or liabilities at fair value through profit or loss unless they are designated as effective hedging instruments.
Financial instruments in this category are classified as current if they are expected to be settled within 12 months: otherwise they are classified as non-current.
The Group uses financial instruments to hedge its exposure to certain market risks arising from operational, financing and investing activities.
At the start of the transaction, the Group documents: the type of hedge: the relationship between the hedging instrument and hedged items: its risk management objective and strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions.
The documentation also demonstrates, both at hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, that the hedge is expected to continue to be highly effective.
190 BHP Annual Report 2017 Financial Statements 21 | Financial risk management continued The Group has two types of hedges: Fair value hedges Cash flow hedges Exposure As the majority of the Groups debt is issued at fixed interest As a portion of the Groups debt is denominated in currencies rates, the Group has entered into interest rate swaps and other than US dollars, the Group has entered into cross cross currency interest rate swaps to mitigate its exposure currency interest rate swaps to mitigate currency exposures.
to changes in the fair value of borrowings.
Recognition date At the date the instrument is entered into.
Measurement Measured at fair value.
Fair value approach Based on internal valuations using standard valuation techniques with current market inputs, including interest and forward commodity: and exchange rates.
Quoted market prices or dealer quotes for similar instruments are used for long-term debt 5 instruments held.
How are changes in fair The following changes in the fair value are recognised Changes in the fair value of derivatives designated as cash value accounted for?
immediately in the income statement: flow hedges are recognised directly in other comprehensive income and accumulated in equity in the hedging reserve the gains or losses on both the derivative or financial to the extent that the hedge is highly effective.
instrument and hedged asset or liability attributable to the hedged risk: To the extent that the hedge is ineffective, changes in fair value are recognised immediately in the income statement.
the gain or loss relating to the effective portion of interest rate swaps, hedging fixed rate borrowings, together Amounts accumulated in equity are transferred to the with the gain or loss in the fair value of the hedged income statement or the balance sheet for a non-financial fixed rate borrowings attributable to interest rate risk: asset at the same time as the hedged item is recognised.
the gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated of the hedge.
or exercised, or when a hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or loss existing If the hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge in equity at that time remains in equity and is recognised accounting, the adjustment to the carrying amount when the underlying forecast transaction occurs.
of a hedged item for which the effective interest method When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, is used is amortised to the income statement over the cumulative gain or loss that was reported in equity the period to maturity using a recalculated effective is immediately transferred to the income statement.
Certain derivative instruments do not qualify for hedge accounting.
The inputs used in fair value calculations are determined by the Changes in the fair value of any derivative instrument that does not relevant segment or function.
The functions support the assets and qualify for hedge accounting are recognised immediately in the operate under a defined set of accountabilities authorised by the income statement.
Movements in the fair value of financial assets and liabilities may be recognised through the income Valuation hierarchy statement or in other comprehensive income.
The carrying amount of financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value is principally calculated based on inputs other than quoted prices that are observable for these financial assets or liabilities, either directly i. e. as unquoted prices or indirectly i. e. derived from prices.
Where no price information is available from a quoted market source, alternative market mechanisms or recent comparable transactions, fair value is estimated based on the Groups views on relevant future prices, net of valuation allowances to accommodate liquidity, modelling and other risks implicit in such estimates.
BHP Annual Report 2017 191 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information 21 | Financial risk management continued For financial assets and liabilities carried at fair value, the Group uses the following to categorise the method used: Fair value hierarchy Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Valuation method Based on quoted prices unadjusted Based on inputs other than quoted prices Based on inputs not observable in active markets for identical financial included within Level 1 that are observable in the market using appropriate assets and liabilities.
for the financial asset or liability, either valuation models, including directly i. e. as unquoted prices or discounted cash flow modelling.
indirectly i. e. derived from prices.
The financial assets and liabilities are presented by class in the tables below at their carrying amounts, which generally approximate to fair value.
In the case of US$3,019 million 2016: US$3,020 million of fixed rate debt not swapped to floating rate, the fair value at 30 June 2017 was US$3,523 million 2016: US$3,539 million.
Other financial Held at fair assets and 2017 Loans and Available for value through Cash flow liabilities at US$M receivables sale securities profit or loss hedges amortised cost Total 1 Fair value hierarchy Level 3 Levels 1, 2 & 3 Level 2 2 Current other derivative contracts 41 41 3 Current available for sale shares and other investments 31 31 Non-current cross currency and interest rate swaps 578 27 605 2 Non-current other derivative contracts 332 332 Non-current available for sale shares and 3 4 other investments 70 274 344 Total other financial assets 70 1,256 27 1,353 Cash and cash equivalents 14,153 14,153 5 Trade and other receivables 1,813 920 2,733 Loans to equity accounted investments 644 644 Total financial assets 16,610 70 2,176 27 18,883 Non-financial assets 98,123 Total assets 117,006 Current cross currency and interest rate swaps 4 254 250 2 6 Current other derivative contracts 144 144 Non-current cross currency and interest rate swaps 42 1,053 1,095 2 6 Non-current other derivative contracts 4 7 11 Total other financial liabilities 186 1,314 1,500 7 Trade and other payables 502 4,920 5,422 8 Bank overdrafts and short-term borrowings 45 45 8 Bank loans 2,281 2,281 8 Notes and debentures 27,041 27,041 8 Finance leases 897 897 8 Other 210 210 Total financial liabilities 688 1,314 35,394 37,396 Non-financial liabilities 16,884 Total liabilities 54,280 192 BHP Annual Report 2017 Financial Statements 21 | Financial risk management continued Other financial Held at fair assets and 2016 Loans and Available for value through Cash flow liabilities at US$M receivables sale securities profit or loss hedges amortised cost Total 1 Fair value hierarchy Level 3 Levels 1, 2 & 3 Level 2 Current cross currency and interest rate swaps 43 43 2 Current other derivative contracts 42 42 3 Current available for sale shares and other investments 36 36 Non-current cross currency and interest rate swaps 2,291 54 2,237 2 Non-current other derivative contracts 202 202 Non-current available for sale shares and 3 4 other investments 25 216 241 5 Total other financial assets 25 2,830 54 2,801 Cash and cash equivalents 10,319 10,319 5 Trade and other receivables 1,978 835 2,813 Loans to equity accounted investments 897 897 Total financial assets 13,194 25 3,665 54 16,830 Non-financial assets 102,123 Total assets 118,953 Current cross currency and interest rate swaps 2 6 Current other derivative contracts 5 5 Non-current cross currency and interest rate swaps 166 1,602 1,768 2 6 Non-current other derivative contracts 10 10 Total other financial liabilities 181 1,602 1,783 7 Trade and other payables 256 4,882 5,138 8 Bank overdrafts and short-term borrowings 43 43 8 Bank loans 2,036 2,036 8 Notes and debentures 33,795 33,795 8 Finance leases 346 346 8 Other 201 201 Total financial liabilities 437 1,602 41,303 43,342 Non-financial liabilities 15,540 Total liabilities 58,882 1 All of the Groups financial assets and financial liabilities recognised at fair value were valued using market observable inputs categorised as Level 2 with the exception of the specified items in the following footnotes.
2 Includes other derivative contracts of US$365 million 2016: US$236 million categorised as Level 3.
3 Includes other investments held at fair value through profit or loss US Treasury Notes of US$97 million categorised as Level 1 2016: US$54 million.
4 Includes shares and other investments available for sale of US$70 million 2016: US$25 million categorised as Level 3.
5 Excludes input taxes of US$262 million 2016: US$312 million included in other receivables.
Refer to note 7 Trade and other receivables.
6 Includes US$7 million 2016: US$ nil natural gas futures contracts used by the Group to mitigate price risk designated as cash flow hedges.
7 Excludes input taxes of US$134 million 2016: US$264 million included in other payables.
Refer to note 8 Trade and other payables.
8 All interest bearing liabilities, excluding finance leases, are unsecured.
For financial instruments that are carried at fair value on a recurring Offsetting financial assets and liabilities basis, the Group determines whether transfers have occurred The Group enters into money market deposits and derivative between levels in the hierarchy by reassessing categorisation transactions under International Swaps and Derivatives Association based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value Master Agreements that do not meet the criteria for offsetting, but measurement as a whole at the end of each reporting period.
allow for the related amounts to be set-off in certain circumstances.
There were no transfers between categories during the period.
The amounts set out as cross currency and interest rate swaps in the table above represent the derivative financial assets and liabilities For financial instruments not valued at fair value on a recurring basis, of the Group that may be subject to the above arrangements and the Group uses a method that can be categorised as Level 2. are presented on a gross basis.
Recognition and measurement Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount reported in the balance sheet where the Group currently has a legally enforceable right to offset the recognised amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net basis or realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
BHP Annual Report 2017 193 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information Employee matters 22 | Key management personnel Key management personnel compensation comprises: 2017 2016 2015 US$ US$ US$ Short-term employee benefits 16,439,948 14,979,983 26,663,069 Post-employment benefits 1,895,828 2,356,594 2,920,007 Share-based payments 13,747,355 16,837,179 20,783,959 Total 32,083,131 34,173,756 50,367,035 Transactions and outstanding loans amounts with key management personnel There were no purchases by key management personnel from the Group during the financial year 2016: US$ nil: 2015: US$ nil.
There were no amounts payable by key management personnel at 30 June 2017 2016: US$ nil: 2015: US$ nil.
There were no loans receivable from or payable to key management personnel at 30 June 2017 2016: US$ nil: 2015: US$ nil.
Transactions with personally related entities A number of Directors of the Group hold or have held positions in other companies personally related entities where it is considered they control or significantly influence the financial or operating policies of those entities.
There were no transactions with those entities and no amounts were owed by the Group to personally related entities at 30 June 2017 2016: US$ nil: 2015: US$ nil.
For more information on remuneration and transactions with key management personnel, refer to section 3.
23 | Employee share ownership plans Awards, in the form of the right to receive ordinary shares in either BHP Billiton Limited or BHP Billiton Plc, have been granted under the following employee share ownership plans: Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP, Short-Term Incentive Plan STIP, Management Award Plan MAP, Group Short-Term Incentive Plan GSTIP, Transitional Operations Management Committee OMC awards and the all-employee share plan, Shareplus.
Some awards are eligible to receive a cash payment, or the equivalent value in shares, equal to the dividend amount that would have been earned on the underlying shares awarded to those participants the Dividend Equivalent Payment, or DEP.
The DEP is provided to the participants once the underlying shares are allocated or transferred to them.
Awards under the plans do not confer any rights to participate in a share issue: however, there is discretion under each of the plans to adjust the awards in response to a variation in the share capital of BHP Billiton Limited or BHP Billiton Plc.
The table below provides a description of each of the plans.
Plan STIP and GSTIP LTIP and MAP Transitional OMC awards Shareplus Type Short-term incentive Long-term incentive Long-term incentive All-employee share purchase plan Overview The STIP is a plan for the The LTIP is a plan for the OMC and awards are Awards are granted to Employees may OMC and the GSTIP is a plan granted annually.
new OMC members contribute up to for non-OMC management.
recruited from within US$5,000 to acquire The MAP is a plan for non-OMC management.
the Group to bridge shares in any plan year.
Under both plans, half of The number of share rights awarded is the gap created by the On the third anniversary the value of a participants determined by a participants role and different timeframes of the start of a plan short-term incentive amount organisational level.
of the vesting of MAP year, the Group will is awarded as rights to awards, granted in their match the number receive BHP Billiton Limited non-OMC role, and of acquired shares.
or BHP Billiton Plc shares at LTIP awards, granted the end of the vesting period.
LTIP: Service conditions and Service conditions and Service conditions only.
For awards granted from December 2010 The Remuneration 1 onwards, BHPs TSR performance relative Committee has absolute to the Peer Group Total Shareholder Return discretion to determine TSR over a five-year performance period if the performance determines the vesting of 67 per cent of the condition has been met awards, while performance relative to the and whether any, all or Index TSR being the index value where part of the award will the comparator group is a market index vest or otherwise lapse, determines the vesting of 33 per cent of the having regard to but not 1 awards.
For the awards to vest in full, BHPs limited to the BHPs TSR 1 TSR must exceed the Peer Group TSR and over the threeor Index TSR if applicable by a specified four-year performance percentage per year, determined for each period respectively, the grant by the Remuneration Committee.
participants contribution Since the establishment of the LTIP in 2004, to Group outcomes this percentage has been set at 5.5 per cent and the participants per year.
personal performance with guidance on this MAP: Service conditions only.
Vesting 2 years LTIP 5 years 3 years or 4 years 3 years period MAP 1 to 5 years Dividend Yes, except GSTIP awards Yes, except MAP granted after 1 July 2011 No No Equivalent granted after 1 July 2011 Payment Exercise None LTIP granted prior to 1 July 2013 5 years None None period MAP none 1 BHPs TSR is the weighted average of the TSRs of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc.
194 BHP Annual Report 2017 Financial Statements 23 | Employee share ownership plans continued Employee share awards Number of Weighted Number of Number of Number of awards vested average awards at the Number of awards Number of awards at the and exercisable remaining beginning of the awards issued vested and awards end of the at the end of the contractual life 2017 financial year during the year exercised lapsed financial year financial year years BHP Billiton Limited STIP awards 849,090 61,538 412,994 497,634 0.3 GSTIP awards 2,787,420 775,991 1,487,147 74,681 2,001,583 30,164 0.5 LTIP awards 4,881,058 1,309,048 291,880 1,218,713 4,679,513 67,414 2.7 Transitional OMC awards 266,820 70,740 58,886 137,194 0.7 MAP awards 6,767,037 3,701,768 2,596,657 523,720 7,348,428 57,468 1.9 5 Shareplus 5,736,504 2,873,800 2,093,519 518,268 5,998,517 1.2 Employee Share Plan shares legacy plan 406,618 67,735 338,883 338,883 n a BHP Billiton Plc GSTIP awards 264,195 37,665 211,217 6,393 84,250 19,253 0.4 LTIP awards 660,183 56,069 217,202 386,912 78,655 0.1 Transitional OMC awards 21,533 15,719 5,814 n a MAP awards 1,069,828 132,435 552,142 53,678 596,443 54,502 0.6 Shareplus 320,719 171,317 123,385 32,543 336,108 1.2 Fair value and assumptions in the calculation of fair value for awards issued Weighted average fair value of awards Estimated granted during Risk-free Estimated life Share price at volatility of 2017 the year US$ interest rate of awards grant date share price Dividend yield BHP Billiton Limited STIP awards 18.85 n a 3 years A$19.09 n a 1.81% GSTIP awards 16.82 n a 3 years A$19.09 n a 1.81% LTIP awards 8.08 1.65% 5 years A$19.09 33.0% 1.81% 1 MAP awards 14.72 n a 1-2-3 years A$19.09 n a 1.81% A$24.04 3.80% Shareplus 15.58 1.72% 3 years A$16.94 n a 1.81% BHP Billiton Plc GSTIP awards 14.96 n a 3 years 9.40 n a 1.58% MAP awards 12.00 n a 1-2-3 years 9.40 n a 1.58% Shareplus 11.93 0.35% 3 years 7.72 n a 1.58% 1 Includes MAP awards granted on 31 March 2017.
Employee share awards expense is US$106.214 million 2016: US$140.445 million: 2015: US$202.955 million.
Recognition and measurement The fair value at grant date of equity-settled share awards is Where awards are forfeited because non-market-based vesting charged to the income statement over the period for which conditions are not satisfied, the expense previously recognised the benefits of employee services are expected to be derived.
The fair values of awards granted were estimated using a Monte The tax effect of awards granted is recognised in income tax Carlo simulation methodology and Black-Scholes option pricing expense, except to the extent that the total tax deductions are technique and considers the following factors: expected to exceed the cumulative remuneration expense.
In this exercise price: situation, the excess of the associated current or deferred tax is expected life of the award: recognised in other comprehensive income and forms part of the current market price of the underlying shares: employee share awards reserve.
The fair value of awards as presented in the tables above represents the fair value at grant date.
expected volatility using an analysis of historic volatility over different rolling periods.
For the LTIP, it is calculated for all sector In respect of employee share awards, the Group utilises the Billiton comparators and the published MSCI World index: Employee Share Ownership Trust and the BHP Billiton Limited expected dividends: Employee Equity Trust.
The trustees of these trusts are independent risk-free interest rate, which is an applicable government bond rate: companies, resident in Jersey.
The trusts use funds provided by the Group to acquire ordinary shares to enable awards to be made market-based performance hurdles: or satisfied.
The ordinary shares may be acquired by purchase non-vesting conditions.
in the market or by subscription at not less than nominal value.
The BHP Billiton Limited Employee Equity Trust has waived its rights to current and future dividends on shares held to meet future awards under the plans.
BHP Annual Report 2017 195 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information 24 | Employee benefits, restructuring and post-retirement employee benefits provisions 2017 2016 US$M US$M 1 Employee benefits 1,177 1,145 2 Restructuring 10 17 Post-retirement employee benefits 438 352 Total provisions 1,625 1,514 Comprising: Current 1,062 988 Non-current 563 526 Post-retirement Employee employee benefits Restructuring benefits Total 2017 US$M US$M US$M US$M At the beginning of the financial year 1,145 17 352 1,514 Charge credit for the year: Underlying 973 13 57 1,043 Discounting 41 41 Net interest expense 23 23 Exchange variations 24 24 Released during the year 13 7 20 Remeasurement gains taken to retained earnings 36 36 Utilisation 823 13 80 916 Divestment and demerger of subsidiaries and operations 2 2 Transfers and other movements 127 127 At the end of the financial year 1,177 10 438 1,625 1 The expenditure associated with total employee benefits will occur in a pattern consistent with when employees choose to exercise their entitlement to benefits.
2 Total restructuring provisions include provisions for terminations and office closures.
Recognition and measurement Provisions are recognised by the Group when: there is a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events: it is more likely than not that a permanent outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation: the amount can be reliably estimated and measured at the present value of managements best estimate of the cash outflow required to settle the obligation at reporting date.
Provision Description Employee benefits Liabilities for annual leave and any accumulating sick leave accrued up until the reporting date that are expected to be settled within 12 months are measured at the amounts expected to be paid when the liabilities are settled.
Liabilities for long service leave are measured as the present value of estimated future payments for the services provided by employees up to the reporting date and disclosed within employee benefits.
Liabilities that are not expected to be settled within 12 months are discounted at the reporting date using market yields of high-quality corporate bonds or government bonds for countries where there is no deep market for corporate bonds.
The rates used reflect the terms to maturity and currency that match, as closely as possible, the estimated future cash outflows.
In relation to industry-based long service leave funds, the Groups liability, including obligations for funding shortfalls, is determined after deducting the fair value of dedicated assets of such funds.
Liabilities for unpaid wages and salaries are recognised in other creditors.
Restructuring Restructuring provisions are recognised when: the Group has a detailed formal plan identifying the business or part of the business concerned, the location and approximate number of employees affected, a detailed estimate of the associated costs, and an appropriate timeline: the restructuring has either commenced or been publicly announced and can no longer be withdrawn.
Payments falling due greater than 12 months after the reporting date are discounted to present value.
196 BHP Annual Report 2017 Financial Statements 25 | Pension and other post-retirement obligations The Group operates or participates in a number of pension including superannuation schemes throughout the world.
The funding of the schemes complies with local regulations.
The assets of the schemes are generally held separately from those of the Group and are administered by trustees or management boards.
Schemes obligations Description Defined contribution For defined contribution schemes or schemes operated on an industry-wide basis where it is not possible to identify assets pension schemes and attributable to the participation by the Groups employees, the pension charge is calculated on the basis of contributions multi-employer payable.
The Group contributed US$247 million during the financial year 2016: US$232 million: 2015: US$462 million to pension schemes defined contribution plans and multi-employer defined contribution plans.
These contributions are expensed as incurred.
Defined benefit For defined benefit pension schemes, the cost of providing pensions is charged to the income statement so as to recognise pension schemes current and past service costs, net interest cost on the net defined benefit obligations plan assets and the effect of any curtailments or settlements.
Remeasurement gains and losses are recognised directly in equity.
An asset or liability is 5 consequently recognised in the balance sheet based on the present value of defined benefit obligations less the fair value of plan assets, except that any such asset cannot exceed the present value of expected refunds from and reductions in future contributions to the plan.
Defined benefit obligations are estimated by discounting expected future payments using market yields at the reporting date on high-quality corporate bonds in countries that have developed corporate bond markets.
However, where developed corporate bond markets do not exist, the discount rates are selected by reference to national government bonds.
In both instances, the bonds are selected with terms to maturity and currency that match, as closely as possible, the estimated future cash flows.
The Group has closed all defined benefit pensions schemes to new entrants.
Defined benefit pension schemes remain operating in Australia, the United States, Canada and Europe for existing members.
Full actuarial valuations are prepared and updated annually to 30 June by local actuaries for all schemes.
The Group operates final salary schemes that provide final salary benefits only, non-salary related schemes that provide flat dollar benefits and mixed benefit schemes that consist of a final salary defined benefit portion and a defined contribution portion.
Defined benefit Certain Group companies provide post-retirement medical benefits to qualifying retirees.
In some cases, the benefits are post-retirement provided through medical care schemes to which the Group, the employees, the retirees and covered family members medical schemes contribute.
In some schemes there is no funding of the benefits before retirement.
These schemes are recognised on the same basis as described for defined benefit pension schemes.
The Group operates a number of post-retirement medical schemes in the United States, Canada and Europe.
Full actuarial valuations are prepared by local actuaries for all schemes.
All of the post-retirement medical schemes in the Group are unfunded.
Defined benefit The Group has a legal obligation to provide post-employment benefits to employees in Chile.
The benefit is a function post-employment of an employees final salary and years of service.
These obligations are recognised on the same basis as described for obligations defined benefit pension schemes.
Full actuarial valuations are prepared by local actuaries.
These post-employment obligations are unfunded.
Risk The Groups defined benefit schemes obligations expose the Group to a number of risks, including asset value volatility, interest rate variations, inflation, longevity and medical expense inflation risk.
Recognising this, the Group has adopted an approach of moving away from providing defined benefit pensions.
The majority of Group-sponsored defined benefit pension schemes have been closed to new entrants for many years.
Existing benefit schemes and the terms of employee participation in these schemes are reviewed on a regular basis.
Fund assets The Group follows a coordinated strategy for the funding and investment of its defined benefit pension schemes subject to meeting all local requirements.
The Groups aim is for the value of defined benefit pension scheme assets to be maintained at close to the value of the corresponding benefit obligations, allowing for some short-term volatility.
Scheme assets are invested in a diversified range of asset classes, predominantly comprising bonds and equities.
The Groups aim is to progressively shift defined benefit pension scheme assets towards investments that match the anticipated profile of the benefit obligations, as funding levels improve and benefit obligations mature.
Over time, this is expected to result in a further reduction in the total exposure of pension scheme assets to equity markets.
For pension schemes that pay lifetime benefits, the Group may consider and support the purchase of annuities to back these benefit obligations if it is commercially sensible to do so.
Net liability recognised in the Consolidated Balance Sheet The net liability recognised in the Consolidated Balance Sheet is as follows: Defined benefit pension schemes post-employment obligations Post-retirement medical schemes 2017 2016 2017 2016 US$M US$M US$M US$M Present value of funded defined benefit obligation 665 733 Present value of unfunded defined benefit obligation 256 115 204 214 Fair value of defined benefit scheme assets 687 710 Scheme deficit 234 138 204 214 Unrecognised surplus Unrecognised past service credits Adjustment for employer contributions tax Net liability recognised in the Consolidated Balance Sheet 234 138 204 214 The Group has no legal obligation to settle these liabilities with any immediate contributions or additional one-off contributions.
The Group intends to continue to contribute to each defined benefit pension and post-retirement medical scheme in accordance with the latest recommendations of each scheme actuary.
BHP Annual Report 2017 197 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information 26 | Employees 2017 2016 2015 Number Number Number 1 Average number of employees Australia 15,906 15,834 16,839 South America 6,361 6,509 7,421 North America 2,786 3,601 4,188 Asia 1,019 822 1,022 Europe 74 61 83 Africa 117 Total average number of employees from Continuing operations 26,146 26,827 29,670 Total average number of employees from Discontinued operations 13,159 Total average number of employees 26,146 26,827 42,829 1 Average employee numbers include the Executive Director, 100 per cent of employees of subsidiary companies and our share of employees of joint operations.
Employees of equity accounted investments are not included.
Part-time employees are included on a full-time equivalent basis.
Employees of businesses disposed of during the year are included for the period of ownership.
Group and related party information 27 | Discontinued operations The Group announced on 25 May 2015 that it completed the demerger of a selection of its aluminium, coal, manganese, nickel and silver-lead-zinc assets to create an independent metals and mining company, South32.
This included the Groups interests in its integrated Aluminium business, Energy Coal South Africa, Illawarra metallurgical coal, the Manganese business, the Cerro Matoso nickel operation and the Cannington silver-lead-zinc mine.
The contribution of Discontinued operations included within the Groups profit until the loss of control is detailed below: Income statement Discontinued operations 2015 US$M Profit loss after taxation from operating activities 642 Gain on loss of control of Manganese business 2,146 Impairment of South32 assets upon classification as  1,749 1 Loss on demerger net of transaction costs 2,319 Derecognition of deferred tax assets 232 Net loss on demerger of South32 after taxation 2,154 Loss profit after taxation 1,512 Attributable to non-controlling interests 61 Attributable to BHP shareholders 1,573 Basic loss per ordinary share cents 29.6 Diluted loss per ordinary share cents 29.5 1 The Group recognised the demerger in the Financial Statements as a dividend, reducing retained earnings by the fair value of South32s shares.
The US$1,795 million loss on demerger is the difference between the fair value of South32s shares and the book value of the assets distributed and the reclassification of reserves relating to South32 to the income statement.
Transaction costs of US$524 million after tax benefit comprised stamp duty, professional fees and separation and establishment costs.
The total comprehensive loss attributable to BHP shareholders from Discontinued operations was US$1,685 million during the financial year ended 30 June 2015.
Cash flows from Discontinued operations 2015 US$M Net operating cash flows 1,502 Net investing cash flows 1,066 Net financing cash flows 203 Net increase in cash and cash equivalents from Discontinued operations 233 Cash disposed on demerger of South32 586 Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents from Discontinued operations 353 198 BHP Annual Report 2017 Financial Statements 28 | Subsidiaries Significant subsidiaries of the Group are those with the most significant contribution to the Groups net profit or net assets.
The Groups interest in the subsidiaries results are listed in the table below.
For a complete list of the Groups subsidiaries, refer to note 13 Related undertakings of the Group in section 5.2.
Group interest Country of 2017 2016 Significant subsidiaries incorporation Principal activity % % Coal BHP Billiton Mitsui Coal Pty Ltd Australia Coal mining 80 80 Hunter Valley Energy Coal Pty Ltd Australia Coal mining 100 100 1 PT Lahai Coal Indonesia Coal mining 75 Copper 5 BHP Billiton Olympic Dam Corporation Pty Ltd Australia Copper and uranium mining 100 100 Compaa Minera Cerro Colorado Limitada Chile Copper mining 100 100 2 Minera Escondida Limitada Chile Copper mining 57.5 57.5 Minera Spence S. A. Chile Copper mining 100 100 Iron Ore BHP Billiton Iron Ore Pty Ltd Australia Service company 100 100 BHP Billiton Minerals Pty Ltd Australia Iron ore and coal mining 100 100 3 BHP Iron Ore Jimblebar Pty Ltd Australia Iron ore mining 85 85 BHP Billiton Towage Service Pty Ltd Australia Freight services 100 100 Marketing BHP Billiton Freight Singapore Pte Limited Singapore Freight services 100 100 BHP Billiton Marketing AG Switzerland Marketing and trading 100 100 BHP Billiton Marketing Asia Pte Ltd Singapore Marketing support and other services 100 100 Group and Unallocated BHP Billiton Canada Inc. Canada Potash development 100 100 BHP Billiton Finance BV The Netherlands Finance 100 100 BHP Billiton Finance Limited Australia Finance 100 100 BHP Billiton Finance USA Ltd Australia Finance 100 100 BHP Billiton Group Operations Pty Ltd Australia Administrative services 100 100 BHP Billiton International Services Ltd UK Service company 100 100 BHP Billiton Nickel West Pty Ltd Australia Nickel mining, smelting, refining and 100 100 administrative services BHP Billiton Shared Services Malaysia Sdn Bhd Malaysia Service company 100 100 WMC Finance USA Limited Australia Finance 100 100 1 The Group divested its 75 per cent Group interest in IndoMet Coal in October 2016.
2 As the Group has the ability to direct the relevant activities at Minera Escondida Limitada, it has control over the entity.
The assessment of the most relevant activity in this contractual arrangement is subject to judgement.
The Group establishes the mine plan and the operating budget and has the ability to appoint the key management personnel, demonstrating that the Group has the existing rights to direct the relevant activities of Minera Escondida Limitada.
3 The Group has an effective interest of 92.5 per cent in BHP Iron Ore Jimblebar Pty Ltd: however, by virtue of the shareholder agreement with ITOCHU Minerals & Energy of Australia Pty Ltd and Mitsui & Co. Iron Ore Exploration & Mining Pty Ltd, the Groups interest in the Jimblebar mining operation is 85 per cent, which is consistent with the other respective contractual arrangements at Western Australia Iron Ore. 29 | Investments accounted for using the equity method Significant interests in equity accounted investments of the Group are those with the most significant contribution to the Groups net profit or net assets.
The Groups ownership interest in equity accounted investments results are listed in the table below.
For a complete list of the Groups associates and joint ventures, refer to note 13 Related undertakings of the Group in section 5.2.
Ownership interest Shareholdings in associates Country of incorporation Associate or 2017 2016 and joint ventures principal place of business joint venture Principal activity Reporting date % % Carbones del Cerrejn LLC Anguilla Colombia Associate Coal mining in Colombia 31 December 33.33 33.33 Cerrejn Compaa Minera Antamina Peru Associate Copper and zinc mining 31 December 33.75 33.75 S. A. Antamina Samarco Minerao S. A. Brazil Joint venture Iron ore mining 31 December 50.00 50.00 Samarco Voting in relation to relevant activities in Antamina and Cerrejn, determined to be the approval of the operating and capital budgets, does not require unanimous consent of all participants to the arrangement, therefore joint control does not exist.
Instead, because the Group has the power to participate in the financial and operating policies of the investee, these investments are accounted for as associates.
Samarco is jointly owned by BHP Billiton Brasil and Vale.
As the Samarco entity has the rights to the assets and obligations to the liabilities relating to the joint arrangement and not its owners, this investment is accounted for as a joint venture.
The Group is restricted in its ability to make dividend payments from its investments in associates and joint ventures as any such payments require the approval of all investors in the associates and joint ventures.
The ownership interest at the Groups and the associates or joint ventures reporting dates are the same.
When the annual financial reporting date is different to the Groups, financial information is obtained as at 30 June in order to report on an annual basis consistent with the Groups reporting date.
BHP Annual Report 2017 199 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information 29 | Investments accounted for using the equity method continued The movement for the year in the Groups investments accounted for using the equity method is as follows: Total equity Year ended 30 June 2017 Investment in Investment in accounted US$M associates joint ventures investments At the beginning of the financial year 2,575 2,575 1 Profit loss from equity accounted investments, related impairments and expenses 444 172 272 Investment in equity accounted investments 47 134 181 Dividends received from equity accounted investments 620 620 Other 2 38 40 At the end of the financial year 2,448 2,448 1 US$ 172 million represents US$ 134 million share of loss from US$ 134 million funding provided during the period and US$ 38 million other movements in the Samarco dam failure provision including foreign exchange.
The following table summarises the financial information relating to each of the Groups significant equity accounted investments.
The unrecognised share of profit for the period was US$21 million 2016: US$33 million, which decreased the cumulative losses to US$140 million 2016: decrease to US$161 million.
BHP Billiton Brasils 50 per cent portion of Samarcos commitments, for which BHP Billiton Brasil has no funding obligation, is US$750 million 2016: US$741 million.
Associates Joint ventures 2017 Individually Individually 1 US$M Antamina Cerrejn immaterial Samarco immaterial Total 2 Current assets 995 782 174 Non-current assets 4,273 2,540 6,128 3 Current liabilities 530 364 5,236 4 Non-current liabilities 993 621 3,482 Net assets liabilities 100% 3,745 2,337 2,416 Net assets liabilities Group share 1,264 779 1,208 5 Adjustments to net assets related to accounting policy adjustments 1 80 401 6 Impairment of the carrying value of the investment in Samarco 525 7 Additional share of Samarco losses 1,332 Carrying amount of investments accounted for using the equity method 1,265 859 324 2,448 Revenue 100% 3,317 2,247 28 8 Profit loss from Continuing operations 100% 1,010 388 1,520 Share of operating profit loss of equity accounted investments 341 129 760 7 Additional share of Samarco losses 588 Profit loss from equity accounted investments, related 7 impairments and expenses 341 129 26 172 272 Comprehensive income 100% 1,010 388 1,520 Share of comprehensive income loss Group share in equity accounted investments 341 129 26 172 272 Dividends received from equity accounted investments 425 163 32 620 200 BHP Annual Report 2017 Financial Statements 29 | Investments accounted for using the equity method continued Associates Joint ventures 2016 Individually Individually 1 US$M Antamina Cerrejn immaterial Samarco immaterial Total 2 Current assets 1,017 706 323 Non-current assets 4,279 2,717 6,460 3 Current liabilities 362 126 4,722 4 Non-current liabilities 939 875 2,954 Net assets liabilities 100% 3,995 2,422 893 Net assets liabilities Group share 1,348 807 447 5 Adjustments to net assets related to accounting policy adjustments 1 86 400 6 5 Impairment of the carrying value of the investment in Samarco 525 6 Additional share of Samarco losses 572 Carrying amount of investments accounted for using the equity method 1,349 893 333 2,575 Revenue 100% 2,639 1,575 937 8 Profit loss from Continuing operations 100% 606 73 2,182 9 Share of operating profit loss of equity accounted investments 203 24 39 1,091 951 6 Samarco dam failure provision expense 628 628 6 Impairment of the carrying value of the investment in Samarco 525 525 Profit loss from equity accounted investments, related impairments and expenses 203 24 39 2,244 2,104 Comprehensive income 100% 606 73 2,182 Share of comprehensive income loss Group share in equity accounted investments 203 24 39 2,244 2,104 Dividends received from equity accounted investments 233 29 31 293 Associates Joint ventures 2015 Individually Individually US$M Antamina Cerrejn immaterial Samarco immaterial Total Revenue 100% 2,530 2,156 2,810 8 Profit from Continuing operations 100% 765 62 1,283 Profit loss from equity accounted investments, related 10 impairments and expenses 229 20 30 371 26 524 Comprehensive income 100% 765 62 1,283 Share of comprehensive income loss Group share in equity accounted investments 229 20 30 371 26 524 11 Dividends received from equity accounted investments 191 99 37 396 342 1,065 1 Refer to note 3 Significant events Samarco dam failure for further information regarding the financial impact of the Samarco dam failure in November 2015 on BHP Billiton Brasils share of Samarcos losses.
2 Includes cash and cash equivalents of US$29 million 2016: US$138 million.
3 Includes current financial liabilities excluding trade and other payables and provisions of US$4,581 million 2016: US$3,870 million.
4 Includes non-current financial liabilities excluding trade and other payables and provisions of US$1 million 2016: US$3 million.
5 Relates mainly to dividends declared by Samarco that remain unpaid at balance date and which, in accordance with the Groups accounting policy, are recognised when received not receivable.
6 BHP Billiton Brasil has adjusted its investment in Samarco to US$ nil resulting from US$ 655 million share of loss from Samarco and US$ 525 million impairment and recognised a provision of US$ 1,200 million for obligations under the Framework Agreement.
7 BHP Billiton Brasil has recognised accumulated additional share of Samarco losses of US $1,332 million resulting from US$ 172 million loss from equity accounted investments recognised for the year ended 30 June 2017 and US$ 1,160 million including US$ 588 million of additional share of Samarco losses relating to obligations under the Framework Agreement.
8 Includes depreciation and amortisation of US$88 million 2016: US$148 million: 2015: US$236 million, interest income of US$57 million 2016: US$43 million: 2015: US$86 million, interest expense of US$473 million 2016: US$209 million: 2015: US$227 million and income tax expense benefit of US$ 851 million 2016: US$564 million: 2015: US$ 275 million.
9 US$ 1,091 million represents US$ 1,227 million share of loss relating to the Samarco dam failure exceptional item and US$136 million share of operating profit prior to the dam failure.
10 Includes share of operating losses of equity accounted investments from Discontinued operations for the year ended 30 June 2015 of US$24 million.
11 Includes dividend received from equity accounted investments from Discontinued operations of US$342 million for the year ended 30 June 2015.
BHP Annual Report 2017 201 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information 30 | Interests in joint operations Significant joint operations of the Group are those with the most significant contributions to the Groups net profit or net assets.
The Groups interest in the joint operations results are listed in the table below.
For a complete list of the Groups investments in joint operations, refer to note 13 Related undertakings of the Group in section 5.2.
1 Group interest 2017 2016 Significant joint operations Country of operation Principal activity % % Bass Strait Australia Hydrocarbons production 50 50 Greater Angostura Trinidad and Tobago Hydrocarbons production 45 45 2 Eagle Ford US Hydrocarbons exploration and production 1100 1100 2 Fayetteville US Hydrocarbons exploration and production 1100 1100 Gulf of Mexico US Hydrocarbons exploration and production 23.944 23.944 2 Haynesville US Hydrocarbons exploration and production 1100 1100 2 Macedon Australia Hydrocarbons exploration and production 71.43 71.43 North West Shelf Australia Hydrocarbons production 12.516.67 8.3316.67 2 Permian US Hydrocarbons exploration and production 1100 1100 2 Pyrenees Australia Hydrocarbons exploration and production 4071.43 4071.43 3 ROD Integrated Development Algeria Hydrocarbons exploration and production 29.50 38 4 Mt Goldsworthy Australia Iron ore mining 85 85 4 Mt Newman Australia Iron ore mining 85 85 4 Yandi Australia Iron ore mining 85 85 Central Queensland Coal Associates Australia Coal mining 50 50 1 Ranges reflect the Groups interest in multiple joint arrangements within the joint operation.
2 While the Group holds a greater than 50 per cent interest in these joint operations, all the participants in these joint operations approve the operating and capital budgets and therefore the Group has joint control over the relevant activities of these arrangements.
3 Group interest reflects the working interest and may vary year-on-year based on the Groups effective interest in producing wells.
4 These contractual arrangements are controlled by the Group and do not meet the definition of joint operations.
However, as they are formed by contractual arrangement and are not entities, the Group recognises its share of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses arising from these arrangements.
Assets held in joint operations subject to significant restrictions are as follows: Group share 2017 2016 US$M US$M Current assets 2,755 3,442 Non-current assets 51,446 56,491 1 Total assets 54,201 59,933 1 While the Group is unrestricted in its ability to sell a share of its interest in these joint operations, it does not have the right to sell individual assets that are used in these joint operations without the unanimous consent of the other participants.
The assets in these joint operations are also restricted to the extent that they are only available to be used by the joint operation itself and not by other operations of the Group.
31 | Related party transactions The Groups related parties are predominantly subsidiaries, joint operations, joint ventures and associates and key management personnel of the Group.
Disclosures relating to key management personnel are set out in note 22 Key management personnel.
Transactions between each parent company and its subsidiaries are eliminated on consolidation and are not disclosed in this note.
All transactions from to related parties are made at arms length, i. e. at normal market prices and rates and on normal commercial terms.
Outstanding balances at year-end are unsecured and settlement occurs in cash.
Loan amounts owing from related parties represent secured loans made to joint operations, associates and joint ventures under co-funding arrangements.
Such loans are made on an arms length basis with interest charged at market rates and are due to be repaid between 16 August 2017 and 31 August 2031.
No guarantees are provided or received for any related party receivables or payables.
No provision for doubtful debts has been recognised in relation to any outstanding balances and no expense has been recognised in respect of bad or doubtful debts due from related parties.
There were no other related party transactions in the year ended 30 June 2017 2016: US$ nil, other than those with post-employment benefit plans for the benefit of Group employees.
These are shown in note 25 Pension and other post-retirement obligations.
Transactions with related parties Further disclosures related to other related party transactions are as follows: Joint operations Joint ventures Associates 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 US$M US$M US$M US$M US$M US$M Sales of goods services Purchases of goods services 1,052.885 786.789 Interest income 1.850 1.673 34.911 56.777 Interest expense 0.010 0.011 0.006 Dividends received 619.894 292.813 Net loans repayments from made to related parties 82.701 74.043 272.276 102.106 Outstanding balances with related parties Disclosures in respect of amounts owing to from joint operations represent the amount that does not eliminate on consolidation.
Joint operations Joint ventures Associates 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 US$M US$M US$M US$M US$M US$M Trade amounts owing to related parties 217.803 117.700 Loan amounts owing to related parties 118.288 36.907 39.097 38.097 Trade amounts owing from related parties 3.083 0.749 Loan amounts owing from related parties 20.144 21.464 647.918 919.194 202 BHP Annual Report 2017 Financial Statements Unrecognised items and uncertain events 32 | Commitments The Groups commitments for capital expenditure were US$2,084 million as at 30 June 2017 2016: US$1,737 million.
The Groups other commitments are as follows: Commitments under Commitments under finance leases operating leases 2017 2016 2017 2016 US$M US$M US$M US$M Due not later than one year 135 49 420 371 Due later than one year and not later than five years 475 221 672 888 5 Due later than five years 705 115 660 887 Total 1,315 385 1,752 2,146 Future financing liability 418 39 Right to reimbursement from joint operations partner Finance lease liability 897 346 Finance leases include leases of power generation and transmission assets.
Certain lease payments may be subject to inflation escalation clauses on which contingent rentals are determined.
The leases contain extension and renewal options.
Operating leases include leases of property, plant and equipment.
Rental payments are generally fixed, but with inflation escalation clauses on which contingent rentals are determined.
Certain leases contain extension and renewal options.
33 | Contingent liabilities 2017 2016 US$M US$M Associates and joint ventures 1 Tax and other matters 1,784 1,508 Subsidiaries and joint operations 1 Tax and other matters 1,825 1,933 Bank guarantees 1 1 Total 3,610 3,442 1 There are a number of matters, for which it is not possible at this time to provide a range of possible outcomes or a reliable estimate of potential future exposures, and for which no amounts have been included in the table above.
A contingent liability is a possible obligation arising from past events and whose existence will be confirmed only by occurrence or non-occurrence of one or more uncertain future events not wholly within the control of the Group.
A contingent liability may also be a present obligation arising from past events but is not recognised on the basis that an outflow of economic resources to settle the obligation is not viewed as probable, or the amount of the obligation cannot be reliably measured.
When the Group has a present obligation, an outflow of economic resources is assessed as probable and the Group can reliably measure the obligation, a provision is recognised.
The Group presently has tax matters, litigation and other claims, for which the timing of resolution and potential economic outflow are uncertain.
Obligations assessed as having probable future economic outflows capable of reliable measurement are provided at reporting date and matters assessed as having possible future economic outflows capable of reliable measurement are included in the total amount of contingent liabilities above.
Individually significant matters, including narrative on potential future exposures incapable of reliable measurement, are disclosed below, to the extent that disclosure does not prejudice the Group.
Uncertain tax and The Group is subject to a range of taxes and royalties across many jurisdictions, the application of which is uncertain in royalty matters some regards.
Changes in tax law, changes in interpretation of tax law, periodic challenges and disagreements with tax authorities, and legal proceedings result in uncertainty of the outcome of the application of taxes and royalties to our business.
Areas of uncertainty at reporting date include the application of taxes and royalties including transfer pricing to the Groups cross-border operations and transactions.
Details of uncertain tax and royalty matters have been disclosed in note 5 Income tax expense.
To the extent uncertain tax and royalty matters give rise to a contingent liability, an estimate of the potential liability is included within the table above, where it is capable of reliable measurement.
Samarco contingent The table above includes contingent liabilities related to the Groups equity accounting investment in Samarco to the extent liabilities they are capable of reliable measurement.
Details of contingent liabilities related to Samarco are disclosed in note 3 Significant events Samarco dam failure.
Demerger As part of the demerger of South32 Limited South32 in May 2015, certain indemnities were agreed under the Separation of South32 Deed.
Subject to certain exceptions, BHP Billiton Limited indemnifies South32 against claims and liabilities relating to the Group Businesses and former Group Businesses prior to the demerger and South32 indemnifies the Group against all claims and liabilities relating to the South32 Businesses and former South32 Businesses.
No material claims have been made pursuant to the Separation Deed as at 30 June 2017.
Investigation by the As previously disclosed, the Australian Federal Police AFP announced an investigation in 2013 relating to matters the subject Australian Federal of section 70.2 of the Commonwealth Criminal Code.
The AFP has advised that it has finalised its investigation and does not Police intend to take any further action at this time.
Bank guarantees The Group has entered into various counter-indemnities of bank and performance guarantees related to its own future performance, which are in the normal course of business.
BHP Annual Report 2017 203 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information 34 | Subsequent events On 17 August 2017, we announced that the Board of Directors had approved an investment of US$2.5 billion for the development of the Spence Growth Option, including construction of a copper concentrator that will extend the Spence mine life by more than 50 years.
On 22 August 2017, we announced that the Board of Directors had approved a multi-currency bond repurchase plan with a global aggregate cap of up to US$2.5 billion.
The plan will target 2021, 2022 and 2023 US dollar denominated notes and 2018, 2020, 2022 and 2024 Euro denominated notes and 2024 Sterling denominated notes.
Subsequently, we announced that we have increased the value of the global aggregate cap to US$2.9 billion.
On 22 August 2017, we announced that, as part of our ongoing review of our portfolio, the Board of Directors and management have determined that our Onshore US assets are non-core and options to exit these assets are being actively pursued.
Execution of these options may take time and, as such, we are not able to estimate the financial effect of any future transaction.
These events have no impact on the Financial Statements for the year ended 30 June 2017.
Other than the matters outlined above or elsewhere in the Financial Statements, no matters or circumstances have arisen since the end of the financial year that have significantly affected, or may significantly affect, the operations, results of operations or state of affairs of the Group in subsequent accounting periods.
Other items 35 | Acquisitions and disposals of subsidiaries, operations, joint operations and equity accounted investments Acquisitions There were no acquisitions made during the years ended 30 June 2017, 2016 and 2015.
Divestments Excluding Discontinued operations, the Group disposed of the following subsidiaries, operations, joint operations and equity accounted investments during the year ended: 30 June 2017 BHP Navajo Coal Company IndoMet Coal 30 June 2016 Pakistan gas business San Juan Mine 30 June 2015 North Louisiana conventional onshore assets Pecos field 2017 2016 2015 US$M US$M US$M Net assets disposed 189 153 241 Gross cash consideration 186 168 256 Less cash and cash equivalents disposed 2 Total consideration 186 166 256 1 Other effects 1 Net loss gain on disposal recognised in other income 3 14 15 1 Other effects include deferred consideration of US$ nil for 30 June 2017 2016: US$1 million: 2015: US$ nil.
Sale of non-controlling interests in subsidiaries There was no sale of interests in subsidiaries to non-controlling interests NCI for the years ending 30 June 2017, 30 June 2016 and 30 June 2015.
36 | Auditors remuneration 2017 2016 2015 US$M US$M US$M Fees payable to the Groups auditors for assurance services Audit of the Groups Annual Report 3.381 3.126 4.299 Audit of subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates 7.040 7.715 11.185 Audit-related assurance services 3.597 3.493 5.377 Other assurance services 1.849 1.508 1.557 Total assurance services 15.867 15.842 22.418 Fees payable to the Groups auditors for other services Other services relating to corporate finance 0.042 0.276 6.871 All other services 0.589 0.815 1.093 Total other services 0.631 1.091 7.964 Total fees 16.498 16.933 30.382 All amounts were paid to KPMG or KPMG affiliated firms.
Fees are determined in local currencies and are predominantly billed in US dollars based on the exchange rate at the beginning of the relevant financial year.
204 BHP Annual Report 2017 Financial Statements 36 | Auditors remuneration continued Fees payable to the Groups auditors for assurance services For all periods disclosed, no fees are payable in respect of the audit of pension funds.
Audit-related assurance services comprise review of half-year reports and audit work in relation to compliance with section 404 of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
Other assurance services comprise assurance in respect of the Groups sustainability reporting.
Fees payable to the Groups auditors for other services Other services relating to corporate finance comprise services in connection with acquisitions, divestments and debt raising transactions.
All other services comprise non-statutory assurance based procedures, advice on accounting matters, as well as tax compliance services of US$0.027 million 2016: US$0.089 million: 2015: US$ nil.
5 37 | BHP Billiton Limited BHP Billiton Limited does not present unconsolidated parent company financial statements.
Selected financial information of the BHP Billiton Limited parent company is as follows: 2017 2016 US$M US$M Income statement information for the financial year Profit after taxation for the year 7,692 4,811 Total comprehensive income 7,676 4,826 Balance sheet information as at the end of the financial year Current assets 14,659 9,976 Total assets 54,689 48,000 Current liabilities 2,595 1,476 Total liabilities 3,028 1,838 Share capital 898 898 Treasury shares 1 7 Reserves 190 251 Retained earnings 45,020 50,574 Total equity 51,661 46,162 Parent company guarantees BHP Billiton Limited has guaranteed certain financing arrangements available to subsidiaries of US$15,465 million at 30 June 2017 2016: US$15,316 million.
Under the terms of a Deed Poll Guarantee, BHP Billiton Limited has guaranteed certain current and future liabilities of BHP Billiton Plc.
The guaranteed liabilities at 30 June 2017 amounted to US$10 million 2016: US$13 million.
BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc have severally, fully and unconditionally guaranteed the payment of the principal and premium, if any, and interest, including certain additional amounts that may be payable in respect of the notes issued by 100 per cent owned finance subsidiary, BHP Billiton Finance USA Ltd. BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc have guaranteed the payment of such amounts when they become due and payable, whether on an interest payment date, at the stated maturity of the notes, by declaration or acceleration, call for redemption or otherwise.
The guaranteed liabilities at 30 June 2017 amounted to US$10,410 million 2016: US$16,000 million.
In addition, BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc have severally guaranteed a Group Revolving Credit Facility of US$6,000 million 2016: US$6,000 million, which remains undrawn.
38 | Deed of Cross Guarantee BHP Billiton Limited together with wholly owned subsidiaries identified in note 13 Related undertakings of the Group in section 5.2 entered into a Deed of Cross Guarantee Deed on 6 June 2016.
The effect of the Deed is that BHP Billiton Limited has guaranteed to pay any outstanding liabilities upon the winding up of any wholly owned subsidiary that is party to the Deed.
Wholly owned subsidiaries that are party to the Deed have also given a similar guarantee in the event that BHP Billiton Limited or another party to the Deed is wound up.
The wholly owned Australian subsidiaries identified in note 13 Related undertakings of the Group in section 5.2 are relieved from the requirements to prepare and lodge audited financial reports.
A Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income and Retained Earnings and Consolidated Balance Sheet, comprising BHP Billiton Limited and the wholly owned subsidiaries that are party to the Deed for the year ended 30 June 2017 and 30 June 2016 are as follows: 2017 2016 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income and Retained Earnings US$M US$M Revenue 19,394 4,687 Other income 4,988 6,192 Expenses excluding net finance costs 12,085 6,203 Net finance costs 591 320 Income tax expense 2,351 220 Profit after taxation 9,355 4,136 Total other comprehensive income 18 20 Total comprehensive income 9,373 4,156 Retained earnings at the beginning of the financial year 40,462 40,768 Net effect on retained earnings of entities added to removed from the Deed 1,699 Profit after taxation for the year 9,355 4,136 Transfers to and from reserves 33 56 Dividends 2,172 4,498 Retained earnings at the end of the financial year 45,979 40,462 BHP Annual Report 2017 205 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information 38 | Deed of Cross Guarantee continued 2017 2016 Consolidated Balance Sheet US$M US$M ASSETS Current assets Cash and cash equivalents 1 Trade and other receivables 3,541 1,163 Loans to related parties 14,081 10,049 Inventories 1,536 639 Current tax assets 790 Other 72 58 Total current assets 19,231 12,699 Non-current assets Trade and other receivables 76 63 Loans to related parties 335 Inventories 278 161 Property, plant and equipment 30,579 15,324 Intangible assets 550 679 Investments in Group companies 27,816 29,261 Deferred tax assets 402 667 Other 59 17 Total non-current assets 60,095 46,172 Total assets 79,326 58,871 LIABILITIES Current liabilities Trade and other payables 2,762 1,270 Loans from related parties 15,978 4,922 Interest bearing liabilities 202 61 Current tax payable 1,318 112 Provisions 683 377 Deferred income 8 9 Total current liabilities 20,951 6,751 Non-current liabilities Trade and other payables 3 4 Loans from related parties 7,660 7,504 Interest bearing liabilities 251 293 Deferred tax liabilities 619 613 Provisions 2,479 1,785 Deferred income 21 23 Total non-current liabilities 11,027 10,228 Total liabilities 31,978 16,979 41,892 Net assets 47,348 EQUITY Share capital BHP Billiton Limited 1,186 1,186 Treasury shares 1 7 Reserves 184 251 Retained earnings 45,979 40,462 Total equity 47,348 41,892 206 BHP Annual Report 2017 Financial Statements 39 | New and amended accounting standards and interpretations issued but not yet effective There are no new accounting standards or interpretations that have been adopted for the first time in these Financial Statements.
The following new accounting standards and interpretations are not yet effective, but may have an impact on the Group in financial years commencing on or after 1 July 2017: Application date Application date Title of standard of standard for the financial interpretation Summary of impact on the Financial Statements interpretation year commencing IFRS 15 AASB 15 This standard modifies the determination of when to recognise revenue and 1 January 2018 1 July 2018 Revenue from how much revenue to recognise.
The core principle is that an entity recognises Contracts with revenue to depict the transfer of promised goods and services to the customer Customers of an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services.
Work to date has focused on understanding the standard contractual 5 arrangements across the Groups principal revenue streams, particularly key terms and conditions which may impact revenue recognition.
To date, no significant measurement differences have been identified.
IFRS 15 requires separate disclosure of the impacts of provisional pricing.
Where applicable, system and process changes are being made to appropriately measure and capture this data for disclosure.
Revenue from freight and shipping services provided by the Group, currently recognised upon loading, may be required to be treated as a separate performance obligation and recognised over time.
The impact of this is not expected to be material.
Work in FY2018 will include a further review of individual contracts and development of the Groups accounting guidance.
The Group expects to apply the full retrospective transition approach.
Application of this approach results in the restatement of comparative information where applicable.
IFRS 9 AASB 9 This standard modifies the classification and measurement of financial assets.
1 January 2018 1 July 2018 Financial Instruments It includes: a single, principles-based approach for the classification of financial assets, which is driven by cash flow characteristics and the business model in which an asset is held: a new expected credit loss impairment model requiring expected losses to be recognised when financial assets are first recognised: a modification of hedge accounting to align the accounting treatment with risk management practices of an entity.
This may result in the increased application of hedge accounting.
In order to gain an understanding of the likely impacts of IFRS 9, implementation activities to date have focused on the Groups Treasury operations, which hold the majority of the Groups financial instruments.
Further detailed analysis in FY2018 will focus on changes to the calculation of impairment losses on financial assets and application of the revised hedge accounting model.
The Group is considering available options for transition.
Based on work performed to date, the Group does not currently expect the impact of these changes to be significant.
IFRIC 22 Foreign This interpretation clarifies the exchange rate to be used upon recognition of 1 January 2018 1 July 2018 Currency Transactions an asset, liability, expense or income in circumstances when a related advance and Advance payment has been received or disbursed.
The Group is currently assessing Consideration the impact of the interpretation on its Financial Statements.
IFRS 16 AASB 16 This standard requires lessees to account for leases under an on-balance sheet 1 January 2019 1 July 2019 Leases model, with the distinction between operating and finance leases being removed.
The standard provides certain exemptions from recognising leases on the balance sheet, including where the underlying asset is of low value or the lease term is 12 months or less.
Under the new standard, the Group will be required to: recognise right of use lease assets and lease liabilities on the balance sheet.
Liabilities are measured based on the present value of future lease payments over the lease term.
The right of use lease asset generally reflects the lease liability: recognise depreciation of right of use lease assets and interest on lease liabilities over the lease term: separately present the principal amount of cash paid and interest in the cash flow statement as a financing activity.
The Group has commenced work to understand the impact of the new standard.
This has included preliminary diagnostics to identify key characteristics of existing contractual arrangements and scoping of impacts to financial reporting, systems and processes.
Work in FY2018 will include detailed review of contracts to support the quantification of financial impacts and assessment of likely system requirements and processes.
Information on the undiscounted amount of the Groups operating lease commitments under IAS 17 AASB 117 Leases, the current leasing standard, is disclosed in note 32 'Commitments.
These standards have not been applied in the preparation of these Financial Statements.
IFRS 16 and IFRIC 22 have not been endorsed by the EU and hence are not available for early adoption in the EU.
BHP Annual Report 2017 207 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information 5.2 BHP Billiton Plc BHP Billiton Plc is required to present its unconsolidated parent company balance sheet and certain notes to the balance sheet on a stand-alone basis as at 30 June 2017 and 2016.
The BHP Billiton Plc Balance Sheet has been prepared in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework FRS 101.
Refer to note 1 Principal accounting policies for information on the principal accounting policies.
BHP Billiton Plc is exempt from presenting an unconsolidated parent company profit and loss account and statement of comprehensive income in accordance with section 408 of the UK Companies Act 2006.
Parent company Financial Statements of BHP Billiton Plc BHP Billiton Plc Balance Sheet as at 30 June 2017 2017 2016 Notes US$M US$M ASSETS Current assets Cash at bank and in hand 6 9 Debtors Amounts owed by Group undertakings 2 5,041 4,922 5,047 4,931 Non-current assets Fixed assets Investments in subsidiaries 3 3,131 3,131 Deferred tax assets 4 111 137 3,242 3,268 Total assets 8,289 8,199 LIABILITIES Current liabilities Creditors Amounts owed to Group undertakings 5 92 Provisions 6 1 3 93 3 Non-current liabilities Pension liabilities 6,7 9 10 9 10 Total liabilities 102 13 8,186 Net assets 8,187 Capital and reserves Called up share capital 8 1,057 1,057 Treasury shares 8 1 26 Share premium account 518 518 Share buy-back reserve 177 177 Profit and loss account 6,460 6,436 Total equity 8,187 8,186 The accompanying notes form part of these Parent company Financial Statements.
The Parent company Financial Statements of BHP Billiton Plc, registration number 3196209, were approved by the Board of Directors on 7 September 2017 and signed on its behalf by: Ken MacKenzie Andrew Mackenzie Chairman Chief Executive Officer 208 BHP Annual Report 2017 Financial Statements BHP Billiton Plc Statement of Changes in Equity for the year ended 30 June 2017 Share Share Share Treasury premium buy-back Profit and loss Total 1 US$M capital shares account reserve account equity Balance as at 1 July 2016 1,057 26 518 177 6,460 8,186 Profit for the year after taxation 1,137 1,137 Other comprehensive income for the year: Tax on employee entitlements taken to retained earnings 1 1 Actuarial loss on pension scheme 1 1 Total comprehensive income for the year 1,137 1,137 Transactions with owners: Purchase of shares by ESOP trusts 3 3 5 Employee share awards exercised net of employee contributions and forfeitures 28 28 Accrued employee entitlement for unexercised awards 6 6 Dividends 1,139 1,139 Balance as at 30 June 2017 1,057 1 518 177 6,436 8,187 Balance as at 1 July 2015 1,057 57 518 177 3,814 5,509 Profit for the year after taxation 4,313 4,313 Other comprehensive income for the year: Tax on employee entitlements taken to retained earnings 1 1 Actuarial gain on pension scheme 2 2 Total comprehensive income for the year 4,316 4,316 Transactions with owners: Employee share awards exercised net of employee contributions and forfeitures 31 31 Accrued employee entitlement for unexercised awards 8 8 Dividends 1,647 1,647 Balance as at 30 June 2016 1,057 26 518 177 6,460 8,186 1 Shares held by the Billiton Employee Share Ownership Plan Trust as at 30 June 2017 were 74,116 shares with a market value of US$1 million 2016: 788,540 shares with a market value of US$10 million.
The accompanying notes form part of these Parent company Financial Statements.
BHP Annual Report 2017 209 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information 1 | Principal accounting policies Judgements in applying accounting policies and key sources BHP Billiton Plc company information of estimation uncertainties BHP Billiton Plc is a public company limited by shares, registered in England and Wales and with a registered office located at Nova The preparation of financial statements in conformity with FRS 101 South, 160 Victoria Street, London SW1E 5LB, United Kingdom.
requires the use of critical accounting estimates, and requires the BHP Billiton Plc has a premium listing on the UK Listing Authoritys application of judgement in applying BHP Billiton Plcs accounting Official List and its ordinary shares are admitted to trading on the policies.
Significant judgements and estimates applied in the London Stock Exchange in the United Kingdom and have a secondary preparation of these Parent company Financial Statements have listing on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange in South Africa.
been identified and disclosed throughout.
Basis of preparation Foreign currencies The accounting policy is consistent with the Groups policy on Foreign BHP Billiton Plc meets the definition of a qualifying entity under currencies as set out in section 5.1.
Financial Reporting Standard 100 Application of Financial Reporting Requirements FRS 100 as issued by the Financial Reporting Council.
Investments in subsidiaries Group undertakings The BHP Billiton Plc Parent company Financial Statements are: Investments in subsidiaries are stated at cost less provisions for unconsolidated Financial Statements of the stand-alone company.
Investments in subsidiaries are reviewed for impairment BHP Billiton Plc is exempt from preparing consolidated accounts where events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying by virtue of section 400 of the UK Companies Act 2006: amount of the investment may not be recoverable.
prepared in accordance with the provisions of the UK Companies If any such indication exists, BHP Billiton Plc makes an assessment Act 2006: of the recoverable amount.
If the asset is determined to be impaired, presented in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 101 an impairment loss will be recorded and the asset written down Reduced Disclosure Framework FRS 101 : based on the amount by which the asset carrying amount exceeds prepared on a going concern basis: the higher of fair value less cost of disposal and value in use.
An impairment loss is recognised immediately in the income statement.
using historical cost principles as modified by the revaluation of certain financial assets and liabilities in accordance with the Taxation UK Companies Act 2006: The accounting policy is consistent with the Groups policy set out in presented in US dollars, which is the functional currency of note 5 Income tax expense in section 5.1.
Amounts are rounded to the nearest million dollars, unless otherwise stated.
The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these Key judgements and estimates Parent company Financial Statements are set out below.
These have Judgement is required to determine the amount of been applied consistently to all periods presented.
The following deferred tax assets that are recognised based on the disclosure exemptions have been applied under FRS 101: likely timing and the level of future taxable profits.
paragraphs 45 b and 4652 of IFRS 2 Share-based Payment The Group assesses the recoverability of recognised and details of number and weighted average exercise price of unrecognised deferred taxes on a consistent basis, using share options, and how the fair value goods or services received assumptions and projected cash flows as applied in the was determined : Group impairment reviews for associated operations.
the requirements of IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures: paragraphs 9199 of IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement disclosure of valuation techniques and inputs used for fair value measurement of assets and liabilities : paragraph 38 of IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements comparative financial information in respect of paragraph 79 a iv of IAS 1 : disclosure of the following requirements of IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements: 10 d A statement of cash flows for the period: 16 A statement that the Financial Statements are in compliance with all IFRSs: 38A Requirement for a minimum of two primary statements including cash flow statements: 38 B-D Comparative information: 111 Cash flow statement information: 134-136 Capital management disclosures: IAS 7 Statement of Cash Flows: paragraphs 30 and 31 of IAS 8 Accounting Policies and Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors disclosure of information when an entity has not applied a new IFRS that has been issued and is not yet effective : paragraphs 17 and 18A of IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures key management compensation : the requirements of IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures disclosure of related party transactions entered into between two or more members of a group.
210 BHP Annual Report 2017 Financial Statements 1 | Principal accounting policies continued Treasury shares Share-based payments The accounting policy is consistent with the Groups policy set The consideration paid for the repurchase of BHP Billiton Plc out in note 23 Employee share ownership plans in section 5.1 shares that are held as treasury shares is recognised as a and is applied with respect to all rights and options granted over reduction in shareholders funds and represents a reduction BHP Billiton Plc shares, including those granted to employees in distributable reserves.
However, the cost of rights and options Pension costs and other post-retirement benefits granted is recovered from subsidiaries of the Group where the The accounting policy is consistent with the Groups policy set participants are employed.
out in note 25 Pension and other post-retirement obligations BHP Billiton Plc is the Trusts sponsoring company and so the in section 5.1.
Parent company Financial Statements of BHP Billiton Plc represent Financial guarantees the combined financial statements of BHP Billiton Plc and the Trust.
Financial guarantees issued by BHP Billiton Plc are contracts that 5 Revenue recognition require a payment to be made to reimburse the holder for a loss Interest income is recognised on an accruals basis using the it incurs because the specified debtor fails to comply with the effective interest method.
Dividend income is recognised when terms of the debt instrument.
Financial guarantees are recognised the right to receive payment is established, typically on declaration initially as a liability at fair value less transaction costs as appropriate.
Subsequently, the liability is measured at the higher of the best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the present obligation at the reporting date and the amount recognised less cumulative amortisation.
2 | Debtors Amounts owed by Group undertakings 2017 2016 US$M US$M Amounts owed by Group undertakings 5,041 4,922 Total debtors 5,041 4,922 Comprising: Current 5,041 4,922 Non-current The amounts due from Group undertakings primarily relate to unsecured receivable balances that are at call.
3 | Fixed assets Investments in subsidiaries 2017 2016 US$M US$M Investments in subsidiaries Group undertakings : At the beginning and the end of the financial year 3,131 3,131 BHP Billiton Plc had the following principal subsidiary undertakings as at 30 June 2017: Carrying value Percentage of investment Company Principal activity Country of incorporation shareholding US$M BHP Billiton Group Ltd Holding company UK 100% 3,131 BHP Billiton Finance Plc Finance company UK 99% 0.1 BHP Billiton AUS DDS Pty Ltd General finance Australia 100% BHP Billiton Group Ltd, BHP Billiton Finance Plc and BHP Billiton AUS DDS Pty Ltd are included in the consolidation of the Group.
During the year, BHP Billiton Plc received dividends of US$770 million 2016: US$2,397 million from BHP Billiton Group Ltd and dividends of US$440 million 2016: US$1,990 million were received from BHP Billiton AUS DDS Pty Ltd.
Refer to note 15 Share capital in section 5.1.
In accordance with section 409 of the UK Companies Act 2006, a full list of related undertakings is disclosed in note 13 Related undertakings of the Group in this section.
BHP Annual Report 2017 211 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information 4 | Deferred tax assets The movement for the year in BHP Billiton Plcs deferred tax position is as follows: 2017 2016 US$M US$M Deferred tax assets At the beginning of the financial year 137 119 Income tax charge credit recorded in the income statement 27 17 Income tax credit recorded directly to other comprehensive income 1 1 At the end of the financial year 111 137 The composition of BHP Billiton Plcs deferred tax asset recognised in the balance sheet and the deferred tax expense charged credited to the income statement is as follows: Charged credited to Deferred tax assets the income statement 2017 2016 2017 2016 US$M US$M US$M US$M Type of temporary difference Tax losses 105 128 23 22 Employee benefits 6 9 4 5 Total 111 137 27 17 There were no unrecognised deferred tax assets as at 30 June 2017 2016: US$ nil.
Reductions in the UK corporation tax rate from 20 per cent to 19 per cent effective 1 April 2017 and to 18 per cent effective 1 April 2020 were substantively enacted in October 2015.
A further reduction to 17 per cent effective 1 April 2020 was substantively enacted in September 2016 and has therefore been considered when calculating the deferred tax for the year ended 30 June 2017.
The deferred tax balances as at 30 June 2017 have been measured at 17 per cent 2016: 18 per cent.
The impact of the change in rate from 18 per cent to 17 per cent was a reduction to the opening deferred tax asset of US$7 million.
5 | Creditors Amounts owed to Group undertakings 2017 2016 US$M US$M Amounts owed to Group undertakings 92 Total creditors 92 Comprising: Current 92 Non-current The amounts due to Group undertakings are unsecured, interest free and repayable on demand.
6 | Provisions 2017 2016 US$M US$M Employee benefits 1 3 Pension liabilities 9 10 Total provisions 10 13 Comprising: Current 1 3 Non-current 9 10 Employee Pension benefits liabilities Total US$M US$M US$M At the beginning of the financial year 3 10 13 Actuarial loss on pension scheme 1 1 Charge for the year 1 1 Utilisation 2 1 3 At the end of the financial year 1 9 10 212 BHP Annual Report 2017 Financial Statements 7 | Pension liabilities The Group operates the UK Executive fund in the United Kingdom.
A full actuarial valuation is prepared by the independent actuary to the fund as at 30 June 2017.
The defined benefit pension scheme exposes BHP Billiton Plc to a number of risks, including asset value volatility, interest rate, inflation, longevity and medical expense inflation risk.
The Group follows a coordinated strategy for the funding and investment of its defined benefit pension schemes subject to meeting all local requirements.
Scheme assets are predominantly invested in bonds and equities.
Amounts recognised in the BHP Billiton Plc balance sheet are as follows: 2017 2016 US$M US$M 5 Present value of funded defined benefit obligation 15 16 Fair value of defined benefit scheme assets 6 6 Scheme deficit 9 10 Net liability recognised in the Balance Sheet 9 10 8 | Share capital BHP Billiton Plc 2017 2016 Shares Shares Share capital issued issued and fully paid Opening number of shares 2,112,071,796 2,112,071,796 Purchase of shares by ESOP Trusts 225,646 17,000 Employee share awards exercised following vesting 940,070 966,473 Movement in treasury shares under Employee Share Plans 714,424 949,473 1 Closing number of shares 2,112,071,796 2,112,071,796 Comprising: Shares held by the public 2,111,997,680 2,111,283,256 Treasury shares 74,116 788,540 Other share classes Special Voting Share of US$0.50 par value 1 1 5.5% Preference shares of 1 each 50,000 50,000 1 The total number of BHP Billiton Plc shares for all classes is 2,112,071,796 of which 99.99 per cent are ordinary shares with a par value of US$0.50.
Refer to note 15 Share capital in section 5.1 for descriptions of the nature of share capital held.
9 | Employee numbers 2017 2016 Number Number Average number of employees during the year including Executive Directors 1 1 10 | Financial guarantees Under the terms of a Deed Poll Guarantee, BHP Billiton Plc has guaranteed certain current and future liabilities of BHP Billiton Limited.
At 30 June 2017, the guaranteed liabilities amounted to US$18,493 million 2016: US$16,485 million.
BHP Billiton Plc and BHP Billiton Limited have severally, fully and unconditionally guaranteed the payment of the principal and premium, if any, and interest, including certain additional amounts that may be payable in respect of the notes issued by 100 per cent owned finance subsidiary BHP Billiton Finance USA Ltd. BHP Billiton Plc and BHP Billiton Limited have guaranteed the payment of such amounts when they become due and payable, whether on an interest payment date, at the stated maturity of the notes, by declaration or acceleration, call for redemption or otherwise.
At 30 June 2017, the guaranteed liabilities amounted to US$10,410 million 2016: US$16,000 million.
Further, BHP Billiton Plc and BHP Billiton Limited have severally guaranteed a Group Revolving Credit Facility of US$6,000 million 2016: US$6,000 million, which remains undrawn.
At 30 June 2017, the liability recognised for financial guarantees was US$ nil 2016: US$ nil.
11 | Financing facilities BHP Billiton Plc is a party to a revolving credit facility.
Refer to note 21 Financial risk management in section 5.1.
BHP Annual Report 2017 213 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information 12 | Other matters Note 36 Auditors remuneration in section 5.1 provides details of the remuneration of BHP Billiton Plcs auditor on a Group basis.
The Directors are remunerated by BHP Billiton Plc for their services to the Group as a whole.
No remuneration was paid to them specifically in respect of their services to BHP Billiton Plc.
Details of the Directors remuneration are disclosed in section 3.3 Annual report on remuneration.
BHP Billiton Plc had no capital or operating finance lease commitments as at 30 June 2017 2016: US$ nil.
13 | Related undertakings of the Group In accordance with Section 409 of the UK Companies Act 2006 the following tables disclose a full list of related undertakings, the country of incorporation, the registered office address and the effective percentage of equity owned as at 30 June 2017.
Unless otherwise stated, the share capital disclosed comprises ordinary or common shares which are held by subsidiaries of the Group.
Refer to note 28 Subsidiaries, 29 Investments accounted for using the equity method and 30 Interests in joint operations in section 5.1 for undertakings that have a significant contribution to the Groups net profit or net assets.
a Wholly owned subsidiaries Country of incorporation Australia Argentina Level 14, 480 Queen Street, Brisbane, QLD 4000, Australia Registered office address BHP Billiton Energy Coal Australia Pty Ltd Sarmiento 580, piso 4 5, Buenos Aires, C1041AAL, Argentina v y z BHP Billiton MetCoal Holdings Pty Ltd Company Name y z BHP Coal Pty Ltd BHP Petroleum Argentina S. A. BHP Minerals Asia Pacific Pty Ltd aa BHP Queensland Coal Investments Pty Ltd y z Australia Broadmeadow Mine Services Pty Ltd y z Central Queensland Services Pty Ltd 125 St Georges Terrace, Perth, WA 6000, Australia Coal Mines Australia Pty Ltd BHP Billiton Towage Services Pty Ltd z ab Dampier Coal Queensland Proprietary Limited z ab BHP Billiton Direct Reduced Iron Pty Limited y Hay Point Services Pty Limited BHP Billiton IO Mining Pty Ltd Hunter Valley Energy Coal Pty Ltd BHP Billiton IO Pilbara Mining Pty Ltd Mt Arthur Coal Pty Limited BHP Billiton IO Workshop Pty Ltd Mt Arthur Underground Pty Ltd v BHP Billiton Iron Ore Holdings Pty Ltd z ab UMAL Consolidated Pty Ltd v z ab BHP Billiton Iron Ore Pty Limited g v z ab BHP Billiton Minerals Pty Ltd BHP Billiton Petroleum Australia Pty Ltd Level 15, 171 Collins Street, Melbourne, VIC 3000, Australia BHP Billiton Petroleum Bass Strait Pty Ltd Agnew Pastoral Company Pty Ltd BHP Billiton Petroleum International Exploration Pty Ltd Albion Downs Pty Limited w BHP Billiton Petroleum North West Shelf Pty Ltd BHP Billiton AUS DDS Pty Ltd BHP Billiton Petroleum Victoria Pty Ltd BHP Billiton Aluminium Australia Pty Ltd v v BHP Billiton Petroleum International Pty Ltd BHP Billiton Finance USA Limited v BHP Billiton Petroleum Investments Great Britain Pty Ltd BHP Billiton Finance Limited y z BHP Billiton Petroleum Pty Ltd BHP Billiton Group Operations Pty Ltd v y BHP Billiton Towage Services Boodarie Pty Ltd BHP Billiton Innovation Pty Ltd v y BHP Billiton Towage Services Indee Pty Ltd BHP Billiton Lonsdale Investments Pty Ltd v BHP Billiton Towage Services Iron Corella Pty Ltd BHP Billiton Marine & General Insurances Pty Ltd y z BHP Billiton Towage Services Iron Osprey Pty Ltd BHP Billiton Nickel West Pty Ltd y z BHP Billiton Towage Services Mallina Pty Ltd BHP Billiton Olympic Dam Corporation Pty Ltd v BHP Billiton Towage Services Mount Florance Pty Ltd BHP Billiton Shared Business Services Pty Ltd BHP Billiton Towage Services Pardoo Pty Ltd BHP Billiton SSM Development Pty Ltd v BHP Billiton Towage Services RT Atlantis Pty Ltd BHP Billiton SSM Indonesia Holdings Pty Ltd BHP Billiton Towage Services RT Darwin Pty Ltd BHP Billiton SSM International Pty Ltd BHP Billiton Towage Services RT Discovery Pty Ltd BHP Billiton Western Mining Resources International Pty Ltd BHP Billiton Towage Services RT Eduard Pty Ltd BHP Billiton Yakabindie Nickel Pty Ltd v BHP Billiton Towage Services RT Endeavour Pty Ltd BHP Capital No.
20 Pty Limited BHP Billiton Towage Services RT Enterprise Pty Ltd BHP Group Pty Ltd v z ab BHP Billiton Towage Services RT Force Pty Ltd BHP Minerals Holdings Proprietary Limited BHP Billiton Towage Services RT Inspiration Pty Ltd BHP Pty Ltd q v BHP Billiton Towage Services RT Rotation Pty Ltd BHP Titanium Minerals Pty Ltd v y z BHP Billiton Towage Services RT Sensation Pty Ltd BHPB Freight Pty Ltd BHP Billiton Towage Services RT Tough Pty Ltd Billiton Australia Finance Pty Ltd BHP Billiton Towage Services Turner Pty Ltd Billiton Manganese Australia Pty Ltd v y z BHP Billiton Towage Services Yandeyarra Pty Ltd The Broken Hill Proprietary Company Pty Ltd BHP Billiton WAIO Pty Ltd Weebo Pastoral Company Pty Ltd BHP Group Resources Pty Ltd WMC Finance USA Limited BHP Petroleum Ashmore Operations Pty Ltd BHP Petroleum Cambodia Pty Ltd z ab Pilbara Gas Pty Limited United Iron Pty Ltd 214 BHP Annual Report 2017 Financial Statements 13 | Related undertakings of the Group continued Bermuda China Victoria Place, 31 Victoria Street, Hamilton, HM 10, Bermuda Xin Mao Mansion, South Taizhong Road, Free Trade Zone Waigaoqiao, Shanghai, 200131, China BHP Petroleum Tankers Limited BHP Billiton International Trading Shanghai Co. Ltd Brazil Suite 1209, Level 12, One Corporate Avenue, 222 Hubin Road, Avenida Lus Carlos Prestes, 180 3 andar, Sala 342, Barra da Tijuca, Shanghai, Huangpu, China RJ, CEP: 22775-055, Brazil BHP Billiton Technology Shanghai Co Ltd BHP Billiton Brasil Explorao e Produo fide Petrleo Limitada BHP Billiton Brasil Investimentos fide Petrleo Ltda 5 Ecuador Av.
Amazonas, Edificio Patria Piso 10, Rua Paraba, 1122, 5 andar, Belo Horizonte, MG, 30130-918, Brazil Pichincha, Quito, Ecuador Araguaia Participaes Ltda Cerro-Quebrado S. A. BHP Billiton Brasil Ltda BHP Internacional Participaes Ltda Guernsey Jenipapo Recursos Naturais Ltda WMC Minerao Ltda Heritage Hall, Le Marchant Street, St Peter Port, Guernsey, GY1 4HY, Channel Islands Stein Insurance Company Limited British Virgin Islands Akara Building, 24 fide Castro Street, Wickhams Cay I, Road Town, Tortola, British Virgin Islands India BHP Billiton Australia UK Finance Limited 12th Floor, One Horizon Centre, Golf Course Road, DLF Phase V, Sector 43, Gurgaon, HR, 122002, India BHP Billiton UK Holdings Limited BHP Billiton Marketing Services India Pvt Ltd BHP Billiton UK Investments Limited BHP Minerals India Private Limited Canada Indonesia 1959 Upper Water Street, Suite 900, Halifax NS B3J 3N2, Canada Midplaza 1 Building, Level 17, Jl.
10-11, BHP Billiton Petroleum New Ventures Corporation JKT, 10220, Indonesia BHP Billiton Petroleum Philippines Corporation PT BHP Billiton Indonesia PT Billiton Indonesia 2900 550 Burrard Street, Vancouver BC V6C 0A3, Canada BHP Billiton Canada Inc. MidPlaza 2 Building, Level 3, Jl.
10-11, BHP Billiton World Exploration Inc. JKT, 10220, Indonesia PT BHP Billiton Services Indonesia 333 Bay Street, Suite 2400, Bay Adelaide Centre, Box 20, Toronto ON M5H2T6, Canada Ireland Rio Algom Exploration Inc. 19-20 Seagrave House 1st Floor, Earlsfort Terrace, DUB 2, Ireland Rio Algom Investments Chile Inc. Billiton Investments Ireland Limited Rio Algom Limited WMC Resources Marketing Limited Japan 4500 Bankers Hall East, 855-2nd Street S. W. Calgary, Alberta, 27F Pacific Century Place, Marunouchi 11-1, 1-Chome Marunouchi, T2P 4K7, Canada Chiyoda-ku, TYO, 100-6227, Japan BHP Billiton Trinidad-2C Ltd BHP Billiton Japan Limited Cayman Islands Jersey 2nd Floor Building 3, Governors Square 23 Lime Three Bay Avenue, 31 Esplanade, St Helier, JE1 1FT, Jersey Grand Cayman, KY1-1205, BWI, Cayman Islands BHP Billiton Services Jersey Limited Global BHP Copper Ltd RAL Cayman Inc. Malaysia Riocerro Inc. Suite 2-4, Level 2, Tower Block, Menara Milenium, Jalan Damanlela, Riochile Inc. Pusat Bandar Damansara, 50490 KL, Malaysia BHP Billiton Shared Services Malaysia Sdn.
Chile Cerro El Plomo 6000, Piso 15, Las Condes, Santiago, Chile j BHP Billiton Chile Inversiones Limitada BHP Billiton Explorations Chile SpA j Compaa Minera Cerro Colorado Limitada Kelti S. A. Minera Spence SA Tamakaya Energa SpA BHP Annual Report 2017 215 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information 13 | Related undertakings of the Group continued Mexico South Africa Bosque fide Ciruelos 180 PP 101, Bosques fide las Lomas, Miguel Hidalgo, 6 Hollard Street, Johannesburg, 2001, South Africa Mexico City, 11700, Mexico Consolidated Nominees Proprietary Limited l BHP Billiton Petrleo Servicios Administrativos S. fide R. L. fide C. V. l BHP Billiton Petrleo Servicios fide Mxico S. fide R. L. fide C. V. 6th Floor, 119 Hertzog Boulevard, Foreshore, Cape Town, 8001, l Operaciones Conjuntas S. fide R. L. fide C. V. South Africa Global Offshore Oil Exploration South Africa Proprietary Limited Guillermo Gonzalez Camarena No.
1600, Piso 6 B, Col. Santa Fe, Centro fide Ciuda, 01210, Mexico 7 West Street, Houghton, 2198, South Africa l BHP Billiton Petrleo Holdings fide Mxico S. fide R. L. fide C. V. l Phoenix Mining Finance Company Proprietary Limited BHP Billiton Petrleo Operaciones fide Mxico S. fide R. L. fide C. V. Switzerland Netherlands Joechlerweg 2, CH-6341, Baar, Switzerland Naritaweg 165, 1043 BW, AMS, Netherlands BHP Billiton Marketing AG BHP Billiton Company B. V. BHP Billiton International Metals B. V. Billiton Development B. V. Trinidad and Tobago Billiton Investment 3 B. V. Invaders Bay Tower, Invaders Bay, off Audrey Jeffers Highway, Billiton Investment 8 B. V. Port of Spain, Trinidad, Trinidad and Tobago Billiton Marketing Holding B. V. BHP Billiton Trinidad-3A Ltd Nova South, 160 Victoria Street, London, England, SW1E 5LB, United Kingdom United Kingdom 36 East Stockwell Street, Colchester, Essex, CO1 1ST, England, BHP Billiton Finance B. V. United Kingdom Billiton Guinea B. V. Billiton Executive Pension Scheme Trustee Limited Billiton Suriname Holdings B. V. 88 Leadenhall Street, London, England, EC3A 3BP, United Kingdom Panama v The World Marine & General Insurance Plc 33 Central Avenue, City of Panama, Republic of Panama h i Marcona International S. A. Nova South, 160 Victoria Street, London, England, SW1E 5LB, United Kingdom Papua New Guinea v BHP Billiton UK DDS Limited 4th Floor Mogoru Moto Building, Champion Parade, Port Moresby, BHP Billiton UK Limited Papua New Guinea w BHP Billiton Finance Plc v w BHP Billiton PNG Services Limited BHP Billiton Group Limited BHP Billiton Holdings Limited BHP Billiton International Services Limited Saint Lucia v BHP Billiton Investment Holdings Limited Pointe Seraphine, Castries, St Lucia h BHP Billiton Marketing UK Limited BHP Billiton Trinidad Holdings Ltd BHP Billiton Petroleum Bimshire Limited BHP Billiton Petroleum Brazil Limited Singapore BHP Billiton Petroleum Carlisle Bay Limited BHP Billiton Petroleum Mexico Limited 10 Marina Boulevard, #50-01 Marina Bay Financial Centre Tower 2, 018983, Singapore BHP Billiton Petroleum Sarawak Limited g BHP Billiton Petroleum South Africa 3B 4B Limited BHP Billiton Freight Singapore Pte Limited BHP Billiton Petroleum Trinidad Block 14 Limited BHP Billiton Marketing Asia Pte Ltd g BHP Billiton Petroleum Trinidad Block 23A Limited g BHP Billiton Petroleum Trinidad Block 23B Limited 8 Marina View #09-05, Asia Square Tower 1, 018960, Singapore g BHP Billiton Petroleum Trinidad Block 28 Limited m Westminer Insurance Pte Ltd g BHP Billiton Petroleum Trinidad Block 29 Limited BHP Billiton Petroleum Trinidad Block 3 Limited g 80 Robinson Road, #02-00, 068898, Singapore BHP Billiton Petroleum Trinidad Block 5 Limited g BHP Billiton Petroleum Trinidad Block 6 Limited BHP Billiton SSM Indonesia Pte Ltd BHP Billiton Petroleum Trinidad Block 7 Limited BHP Billiton Petroleum Great Britain Limited BHP Billiton Petroleum Limited BHP Billiton Sustainable Communities BHP Group Limited BHP Minerals Europe Limited 216 BHP Annual Report 2017 Financial Statements 13 | Related undertakings of the Group continued United States of America United States of America 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, fide, 19801, United States of America Suite B, 1675 South State Street, Dover, fide, 19901, United States of America BHP Billiton Boliviana fide Petrleo Inc. 141 Union Company BHP Billiton Marketing Inc. BHP Billiton Capital Inc. BHP Billiton Petroleum Americas Inc. BHP Billiton Energy Coal Inc. BHP Billiton Petroleum Arkansas Holdings Inc. BHP Billiton Foreign Holdings Inc. BHP Billiton Petroleum Deepwater Inc. BHP Billiton New Mexico Coal Inc. BHP Billiton Petroleum Fayetteville L. L. C BHP Finance International Inc. BHP Billiton Petroleum Foreign Exploration Holdings L. L. C BHP Holdings International Inc. BHP Billiton Petroleum GOM Inc. 5 l BHP Holdings Resources Inc. BHP Billiton Petroleum KCS Resources L. LC n v BHP Holdings USA Inc. BHP Billiton Petroleum Mexico Holdings L. L. C BHP International Finance Corp BHP Billiton Petroleum North America Inc. h i BHP Minerals Exploration Inc. BHP Billiton Petroleum Holdings USA Inc. BHP Minerals International Exploration Inc. BHP Billiton Petroleum Holdings L. L. C l BHP Minerals International L. L. C BHP Billiton Petroleum Properties LP L. L. C BHP Minerals Service Company BHP Chile Inc. BHP Resources Inc. BHP Copper Inc. WMC Argentina Inc. BHP Escondida Inc. WMC Corporate Services Inc. BHP Holdings International Investments Inc. BHP Mineral Resources Inc. t BHP Navajo Coal Company 202 South Minnesota Street, Carson City, NV, 89703, United States of America BHP Peru Holdings Inc. v aa BHPB Resolution Holdings L. L. C BHP Queensland Coal Limited Broken Hill Proprietary USA Inc. Hamilton Brothers Petroleum Corporation Zambia Hamilton Oil Company Inc. Unit B, Counting House Square, Thabo Mbeki Road, Lusaka, Zambia IPS USA Inc. BHP Billiton Zambia Limited Petrohawk Energy Corporation Billiton Development Zambia Limited Rio Algom Mining L. L. C South Texas Shale L. L. C b Subsidiaries where effective interest is less than 100 per cent Country of incorporation Australia 1500 Post Oak Boulevard, Houston, TX, 77056-3030, United States of America Registered office address BHP Billiton Foundation 125 St Georges Terrace, Perth, WA 6000, Australia Company Name o u 1833 South Morgan Road, Oklahoma City, OK, 73128-7004, BHP Iron Ore Jimblebar Pty Ltd 85% United States of America l BHP Billiton Petroleum Tx Gathering L. L. C Level 14, 480 Queen Street, Brisbane, QLD 4000, Australia k BHP Billiton Mitsui Coal Pty Ltd 80% 3867 Plaza Tower Drive, Baton Rouge, LA, 70816-4378, United States of America Brazil BHP Billiton Petroleum WSF Operating Inc l Rua Paraba, 1122, 5 andar, Belo Horizonte, MG, 30130-918, Brazil Winwell Resources L. L. C Consrcio Santos Luz fide Imveis Ltda 90% Suite 1900, 124 West Capitol Avenue, Little Rock, AR, 72201, United States of America Chile BHP Billiton Petroleum Arkansas Inc. Cerro El Plomo 6000, Piso 15, Las Condes, Santiago, Chile j Minera Escondida Ltda 57.5% Suite 301, 1136 Union Mall, Honolulu, HI, 96813, United States of America Philippines BHP Hawaii Inc. Pearlbank Centre, 20th Floor 146 Valero Street, Salcedo Village, Makati City, 1227, Philippines Suite 500, 6100 Neil Road, Reno, NV, 89511, BHP Billiton Philippines Inc. 99.99% United States of America QNI Philippines Inc. 99.99% Carson Hill Gold Mining Corporation The Democratic Republic of the Congo Suite 900, 1999 Bryan Street, Dallas, TX, 75201-3136, Siege social 87B, Boulevard du 30 juin, Kinshasa, Gombe, United States of America The Democratic Republic of the Congo BHP Billiton Petroleum TxLa Operating Company Lubilanji Mining SPRL Lumi SPRL 51% l BHP Billiton Petroleum Properties GP L. L. C r BHP Billiton Petroleum Properties N. A. LP United States of America 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, fide, 19801, United States of America h BHP Billiton Petroleum Eagle Ford Gathering L. L. C 75% BHP Annual Report 2017 217 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information 13 | Related undertakings of the Group continued c Joint operations Singapore Country of incorporation #50-01 Marina Bay Financial Centre Tower 2, 10 Marina Boulevard, Algeria 018983, Singapore Registered office address BM Alliance Marketing Pte Ltd 50% 125 St Georges Terrace, Perth, WA 6000, Australia Company Name South Africa s ROD Integrated Development 29.50% Roger Dyason Road, Pretoria West, 0183, South Africa Thakweneng Mineral Resources Pty Ltd 50% Australia 125 St Georges Terrace, Perth, WA 6000, Australia Trinidad and Tobago s Bass Strait 50% s 48-50 Sackville Street, Port of Spain, Trinidad, Trinidad and Tobago JW4 68% s s Greater Angostura 45% Macedon 71.43% s Minerva 90% s Mt Goldsworthy 85% United Kingdom s Mt Newman 85% Nova South, 160 Victoria Street, London, England, SW1E 5LB, s North West Shelf 12.516.67% United Kingdom s Posmac 65% s Bruce 16% s Pyrenees 4071.43% s Keith 31.83% s Stybarrow 50% s Wheelarra 51% United States of America s Yandi 85% 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, fide, 19801, United States of America s Eagle Ford 1-100% ESSO House, 12 Riverside Quay, Southbank, VIC 3006, Australia s Fayetteville 1-100% Southern Natural Gas Development Pty Limited 50% s Gulf of Mexico 23.9-44% s Haynesville 1-100% Level 14, 480 Queen Street, Brisbane, QLD 4000, Australia BM Alliance Coal Marketing Pty Limited 50% 1833 South Morgan Road, Oklahoma City, OK, 73128-7004, BM Alliance Coal Operations Pty Limited 50% United States of America s Central Queensland Coal Associates 50% s Permian 1-100% s Gregory 50% s Red Mountain 50% d Joint ventures and associates Red Mountain Infrastructure Pty Ltd 50% South Blackwater Coal Pty Limited 50% Country of incorporation Anguilla Registered office address Level 16, Alluvion Building, 58 Mounts Bay Road, Perth, Harlaw Chambers, The Valley, Anguilla WA 6000, Australia Company Name North West Shelf Gas Pty Limited 16.67% i Carbones del Cerrejn Limited 33.33% North West Shelf Liaison Company Pty Ltd 16.67% h North West Shelf Lifting Coordinator Pty Ltd 16.67% North West Shelf Shipping Service Company Pty Ltd 16.67% Australia 30 Raven St, Kooragang, NSW 2304, Australia Canada NCIG Holdings Pty Ltd 35.47% Suite 1500, 1874 Scarth Street, Regina, SK, S4P 4E9, Canada BHP Billiton SaskPower Carbon Capture and Storage CCS Level 20, 500 Collins Street, Melbourne, VIC 3000, Australia l Knowledge Centre Inc. 50% Rightship Pty Limited 33.33% Japan Brazil Level 27, Pacific Century Place Marunouchi, Chiyoda-ku, TYO, Japan Rua Paraba, 1122, 9o andar, Belo Horizonte, MG, Brazil BMA Japan KK 50% Samarco Minerao S. A.
50% Liberia Colombia 80 Broad Street, Monrovia, Liberia Calle 100 #19-54, Bogota, Colombia Blue Ocean Bulk Shipping Limited 50% Cerrejn Zona Norte S. A.
33.33% 218 BHP Annual Report 2017 Financial Statements 13 | Related undertakings of the Group continued e Minority Investments Ireland Country of incorporation Furnbally Square, New Street, DUB 8, Ireland Australia CMC-Coal Marketing Company Limited 33.33% Registered office address 125 St Georges Terrace, Perth, WA 6000, Australia Netherlands Company Name Herikerbergweg 238, AMS, 1101 CM, The Netherlands Pilbara Pastoral Company Pty Limited 25% p Global HubCo B. V. 33.33% 727 Collins Street, Melbourne, VIC 3008, Australia Peru 5 Commonwealth Steamship Insurance Company Pty Limited 29.72% Interstate Steamship Insurance Company Pty Ltd 24.91% Av El Derby N 066 Torre 1 Of 801, Santiago del Surco, Lima, Peru Compaa Minera Antamina S. A.
33.75% Brazil United Kingdom Rodovia do Sol, S N, Ponta Ubu, Anchieta, ES, 29230-000, Brazil Ponta Ubu Agropecuria Ltda.
49% 7th Floor, Dashwood House, 69 Old Broad Street, London, EC2M 1QS, United Kingdom f x Global Coal Limited 64.44% Jersey 13 Castle Street, St Helier, Jersey Channel Islands, JE4 5UT, Jersey United States of America Euronimba Limited 43.50% 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, fide, 19801, United States of America l Caesar Oil Pipeline Company L. L. C 25% l Cleopatra Gas Gathering Company L. L. C 22% 1343 South 1800 East, Salt Lake City, UT, 84108, United States of America Resolution Copper Mining L. L. C 45% 9807 Katy Freeway, Suite 1200, Houston, TX, 77024, United States of America l Marine Well Containment Company L. L. C 10% a Wholly owned 100 per cent subsidiary consolidated by the Group.
b Subsidiaries where the effective interest is less than 100 per cent but controlled by the Group.
The Consolidated Financial Statements include the Groups share of the assets in joint operations, together with its share of the liabilities, revenues and expenses arising jointly or otherwise from those operations and its revenue derived from the sale of its share of output from the joint operation.
d Investments accounted for using the equity method.
e Minority investments held by the Group in which there is a non-controlling interest.
f Ownership held in ordinary and deferred shares.
g Ownership held in ordinary and preference shares.
h Ownership held in class A shares.
i Ownership held in class B shares.
k Ownership held in redeemable preference, class A and class B shares.
m Ownership in ordinary redeemable preference shares.
n Ownership held in class A common shares.
o Ownership held in preference A and class B shares.
p Ownership in preference B. q Ownership in ordinary and special share classes L and M. r Partnership.
s Joint operation held by a subsidiary of the Group.
t The Group divested its 100 per cent effective interest in BHP Navajo Coal Company Navajo in October 2013.
However, as the Group controlled the Navajo mine until full consideration was received from the buyer, the financial results of the Navajo mine were consolidated by the Group.
The divestment of Navajo Coal completed on 29 July 2016 and was recognised in FY2017.
The Group continued to manage Navajo Coal in accordance with the Mine Management Agreement until 31 December 2016. u The Group has an effective interest of 92.5 per cent in BHP Iron Ore Jimblebar Pty Ltd, however by virtue of the shareholder agreement with ITOCHU Minerals & Energy of Australia Pty Ltd and Mitsui & Co. Iron Ore Exploration & Mining Pty Ltd, the Groups interest in the Jimblebar mining operation is 85 per cent which is consistent with the other respective contractual arrangements at Western Australia Iron Ore. v Directly held by BHP Billiton Ltd. w Directly held by BHP Billiton Plc.
x Global Coal Limited is a subsidiary with less than 100 per cent ownership but is held by Global HubCo B. V. which is an associate and is accounted for using the equity method.
y These companies are parties to the Limited Deed of Cross Guarantee, originally entered into on 6 June 2016, and members of the Closed Group, as at 30 June 2017. z These companies are parties to the Limited Deed of Cross Guarantee and are relieved from the Corporations Act 2001 requirements for preparation, audit and lodgement of financial reports and Directors reports.
aa These companies were removed from the Limited Deed of Cross Guarantee based on the Revocation Deed executed on 20 December 2016. ab These companies were added into the Limited Deed of Cross Guarantee based on the Assumption Deed executed on 29 June 2017 and are members of the Closed Group, as at 30 June 2017.
BHP Annual Report 2017 219 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information 5.3 Directors declaration In accordance with a resolution of the Directors of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc, the Directors declare that: a in the Directors opinion and to the best of their knowledge the Financial Statements and notes, set out in sections 5.1 and 5.2, are in accordance with the UK Companies Act 2006 and the Australian Corporations Act 2001, including: i complying with the applicable Accounting Standards: ii giving a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of each of BHP Billiton Limited, BHP Billiton Plc, the Group and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole as at 30 June 2017 and of their performance for the year ended 30 June 2017: b the Financial Statements also complies with International Financial Reporting Standards, as disclosed in section 5.1: c to the best of the Directors knowledge, the management report comprising the Strategic Report and Directors Report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the financial position of the Group and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that the Group faces: d in the Directors opinion there are reasonable grounds to believe that each of BHP Billiton Limited, BHP Billiton Plc and the Group will be able to pay its debts as and when they become due and payable: e in the Directors opinion, as at the date of this declaration, there are reasonable grounds to believe that BHP Billiton Limited and each of the Closed Group entities identified in note 13 in section 5.2 will be able to meet any liabilities to which they are or may become subject to, because of the Deed of Cross Guarantee between BHP Billiton Limited and those group entities pursuant to ASIC Corporations Wholly-owned Companies Instrument 2016 785.
The Directors have been given the declarations required by Section 295A of the Australian Corporations Act 2001 from the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer for the financial year ended 30 June 2017.
Signed in accordance with a resolution of the Board of Directors.
Ken MacKenzie Chairman Andrew Mackenzie Chief Executive Officer Dated this 7th day of September 2017 220 BHP Annual Report 2017 Financial Statements 5.4 Statement of Directors responsibilities in respect of the Annual Report and the Financial Statements The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting Group and Parent company Financial Statements in accordance with records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the applicable law and regulations.
References to the Group and Parent financial position of the parent company and enable them to ensure company Financial Statements are made in relation to the Group and that its Financial Statements comply with the UK Companies Act individual Parent company Financial Statements of BHP Billiton Plc.
They are responsible for such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of Financial UK company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and Parent Statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due company Financial Statements for each financial year.
The Directors to fraud or error, and have general responsibility for taking such steps are required to prepare the Group Financial Statements in as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU and applicable law and and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
have elected to prepare the Parent company Financial Statements 5 in accordance with UK Accounting Standards and applicable law Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
responsible for preparing a Strategic Report, Directors Report, Directors Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance The Group Financial Statements must, in accordance with IFRS as Statement that complies with that law and those regulations.
adopted by the EU and applicable law, present fairly the financial position and performance of the Group: references in the UK The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Companies Act 2006 to such Financial Statements giving a true corporate and financial information included on the Groups website.
and fair view are references to their achieving a fair presentation.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of Financial Statements may differ from legislation The Parent company Financial Statements must, in accordance in other jurisdictions.
with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the parent company at the end of the financial year and of the profit or loss of the parent company for the financial year.
In preparing each of the Group and Parent company Financial Statements, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: for the Group Financial Statements, state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU: for the Parent company Financial Statements, state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the Parent company Financial Statements: assess the Group and parent companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, related matters: and use the going concern basis of accounting unless they either intend to liquidate the Group or the parent company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
BHP Annual Report 2017 221 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information 5.5 Lead Auditors Independence Declaration under Section 307C of the Australian Corporations Act 2001 To the Directors of BHP Billiton Limited: I declare that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, in relation to the audit of BHP Billiton Limited for the financial year ended 30 June 2017 there have been: i no contraventions of the auditor independence requirements as set out in the Australian Corporations Act 2001 in relation to the audit: and ii no contraventions of any applicable code of professional conduct in relation to the audit.
This declaration is in respect of BHP Billiton Limited and the entities it controlled during the year.
KPMG Anthony Young Partner Melbourne 7 September 2017 KPMG, an Australian partnership and member firm of the KPMG network of independent member firms affiliated with KPMG International Cooperative KPMG International, a Swiss entity.
KPMG Australias liability limited by a scheme approved under Professional Standards Legislation.
222 BHP Annual Report 2017 Financial Statements 5.6 Independent Auditors reports Independent auditors reports of KPMG LLP KPMG UK to the B. KPMG UKs additional opinion in relation to IFRSs as issued by the members of BHP Billiton Plc and of KPMG KPMG Australia International Accounting Standards Board IASB is unmodified to the members of BHP Billiton Limited As explained in section 5.1 Basis of preparation to the Consolidated 1.
Opinions Financial Statements, the Group, in addition to complying with its legal obligation to apply IFRSs as adopted by the EU, has also applied For the purpose of these reports, the terms we and our denote IFRSs as issued by the IASB.
In our opinion the Consolidated Financial KPMG UK in relation to UK responsibilities and reporting obligations Statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs to the members of BHP Billiton Plc, and KPMG Australia in relation to as issued by the IASB.
Australian responsibilities and reporting obligations to the members of BHP Billiton Limited.
BHP the Group consists of BHP Billiton Plc, C. KPMG Australias opinion on the Consolidated Financial BHP Billiton Limited and the entities they controlled during the Statements is unmodified financial year ended 30 June 2017.
In our opinion the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements, 5 We have audited the Consolidated Financial Statements which including the Directors declaration, are in accordance with the comprise the: Australian Corporations Act 2001, including: Consolidated Balance Sheet as at 30 June 2017: giving a true and fair view of the Groups financial position as at 30 June 2017 and of its financial performance for the year Consolidated Income Statement, Consolidated Statement of ended on that date: and Comprehensive Income, Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity and Consolidated Cash Flow Statement for the year complying with Australian Accounting Standards and the then ended: and Corporations Regulations 2001.
Notes to the Financial Statements including a summary 2.
Basis for opinions of significant accounting policies.
We conducted our audits in accordance with Australian Auditing In addition: Standards and International Standards on Auditing UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under these standards are further KPMG UK has audited the BHP Billiton Plc company Financial described in the Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the Financial Statements for the year ended 30 June 2017, which comprise Statements section of our report below.
We believe that the audit the unconsolidated parent company Balance Sheet and evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide related notes: and a basis for our opinions, and KPMG UK notes that its opinions are KPMG Australia considers the Directors declaration to be part consistent with its report to the Risk and Audit Committee.
of the Consolidated Financial Statements when forming its opinion under the requirements of the Corporations Act 2001.
We were appointed as auditors by the Directors on 3 May 2002.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement is the 15 years ended A. KPMG UKs opinion on the Consolidated Financial Statements 30 June 2017.
We have fulfilled our ethical responsibilities under, and BHP Billiton Plc company Financial Statements collectively and we remain independent of the Group in accordance with: the the Financial Statements is unmodified Australian Corporations Act 2001: the relevant ethical requirements In our opinion the: of the Australian Accounting Professional and Ethical Standards Financial Statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Boards APES 110 Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants: and Groups and of BHP Billiton Plcs affairs as at 30 June 2017 and UK ethical requirements, including the UK FRC Ethical Standard of the Groups profit for the year then ended: as applied to listed public interest entities.
No non-audit services Consolidated Financial Statements have been properly prepared prohibited by the UK FRC Ethical Standard were provided.
in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union EU : BHP Billiton Plc company Financial Statements have been properly prepared in accordance with UK accounting standards, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: and Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the UK Companies Act 2006 and, as regards to the Consolidated Financial Statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
BHP Annual Report 2017 223 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information 3.
Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in the audits of the Financial Statements for the current year and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud identified by us, including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
We summarise below the key audit matters unchanged from 2016, in decreasing order of audit significance, in arriving at our audit opinion above, together with our key audit procedures to address those matters and, as required for EU public interest entities, our results from those procedures.
These matters were addressed, and our results are based on procedures undertaken in the context of, and solely for the purpose of, our audits of the Financial Statements as a whole, and in forming our opinions thereon, and consequently are incidental to those opinions, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
The key audit matters that had the greatest effect on our audit were as follows: Key Audit Matter How the matter was addressed in our audit Asset valuation Property, plant and equipment: US$80.5 billion 2016: US$84.0 billion Intangible assets: US$4.0 billion 2016: US$4.1 billion Impairment of property, plant and equipment, goodwill and other intangibles pre-tax : US$0.2 billion 2016: US$7.4 billion Fixed Assets Investment in subsidiaries of BHP Billiton Plc: US$3.1 billion 2016: US$3.1 billion The carrying value of the Groups portfolio of assets has Our procedures included: been impacted by sustained volatility in commodity prices.
Testing key controls over the valuation of the Groups property, plant and equipment and intangible assets including those to determine asset The key area of judgement relates to the Groups impairments or reversals.
This included evaluating the remediation assessment of future cash flows for each Cash Generating of the controls relating to the prior period material weakness and testing Unit CGU, which is used to assess the recoverable value these controls: of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets Evaluating the forecast commodity prices incorporated into the Groups in the Groups Consolidated Financial Statements and the impairment testing including comparison to available market data: recoverable amount of the investments in subsidiaries in the BHP Billiton Plc parent company Financial Statements.
Comparing operating and future capital expenditure and reserve life data The future cash flows use forward looking estimates which to the latest approved mine plans and budgets.
We assessed the historical are inherently difficult to determine with precision.
There is accuracy of the prior year mine plans and budgets: also a level of judgement applied in determining the other Evaluating the competency and objectivity of experts who produced the key inputs.
reserve estimates used in the valuations by considering their professional qualifications, experience, use of industry accepted methodology, Asset valuation was a key audit matter because of the size remuneration structure and reporting lines: of the balances being 72 per cent of the Groups total assets Working with our valuation specialists to compare key assumptions such and the level of judgement applied by us in evaluating the as commodity prices, discount rates, inflation rates, country specific risk reasonableness of the inputs used in assessing the Groups rates and foreign exchange rates to external market data: assessment of the recoverable value of the above assets.
Performing sensitivity analysis on the key assumptions: In July 2017, in accordance with US financial reporting Evaluating the potential financial implications of the prior period control requirements under the US Securities Exchange Act 1934, deficiencies on the opening balances presented within the Financial the Group reported a material weakness relating to controls Statements: and and processes that were used to determine the impairment Assessing the impact of changes in the valuation of these assets on the of certain Onshore US assets in respect of the year ended carrying value of investments in the BHP Billiton Plc parent company 30 June 2016.
This led to increased audit focus on the Balance Sheet.
potential implications of the weakness on the opening balances and evaluation of managements remediation Results: We considered the carrying amount of property, plant and equipment, of the controls.
intangible assets and investments to be acceptable.
Refer to note 10 Property, plant and equipment Recognition and measurement, note 11 Intangible assets Recognition and measurement, note 12 Impairment of non-current assets Recognition and measurement, section 5.2 BHP Billiton Plc and section 2.13.1 Risk and Audit Committee Report Significant issues Carrying value of long-term assets.
Key Audit Matter How the matter was addressed in our audit Taxation Income tax expense benefit including royalties : US$4.1 billion expense 2016: US$1.1 billion benefit Current tax payable: US$2.1 billion 2016: US$0.5 billion Contingent liability disclosure The Group has operations in multiple Our procedures included: countries, each with its own taxation regime.
Testing key controls relating to the accounting for and the disclosure of tax related The nature of the Groups activities triggers transactions and matters: various taxation obligations including Working with our tax specialists in Australia, Chile and the United States to evaluate the corporation tax, royalties, other resource and Groups tax obligations.
We made inquiries of management and inspected internally and production based taxes and employment externally prepared documentation to understand current disputes and uncertain tax related taxes.
The cross-border nature of the positions.
We considered documentation from recent similar tax rulings and cases to Groups commodity sales also creates assess the completeness of tax matters identified and the Groups conclusions regarding complexities associated with international the status, possible outcomes and associated exposures: transfer pricing.
Assessing the consistency of assumptions used in estimating provisions and contingent Tax was a key audit matter due to the liabilities for key tax exposures, including those in Australia, Chile and the United States, application of taxation legislation to the such as the estimated range for potential litigation and settlement outcomes.
We compared Groups affairs which is inherently complex, these assumptions with public statements and disclosures made by the Group, which highly specialised, and requires judgement related to these matters, for consistency: and to be exercised by us in relation to assessing Assessing the adequacy of the Groups disclosures in respect of tax and ongoing tax matters.
the Groups estimation of tax exposures, Results: We considered the level of tax provisioning and related disclosures to be acceptable.
associated provisions and contingent liabilities.
Refer to note 5 Income tax expense Recognition and measurement and section 2.13.1 Risk and Audit Committee Report Significant issues Tax and royalty liabilities.
224 BHP Annual Report 2017 Financial Statements 3.
Our audit approach continued Key Audit Matter How the matter was addressed in our audit Samarco Losses attributable to the dam failure pre-tax and finance costs : US$0.3 billion 2016: US$2.5 billion Provision: US$1.1 billion 2016: US$1.2 billion Contingent liability disclosure There are a number of complex accounting judgements and Our procedures included: disclosures made by the Group resulting from the Samarco dam Testing key controls over the accounting and disclosures associated failure including: with the dam failure: Determining the legal status of claims made against Samarco Assessing the existence of legal and or constructive obligations and BHP and the appropriate accounting treatment: under the Samarco shareholders agreement, Brazilian law or because Determining the extent of BHP Billiton Brasil Ltdas BHP Billiton of the Groups public statements and determining if these have been 5 Brasil legal obligation to provide funding to Samarco and the disclosed in the Financial Statements in accordance with applicable quantification of that obligation in line with the requirements accounting standards: of the Framework Agreement and Preliminary Agreement: Assessing the key assumptions used to determine the provision Disclosure of contingent liabilities associated with the various recorded by BHP Billiton Brasil in relation to its potential funding claims and other circumstances that represent exposures obligation.
We assessed the activities described in the Framework to Samarco and BHP and that cannot be reliably estimated.
Agreement and compared these to the assumptions in the cashflow forecasts.
This included assessment of the amount and timing of Samarco was a key audit matter due to the significant size of forecast cash flows, discount rate, foreign exchange rates and the the potential claims, the high degree of estimation uncertainty ability of Samarco to meet its obligations: and the level of judgement required to be applied by us when Instructing Samarcos auditor and evaluating the outcome of the assessing the legal claims and BHP Billiton Brasils obligations.
procedures undertaken in relation to the obligations required under the Framework agreement and Preliminary Agreement: Assessing the completeness of the disclosures relating to contingent liabilities through inspection of the Groups internal legal documentation, inquiry of legal personnel and senior management and inspection of documentation provided by external legal counsel.
In addition, we instructed Samarcos auditor to undertake procedures in relation to the contingent liabilities of Samarco and evaluated the outcome of these procedures: and Assessing that the Groups disclosures detailing significant legal proceedings adequately disclose the potential liabilities of the Group.
Results: We considered the level of provisioning and related disclosures to be acceptable.
Refer to note 3 Significant events Samarco dam failure and section 2.13.1 Risk and Audit Committee Report Significant issues Samarco dam failure.
Key Audit Matter How the matter was addressed in our audit Closure and rehabilitation provisions Closure and rehabilitation provisions: US$6.7 billion 2016: US$6.5 billion Given the nature of its operations, the Group incurs obligations Our procedures included: to close, restore and rehabilitate its sites.
Closure and Testing key controls over the estimation of closure and rehabilitation activities are governed by a combination rehabilitation provisions: of legislative requirements and Group policies.
Significant Working with our specialists to assess the reasonableness of estimates estimates over life of mine and reserves are made by the of life of mine and reserves used by the Group in its significant closure Group in determining its rehabilitation provision.
and rehabilitation provisions based on the known reserves and the expected production profile of the reserves: The calculation of closure and rehabilitation provisions requires significant judgement due to the inherent complexity Assessing the work of the Groups mine closure specialists in in estimating the quantum and timing of future costs and identifying rehabilitation activities against legislative requirements and determining an appropriate rate to discount these costs back assessing their timing and likely cost.
We evaluated their methodology to their present value.
The majority of the Groups assets are against industry practice and our understanding of the business.
long-life which increases the estimation uncertainty relating We also evaluated the competency and objectivity of the mine closure to future cash flows.
specialists based on their professional qualifications, experience, use of industry accepted methodology, remuneration structure and Closure and rehabilitation provisions was a key audit matter reporting lines: and due to the significant size relative to the Groups financial Evaluating the key economic assumptions used in the calculation position and the level of judgement applied by us in evaluating of significant closure and rehabilitation provisions, including the managements estimates of the quantum and timing of future discount rate applied to calculate the net present value of the provision costs and assessing the rate used to discount the costs back and foreign exchange rates used in translating the future obligations.
The assumptions were compared against market observable data including risk free rates.
Results: We considered the level of closure and rehabilitation provisioning to be acceptable.
Refer to note 14 Closure and rehabilitation provisions Recognition and measurement and section 2.13.1 Risk and Audit Committee Report Significant issues Closure and rehabilitation provisions.
BHP Annual Report 2017 225 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information 3.
Our audit approach continued Audit instructions set out the significant audit areas and include the relevant risks detailed above, materiality thresholds which B.
Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope ranged from US$60 million to US$220 million and specific of our audits reporting requirements.
The Group audit team directed the The materiality for the audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements work undertaken by component auditors, through a combination was set at US$400 million 2016: US$330 million.
The change of related inter-office reporting, regular interaction on audit reflects an increase in profitability primarily due to the increase in and accounting matters, periodic site visits and review of commodity prices.
Materiality has been determined with reference specific audit work papers.
to a benchmark of the three year average Group profit before taxation and exceptional items for Continuing operations i. e. normalised 4.
KPMG UK has nothing to report on going concern profit, which we consider to be one of the principal considerations We are required to report to you if: for users in assessing the financial performance of the Group.
we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to the Directors statement in section 5.4 to the Financial Statements Materiality for the Group Financial Statements on the use of the going concern basis of accounting with no material Average profit before taxation and uncertainties that may cast significant doubt over the Group and exceptional items BHP Billiton Plcs use of that basis for a period of at least twelve for continuing months from the date of approval of the financial statements: or operations Materiality the related statement under the Listing Rules set out in US$8,261M US$400M Group Financial section 4.3 of the Annual Report is materially inconsistent Statements with our audit knowledge.
materiality We have nothing to report in these respects.
Other information US$220M Other information is financial and non-financial information in the Materiality at Groups Annual Report which is provided in addition to the Financial components Statements and the auditors reports.
The Directors are responsible for the other information presented in the Annual Report together with the Financial Statements.
Our opinions on the Financial Statements do not cover the other information, and, accordingly, we do not US$20M express an audit opinion or, except as explicitly stated in items 6 Misstatement reporting threshold and 7 below, any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audits of the Financial Statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, The use of a normalised three year average profit measure is consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent consistent with the approach used last year, and this approach is with the Financial Statements or our knowledge obtained in the considered to be appropriate given the cyclical nature of the industry audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
and the volatility in commodity prices impacting current levels of profitability.
Materiality represents approximately five per cent of the We are required to report if we conclude that there is a material three year average Group profit before taxation and exceptional items misstatement of this other information.
Based solely on that work, we for Continuing operations exceptional items is defined in note 2 have not identified material misstatements in the other information.
to the Financial Statements, and one percent of Group revenue 6.
KPMG UKs reporting on specific sections of the other information 2016: three per cent and one per cent respectively.
Strategic Report and Directors Report Materiality for BHP Billiton Plc parent company Financial Statements Based solely on our work on the other information: as a whole was set at US$83 million 2016: US$82 million, determined we have not identified material misstatements in the Strategic with reference to a benchmark of total assets, of which it represents Report and the Directors Report: one per cent 2016: one per cent.
in our opinion the information given in those reports for the We agreed to report to the Risk and Audit Committee all corrected and financial year is consistent with the Financial Statements: and uncorrected misstatements we identified through our audit in excess in our opinion those reports have been prepared in accordance of US$20 million.
We report other audit misstatements below that with the UK Companies Act 2006. threshold that we believe warrant reporting on qualitative grounds.
Disclosures of principal risks and longer-term viability For those items excluded from normalised profit, component auditors performed procedures on items relating to their components.
The Based on the knowledge we acquired during our financial Group team performed procedures on the remaining excluded items.
statements audit, we have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: In order to achieve appropriate audit coverage of the risks described the Directors confirmation within section 1.8.
3 of the Annual Report above and of each individually significant component of the Group, that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks including each asset, segment and group function: facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business Significant components located in Australia, Brazil, Chile, Singapore model, future performance, solvency and liquidity: and the United States were subject to either a full scope audit, the Risk factors disclosures describing these risks and explaining specified risk-focused audit procedures of specific account how they are being managed and mitigated: and balances, or Group level procedures.
The components within the scope of our work accounted for the following percentages 1 of the Groups measures : Group revenue % Group profit before tax % Group total assets % 3 5 1 10 9 8 87 87 90 Full scope audits Audits of account balances Out of scope 1 Presented as a percentage of the Groups consolidated result at 30 June 2017.
226 BHP Annual Report 2017 Financial Statements 9.
Respective responsibilities the Directors explanation in section 1.8.
3 of the Annual Report of how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what A.
Responsibilities of the Directors for the Financial Statements period they have done so and why they considered that period The statement of Directors responsibilities in respect of the to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have Annual Report and the Financial Statements in section 5.4 describes a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue the Directors responsibility for the preparation of the Annual in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period Report including the Consolidated Financial Statements and the of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing BHP Billiton Plc company Financial Statements collectively, attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review section 4.3 of the The Directors are responsible for: Annual Report.
We have nothing to report in this respect.
preparing Financial Statements that give a true and fair view C. Corporate governance disclosures in accordance with the relevant financial reporting frameworks: We are required to report to you if: implementing necessary internal control to enable the preparation of Financial Statements that give a true and fair view and are free we have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge 5 from material misstatement whether due to fraud or error: and we acquired during our financial statements audit and the Directors statement that they consider that the Annual Report and Financial assessing the Group and BHP Billiton Plcs ability to continue as Statements taken as a whole are fair, balanced and understandable a going concern.
This includes disclosing, as applicable, matters and provides the information necessary for shareholders to related to going concern, and using the going concern basis assess the Groups position and performance, business model of accounting unless they either intend to liquidate the Group and strategy: or or BHP Billiton Plc or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
the Risk and Audit Committee report does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Risk and Audit Committee.
Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the Financial Statements We are required to report to you if the Corporate Governance Our objectives are: Statement does not properly disclose a departure from the eleven to obtain reasonable assurance about whether each of the Financial provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified by the Statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether UK Listing Rules for our review.
due to fraud, other irregularities, or error: and to issue an Auditors Report that includes our opinions.
We have nothing to report in these respects.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a 7.
Report on the Remuneration Report guarantee that our audits conducted in accordance with Australian A. KPMG UKs opinion on the Remuneration Report Auditing Standards and International Standards on Auditing UK In our opinion the part of the Remuneration Report to be audited will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
set out in section 3 of the Annual Report has been properly prepared in accordance with the UK Companies Act 2006.
Misstatements can arise from fraud, other irregularities or error and are considered material if, individually or in aggregate, they could B. KPMG Australias opinion on the Remuneration Report reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of We have audited the Remuneration Report set out in section 3 of the users taken on the basis of the Financial Statements.
The risk of not Annual Report.
The Directors of BHP Billiton Limited are responsible detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud or other for the preparation and presentation of the Remuneration Report in irregularities is higher than for one resulting from error, as they may accordance with Section 300A of the Australian Corporations Act involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, 2001.
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Remuneration or the override of internal control and may involve any area of law and Report, based on our audit conducted in accordance with Australian regulation not just those directly affecting the Financial Statements.
A fuller description of KPMG UKs responsibilities for the audit of the In our opinion, the Remuneration Report of BHP Billiton Limited for Financial Statements is provided on the UK FRCs website at www.
the year ended 30 June 2017 complies with Section 300A of the org.
uk  and a further description of KPMG Australian Corporations Act 2001.
Australias responsibilities for the audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements is located at the Australian Auditing and Assurance 8.
KPMG UK has nothing to report on the other matters on which Standards Board website at www.
we are required to report by exception These descriptions form part of our auditors reports.
Under the UK Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by BHP Billiton Plc, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the BHP Billiton Plc company Financial Statements and the part of the Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
BHP Annual Report 2017 227 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information 10.
The purpose of our audit work, to whom we owe our responsibilities KPMG UKs report is made solely to BHP Billiton Plcs members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the UK Companies Act 2006 and the terms of our engagement by that company.
KPMG Australias report is made solely to BHP Billiton Limiteds members, as a body, in accordance with the Australian Corporations Act 2001.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the members of each company those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report, and the further matters we are required to state to them in accordance with the terms agreed with each company, and for no other purpose.
Accordingly, each of KPMG UK and KPMG Australia makes the following statement: to the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for our report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Stephen Oxley Senior Statutory Auditor For and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor Chartered Accountants London 7 September 2017 KPMG Anthony Young Partner Melbourne 7 September 2017 KPMG, an Australian partnership and KPMG LLP, a UK limited liability partnership, are member firms of the KPMG network of independent member firms affiliated with KPMG International Cooperative KPMG International, a Swiss entity.
228 BHP Annual Report 2017 Financial Statements 5.7 Supplementary oil and gas information unaudited In accordance with the requirements of the Financial Accounting Standards Board FASB Accounting Standard Codification Extractive Activities-Oil and Gas Topic 932 and SEC requirements set out in Subpart 1200 of Regulation S-K, the Group is presenting certain disclosures about its oil and gas activities.
These disclosures are presented below as supplementary oil and gas information, in addition to information disclosed in section 1.13.1 Petroleum and section 6.3.
The information set out in this section is referred to as unaudited as it is not included in the scope of the audit opinion of the independent auditor on the Consolidated Financial Statements, refer to section 5.6 Independent Auditors reports.
Reserves and production Proved oil and gas reserves and net crude oil and condensate, natural gas, LNG and NGL production information is included in section 6.2.
Capitalised costs relating to oil and gas production activities 5 The following table shows the aggregate capitalised costs relating to oil and gas exploration and production activities and related accumulated depreciation, depletion, amortisation and valuation allowances.
United 1 Australia States Other Total US$M US$M US$M US$M Capitalised cost 2017 Unproved properties 94 5,284 165 5,543 Proved properties 16,190 41,837 2,404 60,431 Total costs 16,284 47,121 2,569 65,974 Less: Accumulated depreciation, depletion, amortisation and valuation allowances 9,085 30,969 1,984 42,038 Net capitalised costs 7,199 16,152 585 23,936 2016 Unproved properties 338 5,074 119 5,531 Proved properties 15,523 40,929 2,372 58,824 Total costs 15,861 46,003 2,491 64,355 Less: Accumulated depreciation, depletion, amortisation and valuation allowances 8,364 28,664 1,938 38,966 Net capitalised costs 7,497 17,339 553 25,389 2015 Unproved properties 385 8,117 99 8,601 Proved properties 15,125 37,341 2,443 54,909 Total costs 15,510 45,458 2,542 63,510 Less: Accumulated depreciation, depletion, amortisation and valuation allowances 7,727 19,100 2,094 28,921 Net capitalised costs 7,783 26,358 448 34,589 1 Other is primarily comprised of Algeria, Pakistan divested 31 December 2015, Trinidad and Tobago and the United Kingdom.
Costs incurred relating to oil and gas property acquisition, exploration and development activities The following table shows costs incurred relating to oil and gas property acquisition, exploration and development activities whether charged to expense or capitalised.
Amounts shown include interest capitalised.
United 3 Australia States Other Total US$M US$M US$M US$M 2017 Acquisitions of proved property Acquisitions of unproved property 12 62 74 1 Exploration 32 471 235 738 Development 360 1,034 18 1,412 2 Total costs 392 1,517 315 2,224 2016 Acquisitions of proved property Acquisitions of unproved property 22 42 64 1 Exploration 42 385 194 621 Development 412 1,254 200 1,866 2 Total costs 476 1,681 394 2,551 2015 Acquisitions of proved property Acquisitions of unproved property 37 37 1 Exploration 127 281 248 656 Development 429 4,036 52 4,517 2 Total costs 556 4,354 300 5,210 1 Represents gross exploration expenditure, including capitalised exploration expenditure, in addition to exploration and evaluation costs charged to income as incurred.
2 Total costs include US$1,744 million 2016: US$2,256 million: 2015: US$4,603 million capitalised during the year.
3 Other is primarily comprised of Algeria, Pakistan divested 31 December 2015, Trinidad and Tobago and the United Kingdom.
BHP Annual Report 2017 229 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information Results of operations from oil and gas producing activities The following information is similar to the disclosures in note 1 Segment reporting in section 5.1, but differs in several respects as to the level of detail and geographic information.
Amounts shown in the following table exclude financial income, financial expenses, and general corporate overheads.
Income taxes were determined by applying the applicable statutory rates to pre-tax income with adjustments for permanent differences and tax credits.
United 7 Australia States Other Total US$M US$M US$M US$M 2017 1 Oil and gas revenue 2,876 3,479 356 6,711 Production costs 533 1,515 200 2,248 Exploration expenses 32 242 206 480 2 Depreciation, depletion, amortisation and valuation provision 814 2,592 91 3,497 3 Production taxes 158 4 162 1,339 874 141 324 4 Accretion expense 56 32 14 102 Income taxes 361 386 142 117 5 Royalty-related taxes 104 104 6 Results of oil and gas producing activities 818 520 297 1 2016 1 Oil and gas revenue 2,777 3,487 321 6,585 Production costs 605 1,705 162 2,472 Exploration expenses 44 128 124 296 2 Depreciation, depletion, amortisation and valuation provision 720 10,569 90 11,379 3 Production taxes 132 13 2 147 1,276 8,928 57 7,709 4 Accretion expense 54 23 7 84 Income taxes 465 3,047 143 2,439 5 Royalty-related taxes 206 4 210 6 Results of oil and gas producing activities 551 5,904 211 5,564 2015 1 Oil and gas revenue 4,184 6,334 661 11,179 Production costs 662 2,220 168 3,050 Exploration expenses 124 242 241 607 2 Depreciation, depletion, amortisation and valuation provision 651 6,597 170 7,418 3 Production taxes 232 8 240 2,515 2,725 74 136 4 Accretion expense 63 24 8 95 Income taxes 608 1,080 146 326 5 Royalty-related taxes 388 4 384 6 Results of oil and gas producing activities 1,456 1,669 76 289 1 Includes sales to affiliated companies of US$83 million 2016: US$118 million: 2015: US$267 million.
2 Includes valuation provision of US$102 million 2016: US$7,232 million: 2015: US$2,681 million.
3 Includes royalties and excise duty.
4 Represents the unwinding of the discount on the closure and rehabilitation provision.
Comparative information has been restated to include the accretion expense in the results of operations from oil and gas producing activities.
5 Includes petroleum resource rent tax and petroleum revenue tax where applicable.
6 Amounts shown exclude financial income, financial expenses and general corporate overheads and, accordingly, do not represent all of the operations attributable to the Petroleum segment presented in note 1 Segment reporting in section 5.1.
7 Other is primarily comprised of Algeria, Pakistan divested 31 December 2015, Trinidad and Tobago and the United Kingdom.
230 BHP Annual Report 2017 Financial Statements Standardised measure of discounted future net cash flows relating to proved oil and gas reserves Standardised measure The purpose of this disclosure is to provide data with respect to the Future cash inflows for all periods presented are then reduced estimated future net cash flows from future production of proved by future costs of producing and developing the year-end proved developed and undeveloped reserves of crude oil, condensate, reserves based on costs in effect at year-end without regard to future natural gas liquids and natural gas.
inflation or changes in technology or operating practices.
Future development costs include the costs of drilling and equipping The Standardised measure is based on the Groups estimated proved development wells and construction of platforms and production reserves as presented in section 6.3.
1 Petroleum reserves and this facilities to gain access to proved reserves owned at year-end.
They data should be read in conjunction with that disclosure, which is also include future costs, net of residual salvage value, associated hereby incorporated by reference into this section.
The Standardised with the abandonment of wells, dismantling of production platforms measure is prepared on a basis which presumes that year-end and rehabilitation of drilling sites.
Future cash inflows are further economic and operating conditions will continue over the periods reduced by future income taxes based on tax rates in effect at in which year-end proved reserves would be produced.
The effects year-end and after considering the future deductions and credits of future inflation, future changes in exchange rates, expected future applicable to proved properties owned at year-end.
The resultant 5 changes in technology, taxes, operating practices and any regulatory annual future net cash flows after deductions of operating costs changes have not been included.
including resource rent taxes, development costs and income The Standardised measure is prepared by projecting the estimated taxes are discounted at 10 per cent per annum to derive the future annual production of proved reserves owned at period-end Standardised measure.
and pricing that future production to derive future cash inflows.
There are many important variables, assumptions and imprecisions Estimates of future cash flows for 2017, 2016 and 2015 are computed inherent in developing the Standardised measure, the most important using the average  price during the 12-month of which are the level of proved reserves and the rate of production period.
Future price increases for all periods presented are thereof.
The Standardised measure is not an estimate of the fair considered only to the extent that they are provided by fixed and market value of the Groups oil and gas reserves.
An estimate of fair determinable contractual arrangements in effect at year-end and value would also take into account, among other things, the expected are not dependent upon future inflation or exchange rate changes.
recovery of reserves in excess of proved reserves, anticipated future changes in prices, costs and exchange rates, anticipated future changes in secondary tax and income tax rates and alternative discount factors representing the time value of money and adjustments for risks inherent in producing oil and gas.
BHP Annual Report 2017 231 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information Changes in the Standardised measure are presented in the following table.
The beginning of the year and end of the year totals are shown after reduction for income taxes and these, together with the changes in income tax amounts, are shown as discounted amounts at 10 per cent per annum.
All other items of change represent discounted amounts before consideration of income tax effects.
2017 2016 2015 US$M US$M US$M Changes in the Standardised measure Standardised measure at the beginning of the year 8,987 17,244 29,164 Revisions: Prices, net of production costs 96 14,146 15,186 Changes in future development costs 275 1,342 3 1 Revisions of quantity estimates 2,961 2,870 5,996 Accretion of discount 1,147 2,547 4,438 Changes in production timing and other 1,611 1,280 761 11,663 5,397 13,184 Sales of oil and gas, net of production costs 4,301 3,936 7,889 Acquisitions of reserves-in-place Sales of reserves-in-place 15 114 83 Previously estimated development costs incurred 718 1,823 3,169 Extensions, discoveries, and improved recoveries, net of future costs 401 84 1,877 Changes in future income taxes 578 5,733 6,986 Standardised measure at the end of the year 8,242 8,987 17,244 1 Changes in reserves quantities are shown in the Petroleum reserves tables in section 6.3.
Accounting for suspended exploratory well costs Refer to note 10 Property, plant and equipment in section 5.1 for a discussion of the accounting policy applied to the cost of exploratory wells.
Suspended wells are also reviewed in this context.
The following table provides the changes to capitalised exploratory well costs that were pending the determination of proved reserves for the three years ended 30 June 2017, 30 June 2016 and 30 June 2015.
2017 2016 2015 US$M US$M US$M Movement in capitalised exploratory well costs At the beginning of the year 770 484 388 Additions to capitalised exploratory well costs pending the determination of proved reserves 258 304 121 Capitalised exploratory well costs charged to expense 69 18 21 Capitalised exploratory well costs reclassified to wells, equipment, and facilities based on the determination of proved reserves 155 4 Other 136 At the end of the year 668 770 484 The following table provides an ageing of capitalised exploratory well costs, based on the date the drilling was completed, and the number of projects for which exploratory well costs has been capitalised for a period greater than one year since the completion of drilling.
2017 2016 2015 US$M US$M US$M Ageing of capitalised exploratory well costs Exploratory well costs capitalised for a period of one year or less 120 262 44 Exploratory well costs capitalised for a period greater than one year 548 508 440 At the end of the year 668 770 484 2017 2016 2015 23 14 Number of projects that have been capitalised for a period greater than one year 14 232 BHP Annual Report 2017 Financial Statements Drilling and other exploratory and development activities The number of crude oil and natural gas wells drilled and completed for each of the last three years was as follows: Net exploratory wells Net development wells Productive Dry Total Productive Dry Total Total Year ended 30 June 2017 Australia United States 80 80 80 1 Other 3 2 5 1 1 6 Total 3 2 5 81 81 86 Year ended 30 June 2016 Australia 2 2 2 5 United States 1 1 137 2 139 140 1 Other 1 1 1 Total 1 1 140 2 142 143 Year ended 30 June 2015 Australia 3 3 3 United States 304 1 305 305 1 Other Total 307 1 308 308 1 Other is primarily comprised of Algeria and Trinidad and Tobago.
The number of wells drilled refers to the number of wells completed at any time during the respective year, regardless of when drilling was initiated.
Completion refers to the installation of permanent equipment for production of oil or gas, or, in the case of a dry well, to reporting to the appropriate authority that the well has been abandoned.
An exploratory well is a well drilled to find oil or gas in a new field or to find a new reservoir in a field previously found to be productive of oil or gas in another reservoir.
A development well is a well drilled within the limits of a known oil or gas reservoir to the depth of a stratigraphic horizon known to be productive.
A productive well is an exploratory, development or extension well that is not a dry well.
Productive wells include wells in which hydrocarbons were encountered and the drilling or completion of which, in the case of exploratory wells, has been suspended pending further drilling or evaluation.
A dry well hole is an exploratory, development, or extension well that proves to be incapable of producing either oil or gas in sufficient quantities to justify completion as an oil or gas well.
Oil and gas properties, wells, operations, and acreage The following tables show the number of gross and net productive crude oil and natural gas wells and total gross and net developed and undeveloped oil and natural gas acreage as at 30 June 2017.
A gross well or acre is one in which a working interest is owned, while a net well or acre exists when the sum of fractional working interests owned in gross wells or acres equals one.
Productive wells are producing wells and wells mechanically capable of production.
Developed acreage is comprised of leased acres that are within an area by or assignable to a productive well.
Undeveloped acreage is comprised of leased acres on which wells have not been drilled or completed to a point that would permit the production of economic quantities of oil and gas, regardless of whether such acres contain proved reserves.
The number of productive crude oil and natural gas wells in which we held an interest at 30 June 2017 was as follows: Crude oil wells Natural gas wells Total Gross Net Gross Net Gross Net Australia 352 177 135 49 487 226 United States 1,001 558 6,679 1,993 7,680 2,551 1 Other 62 23 36 7 98 30 Total 1,415 758 6,850 2,049 8,265 2,807 1 Other is primarily comprised of Algeria, Trinidad and Tobago and the United Kingdom.
Of the productive crude oil and natural gas wells, 38 net: 16 operated wells had multiple completions.
Developed and undeveloped acreage including both leases and concessions held at 30 June 2017 was as follows: Developed acreage Undeveloped acreage Thousands of acres Gross Net Gross Net Australia 2,151 823 8,059 4,659 United States 1,180 673 1,395 1,143 1 2 Other 175 64 4,166 3,132 Total 3,506 1,560 13,620 8,934 1 Developed acreage in Other primarily consists of Algeria and the United Kingdom.
2 Undeveloped acreage in Other primarily consists of acreage in Brazil and Trinidad and Tobago.
It also includes the addition of Trion.
Approximately 220 thousand gross acres 75 thousand net acres, 7,023 thousand gross acres 4,023 thousand net acres and 210 thousand gross acres 100 thousand net acres of undeveloped acreage will expire in the years ending 30 June 2018, 2019 and 2020 respectively, if the Group does not establish production or take any other action to extend the terms of the licences and concessions.
BHP Annual Report 2017 233 Section 6 Additional information In this section 6.1 Information on mining operations 6.2 Production 6.3 Resources and Reserves 6.4 Major projects 6.5 Legal proceedings 6.6 Glossary 234 BHP Annual Report 2017 Additional information 6.1 Information on mining operations Minerals Australia Copper mining operations The following table contains additional details of our mining operations.
This table should be read in conjunction with the production table refer to section 6.2.
1 and reserve table refer to section 6.3.
Mine & Means Title, leases Mine type & Facilities, location of access Ownership Operator or options History mineralisation style Power source use & condition Olympic Dam 560 km Public road BHP 100% BHP Mining lease Acquired in Underground Supplied via Underground northwest granted by 2005 as part 275 kV power automated train Copper Large poly-metallic of Adelaide, South Australian of WMC line from and trucking network cathode deposit of iron South Government acquisition Port Augusta, feeding crushing, trucked  expires in 2036 transmitted storage and ore to ports Copper uranium-gold 6 by ElectraNet hoisting facilities Right of production mineralisation Uranium oxide extension for began in 1988 2 grinding circuits transported 50 years subject by road to ports Nominal milling Nominal milling to remaining capacity raised capacity: 10.3 Mtpa mine life to 9 Mtpa Flash furnace in 1999 produces copper Optimisation anodes, then project refined to produce completed copper cathodes in 2002 Electrowon copper New copper cathode and uranium solvent oxide concentrate extraction plant produced by leaching commissioned and solvent extracting in 2004 flotation tailings Iron ore mining operations The following table contains additional details of our iron ore mining operations.
This table should be read in conjunction with the production refer to section 6.2.
1 and reserve tables refer to section 6.3.
Mine & Means Title, leases Mine type & Facilities, location of access Ownership Operator or options History mineralisation style Power source use & condition WAIO Mt Newman joint venture Pilbara region, Private road BHP 85% BHP Mineral lease Production Open-cut Power for all Newman Hub: Western granted and began at mine operations primary and Ore Mitsui-ITOCHU Bedded ore types Australia held under the Mt Whaleback both in the secondary crushing transported Iron 10% classified as per Iron Ore Mount in 1969 Central and and screening plants, Mt Whaleback by Mt Newman ITOCHU Minerals host Archaean Newman Eastern Pilbara heavy media Orebodies JV owned and Energy Production or Proterozoic iron Agreement Act is supplied by beneficiation plant, 18, 23, 24, 25, rail to of Australia 5% from Orebodies formation, which 1964 expires in BHPs natural stockyard blending 29, 30 and 35 Port Hedland 18, 24, 25, 29, are Brockman and 2030 with right gas fired Yarnima facility, single cell 427 km 30 and 35 Marra Mamba to successive power station.
rotary car dumper, complements renewals of Power consumed train-loading facility production 21 years each in port operations nominal capacity from Mt is supplied 73 Mtpa Whaleback via a contract Orebody 25: primary First ore with Alinta and secondary produced crushing and at Newman screening plant hub in 2009 nominal capacity as part of Rapid 12 Mtpa Growth Plan 4 Yandi joint venture Pilbara region, Private road BHP 85% BHP Mining lease Production Open-cut Power for all 3 processing plants, Western granted pursuant began at the mine operations primary crusher and Ore transported ITOCHU Minerals Channel Iron Australia to the Iron Ore Yandi mine both in the overland conveyor by Mt Newman and Energy Deposits are Marillana Creek in 1992 Central and nominal capacity JV owned rail of Australia 8% Cainozoic fluvial Agreement Act Eastern Pilbara 80 Mtpa to Port Hedland Capacity sediments Mitsui Iron Ore 1991 expires is supplied by 316 km of Yandi hub Ore delivered to 2 Corporation 7% in 2033 with BHPs natural expanded train-loading facilities Yandi JVs 1 renewal right gas fired Yarnima between 1994 railway spur to a further power station.
and 2013 links Yandi hub 21 years Power consumed to Mt Newman in port operations JV main line is supplied via a contract with Alinta JW4 joint venture Pilbara region, Private road BHP 68% BHP Sublease over Production Open-cut Power for all JW4 JV sells ore Western part of the Yandi began in mine operations to Yandi JV, which ITOCHU Minerals Channel Iron Australia mining lease April 2006 both in the is then processed and Energy Deposits are expired on Central and at the Yandi hub of Australia 6.4% JW4 JV sells Cainozoic fluvial 1 April 2017 Eastern Pilbara Mitsui Iron Ore all ore to the sediments is supplied by Corporation 5.6% Yandi JV at BHPs natural the Yandi hub JFE Steel gas fired Yarnima Australia 20% power station.
Power consumed in port operations is supplied via a contract with Alinta BHP Annual Report 2017 235 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information Mine & Means Title, leases Mine type & Facilities, location of access Ownership Operator or options History mineralisation style Power source use & condition Jimblebar operation Pilbara region, Private road BHP 85% BHP Mining lease Production Open-cut Power for all 3 primary crushers, Western granted pursuant began in mine operations ore handling plant, Ore is ITOCHU Minerals Bedded ore types Australia to the Iron Ore March 1989 both in the stockyards and classified as per transported and Energy McCameys Central and supporting mining via overland of Australia 8% From 2004, host Archaean or Monster Eastern Pilbara hub infrastructure conveyor production Proterozoic banded Mitsui & Co. Agreement is supplied by nominal capacity 12.4 km was transferred iron formation, Iron Ore Authorisation BHPs natural 58 Mtpa which are Brockman to Wheelarra Exploration Act 1972 expires gas fired Yarnima JV as part of and Marra Mamba & Mining 7% in 2030 with power station.
the Wheelarra Jimblebar is an rights to Power consumed sublease incorporated successive in port operations agreement venture, with renewals of is supplied Ore was first the above 21 years each via a contract produced from companies with Alinta the newly holding A Class commissioned Shares in BHP Jimblebar hub Iron Ore in late 2013 Jimblebar Pty Ltd BHPIOJ Jimblebar sells ore to the BHP holds 100% Newman JV of the B Class proximate to Shares, which the Jimblebar has rights hub to all other BHPIOJ assets Wheelarra joint venture Pilbara region, Private road BHP 51% BHP Sublease over Production Open-cut Power for all All Wheelarra JV Western part of the began in 2004. mine operations ore is processed at Ore is ITOCHU Minerals Bedded ore types Australia Jimblebar mining both in the the Jimblebar hub transported and Energy of Wheelarra classified as per lease that expires Central and via overland Australia 4.8% JV sells all host Archaean or on the earlier Eastern Pilbara conveyor ore to the Proterozoic banded Mitsui Iron Ore of termination is supplied by 12.4 km Mt Newman iron formation, Corporation 4.2% of the mining BHPs natural JV at the which is Brockman Maanshan lease or end gas fired Yarnima Jimblebar hub Iron & Steel of the Wheelarra power station.
Australia 10% Joint Venture Power consumed Shagang in port operations Australia 10% is supplied Hesteel via a contract Australia 10% with Alinta Wugang Australia 10% Mt Goldsworthy joint venture Pilbara region, Private road BHP 85% BHP 1 mineral lease Operations Mining Area C, Power for Yarrie Ore processing plant, Western and 1 mining commenced at Yarrie and and Shay Gap is primary crusher and Yarrie and Mitsui Iron Ore Australia lease both Mt Goldsworthy Nimingarra all supplied by their overland conveyor Nimingarra Corporation 7% granted pursuant in 1966 and open-cut own small diesel nominal capacity Yarrie iron ore ITOCHU Minerals to the Iron Ore at Shay Gap generating 60 Mtpa Nimingarra transported by Bedded ore types and Energy Goldsworthy in 1973 stations.
Power Mt Goldsworthy classified as per Mining Area C of Australia 8% Nimingarra for all remaining JV owned rail Original host Archaean Agreement mine operations to Port Hedland Goldsworthy or Proterozoic iron Act 1972, expire both in the 218 km mine closed formation, which 2035, with rights Central and in 1982 are Brockman, Mining Area C to successive Eastern Pilbara Marra Mamba iron ore Associated renewals of is supplied by and Nimingarra transported Shay Gap mine 21 years BHPs natural by Mt Newman closed in 1993 gas fired Yarnima 3 mineral JV-owned rail Mining at power station.
leases granted to Port Hedland Nimingarra Power consumed under the Iron 360 km mine ceased in port operations Ore Mount Mt Goldsworthy in 2007, then is supplied Goldsworthy JV railway spur continued via a contract Agreement Act links Mining from adjacent with Alinta 1964, which Area C to Yandi Yarrie area expire 2028, railway spur Production with rights commenced at to successive Mining Area C renewals of mine in 2003 21 years each Yarrie mine operations were suspended in February 2014 POSMAC joint venture Open-cut Power for all POSMAC sells all Pilbara Private road BHP 65% BHP Sublease Production Region, over part of commenced in mine operations ore to Mt Goldsworthy POSMAC JV ITOCHU Minerals Bedded ore types Western Mt Goldsworthy October 2003 both in the JV, which is then sells ore to and Energy classified as per Australia Mining Area C Central and processed at Mining Mt Goldsworthy of Australia 8%, POSMAC JV host Archaean Eastern Pilbara Area C mineral lease JV at Mining Mitsui Iron Ore sells all ore to or Proterozoic iron that expires is supplied by Area C Corporation 7% Mt Goldsworthy formation, which on the earlier BHPs natural JV at Mining is Marra Mamba POS-Ore 20% of termination gas fired Yarnima Area C power station.
of the mineral lease or the Power consumed end of the in port operations POSMAC JV is supplied via a contract with Alinta 236 BHP Annual Report 2017 Additional information Coal mining operations The following table contains additional details of our mining operations.
The tables should be read in conjunction with the production table refer to section 6.2.
1 and reserves table refer to section 6.3.
Mine & Means Title, leases Mine type & Facilities, location of access Ownership Operator or options History mineralisation style Power source use & condition Queensland Coal Central Queensland Coal Associates joint venture Bowen Basin, Public road BHP 50% BMA Mining leases, Goonyella mine All open-cut except Queensland On-site beneficiation Queensland, including commenced Broadmeadow: electricity grid processing facilities Coal Mitsubishi Australia undeveloped in 1971, merged longwall connection transported Development Combined nominal tenements, with adjoining underground is under Goonyella by rail to 50% capacity: in excess expire between Riverside mine long-term Riverside, Hay Point, Bituminous coal of 65 Mtpa 2020 and 2043, in 1989 Operates contracts and Broadmeadow Gladstone, is mined from renewable for as Goonyella power source Daunia Dalrymple Bay the Permian further periods Riverside is under 5-year Caval Ridge and Abbot Moranbah and as Queensland contracts Peak Downs Point ports Production Rangal Coal Government 6 Saraji commenced at: measures Distances legislation allows Blackwater Peak Downs between the Products range and Norwich Mining is in 1972 mines and port from premium Park mines permitted to Saraji in 1974 are between quality, low volatile, continue under Norwich Park 160 km and high vitrinite, hard the legislation in 1979 315 km coking coal to during the Blackwater medium volatile hard renewal in 1967 coking coal, to weak application Broadmeadow coking coal, some period longwall pulverised coal operations injection PCI coal in 2005 and medium ash Daunia in thermal coal as a 2013 and secondary product Caval Ridge in 2014 Production at Norwich Park ceased in May 2012 Gregory joint venture Bowen Basin, Public road BHP 50% BMA Mining leases, Production Gregory: open-cut Queensland On-site beneficiation Queensland, including commenced at: electricity grid processing facility Coal Mitsubishi Crinum: longwall Australia undeveloped Gregory in 1979 connection transported Development underground Facilities under care tenements, is under Gregory and by rail to Hay 50% Crinum mine and maintenance Bituminous coal expire between long-term Crinum mines Point and longwall is mined from the 2018 and 2035, contracts and Gladstone commenced Permian German renewable for power source ports in 1997 Creek Coal measures further periods is under 5-year Distances Production Product is a high as Queensland contracts between the at Gregory volatile, low ash Government mines and port open-cut mine hard coking coal legislation allows are between ceased in Mining is 310 km and October 2012 permitted to 370 km Production continue under at Crinum the legislation underground during the mine ceased renewal in November 2015 application period BHP Billiton Mitsui Coal Bowen Basin, Public road BHP 80% BMC Mining leases, South Open-cut Queensland South Walker Creek Queensland, including Walker Creek electricity grid coal beneficiated Coal Mitsui and Co Bituminous coal Australia undeveloped commenced on-site transported 20% is mined from the tenements expire in 1996 South Walker by rail to Hay Permian Rangal Nominal capacity: between 2020 Creek and Point and Poitrel Coal measures in excess of 5 Mtpa and 2038, and Poitrel mines Dalrymple commenced Produces a range Poitrel mine has are renewable Bay ports in 2006 of coking coal and Red Mountain joint for further Distances pulverised coal venture with adjacent periods as between the injection PCI coal Millennium Coal mine Queensland mines and port to share processing Government are between and rail loading legislation allows 135 km and facilities Mining is 165 km Nominal capacity: permitted to in excess of 3 Mtpa continue under the legislation during the renewal application period BHP Annual Report 2017 237 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information Mine & Means Title, leases Mine type & Facilities, location of access Ownership Operator or options History mineralisation style Power source use & condition New South Wales Energy Coal Mt Arthur Coal Approximately Public road BHP 100% BHP Various mining Production Open-cut Local energy Beneficiation 126 km leases and commenced providers facilities: coal Domestic coal Produces a medium northwest licences expire in 2002 handling, preparation, transported rank bituminous of Newcastle, between 2022 washing plants by conveyor Government thermal coal New South and 2037 to Bayswater approval permits Nominal capacity: Wales, Renewal is Power Station extraction of in excess of 23 Mtpa Australia being sought up to 36 Mtpa Export coal for expired of run of mine transported mining leases coal from by third The original underground party rail to approvals permit and open-cut Newcastle port mining and operations, other activities with open-cut to continue extraction limited during renewal to 32 Mtpa application Other operations IndoMet Coal Haju mine, Public road BHP 75% BHP Mining leases Production Open-cut mine Power is Beneficiation Central expire in commenced sourced facilities: crushing Coal PT Alam Tri Produces semi Kalimantan, 2044 and are in August 2015 from on-site facility located transported by Abadi 25% soft coking coal renewable for generators at the Muara Indonesia truck to river Sale of our entire and thermal coal further periods Tuhup river port port and then 75 per cent as Indonesian transported by interest in Indomet Nominal capacity: Government barge to vessel Coal to Equity 1 Mtpa approval allows anchorage Partner PT Alam total distance Tri Abadi was approximately completed in 615 km October 2016 Nickel mining operations The following table contains additional details of our mining operations.
1 and reserve and resources table refer to section 6.3.
Mine & Means Title, leases Mine type & Facilities, location of access Ownership Operator or options History mineralisation style Power source use & condition Nickel West Mt Keith mine and concentrator 485 km north Private road BHP 100% BHP Mining leases Commissioned Open-cut On-site third Concentration of Kalgoorlie, granted by in 1995 by WMC party gas-fired plant with a Nickel Disseminated Western Western Australia turbines nominal capacity: concentrate Acquired in 2005 textured magmatic Australia Government transported as part of WMC nickel-sulphide Contracts 11 Mtpa of ore by road to Key leases expire acquisition mineralisation expire in Leinster nickel between 2029 associated with December operations and 2036 a metamorphosed 2023 for drying and ultramafic intrusion Renewals at Natural gas on-shipping government sourced and discretion transported under separate long-term contracts Leinster mine complex and concentrator 375 km north Public road BHP 100% BHP Mining leases Production Open-cut and On-site third Concentration of Kalgoorlie, granted by commenced underground party gas-fired plant with a nominal Nickel Western Western Australia in 1979 turbines capacity: 3 Mtpa concentrate Steeply dipping Australia Government of ore shipped by Acquired in 2005 disseminated and Contracts road and rail Key leases expire as part of WMC massive textured expire in to Kalgoorlie between 2019 acquisition nickel-sulphide December nickel smelter and 2034 mineralisation 2023 Perseverance associated with Renewals at underground Natural gas metamorphosed government mine ceased sourced and ultramafic lava discretion operations transported flows and intrusions during 2013 under separate long-term contracts Cliffs mine 481 km north Private road BHP 100% BHP Mining leases Production Underground Supplied Mine site of Kalgoorlie, granted by commenced from Mt Keith Nickel ore Steeply dipping Western Western Australia in 2008 transported by massive textured Australia Government road to Leinster Acquired in 2005 nickel-sulphide nickel Key leases expire as part of WMC mineralisation operations for between 2025 acquisition associated with further and 2028 metamorphosed processing ultramafic lava flows Renewals at government discretion 238 BHP Annual Report 2017 Additional information Nickel smelters, refineries and processing plants Smelter, refinery Title, leases Nominal or processing plant Location Ownership Operator or options Product production capacity Power source Nickel West Kambalda Nickel concentrator 56 km south BHP 100% BHP Mining leases Concentrate 1.6 Mtpa ore On-site third party gas-fired of Kalgoorlie, granted by containing turbines supplemented Ore sourced through Western Western Australia approximately by access to grid power tolling and Australia Government 13% nickel concentrate purchase Contracts expire Key leases arrangements with in December 2023 expire in 2028 third parties in Natural gas sourced and Kambalda region transported under separate Renewals at government long-term contracts discretion Kalgoorlie Nickel smelter Kalgoorlie, BHP 100% BHP Freehold title Matte containing 110 ktpa matte On-site third party gas-fired 6 Western over the property approximately turbines supplemented Australia 65% nickel by access to grid power Contracts expire in December 2023 Natural gas sourced and transported under separate long-term contracts Kwinana Nickel refinery 30 km south BHP 100% BHP Freehold title LME grade 71 ktpa nickel matte Power is sourced from the of Perth, over the property nickel briquettes, local grid, which is supplied Western nickel powder under a retail contract Australia Also intermediate products, including copper sulphide, , ammonium-sulphate Minerals Americas Copper mining operations The following table contains additional details of our mining operations.
Mine & Means Title, leases Mine type & Facilities, location of access Ownership Operator or options History mineralisation style Power source use & condition Escondida Atacama Private road BHP 57.5% BHP Mining Original 2 open-cut pits: Escondida-owned 3 concentrator Desert 170 km available for concession construction Escondida and transmission plants extract Rio Tinto 30% southeast of public use from Chilean completed Escondida Norte lines connect to copper concentrate JECO Antofagasta, Government in 1990 Chiles northern from sulphide Copper Corporation Escondida and Chile valid indefinitely power grid ore by flotation cathode consortium Sulphide Escondida Norte subject to extraction process transported by comprising leach copper mineral deposits Electricity payment of privately Mitsubishi, production are adjacent but sourced from 2 solvent extraction annual fees owned rail to JX Nippon Mining commenced distinct supergene a combination plants produce ports at and Metals 10% in 2006 enriched porphyry of contracts with copper cathode Antofagasta JECO2 Ltd 2.5% copper deposits external vendors Nominal capacity: and Mejillones expiring in 2029 153.7 Mtpa nominal and Tamakaya Copper milling capacity SpA 100% owned concentrate and 350 ktpa by BHP, which transported copper cathode generates power by Escondidanominal capacity from the recently owned of tank house commissioned pipelines Two 168 km Kelar gas-fired to its Coloso concentrate pipelines power plant port facilities 167 km water pipeline Port facilities at Coloso, Antofagasta Pampa Norte Spence Atacama Public road BHP 100% BHP Mining Development Open-cut Spence-owned Processing and Desert 162 km concession cost of transmission crushing facilities, Copper Enriched and northeast of from Chilean US$1.1 billion lines connect separate dynamic cathode oxidised porphyry Antofagasta, Government approved to Chiles on-off leach transported by copper deposit Chile valid indefinitely in 2004 northern pads, solvent rail to ports at containing in subject to power grid extraction plant, Mejillones and First copper situ copper oxide payment of electrowinning plant Antofagasta produced mineralisation Electricity annual fees in 2006 that overlies a purchased Nominal capacity of near-horizontal under contract tank house: 200 ktpa sequence copper cathode of supergene sulphides, transitional sulphides, and finally primary hypogene sulphide mineralisation BHP Annual Report 2017 239 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information Mine & Means Title, leases Mine type & Facilities, location of access Ownership Operator or options History mineralisation style Power source use & condition Pampa Norte Cerro Colorado Atacama Public road BHP 100% BHP Mining Commercial Open-cut Long-term 2 primary, secondary Desert 120 km concession production contracts with and tertiary crushers, Copper Enriched and east of Iquique, from Chilean commenced northern Chile dynamic leaching cathode oxidised porphyry Chile Government in 1994 power grid pads, solvent trucked to port copper deposit valid indefinitely extraction plant, at Iquique Expansions in containing in situ subject to electrowinning plant 1996 and 1998 copper oxide payment of mineralisation Nominal capacity of annual fees that overlies a tank house: 102 ktpa near-horizontal copper cathode sequence of supergene sulphides, transitional sulphides, and finally primary hypogene sulphide mineralisation Antamina Andes Public road BHP 33.75% Compaa Mining rights Commercial Open-cut Long-term Primary crusher, mountain Minera from Peruvian production contracts concentrator, copper Copper Glencore 33.75% Zoned porphyry range Antamina Government commenced with individual and zinc flotation and zinc Teck 22.5% and skarn deposit S. A. held indefinitely, in 2001 power producers circuits, bismuth 270 km north concentrates Mitsubishi 10% with central copper subject to moly cleaning circuit of Lima, north transported Capital cost dominated ores payment of central Peru by pipeline US$2.3 billion and an outer band Nominal milling annual fees to port of 100% of copper-zinc capacity 53 Mtpa and supply Huarmey dominated ores 300 km concentrate of information Molybdenum pipeline Port facilities on investment and lead at Huarmey and production bismuth concentrates transported by truck Iron ore mining operations The following table contains additional details of our mining operations.
Mine & Means Title, leases Mine type & Facilities, location of access Ownership Operator or options History mineralisation style Power source use & condition Samarco Southeast Public road BHP Billiton Samarco The mining Production Open-cut Samarco holds Samarco mining Brazil Brasil Limitada facilities are began at interests in activities are currently Conveyor Itabirites 50% of Samarco currently under Germano mine 2 hydroelectric suspended after the belts were metamorphic Minerao S. A. administrative in 1977 and power plants, failure of Fundo dam used to quartz-hematite embargoes at Alegria which supply transport Vale S. A.
50% rock and friable The beneficiation and judicial complex part of its iron ore to hematite ores plants, pipelines, injunction given in 1992 electricity beneficiation pellet plants and port the Fundo plant Second pellet Power supply facilities are intact dam failure plant built contract with 3 slurry in 1997 Cemig Gerao pipelines used e Transmisso to transport Third pellet expires in 2022 concentrate plant, second to pellet plants concentrator on coast and second pipeline built Iron pellets in 2008 were exported via port Fourth pellet facilities plant, third concentrator and third pipeline built in 2014 240 BHP Annual Report 2017 Additional information Coal mining operations The following table contains additional details of our mining operations.
Mine & Means Title, leases Mine type & Facilities, location of access Ownership Operator or options History mineralisation style Power source use & condition Cerrejn La Guajira Public road BHP 33.33% Cerrejn Mining leases Original Open-cut Local Colombian Beneficiation province, expire mine began power system facilities: crushing Coal exported Anglo American Produces a Colombia progressively producing plant with capacity by company- 33.33% medium rank from 2028 to in 1976 in excess of 40 Mtpa owned rail to Glencore 33.33% bituminous thermal early 2034. and washing plant Puerto Bolivar BHP interest coal non-coking, Production not 150 km acquired suitable for the Nominal capacity scheduled after in 2000 export market in excess of 3 Mtpa 2033 Navajo 40 km Public road BHP 0% BHP Lease held by Production Open-cut Four Corners Stackers and 6 southwest Navajo commenced Power Plant reclaimers used Coal Navajo Produces a medium of Farmington, Transitional in 1963 to size and blend transported Transitional rank bituminous New Mexico, Energy Company Divested coal to meet contract by rail to Energy Company thermal coal United States in FY2014 quantities and Four Corners 100% non-coking suitable specification Power Plant BHP continued for the domestic to manage market only Nominal capacity in and operate excess of 4 Mtpa the mine until the Mine Management Agreement with Navajo Transitional Energy Company NTEC ended on 31 December 2016 Petroleum Petroleum operations The following table contains additional details of our production operations.
2 and reserve table refer to section 6.3.
Operation Nominal Facilities, & location Product Ownership Operator Title, leases or options production capacity use & condition United States Offshore Gulf of Mexico Neptune Green Canyon 613 Offshore Oil and gas BHP 35% BHP Lease from US Government 50 Mbbl d oil Stand-alone tension leg deepwater as long as oil and gas 50 MMcf d gas platform TLP EnVen Energy 30% Gulf of Mexico produced in paying quantities W&T Offshore 20% 1,300m Maxus US Exploration 15% Shenzi Green Canyon 653 Offshore Oil and gas BHP 44% BHP Lease from US Government 100 Mbbl d oil Stand-alone TLP as long as oil and gas 50 MMcf d gas deepwater Hess Shenzi LLC 28% Genghis Khan field part produced in paying quantities Gulf of Mexico Repsol 28% of same geological structure 1,310m tied back to Marco Polo TLP Atlantis Green Canyon 743 Offshore Oil and gas BHP 44% BP Lease from US Government 200 Mbbl d oil Moored semi-submersible deepwater as long as oil and gas 180 MMcf d gas platform BP 56% Gulf of Mexico produced in paying quantities 2,155m Mad Dog Green Canyon 782 Offshore Oil and gas BHP 23.9% BP Lease from US Government 100 Mbbl d oil Moored integrated deepwater as long as oil and gas 60 MMcf d gas truss spar, facilities for BP 60.5% Gulf of Mexico produced in paying quantities simultaneous production Chevron 15.6% 1,310m and drilling operations Genesis Green Canyon 205 Offshore Oil and gas BHP 4.95% Chevron Lease from US Government 55 Mbbl d oil Floating cylindrical deepwater as long as oil and gas 72 MMcf d gas hull spar moored to Chevron 56.67% Gulf of Mexico produced in paying quantities seabed with integrated ExxonMobil 38.38% approximately drilling facilities 790m Working interest withdrawal to be executed 1 August 2017, with 1 January 2017 effective date BHP Annual Report 2017 241 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information Operation Nominal Facilities, & location Product Ownership Operator Title, leases or options production capacity use & condition Onshore US Eagle Ford Black Hawk Condensate, BHP working interest BHP operated We currently own leasehold Average daily Producing condensate Hawkville gas and NGL in wells ranges from approximately interests in approximately production and gas wells and southern Texas less than 1% to 100% 37% of 246,000 net acres during FY2017 associated pipeline and approximately 175 MMcf d gas compression facilities BHP average net Leases associated with 1,519 gross 48 Mbbl d working interest is producing wells remain wells condensate approximately 63% in place as long as oil 25 Mbbl d NGL and gas is produced Largest partners in paying quantities include Devon Energy and EF Non OP LLC Permian Permian Oil, condensate, BHP working interest BHP operated We currently own leasehold Average daily Producing oil and gas wells western Texas gas and NGL in wells ranges from approximately interests in approximately production with associated gathering less than 1% to 100% 91% of 83,000 net acres during FY2017 systems to third party approximately 52 MMcf d gas processing plant and BHP average net Leases associated with 138 gross wells 15 Mbbl d oil compression facilities working interest is producing wells remain 7 Mbbl d NGL approximately 91% in place as long as oil and gas is produced Residual ownership in paying quantities held by multiple partners Haynesville Haynesville Gas BHP working interest BHP operated We currently own leasehold Average daily Producing gas wells with northern in wells ranges from approximately interests in approximately production an associated pipeline Louisiana and less than 1% to 100% 35% of 197,000 net acres during FY2017 owned by a third party and eastern Texas approximately 262 MMcf d gas compression infrastructure BHP average net Leases associated with 1,084 gross working interest is producing wells remain wells approximately 36% in place as long as gas is Largest partners include produced in paying quantities Chesapeake Energy and QEP Energy Fayetteville Fayetteville Gas BHP working interest BHP operated We currently own leasehold Average daily Producing gas wells with northern central in wells ranges from approximately interests in approximately production associated pipeline and Arkansas less than 1% to 100% 19% of 268,000 net acres during FY2017 compression infrastructure approximately 265 MMcf d gas BHP average net Leases associated with 4,870 gross working interest is producing wells remain wells approximately 21% in place as long as gas is produced in paying quantities Largest partners include Southwestern Energy and Exxon Mobil Australia Bass Strait Offshore and Oil and gas Gippsland Basin joint Esso Australia 20 production licences 200 Mbbl d oil 21 producing fields with onshore Victoria venture GBJV : and 2 retention leases issued 1,075 MMcf d gas 23 offshore developments by Australian Government 5,150 tpd LPG 15 steel jacket platforms, BHP 50% 850 tpd ethane 4 subsea developments, Esso Australia Exxon Expire between 2018 and 2 steel gravity based Mobil subsidiary 50% end of life of field mono towers, 2 concrete Oil Basins Ltd 2.5% royalty 1 production licence gravity based platforms interest in 19 production held with MEPAU A Pty Ltd Onshore infrastructure: licences Longford facility 4 gas Kipper Unit joint venture plants, liquid processing KUJV : facilities BHP 32.5% Interconnecting pipelines Esso Australia 32.5% Long Island Point LPG MEPAU A Pty Ltd 35% and oil storage facilities Ethane pipeline North West Shelf Offshore Domestic gas, North West Shelf Project Woodside 9 production licences issued North Rankin Production from North and onshore LPG, condensate, is an unincorporated JV Petroleum Ltd by Australian Government Complex: 2,500 Rankin and Perseus Western LNG MMcf d gas processed through the BHP: 6 expire in 2022 and Australia interconnected North 3 expire 5 years from 60 Mbbl d 16.67% of Incremental Rankin A and North North Rankin end of production condensate Pipeline Gas IPG Rankin B platforms Goodwyn domestic gas JV Goodwyn A platform: Perseus Production from 16.67% of original LNG JV 1,450 MMcf d gas Angel and Goodwyn and Searipple 110 Mbbl d 12.5% of China LNG JV Searipple fields processed through condensate 16.67% of LPG JV Goodwyn A platform Angel platform: Other participants: 4 subsea wells in Perseus 960 MMcf d gas subsidiaries of Woodside, field, 3 subsea wells in 50 Mbbl d Chevron, BP, Shell, Tidepole field and 2 subsea condensate Mitsubishi Mitsui and wells in Goodwyn field tied China National Offshore Withnell Bay into Goodwyn A platform Oil Corporation gas plant: Production from Angel 600 MMcf d gas field processed through 5-train LNG plant: Angel platform 52,000 tpd LNG Onshore gas treatment plant at Withnell Bay processes gas for domestic market 5-train LNG plant 242 BHP Annual Report 2017 Additional information Operation Nominal Facilities, & location Product Ownership Operator Title, leases or options production capacity use & condition Australia North West Shelf Offshore Oil BHP 16.67% Woodside 3 production licences issued Production: FPSO unit Western Petroleum Ltd by Australian Government 60 Mbbl d Woodside 33.34%, Australia in September 2014 expire Storage: 1 MMbbl BP, Chevron, Japan in 2018, 2033 and 2035 Wanaea Australia LNG MIMI respectively Cossack 16.67% each Lambert and Hermes fields Pyrenees Offshore Oil WA-42-L permit: BHP Production licence issued Production: 26 subsea well Western BHP 71.43% by Australian Government 96 Mbbl d oil completions 21 producers, Australia expires 5 years after 4 water injectors, 1 gas Quadrant PVG P L 28.57% Storage: 920 Mbbl production ceases injector, FPSO Crosby WA-43-L permit: 6 Moondyne BHP 39.999% Wild Bull Quadrant PVG P L Tanglehead 31.501% Stickle and Inpex Alpha Ltd 28.5% Ravensworth fields Macedon Offshore and Gas and WA-42-L permit BHP Production licence issued Production: 220 4 well completions onshore condensate BHP 71.43% by Australian Government MMcf d gas Single flow line transports Western Quadrant PVG P L 28.57% expires 5 years after 20 bbl d condensate gas to onshore gas Australia production ceases processing facility Gas plant located approximately 17 km southwest of Onslow Minerva Offshore and Gas and BHP 90% BHP Production licence issued 150 TJ d gas 2 subsea well completions onshore Victoria condensate by Australian Government 600 bbl d 1 producing well Santos BOL 10% expires 5 years after condensate Single flow line transports production ceases gas to onshore gas processing facility Gas plant located approximately 4 km inland from Port Campbell Other production operations Trinidad and Tobago Greater Angostura Offshore Oil and gas BHP 45% BHP Production sharing contract 100 Mbbl d oil Integrated oil and gas Trinidad and with the Trinidad and Tobago 340 MMcf d gas development: central National Gas Tobago Government entitles us to processing platform Company 30% operate Greater Angostura connected to the Chaoyang 25% until 2026 Kairi-2 platform and gas export platform 31 subsea well completions 17 oil producers, 4 gas producers and 7 gas injectors 3 gas producers completed in FY2016 with production commenced in September 2017 quarter Algeria ROD Integrated Development Onshore Oil BHP 45% interest in Joint Production sharing contract Approximately 80 Development and 401a 402a production Sonatrach ENI with Sonatrach title holder Mbbl d oil production of 6 oil fields Berkine Basin sharing contract entity 900 km 2 largest fields ROD ENI 55% southeast of and SFNE extend into Algiers, Algeria BHP effective 29.5% neighbouring blocks interest in ROD unitised 403a, 403d integrated development Production through ENI 70.5% dedicated processing train on block 403 United Kingdom Bruce Keith Offshore Oil and gas Bruce: Bruce BP 3 production licences 920 MMcf d gas Integrated oil and North Sea, UK BHP 16% issued by UK Government gas platform Keith BP expire in 2018, 2046 and BP 37% Keith developed end of life of field Total SA 43.25% as tie-back to Bruce Marubeni 3.75% facilities Keith: BHP 31.83% BP 34.84% Total SA 25% Marubeni 8.33% BHP Annual Report 2017 243 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information 6.2 Production 6.2.
1 Minerals The table below details our mineral and derivative product production for all operations except Petroleum for the three years ended 30 June 2017, 2016 and 2015.
Unless otherwise stated, the production numbers represent our share of production and include BHPs share of production from which profit is derived from our equity accounted investments.
Production information for equity accounted investments is included to provide insight into the operational performance of these entities.
For discussion of minerals pricing during the past three years, refer to 1.6.
1 BHP share of production BHP Group Year ended 30 June interest % 2017 2016 2015 2 Copper Payable metal in concentrate 000 tonnes 3 Escondida, Chile 57.5 539.6 648.9 916.1 4 Antamina, Peru 33.75 133.8 146.4 107.7 Total copper concentrate 673.4 795.3 1,023.8 Copper cathode 000 tonnes 3 Escondida, Chile 57.5 232.0 330.3 310.4 5 Pampa Norte, Chile 100 254.3 251.4 249.6 Olympic Dam, Australia 100 166.3 202.8 124.5 Total copper cathode 652.6 784.5 684.5 Total copper concentrate and cathode 1,326.0 1,579.8 1,708.3 Lead Payable metal in concentrate 000 tonnes 4 Antamina, Peru 33.75 5.5 3.7 2.1 Total lead 5.5 3.7 2.1 Zinc Payable metal in concentrate 000 tonnes 4 Antamina, Peru 33.75 87.5 55.4 66.4 Total zinc 87.5 55.4 66.4 Gold Payable metal in concentrate 000 ounces 3 Escondida, Chile 57.5 111 109 81.5 Olympic Dam, Australia refined gold 100 104 117.7 104.8 Total gold 215 226.7 186.3 Silver Payable metal in concentrate 000 ounces 3 Escondida, Chile 57.5 4,326 5,561 4,786 4 Antamina, Peru 33.75 5,783 6,711 3,826 Olympic Dam, Australia refined silver 100 768 917 724 Total silver 10,877 13,189 9,336 Uranium Payable metal in concentrate tonnes Olympic Dam, Australia 100 3,661 4,363 3,144 Total uranium 3,661 4,363 3,144 Molybdenum Payable metal in concentrate tonnes 4 Antamina, Peru 33.75 1,144 1,113 472 Total molybdenum 1,144 1,113 472 244 BHP Annual Report 2017 Additional information 1 BHP share of production BHP Group Year ended 30 June interest % 2017 2016 2015 Iron ore Western Australia Iron Ore 6 Production 000 tonnes Newman, Australia 85 68,283 65,941 63,697 Area C Joint Venture, Australia 85 48,744 46,799 49,994 Yandi Joint Venture, Australia 85 65,355 67,375 68,551 7 Jimblebar, Australia 85 21,950 18,890 16,759 8 Wheelarra, Australia 85 27,020 22,549 18,994 Total Western Australia Iron Ore 231,352 221,554 217,995 4 Samarco, Brazil 50 5,404 14,513 Total iron ore 231,352 226,958 232,508 6 Coal Metallurgical coal 9 Production 000 tonnes Blackwater, Australia 50 7,296 7,626 6,994 Goonyella Riverside, Australia 50 7,355 8,996 8,510 Peak Downs, Australia 50 6,055 5,031 5,111 Saraji, Australia 50 4,734 4,206 4,506 Gregory Joint Venture, Australia 50 1,329 3,294 Daunia, Australia 50 2,560 2,624 2,383 Caval Ridge, Australia 50 3,458 3,601 3,064 Total BHP Billiton Mitsubishi Alliance 31,458 33,413 33,862 10 South Walker Creek, Australia 80 5,123 5,436 5,293 10 Poitrel, Australia 80 3,189 3,462 3,466 Total BHP Billiton Mitsui Coal 8,312 8,898 8,759 Total Queensland Coal 39,770 42,311 42,621 11 IndoMet, Haju, Indonesia 75 129 529 Total metallurgical coal 39,899 42,840 42,621 Energy coal Production 000 tonnes 12 Navajo, United States 100 451 3,999 4,858 San Juan, United States 100 3,053 5,165 Total New Mexico Coal 451 7,052 10,023 New South Wales Energy Coal, Australia 100 18,176 17,101 19,698 4 Cerrejn, Colombia 33.3 10,959 10,094 11,291 Total energy coal 29,586 34,247 41,012 Other assets Nickel Saleable production 000 tonnes Nickel West, Australia 100 85.1 80.7 89.9 Total nickel 85.1 80.7 89.9 BHP Annual Report 2017 245 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information 1 BHP share of production BHP Group Year ended 30 June interest % 2017 2016 2015 13 Discontinued operations Lead Payable metal in concentrate 000 tonnes Cannington, Australia 100 151.6 Total lead 151.6 Zinc Payable metal in concentrate 000 tonnes Cannington, Australia 100 60.0 Total zinc 60.0 Silver Payable metal in concentrate 000 ounces Cannington, Australia 100 18,718 Total silver 18,718 Metallurgical coal Production 000 tonnes Illawarra Coal, Australia 100 7,216 Total metallurgical coal 7,216 Energy coal Production 000 tonnes 14 Energy Coal South Africa, South Africa 90 28,677 Total energy coal 28,677 Nickel Saleable production 000 tonnes Cerro Matoso, Columbia 99.9 33.7 Total nickel 33.7 Alumina Saleable production 000 tonnes Worsley, Australia 86 3,181 Alumar, Brazil 36 1,103 Total alumina 4,284 Aluminium Production 000 tonnes Hillside, South Africa 100 581 Alumar, Brazil 40 40 Mozal, Mozambique 47 222 Total aluminium 843 Manganese ores Saleable production 000 tonnes 15 Hotazel Manganese Mines, South Africa 44.4 3,138 15 GEMCO, Australia 60 4,086 Total manganese ores 7,224 Manganese alloys Saleable production 000 tonnes 15 16 Metalloys, South Africa 60 379 15 TEMCO, Australia 60 233 Total manganese alloys 612 1 BHP share of production includes the Groups share of production for which profit is derived from our equity accounted investments, unless otherwise stated.
2 Metal production is reported on the basis of payable metal.
3 Shown on 100 per cent basis following the application of IFRS 10.
BHP interest in saleable production is 57.5 per cent.
4 For statutory financial reporting purposes, this is an equity accounted investment.
We have included production numbers from our equity accounted investments as the level of production and operating performance from these operations impacts Underlying EBITDA of the Group.
Our use of Underlying EBITDA is explained in 1.12.
Samarco operations are currently suspended following the Samarco dam failure as explained in section 1.7.
5 Includes Cerro Colorado and Spence.
6 Iron ore production is reported on a wet tonnes basis.
BHP interest in saleable production is 85 per cent.
8 All production from Wheelarra is now processed via the Jimblebar processing hub.
9 Metallurgical coal production is reported on the basis of saleable product.
Production figures include some energy coal.
BHP interest in saleable production is 80 per cent.
BHP interest in saleable production is 75 per cent.
12 BHP completed the sale of Navajo Mine on 30 December 2013.
As BHP retained control of the mine until 29 July 2016, production has been reported through such date.
13 Production shown from 1 July 2014 to 30 April 2015.
Refer to note 27 Discontinued operations in section 5 for more information on the demerger of assets to form South32.
BHP interest in saleable production is 90 per cent.
BHP interest in saleable production is 60 per cent, except Hotazel Manganese Mines which is 44.4 per cent.
246 BHP Annual Report 2017 Additional information 6.2.
2 Petroleum The table below details Petroleums historical net crude oil and condensate, natural gas and natural gas liquids production, primarily by geographic segment, for each of the three years ended 30 June 2017, 2016 and 2015.
We have shown volumes of marketable production after deduction of applicable royalties, fuel and flare.
We have included in the table average production costs per unit of production and average sales prices for oil and condensate and natural gas for each of those periods.
BHP Group share of production Year ended 30 June 2017 2016 2015 Production volumes Crude oil and condensate 000 of barrels Australia 18,658 20,307 21,397 United States 52,877 65,558 71,626 5 Other 4,850 4,714 5,559 Total crude oil and condensate 76,385 90,579 98,582 6 Natural gas billion cubic feet Australia 345.7 325.6 294.8 United States 285.3 375.9 431.7 5 Other 36.8 43.2 60.1 Total natural gas 667.8 744.7 786.6 1 Natural gas liquids 000 of barrels Australia 7,423 7,646 7,214 United States 13,152 17,771 18,681 5 Other 119 43 101 1 Total NGL 20,694 25,460 25,996 2 Total production of petroleum products million barrels of oil equivalent Australia 83.5 82.2 77.8 United States 113.7 146.0 162.2 5 Other 11.2 12.0 15.7 Total production of petroleum products 208.4 240.2 255.7 Average sales price Crude oil and condensate US$ per barrel Australia 50.59 43.55 76.30 United States 46.52 38.11 64.77 5 Other 47.96 41.00 72.90 Total crude oil and condensate 47.61 39.48 67.68 Natural gas US$ per thousand cubic feet Australia 5.06 5.22 7.59 United States 2.88 2.16 3.27 5 Other 2.72 3.20 4.00 Total natural gas 4.00 3.57 4.95 Natural gas liquids US$ per barrel Australia 27.76 24.86 44.93 United States 15.98 11.23 18.35 5 Other 21.10 20.90 29.55 Total NGL 20.37 15.31 25.69 3 4 Total average production cost US$ per barrel of oil equivalent Australia 5.78 6.12 7.08 United States 7.50 6.08 7.73 5 Other 16.86 13.29 13.32 Total average production cost 7.31 6.46 7.88 1 LPG and ethane are reported as natural gas liquids NGL.
2 Total barrels of oil equivalent boe conversion is based on the following: 6,000 standard cubic feet scf of natural gas equals one boe.
3 Average production costs include direct and indirect costs relating to the production of hydrocarbons and the foreign exchange effect of translating local currency denominated costs into US dollars, but excludes ad valorem and severance taxes.
4 Total average production costs reported here do not include the costs to transport our produced hydrocarbons to the point of sale.
Total production costs, including transportation costs, but excluding ad valorem and severance taxes, were US$10.23 per boe, US$9.73 per boe, and US$11.09 per boe for the years ended 30 June 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively.
5 Other comprises Algeria, Pakistan divested 31 December 2015, Trinidad and Tobago, and the United Kingdom.
BHP Annual Report 2017 247 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information 6.3 Resources and Reserves Resources are the estimated quantities of material that can Developed oil and gas reserves potentially be commercially recovered from the Groups properties.
Proved developed oil and gas reserves are reserves that can be Reserves are a subset of resources that can be demonstrated to be expected to be recovered through: able to be economically and legally extracted.
In order to estimate existing wells with existing equipment and operating methods: reserves, assumptions are required about a range of technical installed extraction equipment and infrastructure operational and economic factors, including quantities, qualities, production at the time of the reserve estimate if the extraction is by means techniques, recovery efficiency, production and transport not involving a well.
costs, commodity supply and demand, commodity prices Performance-derived reserve assessments for producing wells and exchange rates.
were primarily based in the following manner: Estimating the quantity and or quality of reserves requires the for our conventional operations, reserves were estimated using size, shape and depth of ore bodies or oil and gas reservoirs to be rate and pressure decline methods, including material balance, determined by analysing geological data, such as drilling samples supplemented by reservoir simulation models where appropriate: and geophysical survey interpretations.
Economic assumptions for our Onshore US operations, rate-transient analysis and used to estimate reserves change from period-to-period as decline curve analysis methods: additional technical and operational data is generated.
for wells that lacked sufficient production history, reserves were estimated using performance-based type curves 6.3.
1 Petroleum reserves and offset location analogues with similar geologic and reservoir characteristics.
Estimates of oil and gas reserves involve some degree of uncertainty, are inherently imprecise, require the application of judgement and Proved undeveloped reserves are subject to future revision.
Accordingly, financial and accounting Proved undeveloped oil and gas reserves are reserves that are measures such as the standardised measure of discounted expected to be recovered from new wells on undrilled acreage cash flows, depreciation, depletion and amortisation charges, where commitment has been made to commence development the assessment of impairments and the assessment of valuation within five years from first reporting or from existing wells where allowances against deferred tax assets that are based on reserve a relatively major expenditure is required for recompletion.
estimates are also subject to change.
A combination of geologic and engineering data and where How we estimate and report reserves appropriate, statistical analysis was used to support the assignment Petroleums reserves are estimated as of 30 June 2017. of proved undeveloped reserves when assessing planned drilling locations.
Performance data along with log and core data was Our proved reserves are estimated and reported according used to delineate consistent, continuous reservoir characteristics to US Securities and Exchange Commission SEC regulations in core areas of the development.
Proved undeveloped locations and have been determined in accordance with SEC Rule 4-10 a were included in core areas between known data and adjacent of Regulation S-X.
to productive wells using performance-based type curves and Proved oil and gas reserves offset location analogues with similar geologic and reservoir characteristics.
Locations where a high degree of certainty Proved oil and gas reserves are those quantities of crude oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids NGL that, by analysis of geoscience could not be demonstrated using the above technologies and techniques were not categorised as proved.
and engineering data, can be estimated with reasonable certainty to be economically producible from a given date forward from Methodology used to estimate reserves known reservoirs and under existing economic conditions, Reserve estimates have been estimated with deterministic operating methods, operating contracts and government methodology, with the exception of the North West Shelf gas regulations.
Unless evidence indicates that renewal of existing operation in Australia, where probabilistic methodology has operating contracts is reasonably certain, estimates of economically been used to estimate and aggregate reserves for the reservoirs producible reserves reflect only the period before the contracts dedicated to the gas project only.
The probabilistic based portion expire.
The project to extract the hydrocarbons must have of these reserves totals 39 million barrels of oil equivalent MMboe commenced or the operator must be reasonably certain that it will total boe conversion is based on the following: 6,000 standard commence within a reasonable time.
As specified in SEC Rule 4-10 a cubic feet scf of natural gas equals 1 boe and represents of Regulation S-X, oil and gas prices are taken as the unweighted approximately three per cent of our total reported proved reserves.
average of the corresponding first day of the month prices for the Aggregation of proved reserves beyond the field project level 12 months prior to the ending date of the period covered.
has been performed by arithmetic summation.
Due to portfolio Proved reserves were estimated by reference to available well effects, aggregates of proved reserves may be conservative.
and reservoir information, including but not limited to well The custody transfer point s or point s of sale applicable for each logs, well test data, core data, production and pressure data, field or project are the reference point for reserves.
The reserves geologic data, seismic data and in some cases, to similar replacement ratio is the reserves change during the year before data from analogous, producing reservoirs.
A wide range of production, divided by the production during the year stated engineering and geoscience methods, including performance as a percentage.
analysis, well analogues and geologic studies were used to estimate high confidence proved developed and undeveloped reserves in accordance with SEC regulations.
Proved reserve estimates were attributed to future development projects only where there is a significant commitment to project funding and execution and for which applicable government and regulatory approvals have been secured or are reasonably certain to be secured.
Furthermore, estimates of proved reserves include only volumes for which access to market is assured with reasonable certainty.
All proved reserve estimates are subject to revision either upward or downward based on new information, such as from development drilling and production activities or from changes in economic factors, including product prices, contract terms or development plans.
248 BHP Annual Report 2017 Additional information Discoveries and extensions Governance Discoveries and extensions added 172 MMboe to proved reserves The Petroleum Reserves Group PRG is a dedicated group that provides oversight of the reserves assessment and reporting during FY2017.
This comprised 105 MMboe of extensions related to the decision to proceed and funding of the Phase 2 development processes.
It is independent of the various operation teams directly responsible for development and production activities.
The PRG of the Mad Dog field and 3 MMboe related to drilling in the Atlantis field in the US Gulf of Mexico along with 65 MMboe related to is staffed by individuals averaging more than 20 years experience in the oil and gas industry.
The manager of the PRG, Abhijit Gadgil, planned drilling in new locations in our Onshore US operations within the next five years.
is a full-time employee of BHP and is responsible for overseeing the preparation of the reserve estimates and compiling the information Revisions for inclusion in this Annual Report.
He has an advanced degree Overall, net revisions increased proved reserves by 274 MMboe in engineering and more than 35 years of diversified industry during FY2017.
Of this, the impact of commodity prices using the experience in reservoir engineering, reserves assessment, field required SEC price-basis represented an increase of 271 MMboe.
He is a 35-year member Well performance, interest changes and other revisions resulted of the Society of Petroleum Engineers SPE.
He has also served in a net increase of 3 MMboe.
Virtually all of the price-related on the Society of Petroleum Engineers Oil and Gas Reserves increase occurred in our Onshore US fields.
Mr Gadgil has the qualifications and experience 6 required to act as a qualified petroleum reserves evaluator under In our US operations, the overall increase in proved reserves the Australian Securities Exchange ASX Listing Rules.
The estimates through revisions totalled 258 MMboe.
This included price related of petroleum reserves are based on and fairly represent information additions of 269 MMboe and a net reduction of 19 MMboe related and supporting documentation prepared under the supervision to performance and other revisions in our Onshore US operations.
He has reviewed and agrees with the information There were also additions of 9 MMboe for better than expected included in section 6.3.
1 and has given his prior written consent performance and increased prices in the Shenzi, Atlantis and for its publication.
No part of the individual compensation for Mad Dog fields in our Gulf of Mexico operations.
members of the PRG is dependent on reported reserves.
In our Australian operations, continued strong performance of Reserve assessments for all Petroleum operations were the North West Shelf and Minerva fields added a total of 7 MMboe conducted by technical staff within the operating organisation.
This was partially offset by performance and These individuals meet the professional qualifications outlined other related reductions of 3 MMboe in Bass Strait fields.
Overall, by the SPE, are trained in the fundamentals of SEC reserves revisions for Australian fields totalled about 4 MMboe.
reporting and the reserves processes and are endorsed by the Operations outside of Australia and the United States also PRG.
Each reserve assessment is reviewed annually by the PRG added approximately 12 MMboe in revisions.
In the Angostura to ensure technical quality, adherence to internally published area fields in Trinidad and Tobago, 6 MMboe was added for better Petroleum guidelines and compliance with SEC reporting than expected performance.
The ROD field in Algeria also added requirements.
Once endorsed by the PRG, all reserves receive 4 MMboe primarily for better than expected performance.
Our final endorsement by senior management and the Risk and fields in the United Kingdom also added 1 MMboe for production Audit Committee prior to public reporting.
Our internal Group during the year.
Risk Assessment and Assurance function provides secondary Sales assurance of the oil and gas reserve reporting processes through audits of the key controls that have been implemented, as required The sale of acreage in our Eagle Ford and Permian fields accounted by the U. S. Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
For more information for our reported sales of approximately 1 MMboe.
There were no on our risk management governance, refer to section 2.13.1. purchases during FY2017.
FY2017 reserves These results are summarised in the following tables, which detail Production for FY2017 totalled 208 MMboe in sales, which is estimated oil, condensate, NGL and natural gas reserves at 30 June 2017, 30 June 2016 and 30 June 2015, with a reconciliation of the a decrease of 32 MMboe from FY2016.
There was an additional 5 MMboe in non-sales production, primarily for fuel consumed changes in each year.
Reserves have been calculated using the economic interest method and represent net interest volumes in our Petroleum operations.
The combined sales and non-sales production totalled 213 MMboe.
The natural decline of production, after deduction of applicable royalty.
Reserves of 79 MMboe are in two production and risk-sharing arrangements that involve primarily in our Onshore US fields and mature fields in other locations was the reason for the lower amount produced.
BHP in upstream risks and rewards without transfer of ownership of the products.
At 30 June 2017, approximately five per cent As of 30 June 2017, our proved reserves totalled 1535 MMboe and of the proved reserves were attributable to such arrangements.
reflect a net increase of 445 MMboe after total production from the 1303 MMboe reported at FY2016.
This increase was primarily the result of higher product prices experienced during the reporting period, reductions in unconventional well operating costs and an increase in planned drilling activity which enabled the addition of new proved undeveloped reserves for our Onshore US fields.
As of 30 June 2017, approximately 65 per cent of our proved reserves were in conventional fields, while about 35 per cent of our proved reserves were in unconventional fields.
BHP Annual Report 2017 249 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information b Millions of barrels Australia United States Other Total a Proved developed and undeveloped oil and condensate reserves Reserves at 30 June 2014 136.2 454.2 20.1 610.5 Improved recovery 3.4 0.1 3.5 Revisions of previous estimates 3.2 53.7 2.4 48.1 Extensions and discoveries 5.9 52.0 58.0 Purchase sales of reserves 1.0 1.0 Production 21.4 71.6 5.6 98.5 Total changes 12.2 70.9 3.1 86.2 Reserves at 30 June 2015 124.0 383.3 17.1 524.3 Improved recovery Revisions of previous estimates 9.1 67.0 14.4 43.5 Extensions and discoveries 0.4 2.9 3.4 Purchase sales of reserves 0.3 0.3 Production 20.3 65.6 4.7 90.6 Total changes 10.8 129.6 9.4 130.9 Reserves at 30 June 2016 113.2 253.7 26.5 393.4 Improved recovery Revisions of previous estimates 5.9 17.0 4.4 15.4 Extensions and discoveries 123.3 123.3 Purchase sales of reserves 0.4 0.4 Production 18.7 52.9 4.8 76.4 Total changes 24.6 87.0 0.5 61.9 Reserves at 30 June 2017 88.6 340.7 26.0 455.3 Developed Proved developed oil and condensate reserves as of 30 June 2014 96.5 237.8 14.7 349.0 as of 30 June 2015 81.2 225.4 11.7 318.3 as of 30 June 2016 82.2 187.3 20.0 289.5 Developed reserves as of 30 June 2017 76.2 162.3 21.9 260.5 Undeveloped Proved undeveloped oil and condensate reserves as of 30 June 2014 39.7 216.4 5.4 261.5 as of 30 June 2015 42.7 157.9 5.4 206.0 as of 30 June 2016 31.0 66.4 6.5 103.9 Undeveloped reserves as of 30 June 2017 12.4 178.4 4.0 194.8 a Small differences are due to rounding to first decimal place.
b Other comprises Algeria, Pakistan divested in FY2015, Trinidad and Tobago and the United Kingdom.
250 BHP Annual Report 2017 Additional information c Millions of barrels Australia United States Other Total a Proved developed and undeveloped NGL reserves d d Reserves at 30 June 2014 82.1 156.6 238.7 Improved recovery 0.3 0.3 Revisions of previous estimates 0.6 62.4 0.1 61.7 Extensions and discoveries 1.1 33.1 34.2 Purchase sales of reserves 0.2 0.2 b Production 7.2 18.7 0.1 26.0 Total changes 5.5 48.0 53.5 d d Reserves at 30 June 2015 76.6 108.6 185.2 Improved recovery Revisions of previous estimates 1.8 57.0 55.2 Extensions and discoveries 0.6 1.8 2.4 Purchase sales of reserves b Production 7.6 17.8 25.5 6 Total changes 5.3 73.0 78.2 d d Reserves at 30 June 2016 71.3 35.6 107.0 Improved recovery Revisions of previous estimates 1.2 23.4 0.1 24.8 Extensions and discoveries 13.1 13.1 Purchase sales of reserves 0.1 0.1 b Production 7.4 13.2 0.1 20.7 Total changes 6.2 23.2 17.0 d d Reserves at 30 June 2017 65.2 58.9 124.0 Developed Proved developed NGL reserves as of 30 June 2014 46.0 75.0 121.0 as of 30 June 2015 40.1 59.7 99.8 as of 30 June 2016 38.0 30.7 68.7 Developed reserves as of 30 June 2017 56.6 31.4 88.0 Undeveloped Proved undeveloped NGL reserves as of 30 June 2014 36.1 81.5 117.7 as of 30 June 2015 36.5 48.9 85.4 as of 30 June 2016 33.3 4.9 38.2 Undeveloped reserves as of 30 June 2017 8.6 27.5 36.1 a Small differences are due to rounding to first decimal place.
b Production includes volumes consumed by operations.
c Other comprises Algeria, Pakistan divested in FY2015, Trinidad and Tobago and the United Kingdom.
d For FY2014, FY2015, FY2016 and FY2017 amounts include 3.9, 4.2, 0.2 and 2.1 million barrels respectively, which are anticipated to be consumed as fuel in operations in the United States.
c Production for Australia includes gas sold as LNG.
d Other comprises Algeria, Pakistan divested in FY2015, Trinidad and Tobago and the United Kingdom.
e For FY2014, FY2015, FY2016 and FY2017 amounts include 360, 343, 321 and 295 billion cubic feet respectively, which are anticipated to be consumed as fuel in operations in Australia.
f For FY2014, FY2015, FY2016 and FY2017 amounts include 185, 154, 75 and 155 billion cubic feet respectively, which are anticipated to be consumed as fuel in operations in the United States.
g For FY2014, FY2015, FY2016 and FY2017 amounts include 30, 27, 17 and 17 billion cubic feet respectively, which are anticipated to be consumed as fuel in operations in Other areas.
h For FY2014, FY2015, FY2016 and 2017 amounts include 575, 524, 413 and 467 billion cubic feet respectively, which are anticipated to be consumed as fuel in operations.
252 BHP Annual Report 2017 Additional information a d Millions of barrels of oil equivalent Australia United States Other Total Proved developed and undeveloped oil, condensate, b natural gas and NGL reserves e f g h Reserves at 30 June 2014 800.9 1,548.0 93.9 2,442.8 Improved recovery 3.8 0.1 3.9 Revisions of previous estimates 24.6 484.0 7.9 451.5 Extensions and discoveries 37.9 170.0 208.0 Purchase sales of reserves 33.8 33.8 c Production 82.2 162.7 16.5 261.4 Total changes 19.8 506.7 8.4 534.9 e f g h Reserves at 30 June 2015 781.1 1,041.3 85.5 1,907.9 Improved recovery Revisions of previous estimates 19.0 397.9 17.3 361.6 Extensions and discoveries 2.7 10.9 13.6 Purchase sales of reserves 12.2 12.2 6 c Production 86.3 146.4 12.4 245.1 Total changes 64.6 533.4 7.3 605.2 e f g h Reserves at 30 June 2016 716.5 507.9 78.2 1,302.7 Improved recovery Revisions of previous estimates 3.6 258.3 11.7 273.6 Extensions and discoveries 172.4 172.4 Purchase sales of reserves 0.6 0.6 c Production 88.1 114.0 11.4 213.5 Total changes 84.5 316.1 0.4 232.0 e f g h Reserves at 30 June 2017 632.1 824.0 78.6 1,534.6 Developed Proved developed oil, condensate, natural gas and NGL reserves as of 30 June 2014 568.1 847.6 67.3 1,483.0 as of 30 June 2015 521.5 701.6 58.5 1,281.6 as of 30 June 2016 487.6 429.4 50.5 967.5 Developed reserves as of 30 June 2017 523.8 453.1 74.6 1,051.6 Undeveloped Proved undeveloped oil, condensate, natural gas and NGL reserves as of 30 June 2014 232.8 700.4 26.6 959.8 as of 30 June 2015 259.6 339.7 27.0 626.3 as of 30 June 2016 228.9 78.5 27.8 335.2 Undeveloped reserves as of 30 June 2017 108.2 370.8 4.0 483.1 a Barrel oil equivalent conversion based on 6,000 scf of natural gas equals 1 boe.
b Small differences are due to rounding to first decimal place.
c Production includes volumes consumed by operations.
e For FY2014, FY2015, FY2016 and FY2017 amounts include 60, 57, 53 and 49 million barrels equivalent respectively, which are anticipated to be consumed as fuel in operations in Australia.
f For FY2014, FY2015, FY2016 and FY2017 amounts include 35, 30, 13 and 28 million barrels equivalent respectively, which are anticipated to be consumed as fuel in operations in the United States.
g For FY2014, FY2015, FY2016 and FY2017 amounts include 5, 4, 3 and 3 million barrels equivalent respectively, which are anticipated to be consumed as fuel in operations in Other areas.
h For FY2014, FY2015, FY2016 and FY2017 amounts include 100, 91, 69 and 80 million barrels equivalent respectively, which are anticipated to be consumed as fuel in operations.
BHP Annual Report 2017 253 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information 6.3.
2 Proved undeveloped reserves Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves At 30 June 2017, Petroleum had 483 MMboe of proved The statement of Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves presented undeveloped reserves, which represented 31 per cent of year-end in this Annual Report has been produced in accordance with the 2017 proved reserves of 1535 MMboe.
Approximately 263 MMboe Australian Securities Exchange ASX Listing Rules Chapter 5 2014 or 54 per cent of the proved undeveloped reserves reside in our and the Australasian Code for Reporting of Exploration Results, conventional offshore fields in Australia, the Gulf of Mexico and Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves, December 2012 JORC Code.
Trinidad and Tobago, while 220 MMboe or 46 per cent resides in our Onshore US fields.
The current proved undeveloped reserves The JORC Code requires the use of reasonable investment reflect a net increase of 148 MMboe from the 335 MMboe reported assumptions when reporting reserves.
As a result, management at 30 June 2016.
This increase was primarily the result of adding predicts sales prices, based on supply and demand forecast 202 MMboe of new proved undeveloped reserves for drilling and current and long-term historical average price trends.
planned over the next five years in our Onshore US fields and in The Ore Reserves tabulated are held within existing, permitted the Gulf of Mexico where 105 MMboe was added for the Mad Dog mining tenements.
BHPs mineral leases are of sufficient duration Phase 2 project sanction and 3 MMboe was added in the Atlantis or convey a legal right to renew for sufficient duration to enable field as a result of drilling and reservoir assessments.
all reserves on the leased properties to be mined in accordance These additions were offset by development activities that with current production schedules.
Our Ore Reserves may include converted 177 MMboe of proved undeveloped reserves to proved areas where some additional approvals remain outstanding, but developed reserves.
The largest of these conversions occurred in where, based on the technical investigations we carry out as part Australia where 111 MMboe were converted to proved developed of our planning process and our knowledge and experience of the in the Kipper, Tuna and Turrum fields in the Bass Strait with the approvals process, we expect that such approvals will be obtained start-up of the Longford gas conditioning plant.
The start-up and as part of the normal course of business and within the time frame first gas from the Tidepole field in the Greater Western Flank 1 required by the current life of mine schedule.
project in the North West Shelf also converted 10 MMboe to proved The information in this Annual Report relating to Mineral Resources developed reserves.
In Trinidad and Tobago, 23 MMboe was and Ore Reserves is based on and fairly represents information converted to proved developed reserves for the completion of and supporting documentation compiled by Competent Persons Angostura Phase 3 development.
In the United States, drilling as defined in the JORC Code.
All Competent Persons have, and completion activities resulted in the conversion of 15 MMboe at the time of reporting, sufficient experience relevant to the to proved developed reserves in the Eagle Ford field, 9 MMboe style of mineralisation and type of deposit under consideration in the Atlantis and 8 MMboe in the Mad Dog Spar A fields in the and to the activity they are undertaking to qualify as a Competent Gulf of Mexico.
At the reporting date, each Competent Person listed in Of the 483 MMboe currently classified as proved undeveloped this Annual Report is a full-time employee of BHP or a company at 30 June 2017, 76 MMboe has been reported for five or more in which BHP has a controlling interest unless otherwise noted years.
All of these reserves are in our offshore conventional fields and is a Member or Fellow of the AusIMM or AIG or a Recognised that are currently producing, have significant development in Professional Organisation.
Each Competent Person consents place and are scheduled to start producing within the next five to the inclusion in this Annual Report of the matters based on years.
The largest component of this is in the Atlantis field in his or her information in the form and context in which it appears.
the Gulf of Mexico, which contains 17 MMboe, while the Mad Dog All Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves presented are reported field contains 6 MMboe, both of which are actively being drilled.
in 100 per cent terms and represent estimates at 30 June 2017 The remainder resides in other Australian offshore fields that have unless otherwise stated.
Tonnes are reported as dry metric tonnes active development plans.
Our Onshore US fields do not contain unless otherwise stated.
All tonnes and grade quality information any undrilled proved undeveloped reserves that have been has been rounded, hence small differences may be present in reported for more than five years or that will not be drilled within the totals.
The Measured and Indicated Mineral Resources are five years.
During FY2017, Petroleum continued active development inclusive of those Mineral Resources modified to produce the of our inventory of proved undeveloped projects by converting Ore Reserves.
The information contained in this document differs 177 MMboe to proved developed reserves.
Over the past three in certain respects from that reported to the SEC.
Reserve reporting years, the conversion of proved undeveloped reserves to requirements for SEC filings in the United States are specified in developed has totalled 392 MMboe, averaging 131 MMboe per year.
Industry Guide 7, with economic assumptions based on current In currently producing conventional fields, the remaining proved economic conditions that may differ to the JORC Codes reasonable undeveloped reserves will be developed and brought on stream investment assumptions.
Accordingly, a SEC pricing assumptions in a phased manner to best optimise the use of production facilities test is performed with reserve estimates derived under JORC and to meet sales commitments.
During FY2017, Petroleum spent compared to those derived assuming current economic conditions.
US$1.4 billion on development activities worldwide.
Reserves disclosed in the United States will differ only if the SEC pricing assumption test indicates reserves lower than those reported under JORC in Australia and the United Kingdom.
BHP applies governance arrangements and internal controls to verify the estimates and estimation process for Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves.
These include: standard BHP procedures for public reporting aligned with current regulatory requirements: independent audits of new and materially changed estimates: annual reconciliation performance metrics to validate reserves estimates for operating mines: internal technical assessments of resources and reserves estimates for each asset scheduled every two years.
The Geoscience and Resource Engineering Centres of Excellence manage governance and functional leadership for Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves.
The Geoscience Centre of Excellence coordinates Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves reporting to support the above controls.
Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves are presented in the accompanying tables.
254 BHP Annual Report 2017 Additional information Competent Persons Coal Copper Mineral Resources Mineral Resources Goonyella Riverside, Broadmeadow, Daunia, Haju, Red Hill, Nebo West, Bee Creek, Lampunut, Luon, Bumbun and Juloi Northwest: Escondida, Pampa Escondida, Pinta Verde and Chimborazo: R Macpherson MAIG L Soto MAusIMM, M Cortes MAusIMM both employed by Minera Escondida Limitada Peak Downs, Caval Ridge, Peak Downs East and Mt Arthur Coal: S Martinez MAusIMM Cerro Colorado and Spence: J Cespedes MAusIMM Saraji, Norwich Park, Poitrel and Saraji East: R Saha MAusIMM Pinto Valley Miami unit: M Williams MAusIMM Blackwater, Gregory, Crinum, Liskeard and Togara South: Olympic Dam: S OConnell MAusIMM G Naidoo MAusIMM Antamina: L Canchis MAusIMM employed by Minera Antamina S. A.
South Walker Creek and Wards Well: S Groenland MAusIMM Ore Reserves Cerrejn: G Hernandez MGSSA employed by Cerrejn Limited, Escondida: P Sandoval MAusIMM employed by D Lawrence MAusIMM employed by DJL Geological Minera Escondida Limitada 6 Consulting Limited Cerro Colorado: C Gonzalez MAusIMM Ore Reserves Spence: F Barrera MAusIMM Goonyella Riverside: N Wilson MAusIMM Olympic Dam: D Grant FAusIMM Broadmeadow: T Ambarsari MAusIMM Antamina: L Mamani MAusIMM employed by Minera Antamina S. A.
Peak Downs: P Gupta MAusIMM Iron Ore Caval Ridge: P Formosa MAusIMM Mineral Resources Saraji: S Thomas MAusIMM WAIO: M Lowry MAusIMM, R Stimson MAusIMM, Norwich Park: N Mohtaj MAusIMM M Smith MAusIMM, A Williamson MAIG Blackwater: A Hardy MAusIMM Samarco: L Bonfioli MAusIMM employed by Daunia: G Bustos MAusIMM Samarco Minerao S. A. Gregory: N Bordia MAusIMM Ore Reserves South Walker Creek: A Walker MAusIMM WAIO: D Blechynden P. Eng.
PEGNL, A Greaves MAusIMM, Poitrel: B Ehler MAusIMM B Hall MAusIMM, D Magee MAusIMM Haju: R Macpherson MAIG Samarco: D Nunes MAusIMM employed by Mt Arthur Coal: R Williams MAusIMM Samarco Minerao S. A. Cerrejn: G Hernandez MGSSA employed by Cerrejn Limited, D Lawrence MAusIMM employed by DJL Geological Consulting Limited Potash Mineral Resources Jansen: J McElroy MAusIMM, B Nemeth MAusIMM Nickel Mineral Resources Leinster, Yakabindie, Venus and Jericho: M Menicheli MAusIMM Mt Keith and Cliffs: M Job FAusIMM employed by ARANZ Geo Limited Ore Reserves Leinster: M Thomas MAusIMM employed by AMC Consultants Pty Limited, D Bhardwaj MAusIMM, J Lessard P. Eng.
Sulphide ore is processed in the concentrator plants as a result of optimised mine plans with consideration of technical and economical parameters in order to maximise Net Present Value.
Sulphide Leach 0.30%TCu and lower than V COG.
Sulphide Leach ore is processed in the dump leaching plant as an alternative to the concentrator process.
Cerro Colorado Oxide & Supergene 0.30%TCu 0.30%TCu Sulphide Transitional Sulphide 0.20%TCu Hypogene Sulphide 0.20%TCu Spence Oxide 0.30%TCu 0.30%TCu Low-grade Oxide 0.10%TCu Oxide Low Solubility 0.30%TCu Supergene Sulphide 0.30%TCu 0.30%TCu Transitional Sulphide 0.15%TCu Hypogene Sulphide 0.20%TCu ROM 0.10%TCu Pampa Escondida Sulphide 0.30%TCu Pinta Verde Oxide & Sulphide 0.30%TCu Chimborazo Sulphide 0.30%TCu Pinto Valley Miami unit In situ Leach Olympic Dam Sulphide Variable between 0.10%Cu and 0.30%Cu Variable between 1.00%Cu and 1.20%Cu Low-grade 0.18%Cu Antamina Sulphide Cu only Net value per concentrator hour incorporating Net value per concentrator hour incorporating all material revenue and cost factors and all material revenue and cost factors and includes metallurgical recovery see footnote 6 includes metallurgical recovery see footnote 6 for averages.
Mineralisation at the US$0 hr limit for averages.
Mineralisation at the US$6,000 hr averages 0.16%Cu, 2.3g tAg, 131ppmMo and limit averages 0.16%Cu, 2.3g tAg, 138ppmMo 6,700t hr mill throughput.
Sulphide Cu-Zn Net value per concentrator hour incorporating Net value per concentrator hour incorporating all material revenue and cost factors and all material revenue and cost factors and includes metallurgical recovery see footnote 6 includes metallurgical recovery see footnote 6 for averages.
Mineralisation at the US$6,000 hr averages 0.07%Cu, 0.73%Zn, 12.5g tAg and limit averages 0.08%Cu, 0.72%Zn, 12.1g tAg and 6,500t hr mill throughput.
Antamina All metals used in net value calculations for the Antamina Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves are recovered into concentrate see footnote 6 for averages and sold.
2 Escondida The decrease in Mineral Resources is mainly due to an update of the ultimate pit in response to lower copper price forecast and includes 70,000m of additional drill hole data.
3 Cerro Colorado Changes in the Mineral Resources are due to a revised estimate that includes 43,000m of additional drill hole data.
6 Metallurgical recoveries for the operations were: Deposit Metallurgical Recovery Escondida Oxide: 62% Sulphide: 82% Sulphide Leach: 32% Cerro Colorado Oxide & Supergene Sulphide: 72% Spence Oxide: 80% Oxide Low Solubility: 80% Supergene Sulphide: 82% ROM: 30% Olympic Dam Cu 94%, U O 69%, Au 69%, Ag 64% 3 8 Antamina Sulphide Cu only: Cu 93%, Zn 0%, Ag 80%, Mo 65% Sulphide Cu-Zn: Cu 78%, Zn 81%, Ag 63%, Mo 0% 7 Escondida Sulphide and Sulphide Leach Ore Reserves have decreased in response to a decrease in the long-term price forecast reducing the Life of Asset mine plan.
Inherent within the Reserve Life calculation were Oxide and Sulphide Leach, which have a Reserve Life of 13 years and 32 years respectively.
Wet tonnes are reported for WAIO deposits and Samarco JV, including moisture contents: BKM Brockman 3%, BKM Bene Brockman Beneficiation 3%, CID Channel Iron Deposits 8%, MM Marra Mamba 4%, NIM Nimingarra 3.5%.
2 A single cut-off grade was applied in WAIO per deposit ranging from 5055%Fe.
For Samarco JV the cut-off grade was 22%Fe.
3 WAIO Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves are reported on a Pilbara basis by ore type to align with our production of the Newman Blend lump product which comprises BKM, BKM Bene and MM ore types, in addition to other lump and fines products including CID.
This also reflects our single logistics chain and associated management system.
4 WAIO BHP interest is reported as Pilbara Ore Reserves tonnes weighted average across all joint ventures which can vary from year to year.
BHP ownership varies between 85% and 100%.
5 WAIO Mineral Resources have increased due to updated geological and resource modelling following additional drilling at multiple deposits.
6 Approximate drill hole spacings used to classify the reserves were: Deposit Proved Reserves Probable Reserves WAIO 50m x 50m 150m x 50m 7 WAIO Recovery was 100%, except for BKM Bene, where Whaleback beneficiation plant recovery was 72% tonnage basis.
8 WAIO Iron ore is marketed as Lump direct blast furnace feed and Fines sinter plant feed.
9 WAIO Cut-off grades used to estimate Ore Reserves range from 5058%Fe for all material types.
Ore delivered to process plant.
10 WAIO Ore Reserves are all located on State Agreement mining leases that guarantee the right to mine.
Across WAIO, State Government approvals including environmental and heritage clearances are required before commencing mining operations in a particular area.
Included in the Ore Reserves are select areas where one or more approvals remain outstanding, but where, based on the technical investigations carried out as part of the mine planning process and company knowledge and experience of the approvals process, it is expected that such approvals will be obtained as part of the normal course of business and within the time frame required by the current mine schedule.
11 WAIO BKM Ore Reserves have increased due to Mineral Resource classification upgrades at Newman JV and Mining Area C. CID Ore Reserves have decreased after a processing capability re-evaluation of lower CID.
Reserve Life remains the same due to an increase in nominated production rate from 275Mtpa to 293Mtpa.
12 Samarco JV The removal of Ore Reserves was due to the continued absence of an operating licence and limited progress of the current licence application process since 30 June 2016.
In FY2016, the operational licence required the approval of a single infrastructure licence, along with the removal of the state and federal embargo on activity post dam failure.
In October 2016, the broader industrial licences were cancelled by the state agency, thus resetting the overall licence application process.
A corrective operational licence application will commence when state and federal agencies have defined the requirements.
Samarco maintains a safe and technically sound restart plan, holds full mining rights to the deposit and therefore an Ore Reserve is expected to be declared when the operational licence is granted.
Coal qualities are for a potential product on an air-dried basis.
4 Divestment of IndoMet Coal completed on 14 October 2016.
Drill hole spacings vary between seams and geological domains and were determined in conjunction with geostatistical analysis where applicable.
The range of maximum spacings was: Deposit Proved Reserves Probable Reserves Goonyella Riverside Broadmeadow 900m to 1,300m plus 3D seismic coverage for UG 1,750m to 2,400m Peak Downs, Caval Ridge 500m to 1,050m 500m to 2,100m Saraji 450m to 1,800m 800m to 3,600m Norwich Park 500m to 1,400m 1,000m to 2,800m Blackwater 750m 750m to 1,400m Daunia 650m 1,200m Gregory 850m 850m to 1,700m South Walker Creek 500m to 800m 1,000m to 1,500m Poitrel 300m to 950m 550m to 1,850m 6 Metallurgical recoveries for the operations were: Deposit Product Recovery Goonyella Riverside Broadmeadow 72% Peak Downs 61% Caval Ridge 58% Saraji 58% Norwich Park 71% Blackwater 95% Daunia 83% Gregory 81% South Walker Creek 79% Poitrel 75% 7 Total Coal Reserves were at the moisture content when mined 4% CQCA JV, Gregory JV, BHP Mitsui Coal.
Total Marketable Reserves were at a product specification moisture content 9.510% Goonyella Riverside Broadmeadow: 9.5% Peak Downs: 10% Caval Ridge: 10% Saraji: 7.511.5% Blackwater: 9.510% Daunia: 1011% Norwich Park: 7.5% Gregory: 9% South Walker Creek: 1012% Poitrel and at an air-dried quality basis: for sale after the beneficiation of the Total Coal Reserves.
8 Coal delivered to handling plant.
9 Caval Ridge The decrease in Reserve Life was due to a change in the nominated production rate from 11Mtpa to 12.4Mtpa.
10 Saraji The decrease in Coal Marketable Reserves was due to re-estimation following an updated geological model.
11 Norwich Park, Gregory Remain on care and maintenance.
12 South Walker Creek The Coal Reserves increased due to inclusion of new areas in the mine plan.
13 Poitrel The Coal Reserves increase was due to increased confidence in project approvals.
14 Haju Divestment of IndoMet Coal completed on 14 October 2016.
Tonnages are reported as in situ for Mt Arthur Coal and Togara South, and on a total moisture basis for Cerrejn.
3 Mt Arthur Coal Coal Resources have decreased due to a revised resource estimate including changes in resource categories due to Drill Hole Spacing Analysis.
4 Cerrejn The Coal Resources are restricted to areas which have been identified for inclusion by BHP based on a risk assessment.
5 Approximate drill hole spacings used to classify the reserves were: Deposit Proved Reserves Probable Reserves Mt Arthur Coal 200m to 800m 400m to 1,550m Cerrejn 6 drill holes per 100ha 2 to 6 drill holes per 100ha 6 Overall product recoveries for the operations were: Deposit Product Recovery Mt Arthur Coal 77% Cerrejn 98% 7 Total Coal Reserves were at the moisture content when mined 8.7% Mt Arthur Coal: 13% Cerrejn.
Total Marketable Reserves were at a product specific moisture content 9.9% Mt Arthur Coal: 13.1% Cerrejn and at an air-dried quality basis, for sale after the beneficiation of the Total Reserves.
8 Mt Arthur Coal Coal is delivered to handling plant.
9 Mt Arthur Coal The Total Marketable Coal Reserves decreased due to an updated reserves model with a revised reserve footprint.
The increase in Reserve Life was due to a decrease in nominated production rate from 32Mtpa to 28Mtpa.
10 Cerrejn Marketable Coal Reserves decreased due to geotechnical adjustment of pit slopes and lower product sales price.
Reserve Life changed due to a decrease in nominated production rate from 38.3Mtpa to 32Mtpa and to reflect current permitting.
11 Cerrejn While there was no suspension of any Cerrejn permit as of 30 June 2017 in response to ongoing local community legal challenges, BHP continues to monitor the situation for potential impact on mining.
266 BHP Annual Report 2017 Additional information Energy Coal Coal Resources As at 30 June 2017 As at 30 June 2016 Measured Resources Indicated Resources Inferred Resources Total Resources BHP Total Resources Commodity Mining Coal Interest 1 2 Deposit Method Type Mt %Ash %VM %S KCal kg CV Mt %Ash %VM %S KCal kg CV Mt %Ash %VM %S KCal kg CV Mt %Ash %VM %S KCal kg CV % Mt %Ash %VM %S KCal kg CV Energy Coal Operations Australia 3 Mt Arthur Coal OC Th 897 20.9 30.4 0.68 6,060 1,299 19.5 30.2 0.66 6,120 1,019 19.9 28.0 0.65 6,010 3,215 20.0 29.6 0.66 6,070 100 3,652 21.6 29.1 0.61 6,070 Colombia 4 Cerrejn OC Th 2,711 3.8 34.9 0.52 6,560 1,196 3.7 34.8 0.51 6,580 631 4.1 34.3 0.54 6,460 4,538 3.8 34.8 0.52 6,552 33.33 4,532 3.9 34.8 0.52 6,570 Energy Coal Project Australia Togara South UG Th 719 12.1 29.6 0.31 6,700 177 13.5 28.9 0.31 6,500 1,051 16.8 28.4 0.31 6,210 1,947 14.7 28.9 0.31 6,420 100 1,947 14.7 28.9 0.31 6,420 6 Coal Reserves As at 30 June 2017 As at 30 June 2016 Proved Probable Total Reserves Reserves Reserves Proved Marketable Reserves Probable Marketable Reserves Total Marketable Reserves Reserve BHP Total Marketable Reserves Reserve Commodity Mining Coal Life Interest Life 5 6 7 Deposit Method Type Mt Mt Mt Mt %Ash %VM %S KCal kg CV Mt %Ash %VM %S KCal kg CV Mt %Ash %VM %S KCal kg CV years % Mt %Ash %VM %S KCal kg CV years Energy Coal Operations Australia 8 9 Mt Arthur Coal OC Th 474 415 889 377 17.7 31.3 0.57 6,230 323 17.3 30.8 0.53 6,240 700 17.5 31.0 0.55 6,240 32 100 758 16.9 30.3 0.54 6,450 30 Colombia 10 11 Cerrejn OC Th 473 71 544 459 9.3 32.7 0.58 6,070 69 9.0 32.7 0.55 6,090 528 9.2 32.7 0.57 6,072 16 33.33 599 8.7 32.8 0.58 6,090 16 BHP Annual Report 2017 267 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information Other assets Mineral Resources As at 30 June 2017 As at 30 June 2016 Measured Resources Indicated Resources Inferred Resources Total Resources Total Resources BHP Ore Commodity Interest 1 2 3 4 Deposit Type Mt Mt Mt Mt % Mt Potash Project Jansen LPL 5,170 25.7 7.8 0.08 1,270 25.7 7.8 0.08 6,440 25.7 7.8 0.08 100 6,590 25.6 7.9 0.18 1 The Mineral Resources are stated for the Lower Patience Lake LPL potash unit.
A stratigraphic cut-off based on the 406 and 402 clay seams was applied.
2 25.7%K O grade is equivalent to 40.7%KCl content using the mineralogical conversion factor of 1.583.
2 3 %MgO is used as a measure of carnallite KCl.
6H O content where per cent carnallite equivalent %MgO x 6.8918.
2 2 4 Measured Resource grade has been assigned to Inferred Resources.
%MgO Additional information 1 Cut-off criteria: 6 Leinster OC The increase in Ore Reserves after depletion was due to deepening of the ultimate pit, enabled by reduced mining cost.
The Reserve Life has Deposit Ore Type Mineral Resources Ore Reserves increased to 2.7 years for this part of the deposit.
Leinster OC 0.60%Ni 0.60%Ni 7 Leinster UG The Ore Reserves increased due to the inclusion of maiden Disseminated 0.40%Ni UG Ore Reserves B11 and associated blending optimisation opportunity Sulphide for the Leinster Concentrate.
The B11 Project is not material to the BHP Group.
Leinster B11 Block Cave utilises existing infrastructure at the Perseverance UG 1.0%Ni 0.88%Ni Underground Mine and Leinster surface facilities.
Ore Reserves estimates includes dilution were prepared based on a Pre-Feasibility Study and all optimisation work that occurs completed until June 2017. during block 8 Leinster UG The economic assessment is based on cost estimates derived cave mining from schedules of rates from experienced mining contractors and has an process accuracy of 20%25%.
The mineralisation associated with underground SP, SP oxidised 0.70%Ni remnant pillars is included as Inferred Mineral Resources due to associated Mt Keith Disseminated Variable between Variable between uncertainties and could not be converted to Ore Reserves.
Sulphide, SP, OC 0.35%Ni and 0.35%Ni and 9 Leinster UG The current mine design is based on a mining method that 0.40%Ni 0.40%Ni and significantly reduces the risks associated with the dynamic rock mass response 0.18% to mining, compared to previous mining methods.
The geomechanical aspects recoverable Ni have been independently reviewed by Pitt & Sherry consultants.
Ore will be 6 hoisted via the existing E94 shaft.
Development of the Leinster B11 Reserves Cliffs Disseminated 0.4%Ni supplying ore to process at the Leinster concentrator.
Overall metallurgical Sulphide recovery is forecast to be 88%, based on historical recovery of Ni from Massive Sulphide Stratigraphic Perseverance sub-level cave operation.
UG 1.2%Ni 10 Yakabindie Maiden Ore Reserves due to planned development of Yakabindie pits Six Mile Well and Goliath as satellite operations to Mt Keith, supplying Yakabindie Disseminated 0.40%Ni 0.35%Ni and ore to Mt Keith concentrator.
The Project is not material to the BHP Group and Sulphide 0.15% Sulphur it represents a forecast future replacement feed source for Mt Keith mining Jericho Disseminated 0.40%Ni operation.
Ore will be transported 21km to Mt Keith using road trains through Sulphide a dedicated transport corridor based on a Pre-Feasibility Study completed Venus Disseminated 0.40%Ni in 2009 with subsequent optimisation work.
Ore Reserves estimates were Sulphide prepared based upon all study work completed until June 2016.
This work has been independently reviewed and deemed appropriate by AMC Consultants.
Massive Sulphide Stratigraphic 11 Yakabindie Open pit mining method assumes similar sized equipment 2 Mt Keith Mineral Resources decreased due to changes in the sulphide to Mt Keith and is anticipated to commence operation in FY2021.
Similar operating performance as Mt Keith is assumed for estimation 3 Approximate drill hole spacings used to classify the reserves were: of Ore Reserves.
Overall mining recovery is approximately 95% and spatially applied to ore bodies.
Deposit Proved Reserves Probable Reserves 12 Yakabindie Mineral processing: Talc Redesign Project has demonstrated Leinster 25m x 25m 25m x 50m the ability to achieve optimal nickel recoveries from high talcose ore over Mt Keith 60m x 40m 80m x 80m a range of talc concentrations in the Yakabindie feed.
No additional deleterious elements are identified and existing mitigation strategies employed at Mt Keith Cliffs 25m x 25m and development 25m x 25m are adopted.
Mill throughput is based on algorithms developed using Yakabindie 40m x 60m 80m x 60m mineralogy and head grade and subsequently calibrated against the actual Mt Keith mill performance on similar ore types.
Overall metallurgical recovery 4 Ore delivered to process plant.
5 Metallurgical recoveries for the operations were: 13 Yakabindie Nickel West holds the required mining tenure.
Process for Deposit Metallurgical Recovery outstanding regulatory approvals has commenced in FY2017 and there are reasonable expectations that approvals will be granted prior to Leinster 83% commencing operations in FY2021.
The basis of Ore Reserves estimation Mt Keith 64% does not include a requirement for Jones Creek diversion.
Cliffs 86% at 9% concentrate grade BHP Annual Report 2017 269 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information 6.4 Major projects At the end of FY2017, BHP had three major projects under development with a combined budget of US$5.1 billion over the life of the projects.
During FY2017, we approved an investment of US$2,154 million for the Mad Dog Phase 2 petroleum project.
Capital and exploration expenditure declined by 32 per cent during FY2017 to US$5.2 billion and is expected to increase to US$6.9 billion in FY2018.
Projects which delivered first production during FY2017 1 Date of initial production Capital expenditure US$M 1 Business Project and ownership Capacity Actual Target Budget Petroleum Bass Strait Longford Gas Designed to process approximately Q4 CY2016 CY2016 520 Conditioning Plant Australia 50% 400 million cubic feet per day non-operator of high CO gas 2 Copper Escondida Water Supply Chile 57.5% New desalination facility to ensure Q1 CY2017 CY2017 3,430 continued water supply to Escondida 3,950 Projects in execution at the end of FY2017 1 Date of initial production Capital expenditure US$M 1 Business Project and ownership Capacity Target Budget Projects under development Petroleum North West Shelf Greater Western To maintain LNG plant throughput CY2019 314 Flank-B Australia 16.67% from the North West Shelf operations.
non-operator On schedule and on budget, overall project is 47% complete Petroleum Mag Dog Phase 2 US Gulf of Mexico New floating production facility with CY2022 2,154 23.9% non-operator the capacity to produce up to 140,000 gross barrels of crude oil per day.
On schedule and on budget, overall project is 3% complete 2,468 Other projects in progress at the end of FY2017 1 Capital expenditure US$M Business Project and ownership Scope Budget Projects under development Potash Jansen Potash Canada 100% Investment to finish the excavation and lining of the production 2,600 and service shafts, and to continue the installation of essential surface infrastructure and utilities 2,600 1 Unless noted otherwise, references to capacity are on a 100 per cent basis, references to capital expenditure from subsidiaries are reported on a 100 per cent basis and references to capital expenditure from joint operations reflect BHPs share.
270 BHP Annual Report 2017 Additional information 6.5 Legal proceedings We are involved from time-to-time in legal proceedings and Annual contributions for each of the years 2019, 2020 and 2021 governmental investigations of a character normally incidental will be in the range of R$800 million approximately US$245 million to our business, including claims and pending actions against and R$1.6 billion approximately US$485 million, depending on the us seeking damages or clarification of legal rights and regulatory remediation and compensation projects which are to be undertaken inquiries regarding business practices.
Insurance or other in the particular year.
Annual contributions may be reviewed under indemnification protection may offset the financial impact the Framework Agreement.
To the extent that Samarco does not on the Group of a successful claim.
meet its funding obligations under the Framework Agreement, each of BHP Billiton Brasil and Vale has funding obligations under This section summarises the significant legal proceedings and the Framework Agreement in proportion to its 50 per cent investigations and associated matters in which we are currently shareholding in Samarco.
involved or have finalised since the last Annual Report.
As a formal suspension of the public civil claim, the Framework Legal proceedings relating to the failure of the Fundo tailings Agreement is subject to Court ratification.
On 5 May 2016, the dam at the iron ore operations of Samarco in Minas Gerais and Framework Agreement was ratified by the Conciliation Chamber Esprito Santo Samarco dam failure of the Federal Court of Appeals in Brasilia suspending this public 6 BHP Billiton Brasil is engaged in numerous legal proceedings civil claim.
The Federal Prosecutors Office appealed the ratification relating to the Samarco dam failure.
Given all of these proceedings of the Framework Agreement and on 30 June 2016, the Superior are in early stages, it is not possible at this time to provide a range Court of Justice in Brazil issued a preliminary order Interim Order of possible outcomes or a reliable estimate of potential future suspending the 5 May 2016 ratification decision of the Conciliation exposures for BHP Billiton Brasil.
The most significant of these Chamber of the Federal Court of Appeals, and reinstating this proceedings are summarised below.
As described below, many public civil claim before the first instance court, including the of these proceedings involve claims for compensation for the R$2 billion approximately US$605 million injunction.
BHP Billiton similar or possibly the same damages.
There are numerous Brasil, Vale and Samarco and the Federal Government appealed additional lawsuits against Samarco relating to the Samarco the Interim Order.
On 4 November 2016, the 12th Federal Court dam failure to which BHP Billiton Brasil is not a party.
of Belo Horizonte reduced the R$2 billion injunction to R$1.2 billion approximately US$365 million.
R$20 billion public civil claim commenced by the Federal Government of Brazil, states of Esprito Santo and Minas Gerais While a final decision by the Court on the issue of ratification of and other authorities the Framework Agreement is pending, the Preliminary Agreement On 30 November 2015, the Federal Government of Brazil, states referred to below suspends the R$1.2 billion approximately of Esprito Santo and Minas Gerais and other public authorities US$365 million injunction order under this public civil claim.
collectively filed a public civil claim before the 12th Federal The Preliminary Agreement also requests suspension of this public Court of Belo Horizonte against Samarco and its shareholders, civil claim with a decision from the Court pending.
The R$1.2 billion BHP Billiton Brasil and Vale, seeking the establishment of a fund approximately US$365 million injunction order may be reinstated of up to R$20 billion approximately US$6.1 billion in aggregate if a final settlement arrangement is not agreed by 30 October 2017. for clean-up costs and damages.
While a final decision on ratification of the Framework Agreement The plaintiffs also requested certain interim injunctions in is pending and negotiation of a settlement of this public civil claim connection with the public civil claim.
On 18 December 2015, and the R$155 billion approximately US$47 billion Federal Public the Federal Court granted the injunctions and, among other Prosecution Office claim referred to below under the Preliminary things, ordered Samarco to deposit R$2 billion approximately Agreement are ongoing, the Framework Agreement remains US$605 million in to a court-managed bank account for binding between the parties and the Foundation will continue use towards community and environmental rehabilitation.
to implement the programs under the Framework Agreement.
BHP Billiton Brasil, Vale and Samarco immediately appealed against the injunction.
Preliminary Agreement On 18 January 2017, BHP Billiton Brasil, together with Vale and On 2 March 2016, BHP Billiton Brasil, together with Vale Samarco, entered into a Preliminary Agreement with the Federal and Samarco, entered into an agreement with the plaintiffs Prosecutors Office in Brazil, which outlines the process and Federal Government of Brazil, states of Esprito Santo and Minas timeline for further negotiations towards a final settlement Gerais and certain other authorities to establish a foundation regarding the R$20 billion approximately US$6.1 billion public Fundao Renova that will develop and execute environmental civil claim and the R$155 billion approximately US$47 billion and socio-economic programs to remediate and provide Federal Public Prosecution Office claim relating to the dam failure.
compensation for damage caused by the Samarco dam failure Framework Agreement.
The Preliminary Agreement provides for the appointment of experts to advise the Federal Prosecutors in relation to social and The Framework Agreement outlines a comprehensive set environmental remediation and the assessment and monitoring of actions, measures and programs, including 17 environmental of programs under the Framework Agreement.
The expert advisors and 22 socio-economic programs to restore and compensate conclusions are not binding on BHP Billiton Brasil, Vale or Samarco, the communities and environment affected by the dam failure.
but will be considered in the negotiation of a final settlement A private foundation named Fundao Renova, maintained by arrangement with the Federal Prosecutors.
BHP Billiton Brasil, Vale and Samarco manages and implements all projects and measures within the scope of programs.
Under the Preliminary Agreement, BHP Billiton Brasil, Vale and Samarco agreed interim security Interim Security comprising: The Framework Agreement has a term of 15 years, renewable for periods of one year successively until all the obligations R$1.3 billion approximately US$395 million in insurance bonds: under the Framework Agreement have been performed.
R$100 million approximately US$30 million in liquid assets: a charge of R$800 million approximately US$245 million Under the Framework Agreement, Samarco is responsible for over Samarcos assets: funding Fundao Renova with calendar year contributions R$200 million approximately US$60 million to be allocated as follows: within the next four years through existing Framework Agreement R$2 billion US$599 million in 2016: programs in the Municipalities of Barra Longa, Rio Doce, Santa R$1.2 billion approximately US$365 million in 2017: Cruz do Escalvado and Ponte Nova.
R$1.2 billion approximately US$365 million in 2018: On 24 January 2017, BHP Billiton Brasil, Vale and Samarco provided R$500 million approximately US$150 million for a special the Interim Security to the 12th Federal Court of Belo Horizonte, project to be spent on sewage treatment and landfill works which was to remain in place until the earlier of 30 June 2017 from 2016 to 2018. and the date that a final settlement arrangement was agreed between the Federal Prosecutors, and BHP Billiton Brasil, Vale and Samarco.
BHP Annual Report 2017 271 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information On 29 June 2017, the Court extended the final date for negotiation There have been multiple hearings and injunctions requested in of a settlement until 30 October 2017, allowing for the continuation this public civil claim.
Samarco has requested the Court to release of the Interim Security arrangements and the provision of ongoing part of the frozen amount to pay for i the technical entity hired expert advice to the Federal Prosecutors in respect of the programs to assist the impacted community: and ii payments related to under the Framework Agreement.
The parties will use best efforts the Preliminary Agreement.
This public civil claim is ongoing and to achieve a final settlement arrangement by 30 October 2017 no final decision has been issued.
under the timeframe established in the Preliminary Agreement.
On 2 February 2016, the State Prosecutors Office in the state On 16 March 2017, the Court partially ratified the Preliminary of Minas Gerais filed another public civil claim against BHP Billiton Agreement and suspended 11 public civil actions.
Brasil, Vale and Samarco before the State Court in Ponte Nova R$155 billion public civil claim commenced by the Federal claiming compensation of R$7.5 billion approximately US$2.3 billion Public Prosecution Service for moral and material damages suffered by 1,350 individuals in Ponte Nova and collective moral damages allegedly suffered On 3 May 2016, the Federal Public Prosecution Office Service filed by the community in Ponte Nova.
The claim also sought a number a public civil claim before the 12th Federal Court of Belo Horizonte of preliminary injunctions, including orders to: against BHP Billiton Brasil, Vale and Samarco as well as 18 other 1 public entities which has since been reduced to five defendants freeze R$1 billion approximately US$305 million of cash in the by the Court seeking R$155 billion approximately US$47 billion defendants bank accounts in order to secure the compensation for reparation, compensation and collective moral damages in requested under the public civil claim: relation to the Samarco dam failure.
require the defendants to pay minimum wages and basic food supplies to the families in Ponte Nova affected by the Samarco In addition, the claim includes a number of preliminary dam failure: injunction requests, seeking orders that BHP Billiton Brasil, Vale require the defendants to pay R$30,000 approximately and Samarco deposit R$7.7 billion approximately US$2.3 billion US$9,000 per affected family and compensation to provide in a special company account and provide guarantees equivalent dignified and adequate housing for the affected families.
to R$155 billion approximately US$47 billion.
The injunctions also seek to prohibit BHP Billiton Brasil, Vale and Samarco On 5 February 2016, the Court granted an injunction to freeze from distributing dividends and selling certain assets among R$475 million approximately US$145 million from bank accounts other things.
of BHP Billiton Brasil, Vale and Samarco and ordered them to pay preliminary amounts to families in Ponte Nova affected by the BHP Billiton Brasil has filed two petitions to the 12th Federal Samarco dam failure.
Samarco and BHP Billiton Brasil have filed Court of Belo Horizonte requesting the dismissal of the injunction their defences, respectively on 6 December 2016 and 9 March 2017. requests made by the Federal Public Prosecution Service.
On 7 July This case has been remitted to the 12th Federal Court in Belo 2016, a first decision was made by the Court that, among other Horizonte and is currently suspended.
issues, postponed the analysis of the injunction requests, ordered Samarco to present, within 30 days, its plan and measures regarding Public civil claim commenced by the Public Defender Department tailings containment, and scheduled a hearing for conciliation in Minas Gerais for 13 September 2016.
The Court has not made any decisions On 25 April 2016, the Public Defender Department filed a public in relation to these injunctions applications.
civil claim against BHP Billiton Brasil, Vale and Samarco in the State Court in Belo Horizonte, Minas Gerais, Brazil claiming R$10 billion On 26 January 2016, with regard to the Preliminary Agreement, the Court suspended this public civil claim, including the approximately US$3 billion for collective moral damages to be deposited in the State Human Rights Defense Fund.
The Public R$7.7 billion approximately US$2.3 billion injunction request.
Defender Department is also seeking a number of social and However, proceedings may be resumed if a final settlement environmental remediation measures in relation to the Samarco arrangement is not agreed by 30 October 2017. dam failure, including orders requiring the reparation of the Public civil claims commenced by the State Prosecutors Office environmental damage and the reconstruction of properties in the state of Minas Gerais and populations, including historical, religious, cultural, social, environmental and immaterial heritages affected by the dam On 10 December 2015, the State Prosecutors Office in the state of Minas Gerais filed a public civil claim against BHP Billiton Brasil, failure.
On 16 March 2016, the Court denied the remediation measures requested as an injunction by the Public Defender Vale and Samarco before the State Court in Mariana claiming indemnification amount not specified for moral and material Department.
The public civil claim was remitted to the 12th Federal Court in Belo Horizonte.
damages to an unspecified group of individuals affected by the Samarco dam failure, including the payment of costs for housing Public civil claim commenced by the State Prosecutors Office and social and economic assistance.
in the state of Esprito Santo The State Prosecutors Office also requested certain interim On 15 January 2016, the State Prosecutors Office of Esprito Santo injunctions in connection with this claim, including orders for filed a public civil claim before the State Court in Esprito Santo BHP Billiton Brasil, Vale and Samarco to provide housing, health against BHP Billiton Brasil, Vale and Samarco seeking compensation care, financial assistance and education facilities to the people for collective moral damages in relation to the suspension of affected by the Samarco dam failure.
The plaintiff also sought the water supply of the Municipality of Colatina as a result of the an order to freeze R$300 million approximately US$90 million Samarco dam failure.
As part of the public civil claim, the State in Samarcos bank accounts.
The Court granted the injunction Prosecutors Office sought a number of injunctions, including freezing R$300 million approximately US$90 million in Samarcos an order to freeze R$2 billion approximately US$605 million in bank accounts for use towards the compensation and remediation the defendants bank accounts in order to secure the requested measures requested under this public civil claim.
On 11 February 2016, the Court denied all of on 20 January 2016, the parties agreed that Samarco should the injunction requests made by the State Prosecutors Office.
unilaterally provide: The State Prosecutors Office appealed the decision and on 2 August 2016 the State Court of Appeal decided to remit the flexible housing solutions for 271 displaced families: case to the 12th Federal Court in Belo Horizonte.
This public civil monthly salaries to the displaced families for at least 12 months: claim is suspended.
a R$20,000 approximately US$6,000 payment to each displaced family: a R$100,000 approximately US$30,000 payment to each of the families of those deceased, as advance compensation.
1 Currently, solely the companies, the Federal Government and the State of Minas Gerais are defendants.
272 BHP Annual Report 2017 Additional information Under the criminal charges against BHP Billiton Brasil, Vale and Public civil claim commenced by the state of Esprito Santo Samarco and certain individuals, the Federal Prosecutors requested On 8 January 2016, the state of Esprito Santo filed a public civil a range of provisional measures, including a R$20 billion claim against BHP Billiton Brasil, Vale and Samarco before the State approximately US$6.1 billion asset freezing order application.
Court in Colatina later remitted to the 12th Federal Court in Belo On 14 July 2017, the Federal Criminal Court of Ponte Nova denied Horizonte seeking the remediation and restoration of the water all of the provisional measures requested by the Federal Prosecutors, supply of the residents of Baixo Guandu, Linhares, Colatina and including the application for an asset freezing order.
In addition, the claim sought injunctions ordering, among other things, the execution of several works and Class action complaint shareholders improvements in public equipment in order to repair and upgrade In February 2016, a putative class action complaint Complaint the sewage system and water network in Colatina and Linhares, was filed in the U. S. District Court for the Southern District and an order to freeze R$1 billion approximately US$305 million of New York on behalf of purchasers of American Depositary of the defendants assets.
On 4 February 2016, the Court ordered Receipts of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc between Samarco to deposit approximately R$7 million approximately 25 September 2014 and 30 November 2015 against US$2 million in a fund of the state of Esprito Santo to be created BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc and certain of its current and granted certain injunctions relating to remediation measures.
and former executive officers and directors.
The Complaint asserts At the same time it denied the injunction request to freeze assets claims under US federal securities laws and indicates that the 6 of R$1 billion approximately US$305 million.
On 6 April 2016 plaintiff will seek certification to proceed as a class action.
the Court of Appeals suspended the injunctions granted.
The amount of damages sought by the plaintiff on behalf of the BHP Billiton Brasil, Vale and Samarco filed their defences in March putative class is unspecified.
On 14 October 2016, the defendants 2016 and also requested the suspension of this public civil claim.
moved to dismiss the Complaint.
In a decision of the District Public civil claim commenced by the Association for the Defense Court dated 28 August 2017, the claims were dismissed in part, of Collective Interests ADIC including the claims against the current and former executive On 17 November 2015, ADIC, a NGO in Brazil, filed a public officers and directors.
civil claim solely against Samarco before the 12th Federal Court Given the preliminary status of this matter, it is not possible in Belo Horizonte claiming at least R$10 billion approximately at this time to provide a range of possible outcomes or a reliable US$3 billion for environmental and social damages in relation estimate of potential future exposures to BHP Billiton Limited to the Samarco dam failure, in addition to collective moral and BHP Billiton Plc.
The NGO also requested preliminary injunctions ordering the deposit of R$1 billion Class action complaint bond holders approximately US$305 million and prohibiting Samarco from On 14 November 2016, a putative class action complaint distributing dividends to its shareholders.
Samarco presented Complaint was filed in the U. S. District Court for the Southern its defence on 12 February 2016.
The Court did not decide on District of New York on behalf of all purchasers of Samarcos the injunction request and on 27 March 2017, the Court suspended ten-year bond notes due 20222024 between 31 October 2012 this public civil claim.
and 30 November 2015 against Samarco and the former chief executive officer of Samarco.
The Complaint asserts claims under Other proceedings the US federal securities laws and indicates that the plaintiff will As noted above, BHP Billiton Brasil has been named as a defendant seek certification to proceed as a class action.
in numerous other lawsuits that are at early stages of proceedings.
The lawsuits seek various remedies, including rehabilitation costs, On 6 March 2017, the Complaint was amended to include compensation to injured individuals and families of the deceased, BHP Billiton Limited, BHP Billiton Plc, BHP Billiton Brasil Ltda and recovery of personal and property losses and injunctive relief.
Vale S. A. and officers of Samarco, including four of Vale S. A.
In addition, government inquiries and investigations relating to and BHP Billiton Brasil Ltdas current and former nominees to the the Samarco dam failure have been commenced by numerous Samarco Board.
On 5 April 2017, the plaintiff dismissed the claims agencies of the Brazilian Government and are ongoing, including against the individuals.
The remaining corporate defendants filed criminal investigations by the federal and state police, and by a joint motion to dismiss the plaintiffs complaint on 26 June 2017. federal prosecutors.
The amount of damages sought by the plaintiff on behalf of the Our potential liabilities, if any, resulting from other pending putative class is unspecified.
Given the preliminary status of this and future claims, lawsuits and enforcement actions relating matter, it is not possible at this time to provide a range of possible to the Samarco dam failure, together with the potential cost outcomes or a reliable estimate of potential future exposures of implementing remedies sought in the various proceedings, to BHP Billiton Limited, BHP Billiton Plc and BHP Billiton Brasil Ltda.
cannot be reliably estimated at this time and therefore a provision Tax and royalty matters has not been recognised and nor has any contingent liability been The Group presently has unresolved tax and royalty matters for quantified for these matters.
Ultimately these could have a material which the timing of resolution and potential economic outflow adverse impact on BHPs business, competitive position, cash flows, are uncertain.
For details of those matters, refer to note 5 Income prospects, liquidity and shareholder returns.
For more information tax expense in section 5. on the Samarco dam failure, refer to section 1.7.
Anti-corruption investigations Samarco has been named as a defendant in more than 16,000 In May 2015, the Group announced the resolution of the previously small claims in which people had their water service interrupted disclosed investigation by the SEC into potential breaches of the for between five and 10 days, and courts have awarded damages, US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act.
The US Department of Justice which generally range from R$1,000 approximately US$300 has also completed its investigation into BHP without taking to R$10,000 approximately US$3,000.
Given the number any action.
of people affected by the Samarco dam failure, the number of potential claimants may continue to increase.
BHP Billiton The matter was resolved with the SEC pursuant to an administrative Brasil is a defendant in more than 13,000 of these cases.
order, which imposed a US$25 million civil penalty.
Under the SEC Criminal charges order, BHP was also required to self-report on its compliance program to the SEC for a period of 12 months following the date of the SEC On 20 October 2016 the Federal Prosecutors Office filed criminal order 20 May 2015.
This obligation has now been satisfied.
charges against BHP Billiton Brasil, Vale and Samarco and certain employees and former employees of BHP Affected Individuals in As previously disclosed, the Australian Federal Police AFP the Federal Court of Ponte Nova, Minas Gerais.
On 3 March 2017, announced an investigation in 2013 relating to matters the subject BHP Billiton Brasil and the Affected Individuals filed their preliminary of section 70.2 of the Commonwealth Criminal Code.
BHP Billiton Brasil rejects outright the charges against advised that it has finalised its investigation and does not intend the company and the Affected Individuals and will defend the to take any further action at this time.
charges and fully support each of the Affected Individuals in their defence of the charges.
BHP Annual Report 2017 273 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information 6.6 Glossary 6.6.
1 Mining, oil and gas-related terms 2D Dated Brent A benchmark price assessment of the spot market value Two dimensional.
of physical cargoes of North Sea light sweet crude oil.
An electrochemical process in which metal is recovered AusIMM by dissolving a metal within an electrolyte and plating it The Australasian Institute of Mining and Metallurgy.
Beneficiation Energy coal The process of physically separating ore from gangue waste Used as a fuel source in electrical power generation, cement material prior to subsequent processing of the beneficiated ore. manufacture and various industrial applications.
Energy coal may also be referred to as steaming or thermal coal.
Brownfield The development or exploration located inside the area Ethane of influence of existing mine operations which can share A component of natural gas.
Where sold separately, is largely infrastructure management.
ethane gas that has been liquefied through pressurisation.
Butane One tonne of ethane is approximately equivalent to 28 thousand cubic feet of gas.
A component of natural gas that occurs in two isomeric forms.
Where sold separately, is largely butane gas that has been FAusIMM liquefied through pressurisation.
One tonne of butane is Fellow of the Australasian Institute of Mining and Metallurgy.
approximately equivalent to 14 thousand cubic feet of gas.
Field Coal Reserves An area consisting of a single reservoir or multiple reservoirs all Equivalent to Ore Reserves, but specifically concerning coal.
grouped on or related to the same individual geological structural Coal Resources feature and or stratigraphic condition.
There may be two or more reservoirs in a field that are separated vertically by intervening Equivalent to Mineral Resources, but specifically concerning coal.
impervious strata, or laterally by local geologic barriers, or by both.
Coking coal Reservoirs that are associated by being in overlapping or adjacent Used in the manufacture of coke, which is used in the steelmaking fields may be treated as a single or common operational field.
process by virtue of its carbonisation properties.
Coking coal may The geological terms structural feature and stratigraphic also be referred to as metallurgical coal.
condition are intended to identify localised geological features Competent Person as opposed to the broader terms of basins, trends, provinces, A minerals industry professional who is a Member or Fellow plays, areas-of-interest, etc.
per SEC Regulation S-X, Rule 4-10. of The Australasian Institute of Mining and Metallurgy, or of the Flotation Australian Institute of Geoscientists, or of a Recognised Professional A method of selectively recovering minerals from finely ground Organisation RPO, as included in a list available on the JORC and ore using a froth created in water by specific reagents.
These organisations have enforceable disciplinary flotation process, certain mineral particles are induced to float processes, including the powers to suspend or expel a member.
by becoming attached to bubbles of froth and the unwanted A Competent Person must have a minimum of five years relevant mineral particles sink.
experience in the style of mineralisation or type of deposit under consideration and in the activity that the person is undertaking FPSO Floating, production, storage and off-take JORC Code, 2012.
A floating vessel used by the offshore oil and gas industry for the processing of hydrocarbons and for storage of oil.
An FPSO vessel Condensate is designed to receive hydrocarbons produced from nearby A mixture of hydrocarbons that exist in gaseous form in natural platforms or subsea templates, process them and store oil until underground reservoirs, but which condense to form a liquid it can be offloaded onto a tanker.
Grade or Quality Conventional Petroleum Resources Any physical or chemical measurement of the characteristics Hydrocarbon accumulations that can be produced by a well of the material of interest in samples or product.
drilled into a geologic formation in which the reservoir and fluid characteristics permit the hydrocarbons to readily flow to the Greenfield wellbore without the use of specialised extraction technologies.
The development or exploration located outside the area of influence of existing mine operations infrastructure.
Copper cathode Electrolytically refined copper that has been deposited on the Heap leach ing cathode of an electrolytic bath of acidified copper sulphate A process used for the recovery of metals such as copper, nickel, solution.
The refined copper may also be produced through uranium and gold from low-grade ores.
The crushed material is laid leaching and electrowinning.
on a slightly sloping, impermeable pad and leached by uniformly trickling gravity fed a chemical solution through the beds to Crude oil ponds.
The metals are recovered from the solution.
A mixture of hydrocarbons that exist in liquid form in natural underground reservoirs, and remain liquid at atmospheric Hypogene sulphide pressure after being produced at the well head and passing Hypogene mineralisation is formed by fluids at high temperature through surface separating facilities.
and pressure derived from magmatic activity.
Hypogene sulphide consists predominantly of chalcopyrite.
Cut-off grade A nominated grade above which is defined an Ore Reserve or Mineral Resource.
For example, the lowest grade of mineralised material that qualifies as economic for estimating an Ore Reserve.
274 BHP Annual Report 2017 Additional information Indicated Mineral Resources Metocean A term that is commonly used in the offshore oil and gas industry That part of a Mineral Resource for which quantity, grade or quality, densities, shape and physical characteristics are estimated to describe the physical environment and surrounds i. e. an environment near an offshore oil and gas working platform.
with sufficient confidence to allow the application of Modifying Factors in sufficient detail to support mine planning and evaluation MGSSA of the economic viability of the deposit.
Member of the Geological Society of South Africa.
Inferred Mineral Resources Mineral Resources That part of a Mineral Resource for which quantity and grade A concentration or occurrence of solid material of economic or quality are estimated on the basis of limited geological interest in or on the Earths crust in such form, grade quality and evidence and sampling.
Geological evidence is sufficient to quantity that there are reasonable prospects for eventual economic imply but not verify geological and grade or quality continuity.
The location, quantity, grade or quality, continuity and International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes ICSID other geological characteristics of a Mineral Resource are known, ICSID is an autonomous international institution that provides estimated or interpreted from specific geological evidence and facilities and services to support conciliation and arbitration knowledge, including sampling JORC Code, 2012. of international investment disputes between investors and States.
6 Mineralisation ICSID was established under the Convention on the Settlement Any single mineral or combination of minerals occurring in a mass of Investment Disputes between States and Nationals of Other or deposit of economic interest.
States the ICSID Convention, with over 140 member States.
Modifying Factors Joint Ore Reserves Committee JORC Code Considerations used to convert Mineral Resources to Ore Reserves.
A set of minimum standards, recommendations and guidelines These include, but are not restricted to, mining, processing, for public reporting in Australasia of Exploration Results, metallurgical, infrastructure, economic, marketing, legal, Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves.
The guidelines are defined environmental, social and governmental factors.
by the Australasian Joint Ore Reserves Committee JORC, which is sponsored by the Australian mining industry and NGL natural gas liquids its professional organisations.
Consists of propane, butane and ethane individually or as a mixture.
Leaching Nominated production rate The process by which a soluble metal can be economically The approved average production rate for the remainder of the recovered from minerals in ore by dissolution.
life-of-asset plan or five-year plan production rate if significantly different to life-of-asset production rate.
LNG liquefied natural gas Consists largely of methane that has been liquefied through OC OP open-cut open-pit chilling and pressurisation.
One tonne of LNG is approximately Surface working in which the working area is kept open to the sky.
equivalent to 46 thousand cubic feet of natural gas.
OIQ LOI loss on ignition Association of Professional Engineers of Quebec, Canada.
A measure of the percentage of volatile matter liquid or gas Ore Reserves contained within a mineral or rock.
LOI is determined to calculate The economically mineable part of a Measured and or Indicated loss in mass during pyroprocessing.
It includes diluting materials and allowances for LPG liquefied petroleum gas losses, which may occur when the material is mined or extracted Consists of propane and butane and a small amount less and is defined by studies at Pre-Feasibility or Feasibility level than two per cent of ethane that has been liquefied through as appropriate that include application of Modifying Factors.
One tonne of LPG is approximately equivalent Such studies demonstrate that, at the time of reporting, extraction to 12 barrels of oil.
could reasonably be justified JORC Code, 2012.
MAIG PEGNL Member of the Australian Institute of Geoscientists.
Association of Professional Engineers and Geoscientists Marketable Coal Reserves of Newfoundland and Labrador.
Represents beneficiated or otherwise enhanced coal product Probable Ore Reserves where modifications due to mining, dilution and processing The economically mineable part of an Indicated and, in some have been considered, must be publicly reported in conjunction circumstances, a Measured Mineral Resource.
The confidence with, but not instead of, reports of Coal Reserves.
The basis in the Modifying Factors applying to a Probable Ore Reserve is of the predicted yield to achieve Marketable Coal Reserves lower than that applying to a Proved Ore Reserve.
Consideration must be stated JORC Code, 2012. of the confidence level of the Modifying Factors is important in MAusIMM conversion of Mineral Resources to Ore Reserves.
A Probable Ore Member of the Australasian Institute of Mining and Metallurgy.
Reserve has a lower level of confidence than a Proved Ore Reserve, but is of sufficient quality to serve as the basis for a decision on the Measured Mineral Resources development of the deposit JORC Code, 2012.
That part of a Mineral Resource for which quantity, grade or Propane quality, densities, shape and physical characteristics are estimated with confidence sufficient to allow the application of Modifying A component of natural gas.
Where sold separately, is largely Factors to support detailed mine planning and final evaluation propane gas that has been liquefied through pressurisation.
of the economic viability of the deposit.
One tonne of propane is approximately equivalent to 19 thousand cubic feet of gas.
Metallurgical coal A broader term than coking coal, which includes all coals used in steelmaking, such as coal used for the pulverised coal injection process.
BHP Annual Report 2017 275 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information Proved oil and gas reserves Unconventional Petroleum Resources Those quantities of oil, gas and natural gas liquids, which by Hydrocarbon accumulations that are generally pervasive in nature analysis of geoscience and engineering data can be estimated and may be continuous throughout a large area requiring specialised with reasonable certainty to be economically producible from extraction technologies to produce or recover.
Examples include, a given date forward, from known reservoirs, and under existing but are not limited to, coalbed methane, basin-centred gas, shale economic conditions, operating methods and government gas, gas hydrates, natural bitumen tar sands and oil shale deposits.
regulations prior to the time at which contracts providing the Examples of specialised technologies include dewatering of coalbed right to operate expire, unless evidence indicates that renewal methane, massive fracturing programs for shale gas, steam and or is reasonably certain, regardless of whether deterministic or solvents to mobilise bitumen for in situ recovery, and, in some cases, probabilistic methods are used for the estimation from SEC mining activities.
Modernization of Oil and Gas Reporting, 2009, 17 CFR Parts Wet tonnes 210, 211, 229 and 249.
Production is usually quoted in terms of wet metric tonnes wmt.
Proved Ore Reserves To adjust from wmt to dry metric tonnes dmt a factor is applied Represents the highest confidence category of reserve estimate based on moisture content.
and implies a high degree of confidence in geological and grade WTI West Texas Intermediate continuity, and the consideration of the Modifying Factors.
The style of mineralisation or other factors could mean that Proved Ore A mixture of hydrocarbons that exists in liquid phase in natural Reserves are not achievable in some deposits JORC Code, 2012. underground reservoirs and remains liquid at atmospheric pressure Implies the highest degree of geological, technical and economic after passing through surface separating facilities.
Crude oil is confidence in the estimate at the level of production increments refined to produce a wide array of petroleum products, including used to support mine planning and production scheduling.
heating oils: gasoline, diesel and jet fuels: lubricants: asphalt: ethane, propane, and butane: and many other products used for Qualified petroleum reserves and resources evaluator their energy or chemical content.
A qualified petroleum reserves and resources evaluator, as defined West Texas Intermediate refers to a crude stream produced in in Chapter 19 of the ASX Listing Rules.
Texas and southern Oklahoma that serves as a reference or marker Reserve life for pricing a number of other crude streams and which is traded Current stated Ore Reserves estimate divided by the current in the domestic spot market at Cushing, Oklahoma.
approved nominated production rate as at the end of the financial year.
2 Other terms ROM run of mine Run of mine product mined in the course of regular mining ADR American Depositary Receipt activities.
Tonnes include allowances for diluting materials An instrument evidencing American Depositary Shares or ADSs, and for losses that occur when the material is mined.
which trades on a stock exchange in the United States.
Solvent extraction ADS American Depositary Share A method of separating one or more metals from a leach solution A share issued under a deposit agreement that has been created by treating with a solvent that will extract the required metal, to permit US-resident investors to hold shares in non-US companies leaving the others.
The metal is recovered from the solvent and trade them on the stock exchanges in the United States.
ADSs are evidenced by American Depositary Receipts, or ADRs, SP stockpile which are the instruments that trade on a stock exchange in the An accumulation of ore or mineral built up when demand United States.
slackens or when the treatment plant or beneficiation equipment ASIC Australian Securities and Investments Commission is incomplete or temporarily unable to process the mine output: The Australian Government agency that enforces laws relating any heap of material formed to create a buffer for loading or other to companies, securities, financial services and credit in purposes or material dug and piled for future use.
order to protect consumers, investors and creditors.
Spud Assets Commence drilling of an oil or gas well.
Assets are a set of one or more geographically proximate operations Supergene sulphide including open-cut mines, underground mines, and onshore and Supergene is a term used to describe near-surface processes and offshore oil and gas production and production facilities.
Assets their products, formed at low temperature and pressure by the include our operated assets and non-operated assets.
Supergene sulphide is mainly formed Asset groups of chalcocite and covellite and is amenable to heap leaching.
We group our assets into geographic regions in order to provide Tailings effective governance and accelerate performance improvement.
Those portions of washed or milled ore that are too poor to be Minerals assets are grouped under Minerals Australia or Minerals treated further or remain after the required metals and minerals Americas based on their geographic location.
Oil, gas and have been extracted.
petroleum assets are grouped together as Petroleum.
TLP tension leg platform ASX Australian Securities Exchange A vertically moored floating facility for production of oil and gas.
ASX is a multi-asset class vertically integrated exchange group that functions as a market operator, clearing house and payments system Total Mineral Resources facilitator.
It oversees compliance with its operating rules, promotes The sum of Inferred, Indicated and Measured Mineral Resources.
standards of corporate governance among Australias listed companies and helps educate retail investors.
Total Ore Reserves The sum of Proved Ore Reserves and Probable Ore Reserves.
Australian Tax Treaty UG underground A tax convention between Australia and the United States relating to the avoidance of double taxation.
Below the surface mining activities.
BHP Being both companies in the DLC structure, BHP Billiton Limited, BHP Billiton Plc and their respective subsidiaries.
276 BHP Annual Report 2017 Additional information BHP Billiton Limited Group Equalisation DLC Dividend Share Being BHP Billiton Limited and its subsidiaries.
A share that has been authorised to be issued to enable a distribution dividend to be made by the BHP Billiton Plc Group BHP Billiton Limited share to the BHP Billiton Limited Group or by the BHP Billiton Limited A fully paid ordinary share in the capital of BHP Billiton Limited.
Group to the BHP Billiton Plc Group as applicable, should this BHP Billiton Limited shareholders be required under the terms of the DLC merger.
The holders of BHP Billiton Limited shares.
Functions Functions operate along global reporting lines to provide support to BHP Billiton Limited Special Voting Share all areas of the organisation.
Functions have specific accountabilities A single voting share issued to facilitate joint voting by and deep expertise in areas such as finance, legal, governance, shareholders of BHP Billiton Limited on Joint Electorate Actions.
technology, human resources, corporate affairs, health, safety BHP Billiton Plc Group and community.
Being BHP Billiton Plc and its subsidiaries.
Gearing ratio BHP Billiton Plc share The ratio of net debt to net debt plus net assets.
A fully paid ordinary share in the capital of BHP Billiton Plc.
6 GHG Greenhouse gas BHP Billiton Plc shareholders For BHP reporting purposes, these are the aggregate anthropogenic The holders of BHP Billiton Plc shares.
carbon dioxide equivalent emissions of carbon dioxide CO, 2 methane CH, nitrous oxide N O, hydrofluorocarbons HFCs, BHP Billiton Plc Special Voting Share 4 2 perfluorocarbons PFCs and sulphur hexafluoride SF.
6 A single voting share issued to facilitate joint voting by shareholders of BHP Billiton Plc on Joint Electorate Actions.
Group BHP Billiton Limited, BHP Billiton Plc and their respective subsidiaries.
BHP shareholders In the context of BHPs financial results, BHP shareholders refers Henry Hub to the holders of shares in BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc.
A natural gas pipeline located in Erath, Louisiana that serves as the official delivery location for futures contracts on the New York Board Mercantile Exchange.
The Board of Directors of BHP.
IFRS International Financial Reporting Standards Company Accounting standards as issued by the International Accounting BHP Billiton Limited, BHP Billiton Plc and their respective subsidiaries.
Continuing operations KMP Key Management Personnel Assets operations entities that are owned and or operated Persons having authority and responsibility for planning, directing by BHP and were not included in the demerger of South32.
and controlling the activities of the Group, directly or indirectly.
Discontinued operations For BHP, KMP includes the Executive Director our CEO, Assets operations entities that were owned and or operated the Non-Executive Directors our Board, as well as our senior by BHP during FY2015 and demerged into a new company executive team who are members of our OMC Operations South32 on 25 May 2015.
Dividend record date KPI Key performance indicator The date, determined by a companys board of directors, Used to measure the performance of the Group, individual by when an investor must be recorded as an owner of shares businesses and executives in any one year.
in order to qualify for a forthcoming dividend.
LME London Metal Exchange DLC Dividend Share A major futures exchange for the trading of industrial metals.
A share to enable a dividend to be paid by BHP Billiton Plc to Major capital projects BHP Billiton Limited or by BHP Billiton Limited to BHP Billiton Plc Projects where the investment commitment exceeds the Group as applicable.
approval threshold or complexity, or associated reputational risk DLC Dual Listed Company or exposure necessitates review at a Group level and within the BHPs Dual Listed Company structure has two parent companies Group investment process.
BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc operating as a single Marketing and Supply economic entity as a result of the DLC merger.
BHPs commercial businesses that optimise our working capital DLC merger and manage our inward and outward supply chains.
Our Marketing The Dual Listed Company merger between BHP Billiton Limited business sells our products, gets our commodities to market and BHP Billiton Plc on 29 June 2001. and supports strategic decision-making through market insights.
Supply sources the goods and services we need for our business, EBIT sustainably and cost effectively.
Earnings before net finance costs and taxation.
Minerals Americas EBITDA A group of assets located in Brazil, Canada, Chile, Colombia, Peru Earnings before depreciation, amortisation and impairments, and the United States see Asset groups focusing on copper, zinc, net finance costs and taxation.
iron ore, energy coal and potash.
ELT Executive Leadership Team Minerals Australia The Executive Leadership Team directly reports to the Chief A group of assets located in Australia see Asset groups.
Minerals Executive Officer and is responsible for the day-to-day management Australia includes operations in Western Australia, Queensland, of BHP and leading the delivery of our strategic objectives.
New South Wales and South Australia, focusing on iron ore, copper, EMTN Euro Medium Term Note metallurgical, and energy coal and nickel.
BHPs EUR 20,000,000,000 Euro Medium-Note Programme.
Non-operated assets Non-operated assets include interests that are owned as a joint venture but not operated by BHP.
BHP Annual Report 2017 277 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information Occupational illness Shareplus All-employee share purchase plan.
An illness that occurs as a consequence of work-related activities or exposure.
It includes acute or chronic illnesses or diseases, Social investment which may be caused by inhalation, absorption, ingestion Voluntary contributions to support communities through cash or direct contact.
donations to community programs and associated administrative OMC Operations Management Committee costs.
BHPs targeted level of contribution is one per cent of The Operations Management Committee has responsibility for pre-tax profit calculated on the average of the previous three planning, directing and controlling the activities of BHP under years pre-tax profit as reported.
the authorities that have been delegated to it by the Board.
South32 This includes key strategic, investment and operational decisions, During FY2015, BHP demerged a selection of our alumina, and recommendations to the Board.
Members of the OMC are aluminium, coal, manganese, nickel, silver, lead and zinc assets the Chief Executive Officer: the Chief Financial Officer: the Chief into a new company South32 Limited.
External Affairs Officer: the Chief People Officer: the President, Operations, Minerals Australia: the President, Operations, Strate Minerals Americas: and the President Operations, Petroleum.
South Africas Central Securities Depositary for the electronic settlement of financial instruments.
Onshore US BHPs Petroleum asset in four prolific US shale areas Eagle Ford, TRIF Total recordable injury frequency Permian, Haynesville and Fayetteville, where we produce oil, The sum of fatalities lost-time cases restricted work cases condensate, gas and natural gas liquids.
medical treatment cases x 1,000,000 actual hours worked.
Stated in units of per million hours worked.
BHP adopts the US Operated assets Government Occupational Safety and Health Administration Operated assets include assets that are wholly owned and guidelines for the recording and reporting of occupational injury operated by BHP and assets that are owned as a joint venture and illnesses.
TRIF statistics exclude non-operated assets.
operation and operated by BHP.
TSR Total shareholder return Operating Model TSR measures the return delivered to shareholders over a certain The Operating Model outlines how BHP is organised, works and period through the change in share price and any dividends paid.
measures performance and includes mandatory performance It is the measure used to compare BHPs performance to that requirements and common systems, processes and planning.
of other relevant companies under the Long-Term Incentive Plan.
The Operating Model has been simplified and BHP is organised by assets, asset groups, Marketing and Supply, and functions.
UKLA United Kingdom Listing Authority The term used when the UK Financial Conduct Authority FCA acts Operations as the competent authority under Part VI of the UK Financial Open-cut mines, underground mines, onshore and offshore Services and Markets Act FSMA.
oil and gas production and processing facilities.
Underlying attributable profit Our Requirements Profit Loss after taxation attributable to owners of the BHP Group The standards that give effect to the mandatory requirements less exceptional items as described in note 2 Exceptional items arising from the BHP Operating Model as approved by the in section 5 and excludes Discontinued operations.
Refer to section Executive Leadership Team ELT.
They describe the mandatory 1.12 for further information.
minimum performance requirements and accountabilities for definitive business obligations, processes, functions and activities Underlying EBIT across BHP.
Calculated as Underlying EBITDA, including depreciation, amortisation and impairments.
Refer to section 1.12 for Previously called Group Level Documents GLDs, Our Requirements further information.
reflect a simpler organisation with the purpose of being more user-friendly and easier to read.
Underlying EBITDA Calculated as earnings before net finance costs, depreciation, Petroleum asset group amortisation and impairments, taxation expense, Discontinued A group of conventional and unconventional oil and gas assets operations and exceptional items.
Refer to section 1.12 for see Asset groups.
Petroleums core production operations are further information.
located in the US Gulf of Mexico, Australia, Trinidad and Tobago and onshore United States.
Petroleum produces crude oil and Unit cash costs condensate, gas and natural gas liquids.
One of the financial measures BHP uses to monitor the performance of individual assets.
Unit cash costs are calculated Platts as revenue less Underlying EBITDA.
Conventional petroleum unit Platts is a global provider of energy, petrochemicals, metals cash costs exclude inventory movements, freight, and third party and agricultural information and a premier source of benchmark and exploration expense: WAIO, Queensland Coal and New South price assessments for those commodity markets.
Wales Energy Coal unit cash costs exclude freight and royalties: Quoted Escondida unit cash costs exclude freight and treatment and In the context of American Depositary Shares ADS and refining charges and are net of by-product credits.
FY2017 unit listed investments, the term quoted means traded on the cost guidance is based on exchange rates of AUD USD 0.75 relevant exchange.
Other forward looking guidance is based on internal exchange rate assumptions.
SEC United States Securities and Exchange Commission The US regulatory commission that aims to protect investors, maintain fair, orderly and efficient markets and facilitate capital formation.
Senior manager An employee who has responsibility for planning, directing or controlling the activities of the entity or a strategically significant part of it.
In the Strategic Report, senior manager includes senior leaders and any persons who are directors of any subsidiary company even if they are not senior leaders.
278 BHP Annual Report 2017 Additional information 6.6.
4 Terms used in reserves and resources Units of measure Ag Pc % ML silver phosphorous in concentrate percentage or per cent megalitre AI O PPCc bbl mm 2 3 alumina LOI in concentrate barrel containing millimetre 42 US gallons Anth S MMbbl d bbl d anthracite sulphur million barrels per day barrels per day Ash SCu MMboe Bcf inorganic material remaining soluble copper million barrels of oil equivalent after combustion billion cubic feet measured SiO MMBtu 2 at 60F, 14.73 psia Au silica million British thermal units bcm gold 1 scf of natural gas equals TCu bank cubic metres 1,010 Btu 6 Cu total copper boe MMcf d copper Th barrels of oil equivalent million cubic feet per day CV thermal coal 6,000 scf of natural gas MMcm d calorific value equals 1 boe U O 3 8 million cubic metres per day Fe uranium oxide dmt Mscf iron VM dry metric tonne thousand standard cubic feet Insol volatile matter dmtu Mt insolubles Yield dry metric tonne unit million tonnes K O the percentage of material of 2 g t Mtpa potassium oxide interest that is extracted during grams per tonne mining and or processing million tonnes per annum KCl ha Zn MW potassium chloride hectare zinc megawatt LOI kcal kg ppm loss on ignition kilocalories per kilogram parts per million Met kg tonne or kg t psi metallurgical coal kilograms per tonne pounds per square inch MgO km scf magnesium oxide kilometre standard cubic feet Mo kt t molybdenum kilotonnes tonne Ni ktpa TJ nickel kilotonnes per annum terajoule P ktpd TJ d phosphorous kilotonnes per day terajoules per day Pb kV tpa lead kilovolt tonnes per annum m tpd metre tonnes per day Mbbl d t h thousand barrels per day tonnes per hour wmt wet metric tonnes BHP Annual Report 2017 279 Section 7 Shareholder information In this section 7.1 History and development 7.2 Markets 7.3 Organisational structure 7.4 Material contracts 7.5 Constitution 7.6 Share ownership 7.7 Dividends 7.8 Share price information 7.9 American Depositary Receipts fees and charges 7.10 Government regulations 7.11 Ancillary information for our shareholders 280 BHP Annual Report 2017 Shareholder information 7.1 Australian Foreign Investment Review Board conditions History and development The Treasurer of Australia approved the DLC merger subject BHP Billiton Limited formerly BHP Limited and, before that, to certain conditions, the effect of which was to require that, The Broken Hill Proprietary Company Limited was incorporated among other things, BHP Billiton Limited continues to: in 1885 and is registered in Australia with ABN 49 004 028 077. be an Australian company, which is headquartered in Australia: BHP Billiton Plc formerly Billiton Plc was incorporated in 1996 ultimately manage and control the companies that conducted and is registered in England and Wales with registration number the businesses that were conducted by its subsidiaries at the 3196209.
Successive predecessor entities to BHP Billiton Plc have time of the DLC merger for as long as those businesses form operated since 1860. part of BHP.
We have operated under a Dual Listed Company DLC structure The conditions also require the global headquarters of BHP to be since 29 June 2001.
Under the DLC structure, the two parent in Australia.
companies, BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc, operate The conditions have effect indefinitely, subject to amendment as a single economic entity, run by a unified Board and senior of the Australian Foreign Acquisitions and Takeovers Act 1975 FATA executive management team.
For more information on the DLC or any revocation or amendment by the Treasurer of Australia.
If BHP Billiton Limited no longer wishes to comply with these conditions, it must obtain the prior approval of the Treasurer.
7.2 Markets Failure to comply with the conditions results in substantial penalties under the FATA.
7 As at the date of this Annual Report, BHP Billiton Limited has a primary listing on the Australian Securities Exchange ASX Equalisation of economic and voting rights in Australia and BHP Billiton Plc has a premium listing on the The economic and voting interests attached to each UK Listing Authoritys Official List and its ordinary shares are BHP Billiton Limited ordinary share relative to each admitted to trading on the London Stock Exchange LSE.
BHP Billiton Plc ordinary share are determined by a ratio BHP Billiton Plc also has a secondary listing on the Johannesburg known as the Equalisation Ratio.
Stock Exchange JSE in South Africa.
The Equalisation Ratio is currently 1:1, meaning one In addition, BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc are listed BHP Billiton Limited ordinary share currently has the same on the New York Stock Exchange NYSE in the United States.
economic and voting interests as one BHP Billiton Plc Trading on the NYSE is via American Depositary Receipts ADRs ordinary share.
evidencing American Depositary Shares ADSs, with each ADS The Equalisation Ratio governs the proportions in which dividends representing two ordinary shares of BHP Billiton Limited or and capital distributions are paid on the ordinary shares in each BHP Billiton Plc.
Citibank N. A. Citibank is the Depositary for company relative to the other.
Given the current Equalisation Ratio both ADS programs.
BHP Billiton Limiteds ADSs have been of 1:1, the amount of any cash dividend paid by BHP Billiton Limited listed for trading on the NYSE ticker BHP since 28 May 1987 on each BHP Billiton Limited ordinary share must be matched and BHP Billiton Plcs since 25 June 2003 ticker BBL.
by an equivalent cash dividend by BHP Billiton Plc on each BHP Billiton Plc ordinary share, and vice versa.
If one company 7.3 is prohibited by applicable law or is otherwise unable to pay Organisational structure a matching dividend, the DLC Structure Sharing Agreement requires that BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc will, 7.3.
1 as far as practicable, enter into such transactions with each other General as their Boards agree to be necessary or desirable to enable both BHP consists of the BHP Billiton Limited Group and the companies to pay matching dividends at the same time.
These BHP Billiton Plc Group, operating as a single unified economic transactions may include BHP Billiton Limited or BHP Billiton Plc entity, following the completion of the DLC merger in June 2001 making a payment to the other company or paying a dividend on the DLC merger.
For a full list of BHP Billiton Limited and the DLC Dividend Share held by the other company or a subsidiary BHP Billiton Plc subsidiaries, refer to section 5.2.
The DLC Dividend Share may be used to ensure that the need to trigger the matching dividend mechanism does not arise.
BHP Billiton Limited issued a DLC Dividend Share on 23 February 7.3.
No DLC Dividend Share has been issued by BHP Billiton Plc.
BHP shareholders approved the DLC merger in 2001, which For more information on the DLC Dividend Share, refer to section DLC Dividend Share below and section 7.5. was designed to place ordinary shareholders of both companies in a position where they have economic and voting interests The Equalisation Ratio may be adjusted to maintain economic in a single group.
equivalence between an ordinary share in each of the two companies where, broadly speaking and subject to certain exceptions : The principles of the BHP DLC structure are reflected in the DLC Structure Sharing Agreement and include the following: a distribution or action affecting the amount or nature of issued The two companies must operate as if they are a single unified share capital is proposed by one of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc and that distribution or action would result in economic entity, through Boards of Directors that comprise the same individuals and a unified senior executive the ratio of economic returns on, or voting rights in relation to Joint Electorate Actions see below of, a BHP Billiton Limited management team.
ordinary share to a BHP Billiton Plc ordinary share not being The Directors of both companies will, in addition to their duties the same, or would benefit the holders of ordinary shares to the company concerned, have regard to the interests of the in one company relative to the holders of ordinary shares ordinary shareholders in the two companies as if the two in the other company: companies were a single unified economic entity and, for that purpose, the Directors of each company take into account in no matching action is taken by the other company.
A matching action is a distribution or action affecting the amount or nature the exercise of their powers the interests of the shareholders of the other.
of issued share capital in relation to the holders of ordinary shares in the other company which ensures that the economic Certain DLC equalisation principles must be observed.
These and voting rights of a BHP Billiton Limited ordinary share and are designed to ensure that for so long as the Equalisation BHP Billiton Plc ordinary share are maintained in proportion Ratio between a BHP Billiton Limited ordinary share and a to the Equalisation Ratio.
BHP Billiton Plc ordinary share is 1:1, the economic and voting interests resulting from holding one BHP Billiton Limited ordinary share and one BHP Billiton Plc ordinary share are, so far as practicable, equivalent.
For more information, refer to sub-section Equalisation of economic and voting rights below.
BHP Annual Report 2017 281 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information For example, an adjustment would be required if there were to The Joint Electorate Action and Class Rights Action voting be a capital issue or distribution by one company to its ordinary arrangements are secured through the constitutional documents shareholders that does not give equivalent value before tax on of the two companies, the DLC Structure Sharing Agreement, a per share basis to the ordinary shareholders of the other company the BHP Special Voting Shares Deed and rights attaching to and no matching action was undertaken.
Since the establishment a specially created Special Voting Share issued by each company of the DLC structure in 2001, no adjustment to the Equalisation and held in each case by a special voting company.
The shares Ratio has ever been made.
in the special voting companies are held legally and beneficially by Law Debenture Trust Corporation Plc.
DLC Dividend Share Cross guarantees Each of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc is authorised to issue a DLC Dividend Share to the other company or a wholly BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc have each executed owned subsidiary of it.
In effect, only that other company or a Deed Poll Guarantee in favour of the creditors of the other a wholly owned subsidiary of it may be the holder of the share.
Under the Deed Poll Guarantees, each company The share is redeemable.
has guaranteed certain contractual obligations of the other company.
This means that creditors entitled to the benefit The holder of the share is entitled to be paid such dividends of the BHP Billiton Limited Deed Poll Guarantee and the as the Board may decide to pay on that DLC Dividend Share BHP Billiton Plc Deed Poll Guarantee will, to the extent possible, provided that: be placed in the same position as if the relevant debts were the amount of the dividend does not exceed the cap owed by both BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc on mentioned below: a combined basis.
the Board of the issuing company in good faith considers paying Restrictions on takeovers of one company only the dividend to be in furtherance of any of the DLC principles, The BHP Billiton Limited Constitution and the BHP Billiton Plc including the principle of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc Articles of Association have been drafted to ensure that, except operating as a single unified economic entity.
with the consent of the Board, a person cannot gain control of one The amounts that may be paid as dividends on a DLC Dividend company without having made an equivalent offer to the ordinary Share are capped.
Broadly speaking, the cap is the total amount shareholders of both companies on equivalent terms.
Sanctions for of the preceding ordinary cash dividend whether interim or final breach of these provisions would include withholding of dividends, paid on BHP Billiton Limited ordinary shares or BHP Billiton Plc voting restrictions and the compulsory divestment of shares to the ordinary shares, whichever is greater.
The cap will not apply extent a shareholder and its associates exceed the relevant threshold.
to any dividend paid on a DLC Dividend Share if the proceeds of that dividend are to be used to pay a special cash dividend 7.4 on ordinary shares.
Material contracts A DLC Dividend Share otherwise has limited rights and does not BHP Billiton Limited then known as BHP Limited and BHP Billiton Plc carry a right to vote.
DLC Dividend Shares cannot be used to then known as Billiton Plc merged by way of a DLC structure transfer funds outside of BHP as the terms of issue contain structural on 29 June 2001.
To effect the DLC structure, BHPLimited and safeguards to ensure that a DLC Dividend Share may only be BillitonPlc as they were then known entered into the following used to pay dividends within the Group.
For more information on contractual agreements: the rights attaching to DLC Dividend Shares, refer to section 7.5.
BHP Billiton DLC Structure Sharing Agreement The detailed rights attaching to and terms of DLC Dividend Shares BHP Billiton Special Voting Shares Deed are set out in the Constitution of BHP Billiton Limited and the BHP Billiton Limited Deed Poll Guarantee Articles of Association of BHP Billiton Plc.
BHP Billiton Plc Deed Poll Guarantee.
Joint Electorate Actions For information on the effect of each of these agreements, Under the terms of the DLC agreements, BHP Billiton Limited and refer to section 7.3.
BHP Billiton Plc have implemented special voting arrangements so that the ordinary shareholders of both companies vote together Demerger Implementation Deed as a single decision-making body on matters that affect the ordinary BHP Billiton Limited, BHP Billiton Plc and South32 Limited entered shareholders of each company in similar ways.
These are referred into an Implementation Deed on 17 March 2015 to facilitate the to as Joint Electorate Actions.
For so long as the Equalisation Ratio demerger of South32 Limited from BHP.
remains 1:1, each BHP Billiton Limited ordinary share will effectively The Implementation Deed sets out: have the same voting rights as each BHP Billiton Plc ordinary share on Joint Electorate Actions.
the conditions to the demerger: certain steps required to be taken by each of BHP Billiton Limited, A Joint Electorate Action requires approval by ordinary resolution BHP Billiton Plc and South32 Limited to implement the demerger.
or special resolution if required by statute, regulation, applicable listing rules or other applicable requirements of BHP Billiton Limited Implementation of the demerger was completed on 25 May 2015 and BHP Billiton Plc.
In the case of BHP Billiton Limited, both the and resulted in the formation of an independent listed company, BHP Billiton Limited ordinary shareholders and the holder of the South32 Limited, with a portfolio of assets producing alumina, BHP Billiton Limited Special Voting Share vote as a single class aluminium, coal, manganese, nickel, silver, lead and zinc.
and, in the case of BHP Billiton Plc, the BHP Billiton Plc ordinary In accordance with the Implementation Deed, the demerger shareholders and the holder of the BHP Billiton Plc Special Voting was effected through a distribution of South32 shares to eligible Share vote as a single class.
shareholders of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc by way Class Rights Actions of an in-specie dividend by each of BHP Billiton Limited and Matters on which ordinary shareholders of BHP Billiton Limited BHP Billiton Plc.
Each eligible shareholder of BHP Billiton Limited may have divergent interests from the ordinary shareholders and BHP Billiton Plc received one South32 share for each share of BHP Billiton Plc are referred to as Class Rights Actions.
The in BHP Billiton Limited or BHP Billiton Plc as applicable that it held company wishing to carry out the Class Rights Action requires as at the applicable record date for the demerger.
the prior approval of the ordinary shareholders in the other company Framework Agreement voting separately and, where appropriate, the approval of its own On 2 March 2016, BHP Billiton Brasil together with Vale and Samarco, ordinary shareholders voting separately.
Depending on the type entered into a Framework Agreement with the Federal Government of Class Rights Action undertaken, the approval required is either of Brazil, states of Esprito Santo and Minas Gerais and certain other an ordinary or special resolution of the relevant company.
authorities to establish a foundation Fundao Renova that will develop and execute environmental and socio-economic programs to remediate and provide compensation for damage caused by the Samarco dam failure.
For a description of the terms of the Framework Agreement, refer to section 6.5.
282 BHP Annual Report 2017 Shareholder information 7.5 Constitution This section sets out a summary of the Constitution of BHP Billiton Directors.
The Articles of Association of BHP Billiton Plc enable the Limited and the Articles of Association of BHP Billiton Plc.
Where Board to authorise a matter that might otherwise involve a Director the term BHP is used in this section, it can mean either BHP Billiton breaching their duty to avoid conflicts of interest.
An interested Limited or BHP Billiton Plc.
Director may not vote or be counted towards a quorum for a resolution authorising a conflict of interest.
Where the Board Provisions of the Constitution of BHP Billiton Limited and the Articles authorises a conflict of interest, the Board may prohibit the of Association of BHP Billiton Plc can be amended only where such relevant Director from voting on any matter relating to the amendment is approved by special resolution either: conflict.
The Board has adopted procedures to manage these by approval as a Class Rights Action, where the amendment voting restrictions.
results in a change to an Entrenched Provision: or otherwise, as a Joint Electorate Action.
4 Loans by Directors In 2015, shareholders approved a number of amendments to our constitutional documents to amend the terms of the Equalisation Any Director may lend money to BHP at interest with or without Shares which were renamed as DLC Dividend Shares and to facilitate security or may, for a commission or profit, guarantee the repayment the more streamlined conduct of simultaneous general meetings.
of any money borrowed by BHP and underwrite or guarantee the subscription of shares or securities of BHP or of any corporation in For a description of Joint Electorate Actions and Class Rights which BHP may be interested without being disqualified as a Director Actions, refer to section 7.3.
7 and without being liable to account to BHP for any commission or profit.
5 The Board may exercise all powers of BHP, other than those that Appointment and retirement of Directors are reserved for BHP shareholders to exercise in a general meeting.
Appointment of Directors The Constitution and Articles of Association provide that a person 7.5.
2 Power to issue securities may be appointed as a Director of BHP by the existing Directors of BHP or may be elected by the shareholders in a general meeting.
Under the Constitution and Articles of Association, the Board of Directors has the power to issue any BHP shares or other Any person appointed as a Director of BHP by the existing Directors will hold office only until the next general meeting that includes securities including redeemable shares with preferred, deferred or other special rights, obligations or restrictions.
The Board may an election of Directors.
issue shares on any terms it considers appropriate, provided that: A person may be nominated by shareholders as a Director of BHP if: the issue does not affect any special rights of shareholders: a shareholder provides a valid written notice of the nomination: if required, the issue is approved by shareholders: and the person nominated by the shareholder satisfies candidature if the issue is of a class other than ordinary shares, the rights for the office and consents in writing to his or her nomination attaching to the class are expressed at the date of issue.
as a Director, in each case, at least 40 business days before the earlier of the date 7.5.
3 of the general meeting of BHP Billiton Plc and the corresponding Restrictions on voting by Directors general meeting of BHP Billiton Limited.
The person nominated A Director may not vote in respect of any contract or arrangement as a Director may be elected to the Board by ordinary resolution or any other proposal in which they have a material personal passed in a general meeting.
interest except in certain prescribed circumstances, including Under the Articles of Association, if a person is validly nominated subject to applicable laws where the material personal interest: for election as a Director at a general meeting of BHP Billiton Limited, arises because the Director is a shareholder of BHP and is held the Directors of BHP Billiton Plc must nominate that person as a in common with the other shareholders of BHP: Director at the corresponding general meeting of BHP Billiton Plc.
arises in relation to the Directors remuneration as a Director An equivalent requirement is included in the Constitution, which of BHP: requires any person validly nominated for election as a Director of relates to a contract BHP is proposing to enter into that is subject BHP Billiton Plc to be nominated as a Director of BHP Billiton Limited.
to approval by the shareholders and will not impose any obligation Retirement of Directors on BHP if it is not approved by the shareholders: The Board has a policy consistent with the UK Corporate Governance arises merely because the Director is a guarantor or has given Code under which all Directors must, if they wish to remain on an indemnity or security for all or part of a loan, or proposed loan, the Board, seek re-election by shareholders annually.
This policy took to BHP: effect from the 2011 Annual General Meetings AGMs and replaced arises merely because the Director has a right of subrogation the previous system that required Directors to submit themselves in relation to a guarantee or indemnity referred to above: to shareholders for re-election at least every three years.
relates to a contract that insures, or would insure, the Director A Director may be removed by BHP in accordance with applicable against liabilities the Director incurs as an officer of BHP, but only law and must vacate his or her office as a Director in certain if the contract does not make BHP or a related body corporate circumstances set out in the Constitution and Articles of the insurer: Association.
There is no requirement for a Director to retire relates to any payment by BHP or a related body corporate in on reaching a certain age.
respect of an indemnity permitted by law, or any contract relating to such an indemnity: or 7.5.
6 is in a contract, or proposed contract with, or for the benefit Rights attaching to shares of, or on behalf of, a related body corporate and arises merely Dividend rights because the Director is a director of a related body corporate.
Under English law, dividends on shares may only be paid out of profits If a Director has a material personal interest and is not entitled available for distribution.
Under Australian law, dividends on shares to vote on a proposal, they will not be counted in the quorum for may be paid only if the companys assets exceed its liabilities any vote on a resolution concerning the material personal interest.
immediately before the dividend is determined and the excess In addition, under the UK Companies Act 2006, a Director has is sufficient for payment of the dividend, the payment of the dividend is fair and reasonable to the companys shareholders a duty to avoid conflicts of interest between their interests and the interests of the company.
The duty is not breached if, among as a whole and the payment of the dividend does not materially prejudice the companys ability to pay its creditors.
other things, the conflict of interest is authorised by non-interested BHP Annual Report 2017 283 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information The Constitution and Articles of Association provide that payment Rights to share in BHP Billiton Plcs profits of any dividend may be made in any manner, by any means and The rights attached to the ordinary shares of BHP Billiton Plc, in any currency determined by the Board.
in relation to the participation in the profits available for distribution, are as follows: All unclaimed dividends may be invested or otherwise used The holders of the cumulative preference shares will be entitled, by the Board for the benefit of whichever of BHP Billiton Limited in priority to any payment of dividend to the holders of any or BHP Billiton Plc determined that dividend, until claimed or, other class of shares, to be paid a fixed cumulative preferential in the case of BHP Billiton Limited, otherwise disposed of according dividend Preferential Dividend at a rate of 5.5 per cent per to law.
BHP Billiton Limited is governed by the Victorian unclaimed annum, to be paid annually in arrears on 31 July in each year monies legislation, which requires BHP Billiton Limited to pay to or, if any such date will be a Saturday, Sunday or public holiday the State Revenue Office any unclaimed dividend payments of in England, on the first business day following such date in each A$20 or more that have remained unclaimed for over 12 months.
Payments of Preferential Dividends will be made to holders In the case of BHP Billiton Plc, any dividend unclaimed after on the register at any date selected by the Directors up to a period of 12 years from the date the dividend was determined 42 days prior to the relevant fixed dividend date.
or became due for payment will be forfeited and returned to Subject to the rights attaching to the cumulative preference shares, BHP Billiton Plc.
but in priority to any payment of dividends on all other classes Voting rights of shares, the holder of the BHP Billiton Plc Special Voting Share will be entitled to be paid a fixed dividend of US$0.01 per annum, Voting at any general meeting of BHP shareholders can, in the first instance, be conducted by a show of hands unless a poll payable annually in arrears on 31 July.
is demanded in accordance with the Constitution or Articles Subject to the rights attaching to the cumulative preference of Association as applicable or is otherwise required shares and the BHP Billiton Plc Special Voting Share, but in priority as outlined below.
to any payment of dividends on all other classes of shares, the holder of the DLC Dividend Share will be entitled to be paid such Generally, matters considered by shareholders at an AGM of non-cumulative dividends as the Board may, subject to the cap BHP Billiton Limited or BHP Billiton Plc constitute Joint Electorate referred to in section 7.3 of this Annual Report and the DLC Actions or Class Rights Actions and must be decided on a poll Dividend Share being held by BHP Billiton Limited or a wholly and in the manner described under the headings Joint Electorate owned member of its group, decide to pay on that DLC Actions and Class Rights Actions in section 7.3.
that, in practice, most items of business at AGMs are decided Any surplus remaining after payment of the distributions above by way of a poll.
will be payable to the holders of the BHP Billiton Plc ordinary In addition, at any general meeting a resolution, other than shares in equal amounts per BHP Billiton Plc ordinary share.
a procedural resolution, put to the vote of the meeting on which DLC Dividend Share the holder of the relevant BHP Special Voting Share is entitled As set out in section 7.3.
2, each of BHP Billiton Limited and to vote must be decided on a poll.
BHP Billiton Plc is authorised to issue a DLC Dividend Share For the purposes of determining whichshareholders are entitled to the other company or a wholly owned subsidiary of it.
to attend or vote at a meeting of BHP Billiton Plc or BHP Billiton The dividend rights attaching to a DLC Dividend Share are Limited, and how many votes such shareholder may cast, the Notice of Meetingwill specify when ashareholder must beentered described above and in section 7.3.
The DLC Dividend Share issued by BHP Billiton Limited BHP Billiton Limited DLC Dividend Share on the Register of Shareholders in order to have the right to attend or vote at the meeting.
The specified time must be not more than and the DLC Dividend Share that may be issued by BHP Billiton Plc 48 hours before the time of the meeting.
BHP Billiton Plc DLC Dividend Share have no voting rights and, as set out in section 7.5.
7 below, very limited rights to a return of Shareholders who wish toappoint a proxy to attend, vote or speak capital on a winding-up.
A DLC Dividend Share may be redeemed at a meeting of BHP Billiton Plc or BHP Billiton Limited as appropriate at any time, and must be redeemed if a person otherthan: on their behalf must deposit the relevant form appointing a proxy in the case of the BHP Billiton Limited DLC Dividend Share, so that it is receivedby that company not less than 48 hours before BHP Billiton Plc or a wholly owned member of its group: the time of the meeting.
in the case of the BHP Billiton Plc DLC Dividend Share, Rights to share in BHP Billiton Limiteds profits BHP Billiton Limited or a wholly owned member of its group, The rights attached to the ordinary shares of BHP Billiton Limited, becomes the beneficial owner of the DLC Dividend Share.
as regards the participation in the profits available for distribution, are as follows: 7.5.
7 Rights on a return of assets on liquidation The holders of any preference shares will be entitled, in priority to any payment of dividend to the holders of any other class Under the DLC structure, special provisions designed to ensure that, of shares, to a preferred right to participate as regards dividends as far as practicable, the holders of ordinary shares in BHP Billiton up to but not beyond a specified amount in distribution.
Limited and holders of ordinary shares in BHP Billiton Plc are treated Subject to the special rights attaching to any preference shares, equitably having regard to the Equalisation Ratio, which would but in priority to any payment of dividends on all other classes apply in the event of an insolvency of either or both companies.
of shares, the holder of the DLC Dividend Share if any will be On a return of assets on liquidation of BHP Billiton Limited, the assets entitled to be paid such non-cumulative dividends as the Board of BHP Billiton Limited remaining available for distribution among may, subject to the cap referred to in section 7.3 and the DLC shareholders after the payment of all prior ranking amounts owed Dividend Share being held by BHP Billiton Plc or a wholly owned to all creditors and holders of preference shares, and to all prior member of its group, decide to pay on that DLC Dividend Share.
ranking statutory entitlements, are to be applied subject to the Any surplus remaining after payment of the distributions above special provisions referred to above in paying to the holders of will be payable to the holders of BHP Billiton Limited ordinary the BHP Billiton Limited Special Voting Share and the DLC Dividend shares and the BHP Billiton Limited Special Voting Share in equal Share of an amount of up to A$2.00 on each such share, amounts per share.
on an equal priority with any amount paid to the holders of BHP Billiton Limited ordinary shares, and any surplus remaining is to be applied in making payments solely to the holders of BHP Billiton Limited ordinary shares in accordance with their entitlements.
284 BHP Annual Report 2017 Shareholder information 7.5.
11 On a return of assets on liquidation of BHP Billiton Plc, subject Changes to rights of shareholders to the payment of all amounts payable under the special provisions Rights attached to any class of shares issued by either referred to above, prior ranking amounts owed to the creditors BHP Billiton Limited or BHP Billiton Plc can only be varied of BHP Billiton Plc and to all prior ranking statutory entitlements, whether as a Joint Electorate Action or a Class Rights Action the assets of BHP Billiton Plc to be distributed on a winding-up where such variation is approved by: are to be distributed to the holders of shares in the following order the company that issued the relevant shares, as a special of priority: resolution: and To the holders of the cumulative preference shares, the repayment of a sum equal to the nominal capital paid up or credited as paid the holders of the issued shares of the affected class, either by a special resolution passed at a separate meeting of the holders up on the cumulative preference shares held by them and any accrued Preferential Dividend, whether or not such dividend of the issued shares of the class affected, or with the written consent of members with at least 75 per cent of the votes has been earned or declared, calculated up to the date of commencement of the winding-up.
To the holders of the BHP Billiton Plc ordinary shares and to the holders of the BHP Billiton Plc Special Voting Share and the DLC 7.5.
12 Conditions governing general meetings Dividend Share, the payment out of surplus, if any, remaining after the distribution above of an equal amount for each The Board may, and must on requisition in accordance with BHP Billiton Plc ordinary share, the BHP Billiton Plc Special Voting applicable laws, call a general meeting of the shareholders Share and the DLC Dividend Share subject to a maximum in the at the time and place or places and in the manner determined 7 case of the BHP Billiton Plc Special Voting Share and the DLC by the Board.
No shareholder may convene a general meeting Dividend Share of the nominal capital paid up on such shares.
of BHP except where entitled under law to do so.
Any Director may convene a general meeting whenever the Director thinks fit.
General meetings can also be cancelled, postponed or adjourned, 7.5.
8 Redemption of preference shares where permitted by law or the Constitution or Articles of Association.
Notice of a general meeting must be given to each shareholder If BHP Billiton Limited at any time proposes to create and issue entitled to vote at the meeting and such notice of meeting must any preference shares, the terms of the preference shares may be given in the form and manner in which the Board thinks fit.
give either or both BHP Billiton Limited and the holder the right Five shareholders of the relevant company present in person to redeem the preference shares.
or by proxy constitute a quorum for a meeting.
A shareholder The preference shares terms may also give the holder the right who is entitled to attend and cast a vote at a general meeting to convert the preference shares into ordinary shares.
of BHP may appoint a person as a proxy to attend and vote for the shareholder in accordance with applicable law.
All provisions Under the Constitution, the preference shares must give the holders: relating to general meetings apply with any necessary the right on redemption and on a winding-up to payment in modifications to any special meeting of any class of shareholders cash in priority to any other class of shares of i the amount paid that may be held.
or agreed to be considered as paid on each of the preference shares: and ii the amount, if any, equal to the aggregate of any dividends accrued but unpaid and of any arrears of dividends: 7.5.
13 Limitations of rights to own securities the right, in priority to any payment of dividend on any other class of shares, to the preferential dividend.
There are no limitations under the Constitution or the Articles of Association restricting the right to own BHP shares other There is no equivalent provision in the Articles of Association than restrictions that reflect the takeovers codes under relevant of BHP Billiton Plc, although as noted above in section 7.5.
In addition, the Australian Foreign BHP can issue preference shares that are subject to a right Acquisitions and Takeovers Act 1975 imposes a number of conditions of redemption on terms the Board considers appropriate.
that restrict foreign ownership of Australian-based companies.
For information on share control limits imposed by the Constitution 7.5.
9 Capital calls and the Articles of Association, as well as relevant laws, refer to sections 7.10 and 7.3.
Subject to the terms on which any shares may have been issued, the Board may make calls on the shareholders in respect of all monies unpaid on their shares.
BHP has a lien on every partly paid 7.5.
14 Documents on display share for all amounts payable in respect of that share.
Each shareholder is liable to pay the amount of each call in the manner, Documents filed by BHP Billiton Limited on the Australian Securities Exchange ASX are available at asx.
au and documents filed at the time and at the place specified by the Board subject to receiving at least 14 days notice specifying the time and place on the London Stock Exchange LSE by BHP Billiton Plc are available at morningstar.
Documents filed on the ASX, or on for payment.
A call is considered to have been made at the time when the resolution of the Board authorising the call was passed.
the LSE are not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report.
The documents referred to in this Annual Report as being available on our website, bhp.
com, are not incorporated by reference and 7.5.
10 Borrowing powers do not form part of this Annual Report.
Subject to relevant law, the Directors may exercise all powers of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc both file Annual Reports BHP to borrow money, and to mortgage or charge its undertaking, and other reports and information with the US Securities and property, assets both present and future and all uncalled capital Exchange Commission SEC.
These filings are available on the SEC or any part or parts thereof and to issue debentures and other website at sec.
You may also read and copy any document that securities, whether outright or as collateral security for any debt, either BHP Billiton Limited or BHP Billiton Plc files at the SECs liability or obligation of BHP or of any third party.
public reference room located at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549.
Please call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 or access the SEC website at sec.
gov for further information on the public reference room.
BHP Annual Report 2017 285 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information 7.6 Share ownership Share capital The details of the share capital for both BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc are presented in note 15 Share capital in section 5 and remain current as at 24 August 2017.
Major shareholders The tables in section 3.3.
18 and the information set out in section 4.18 present information pertaining to the shares in BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc held by Directors and members of the Operations Management Committee OMC.
Neither BHP Billiton Limited nor BHP Billiton Plc is directly or indirectly controlled by another corporation or by any government.
Other than as described in section 7.3.
2, no major shareholder possesses voting rights that differ from those attaching to all of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plcs voting securities.
Substantial shareholders in BHP Billiton Limited The following table shows holdings of five per cent or more of voting rights in BHP Billiton Limiteds shares as notified to BHP Billiton Limited 1 under the Australian Corporations Act 2001, Section 671B as at 30 June 2017.
2 Date of last notice Percentage of total voting rights Identity of Title of class person or group Date received Date of change Number owned 2017 2016 2015 Ordinary shares BlackRock Group 19 December 2016 15 December 2016 160,784,672 5.00% 5.0% 5.08 1 No changes in the holdings of five per cent or more of the voting rights in BHP Billiton Limiteds shares have been notified to BHP Billiton Limited between 1 July 2017 and 24 August 2017.
2 The percentages quoted are based on the total voting rights conferred by ordinary shares in BHP Billiton Limited as at 24 August 2017 of 3,211,691,105.
Substantial shareholders in BHP Billiton Plc The following table shows holdings of three per cent or more of voting rights conferred by BHP Billiton Plcs ordinary shares as notified 1 to BHP Billiton Plc under the UK Disclosure and Transparency Rule 5 as at 30 June 2017.
2 Date of last notice Percentage of total voting rights Identity of Title of class person or group Date received Date of change Number owned 2017 2016 2015 Ordinary shares Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited 8 October 2015 7 October 2015 103,108,283 4.88% 4.88% 6.06% Ordinary shares BlackRock, Inc. 3 December 2009 1 December 2009 213,014,043 10.08% 10.08% 10.08% Ordinary shares Public Investment Corporation 24 January 2017 23 January 2017 66,684,446 3.16% Soc Limited 1 There has been one change in the holdings of three per cent or more of the voting rights in BHP Billiton Plcs shares notified to BHP Billiton Plc between 1 July 2017 and 24 August 2017.
On 16 August 2017, Elliott Capital Advisors, L. P. advised that following a change on 14 August 2017, the number of ordinary shares it owned was 106,448,721, or 5.04 per cent of total voting rights.
2 The percentages quoted are based on the total voting rights conferred by ordinary shares in BHP Billiton Plc as at 24 August 2017 of 2,112,071,796.
1 Twenty largest shareholders as at 24 August 2017 as named on the Register of Shareholders Number of fully % of issued BHP Billiton Limited paid shares capital 1.
HSBC Custody Nominees Australia Limited 805,864,838 25.09 2.
JP Morgan Nominees Australia Limited 446,216,755 13.89 3.
Citicorp Nominees Pty Limited Citibank NY ADR DEP A C 150,184,200 4.68 5.
BNP Paribas Nominees Pty Ltd Agency Lending DRP A C 74,702,073 2.33 7.
Citicorp Nominees Pty Limited Colonial First State INV A C 32,775,934 1.02 9.
HSBC Custody Nominees Australia Limited NT-Comnwlth Super Corp A C 17,587,159 0.55 10.
Australian Foundation Investment Company Limited 13,990,941 0.44 11.
Computershare Nominees Ci Ltd ASX Shareplus Control A C 13,085,828 0.41 12.
HSBC Custody Nominees Australia Limited Euroclear Bank SA NV A C 7,429,702 0.23 15.
Navigator Australia Ltd MLC Investment Sett A C 4,581,486 0.14 16.
IOOF Investment Management Limited IPS Super A C 3,852,038 0.12 17.
Solium Nominees Australia Pty Ltd VSA A C 3,666,615 0.11 18.
Nulis Nominees Australia Limited Navigator Mast Plan Sett A C 3,133,831 0.10 1,949,410,340 60.70 286 BHP Annual Report 2017 Shareholder information Number of fully % of issued BHP Billiton Plc paid shares capital 2 1.
The Bank of New York Nominees Limited 62,833,089 2.97 5.
Government Employees Pension Fund - PIC 43,625,998 2.07 13.
Industrial Development Corporation of South Africa 33,804,582 1.60 15.
Hanover Nominees Limited UBS03 20,801,121 0.98 7 1,239,738,199 58.66 1 Many of the 20 largest shareholders shown for BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc hold shares as a nominee or custodian.
In accordance with the reporting requirements, the tables reflect the legal ownership of shares and not the details of the underlying beneficial holders.
2 The largest holder on the South African register of BHP Billiton Plc is the Strate nominee in which the majority of shares in South Africa including some of the shareholders included in this list are held in dematerialised form.
US share ownership as at 24 August 2017 BHP Billiton Limited BHP Billiton Plc Number of Number of Number of Number of Shareholders % shares % Shareholders % shares % Classification of holder Registered holders of voting securities 1,688 0.30 4,257,185 0.13 83 0.49 255,753 0.01 1 2 ADR holders 1,550 0.28 150,184,200 4.68 216 1.27 117,394,188 5.56 1 These shares translate to 75,092,100 ADRs.
2 These shares translate to 58,697,094 ADRs.
2 The number of BHP Billiton Limited shareholders holding less than a marketable parcel A$500 based on the market price of A$26.60 as at 24 August 2017 was 8,330.
BHP Billiton Limited BHP Billiton Plc Number of Number of Number of Number of Shareholders % shares % Shareholders % shares % Classification of holder Corporate 157,784 28.21 2,275,443,312 70.85 6,624 39.09 2,102,244,060 99.53 Private 401,600 71.79 936,247,793 29.15 10,322 60.91 9,827,736 0.47 Total 559,384 100.00 3,211,691,105 100.00 16,946 100.00 2,112,071,796 100.00 BHP Annual Report 2017 287 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information 7.7 Dividends Policy Payments The Group adopted a dividend policy in February 2016 that BHP Billiton Limited shareholders may currently have their cash provides for a minimum 50 per cent payout of Underlying dividends paid directly into their bank account in Australian dollars, attributable profit at every reporting period.
For information on UK pounds sterling, New Zealand dollars or US dollars, provided Underlying attributable profit for FY2017, refer to section 1.12.1. they have submitted direct credit details and if required, a valid currency election nominating a financial institution to the BHP The Board will assess, at every reporting period, the ability to pay Share Registrar in Australia no later than close of business on amounts additional to the minimum payment, in accordance with the dividend record date.
BHP Billiton Limited shareholders the Capital Allocation Framework, as described in section 1.5.
2. who do not provide their direct credit details will receive dividend In FY2017, we determined our dividends and other distributions payments by way of a cheque in Australian dollars.
in US dollars as it is our main functional currency.
BHP Billiton Limited BHP Billiton Plc shareholders on the UK register who wish to receive paid its dividends in Australian dollars, UK pounds sterling, New their dividends in US dollars must complete the appropriate election Zealand dollars and US dollars.
BHP Billiton Plc paid its dividends form and return it to the BHP Share Registrar in the United Kingdom in UK pounds sterling or US dollars, if elected to shareholders no later than close of business on the dividend record date.
registered on its principal register in the United Kingdom and BHP Billiton Plc shareholders may have their cash dividends paid in South African rand to shareholders registered on its branch directly into a bank or building society by completing a dividend register in South Africa.
mandate form, which is available from the BHP Share Registrar Currency conversions are based on the foreign currency exchange in the United Kingdom or South Africa.
rates on the record date, except for the conversion into South African rand, which takes place one week before the record date.
Aligning the currency conversion date with the record date for all currencies except the conversion into South African rand enables a high level of certainty around the currency required to pay the dividend and helps to eliminate the Groups exposure to movements in exchange rates since the number of shares on which dividends are payable and the elected currency is final at close of business on the record date.
Aligning the final date to receive currency elections currency election date with the record date further simplifies the process.
7.8 Share price information The following tables show the share prices for the period indicated for ordinary shares and ADSs for each of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc.
The share prices are the highest and lowest closing market quotations for ordinary shares reported on the Daily Official List of the ASX and LSE respectively, and the highest and lowest closing prices for ADSs quoted on the NYSE, adjusted to reflect stock dividends.
The total market capitalisation of BHP Billiton Limited at 24 August 2017 was A$85.4 billion US$67.5 billion equivalent, which represented approximately 4.73 per cent of the total market capitalisation of the ASX All Ordinaries Index.
The closing price for BHP Billiton Limited ordinary shares on the ASX on that date was A$26.60.
The total market capitalisation of BHP Billiton Plc at 24 August 2017 was 29.92 billion US$38.30 billion equivalent, which represented approximately 1.24 per cent of the total market capitalisation of the FTSE All-Share Index.
The closing price for BHP Billiton Plc ordinary shares on the LSE on that date was 14.17.
7.9 American Depositary Receipts fees and charges We have American Depositary Receipts ADR programs for Fees payable by the Depositary to the Issuer BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc.
Citibank has provided BHP Billiton net reimbursement of US$1.4 million in FY2017 for ADR program-related expenses Depositary fees for both of BHP Billitons ADR programs FY2016 US$2.1 million.
Citibank serves as the depositary bank for both of our ADR ADR program-related expenses include legal and accounting fees, programs.
ADR holders agree to the terms in the deposit listing fees, expenses related to investor relations in the United agreement filed with the SEC for depositing ADSs or surrendering States, fees payable to service providers for the distribution of the ADSs for cancellation and for certain services as provided by material to ADR holders, expenses of Citibank as administrator Citibank.
Holders are required to pay all fees for general depositary of the ADS Direct Plan and expenses to remain in compliance services provided by Citibank in each of our ADR programs, as set with applicable laws.
forth in the tables below.
Citibank has further agreed to waive other ADR program-related Standard depositary fees: expenses for FY2017, amounting to less than US$0.03 million, Depositary service Fee payable by the ADR holders which are associated with the administration of the ADR programs FY2016 less than US$0.03 million.
Issuance of ADSs upon deposit Up to US$5.00 per 100 ADSs of shares or fraction thereof issued Our ADR programs trade on the NYSE under the stock tickers BHP Delivery of Deposited Securities Up to US$5.00 per 100 ADSs and BBL for the BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc programs, against surrender of ADSs or fraction thereof surrendered respectively.
As of 24 August 2017, there were 75,092,100 ADRs on Distribution of Cash Distributions No fee issue and outstanding in the BHP Billiton Limited ADR program and 58,697,094 ADRs on issue and outstanding in the BHP Billiton Plc ADR program.
Both of the ADR programs have a 2:1ordinary shares Corporate actions depositary fees: to ADR ratio.
Depositary service Fee payable by the ADR holders Cash Distributions i. e. sale of rights, Up to US$2.00 per 100 ADSs other entitlements, return of capital or fraction thereof held Distribution of ADSs pursuant Up to US$5.00 per 100 ADSs to exercise of rights to purchase or fraction thereof held additional ADSs.
Excludes stock dividends and stock splits Distribution of securities other than Up to US$5.00 per 100 ADSs ADSs or rights to purchase additional or fraction thereof held ADSs i. e. spin-off shares Distribution of ADSs pursuant to No fee an ADR ratio change in which shares are not distributed BHP Annual Report 2017 289 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information 7.10 Government regulations Our assets are subject to a broad range of laws and regulations Disclosure of Iran-related activities pursuant to section 13 r imposed by governments and regulatory bodies.
These regulations of the U. S. Securities Exchange Act of 1934 touch all aspects of our assets, including how we extract, process Section 219 of the Iran Threat Reduction and Syria Human Rights and explore for minerals, oil and natural gas and how we conduct Act of 2012 added Section 13 r to the U. S. Securities Exchange Act our business, including regulations governing matters such as of 1934, as amended the Exchange Act.
Section 13 r requires environmental protection, land rehabilitation, occupational health an issuer to disclose in its annual reports, whether it or any of and safety, the rights and interests of Indigenous peoples, its affiliates knowingly engaged in certain activities, transactions competition, foreign investment, export and taxes.
or dealings relating to Iran.
Disclosure is required even where the activities, transactions or dealings are conducted outside The ability to extract minerals, oil and natural gas is fundamental the United States by non-US persons in compliance with applicable to BHP.
In most jurisdictions, the rights to extract mineral or law, and whether or not the activities are sanctionable under petroleum deposits are owned by the government.
Provided in this section is certain information concerning the right to access the land and extract the product by entering activities of certain affiliates of BHP that took place in FY2017.
BHP into licenses or leases with the government that owns the mineral, believes that these activities are not sanctionable and are within oil or natural gas deposit.
The terms of the lease or licence, the scope of a specific licence issued by the U. S. Department including the time period of the lease or licence, vary depending of the Treasurys Office of Foreign Assets Control OFAC.
on the laws of the relevant government or terms negotiated BHP is making this disclosure in the interests of transparency.
Generally, we own the product we extract and we are required to pay royalties or similar taxes BHP Billiton Petroleum Great Britain Ltd BHP GB, a wholly owned to the government.
affiliate of BHP, holds a non-operating 16 per cent interest in the Bruce oil and gas field located offshore United Kingdom, together Related to our ability to extract is our ability to process the extracted with co-venturers BP Exploration Operating Company Limited BP minerals, oil or natural gas.
Again, we rely on governments to grant operator and 37 per cent interest holder, Marubeni Oil & Gas the rights necessary to transport and treat the extracted material North Sea Limited 3.75 per cent interest holder and Total E&P to prepare it for sale.
UK Limited 43.25 per cent interest holder.
The rights to explore for minerals, oil and natural gas are granted The Bruce platform provides transportation and processing services to us by the government that owns the natural resources we wish to the nearby Rhum gas field pursuant to a contract between the to explore.
Usually, the right to explore carries with it the obligation Bruce owners and Rhum owners the Bruce-Rhum Agreement.
to spend a defined amount of money on the exploration, or to According to BP, the Rhum field is operated by BP and owned under undertake particular exploration activities.
a 50:50 unincorporated joint arrangement between BP and Iranian In certain jurisdictions where we have assets, such as Trinidad Oil Company U. K. Limited IOC.
IOC is an indirect subsidiary and Tobago, a production sharing contract PSC governs the of the National Iranian Oil Company NIOC, which is a corporation relationship between the government and companies concerning owned by the Government of Iran.
As a Bruce owner, BHP GB is how much of the oil and gas extracted from the country each will party to the Bruce-Rhum Agreement, and BHP believes the activities receive.
In PSCs, the government awards rights for the execution thereunder are authorised by the U. S. Department of the Treasury of exploration, development and production activities to the under OFAC licence No.
The company bears the financial risk of the initiative on 30 September 2017.
In anticipation of the OFAC licence expiring and explores, develops and ultimately produces the field as required.
and or being renewed, BHP commenced efforts in FY2017 to reduce When successful, the company is permitted to use the money from reliance on US persons for Bruce-Rhum Agreement-related a certain set percentage of produced oil and gas to recover its capital activities and maintain compliance with applicable sanctions laws and operational expenditures, known as cost oil.
production is known as profit oil and is split between the government For FY2017, BHP GB received a total US$4.6 million in cost recovery and the company at a rate determined by the government and set in accordance with the terms of the Bruce-Rhum Agreement, out in the PSC.
which we expect to book as a reduction in operating expenses Although onshore oil and gas rights in the United States can be in the Bruce field.
owned by the government state and federal, they are primarily BHP intends to continue the activities in connection with the owned by private property owners, which is the case for our Bruce-Rhum Agreement, provided such activities remain subject onshore oil and gas rights.
Oil and gas rights primarily take the to a continuing OFAC licence or are otherwise authorised or in form of a lease, but can also be owned outright in fee.
If the rights compliance with applicable sanctions.
are secured by lease, we are typically granted the right to access, explore, extract, produce and market the oil and gas for a specified Uranium production in Australia period of time, which may be extended if we continue to produce To mine, process, transport and sell uranium from within Australia, oil or gas or operate on the leased land.
we are required to hold possession and export permissions, which are also subject to regulation by the Australian Government or Environmental protection, land rehabilitation and occupational bodies that report to the Australian Government.
health and safety are principally regulated by governments and to a lesser degree, if applicable, by leases.
These obligations often To possess nuclear material, such as uranium, in Australia, a Permit require us to make substantial expenditures to minimise or remediate to Possess Nuclear Materials Possession Permit must be held the environmental impact of our assets and to ensure the safety pursuant to the Australian Nuclear Non-Proliferation Safeguards of our employees and contractors.
For more information on these Act 1987 Non-Proliferation Act.
A Possession Permit is issued by types of obligations, refer to section 1.10. the Australian Safeguards and Non-Proliferation Office, an office established under the Non-Proliferation Act, which administers From time-to-time, certain trade sanctions are adopted by the Australias domestic nuclear safeguards requirements and reports United Nations UN Security Council and or various governments, to the Australian Government.
including in the United Kingdom, the United States, the European Union EU and Australia against certain countries, entities or To export uranium from Australia, a Permit to Export Natural Uranium individuals, that may restrict our ability to sell extracted minerals, Export Permit must be held pursuant to the Australian Customs oil or natural gas and or our ability to purchase goods or services.
The Export Permit is issued by the Minister with responsibility for Resources and Energy.
290 BHP Annual Report 2017 Shareholder information A special permit to transport nuclear material is required under BHP Billiton Limited the Non-Proliferation Act by a party that transports nuclear material Under current Australian legislation, the payment of any dividends, from one specified location to another specified location.
As we interest or other payments by BHP Billiton Limited to non-resident engage service providers to transport uranium, each of those service holders of BHP Billiton Limiteds shares is not restricted by exchange providers is required to hold a permit to transport nuclear material controls or other limitations, except that, in certain circumstances, issued by the Australian Safeguards and Non-Proliferation Office.
BHP Billiton Limited may be required to withhold Australian taxes.
Hydraulic fracturing From time-to-time, certain sanctions are adopted by the UN Our Onshore US assets involve hydraulic fracturing, which Security Council and or various governments, including in the uses water, sand and a small amount of chemicals to fracture United Kingdom, the United States, the EU and Australia.
Those hydrocarbon-bearing subsurface rock formations to allow the sanctions prohibit or, in some cases, impose certain approval flow of hydrocarbons into the wellbore.
We depend on the use and reporting requirements on transactions involving sanctioned of hydraulic fracturing techniques in our Onshore US drilling countries, entities and individuals and or assets controlled and completion programs.
Certain transfers into or out of Australia of amounts greater than A$10,000 in any currency may also Several US federal agencies are reviewing or advancing regulatory be subject to reporting requirements.
proposals concerning hydraulic fracturing and related activities.
On 13 December 2016, the US Environmental Protection Agency EPA The Australian Foreign Acquisitions and Takeovers Act 1975 the FATA restricts certain acquisitions of interests in shares issued its final report on the impacts of hydraulic fracturing activities on drinking water resources.
The EPA concluded that hydraulic in Australian companies, including BHP Billiton Limited.
Generally, 7 under the FATA, the prior approval of the Australian Treasurer must fracturing activities can impact drinking water resources under some circumstances, but noted it was not possible to fully assess be obtained for proposals by a foreign person either alone or together with its associates to acquire 20 per cent or more the potential impacts on drinking water resources, including the frequency and severity of impacts.
of the voting power or issued shares in an Australian company.
A lower approval threshold generally 10 per cent applies where On 16 July 2015, the EPAs Office of Inspector General issued a the foreign person is a foreign government investor for the purposes report indicating that the EPA should review oversight of permit of the FATA.
issuance for hydraulic fracturing using diesel fuels and that the agency should develop a plan for responding to the publics The FATA also empowers the Treasurer to make certain orders concerns about chemicals used in hydraulic fracturing.
In response prohibiting acquisitions by foreign persons in Australian companies, to this report, the EPA has developed revised permitting guidance including BHP Billiton Limited and requiring divestiture if the for hydraulic fracturing activities using diesel fuels.
The EPA has acquisition has occurred where he considers the acquisition also published a report analysing chemicals used in hydraulic to be contrary to the national interest.
Such orders may also fracturing fluids.
be made in respect of acquisitions by foreign persons where two or more foreign persons and their associates in aggregate Exchange controls and shareholding limits already control 40 per cent or more of the issued shares or voting BHP Billiton Plc power in an Australian company, including BHP Billiton Limited.
There are no laws or regulations currently in force in the United The restrictions in the FATA on share acquisitions in BHP Billiton Kingdom that restrict the export or import of capital or the payment Limited described above apply equally to share acquisitions of dividends to non-resident holders of BHP Billiton Plcs shares, in BHP Billiton Plc because BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc although the Group does operate in some other jurisdictions are dual listed entities.
where the payment of dividends could be affected by exchange control approvals.
There are certain other statutory restrictions and restrictions under BHP Billiton Limiteds Constitution and BHP Billiton Plcs Articles From time-to-time, certain sanctions are adopted by the UN Security of Association that apply generally to acquisitions of shares in Council and or various governments, including in the United Kingdom, BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc i. e. the restrictions are the United States, the EU and Australia against certain countries, not targeted at foreign persons only.
These include restrictions entities or individuals that may restrict the export or import of on a person and associates breaching a voting power threshold of: capital or the remittance of dividends to certain non-resident above 20 per cent in relation to BHP Billiton Limited on a holders of BHP Billiton Plcs shares.
stand-alone basis i. e. calculated as if there were no Special There are no restrictions under BHP Billiton Plcs Articles of Association Voting Share and only counting BHP Billiton Limiteds or subject to the effect of any sanctions under English law that ordinary shares : limit the right of non-resident or foreign owners to hold or vote 30 per cent of BHP Billiton Plc.
This is the threshold for a mandatory BHP Billiton Plcs shares.
offer under Rule 9 of the UK takeover code and this threshold There are certain restrictions on shareholding levels under applies to all voting rights of BHP Billiton Plc therefore including BHP Billiton Plcs Articles of Association described under voting rights attached to the BHP Billiton Plc Special Voting Share : the heading BHP Billiton Limited below.
30 per cent in relation to BHP Billiton Plc on a stand-alone basis i. e. calculated as if there were no Special Voting Share and only counting BHP Billiton Plcs ordinary shares : above 20 per cent in relation to BHP Billiton Plcs ordinary shares, calculated having regard to all the voting power on a joint electorate basis i. e. calculated on the aggregate of BHP Billiton Limiteds and BHP Billiton Plcs ordinary shares.
Under BHP Billiton Limiteds Constitution and BHP Billiton Plcs Articles of Association, sanctions for breach of any of these thresholds, other than by means of certain permitted acquisitions, include withholding of dividends, voting restrictions and compulsory divestment of shares to the extent a shareholder and its associates exceed the relevant threshold.
Except for the restrictions under the FATA, there are no limitations, either under Australian law or under the Constitution of BHP Billiton Limited, on the right of non-residents to hold or vote BHP Billiton Limited ordinary shares.
BHP Annual Report 2017 291 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information 7.11 Ancillary information for our shareholders This Annual Report provides the detailed financial data and Key dates for shareholders information on BHPs performance required to comply with The following table sets out future dates in the next financial the reporting regimes in Australia, the United Kingdom and and calendar year of interest to our shareholders.
If there are the United States.
any changes to these dates, all relevant stock exchanges see section 7.2 will be notified.
Shareholders of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc will receive a copy of the Annual Report if they have requested a copy.
ADR Date Event holders may view all documents online at bhp.
com or opt to receive 26 September 2017 Final dividend payment date a hard copy by accessing citibank.
com or calling Citibank Shareholder Services during normal business hours using the 19 October 2017 BHP Billiton Plc Annual General Meeting in London details listed on the inside back cover of this Annual Report.
Venue: The QEII Centre Change of shareholder details and enquiries Broad Sanctuary Westminster Shareholders wishing to contact BHP on any matter relating to their London SW1P 3EE shares or ADR holdings are invited to telephone the appropriate United Kingdom office of the BHP Share Registrar or Transfer Office listed on the Time: 12 noon local time Details of the business of the meeting are contained inside back cover of this Annual Report.
in the separate Notice of Meeting Any change in shareholding details should be notified by the 16 November 2017 BHP Billiton Limited Annual General Meeting shareholder to the relevant Registrar in a timely manner.
in Melbourne Venue: Shareholders can also access their current shareholding details Margaret Court Arena and change many of those details online at bhp.
The website Melbourne & Olympic Parks requires shareholders to quote their Shareholder Reference Olympic Boulevard Melbourne Number SRN or Holder Identification Number HIN in order Australia to access this information.
Time: 11.00am local time Alternative access to the Annual Report 20 February 2018 Interim results announced We offer an alternative for all shareholders who wish to be advised 9 March 2018 Interim dividend record date of the availability of the Annual Report through our website via 27 March 2018 Interim dividend payment date an email notification.
By providing an email address through our website, shareholders will be notified by email when the Annual Report has been released.
Shareholders will also receive notification of other major BHP announcements by email.
Shareholders requiring further information or wishing to make use of this service should visit our website bhp.
ADR holders wishing to receive a hard copy of the Annual Report 2017 can do so by accessing citibank.
com or calling Citibank Shareholder Services during normal business hours.
ADR holders may also contact the adviser that administers their investments.
Holders of BHP Billiton Plc shares dematerialised into Strate should liaise directly with their Central Securities Depository Participant CSDP or broker.
292 BHP Annual Report 2017 Corporate Directory BHP Registered Offices BHP Corporate Centres Marketing and Supply Office BHP Billiton Limited Chile Singapore Australia Cerro El Plomo 6000 10 Marina Boulevard, #50-01 171 Collins Street Piso 18 Marina Bay Financial Centre, Tower 2 Melbourne VIC 3000 Las Condes 7560623 Singapore 018983 Santiago Telephone Australia 1300 55 47 57 Telephone 65 6421 6000 Telephone International 61 3 9609 3333 Telephone 56 2 2579 5000 Facsimile 65 6421 7000 Facsimile 61 3 9609 3015 Facsimile 56 2 2207 6517 BHP Billiton Plc United States United Kingdom Our agent for service in the United States Nova South, 160 Victoria Street is Jennifer Lopez-Burkland at: London SW1E 5LB 1500 Post Oak Boulevard, Suite 150 Houston, TX 77056-3020 Telephone 44 20 7802 4000 Facsimile 44 20 7802 4111 Telephone 1 713 961 8500 Facsimile 1 713 961 8400 Group Company Secretary Margaret Taylor Share Registrars and Transfer Offices Australia South Africa United States BHP Billiton Limited Registrar BHP Billiton Plc Branch Register Computershare Trust Company, N. A. Computershare Investor Services and Transfer Secretary 250 Royall Street Pty Limited Computershare Investor Services Canton, MA 02021 Yarra Falls, 452 Johnston Street Pty Limited Postal address PO Box 43078 Providence, RI 02940-3078 Abbotsford VIC 3067 Rosebank Towers Postal address GPO Box 2975 15 Biermann Avenue Telephone 1 888 404 6340 Melbourne VIC 3001 Rosebank toll-free within US 2196, South Africa Telephone 1300 656 780 within Australia Facsimile 1 312 601 4331 Postal address PO Box 61051 61 3 9415 4020 outside Australia ADR Depositary, Transfer Agent and Registrar Marshalltown 2107 Facsimile 61 3 9473 2460 Citibank Shareholder Services Email enquiries: Telephone 27 11 373 0033 PO Box 43077 investorcentre.
com bhp Facsimile 27 11 688 5217 Providence, RI 02940-3077 Email enquiries: Telephone 1 781 575 4555 outside of US United Kingdom web.
co. za 1 877 248 4237 1-877-CITIADR BHP Billiton Plc Registrar toll-free within US Computershare Investor Services PLC Holders of shares dematerialised into Strate Facsimile 1 201 324 3284 The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road should contact their CSDP or stockbroker.
Email enquiries: Bristol BS13 8AE New Zealand citibank@shareholders-online.
com Postal address for general enquiries Computershare Investor Services Limited Website: citi.
com dr The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road Level 2 159 Hurstmere Road Bristol BS99 6ZZ Takapuna Auckland 0622 Telephone 44 344 472 7001 Postal address Private Bag 92119 Facsimile 44 370 703 6101 Auckland 1142 Email enquiries: Telephone 64 9 488 8777 investorcentre.
co. uk contactus Facsimile 64 9 488 8787 How to access information on BHP BHP produces a range of publications, which are available online at bhp.
If you are a shareholder, you can also elect to receive a paper copy of the Annual Report through the Share Registrar above.
Latest news, Reports and presentations Company overview including Our Charter, Economic Sustainability structure and governance Contribution Report 2017 Report 2017 Subscribe to receive news alerts sent directly to your email address linkedin.
com bhp Front cover image The Pilbara.
