Company overview Company overview Strategic r Strategic report eport Corporate Gover Corporate Governance r finance report eport Financial statements Financial statements DIRECTORS REPORT continued STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES Change of control Directors statement as to disclosure of The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the Financial Statements Following any future change of control of the Company, the Groups information to Auditors in accordance with applicable law and regulation.
banking facilities, which are currently undrawn, will be cancelled, So far as each person who was a Director at the date of approving this and any obligations will become immediately due and payable.
report is aware, there is no relevant audit information, being information Company law requires the Directors to prepare Financial Statements The Directors consider that the Annual Report and Accounts, taken needed by the Auditors in connection with preparing their report, of for each financial year.
Under that law, the Directors have prepared as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the There are no agreements between the Company and its Directors which the Auditors are unaware.
Each Director has taken all the steps the Group and Company Financial Statements in accordance with information necessary for shareholders to assess the Group and Companys or employees providing for compensation on any loss of office that he or she is obliged to take as a Director in order to make himself or International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by performance, business model and strategy.
or employment that occurs because of a takeover bid.
However, herself aware of any relevant audit information, and to establish that the the European Union.
options and awards granted to employees under the Companys Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed in Companys Auditors are aware of that information.
This confirmation is share schemes and plans may vest on a takeover, under the Under company law, the Directors must not approve the Financial the Corporate Governance Report, confirms that, to the best of given pursuant to section 418 of the Companies Act 2006 and should be schemes provisions.
Statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair their knowledge: interpreted in accordance with and subject to these provisions.
view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company, and of The Group and Company Financial Statements, which have been Annual General Meeting AGM the profit or loss of the Group and Company for that period.
In prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, Subsequent events The Companys AGM will be held on 21 September 2017.
Details preparing these Financial Statements, the Directors are required to: give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and Please refer to note 32 of the Financial Statements.
of the resolutions to be proposed at the AGM will be provided in a profit of the Group and profit of the Company Select suitable accounting policies and apply them consistently separate circular sent to all shareholders.
The Directors Report includes a fair review of the development State whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the European and performance of the business and the position of the Group Union have been followed, subject to any material departures Independent Auditors and Company, together with a description of the principal risks and disclosed and explained in the Financial Statements Resolutions to reappoint  LLP as the uncertainties that it faces Make judgments and accounting estimates that are reasonable Companys Auditors and to authorise the Directors to determine In the case of each Director in office at the date the Directors Report and prudent their remuneration will be put to shareholders at the AGM on is approved: 21 September 2017.
Prepare the Financial Statements on a going-concern basis, So far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the which the Group and Companys Auditors are unaware Company will continue in business Going concern The Directors have prepared the Financial Statements on a They have taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as a The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting Director in order to make themselves aware of any relevant audit going-concern basis, which requires them to have a reasonable records that are sufficient to show and explain the Group and information and to establish that the Group and Companys Auditors expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in Companys transactions, and to disclose with reasonable accuracy are aware of that information.
operational existence for the foreseeable future.
at any time the financial position of the Group and Company and enable them to ensure that the Financial Statements and the On behalf of the Board The Directors have reviewed the Groups processes for managing Directors Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act the financial risks to which they are exposed, their available liquidity, 2006 and, as regards the Group Financial Statements, Article 4 of their regulatory capital position and their annual budget.
result of this review, the Directors are satisfied that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the The Directors are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the Group and Company, and hence for taking reasonable steps for the going-concern basis in preparing the Financial Statements.
prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom Peter Hetherington governing the preparation and dissemination of Financial Chief Executive Officer Statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
18 July 2017 | | 94 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 95
