Introduction to corporate governance Corporate governance is about what the board of a company does and how it sets the values of the company.
This report explains your Boards approach to corporate governance and how our governance structure supported our activities during the year.
Gareth Davis Chairman What factors do you take into account when Good governance is considering governance at DS Smith?
There are various governance reviews in progress, which we fundamental to the have considered, including the Governments Green Paper and the Financial Reporting Councils review of the Code.
We have also taken into account views from our own European Works Councils way we do business and wider issues from a global perspective.
More information about environmental and social issues affecting DS Smith can be found in our separate sustainability report available on the Groups website.
Why is good governance important Embedding our values to DS Smith?
The Board is accountable for setting and leading our culture.
The definition of corporate governance has evolved over time and It ensures the correct tone is established from the top and has significantly broadened in terms of scope and purpose.
We aim is embedded in our values.
Our open culture at DS Smith to build an environment of trust, transparency and accountability encourages employees at all levels to say something if they which is necessary for fostering long-term investment, financial see something through our Speak Up!
This year we stability and business integrity.
Throughout this report we have refreshed the campaign and rolled out new posters to further tried to showcase how good governance supports our businesses.
encourage the use of our independent hotline to report any I am pleased to confirm that we have complied throughout the year problems.
You can read more about this in the Audit in full with the principles and provisions of both the 2014 and the Committee report on page 61.
2016 UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, of which we were We carried out our employee survey this year.
This is a an early adopter.
platform for all employees to voice their opinion about their day-to-day work and how they see DS Smith as a whole.
The Appropriate design and control around survey produces a wealth of information which allows us to remuneration is one of the key factors in celebrate and build on successes, and highlights areas where the Code.
What has been the approach to progress can still be made.
This engagement makes DS Smith designing the new remuneration policy?
a better place to work and drives value across the business.
You can read more about the survey findings in our separate This year our remuneration policy is due for re-approval by the sustainability report available on the Groups website.
Your Remuneration Committee Chairman has been working closely with the Group and its advisers to produce another clear remuneration policy that promotes the long-term success of the Company.
Further information can be found in the Be Be Be Be Be Remuneration Committee section on page 64. caring challenging trusted responsive tenacious 46 Governance One of DS Smiths values is to be challenging.
Compliance with the UK Corporate How has the Board challenged itself to Governance Code develop and sustain a strong talent pipeline?
Our governance framework, which is shaped by the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Companies Act 2006 and Our Board evaluation this year was developed with a particular focus secondary legislation and Financial Conduct Authority rules on the Nomination Committee, in response to the 2016 joint report and guidance, sets out standards of good practice in relation to by EY and the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators board leadership and effectiveness, remuneration, accountability ICSA The nomination committee coming out of the shadows.
Each Director has access to all We have taken a number of steps to determine the effectiveness information relating to the Group and to the advice and services of the Board composition and to ensure that Board succession of the Company Secretary and, as required, external advice at planning is fit for purpose.
The Nomination Committee has carried the Groups expense.
out a review of the talent pipeline, described on page 49.
DS Smith carries out an annual performance and talent management review Leadership Your Board rigorously challenges strategy, for all of our colleagues, allowing us to realise the potential of our performance, responsibility and accountability to ensure people and encouraging them to perform to the best of their that every decision we make is of the highest quality.
This provides access to a broader talent pool that will Learn about the Directors skills and experience support our strategic focus.
on pages 50 and 51 Effectiveness Your Board continuously evaluates How does the Board help DS Smith achieve the balance of skills, experience, knowledge and its strategic goals?
We ensure that all new Directors receive a tailored induction programme and All the Directors ensure that they give sufficient time in we scrutinise the effectiveness of our performance order to be effective representatives of shareholders interests.
in an annual Board evaluation.
Directors responsibilities are increasingly complex, as board and key committee memberships demand greater time commitments.
You can read more about the Boards effectiveness on page 56 The Board and executive committees operate within a wider Accountability All of our decisions are discussed governance framework as described on page 53.
This ensures that decisions are taken at the right level in the business by the within the context of the risks involved.
Effective risk management is central to achieving our people best placed to take them.
Discover more about our approach to this on page 39 There have been positive discussions about talent, succession and the shape Remuneration Having a formal and transparent procedure for developing policy on remuneration for of the Board.
Our remuneration policy aims to attract, retain and motivate by linking reward to performance.
How has the Board approached the increased The detail of our approach to developing this policy and how it was disclosure requirements for UK companies?
implemented during the year starts on page 64 Relations with stakeholders Maintaining strong One of our values, underpinned by our Code of Conduct, is to be trusted.
During the year under review we published DS Smiths relationships with our shareholders, both private and institutional, is crucial to achieving our aims.
We hold first modern slavery statement, addressing the role of businesses in preventing modern slavery within their organisation and beyond, events throughout the year to maintain an open dialogue with our investors.
Our second statement will be published on our website in September 2017.
DS Smith will be publishing its first You can see more information about shareholder and stakeholder gender pay gap report by April 2018, in line with the new regulations dialogue on page 57 issued last year.
The Board continues to keep abreast of any new regulatory and legal requirements to ensure good governance flows throughout the whole of the organisation.
The governance report includes: our approach to diversity and culture p48 There have been some big name scandals a summary of the Boards role and responsibilities p52 reported this year.
How does the Board seek the outcome of our Board evaluation p56 to protect DS Smiths reputation?
greater disclosure around Board discussions p54 DS Smith is committed to the highest ethical standards.
We and associated actions apply these to the way in which we engage with each other, our approach to longer-term succession planning p49 our customers, employees, shareholders, suppliers and other our approach to risk and risk appetite p58 stakeholders.
Our reputation as a Group is founded on always meeting these high standards.
Our Code of Conduct sets out in detail what our commitment to the highest ethical standards means: the behaviour which is expected of us all: and how it is aligned with our core values.
