Consolidated financial Company financial Overview Strategic report Corporate governance statements and notes statements and notes Additional information Executive Chairmans introduction The board of Micro Focus International plc is committed to Talent development and succession planning On 17 January 2017 we announced that Chris Hsu will become CEO on delivering outstanding shareholder returns and believes this Completion of the merger.
The board and I have agreed that I will remain as is underpinned by high standards of corporate governance Executive Chairman until the publication of the first set of Audited Financial and a strong corporate governance framework.
To support Statements following Completion.
As we move to a 31 October year end this this framework, the board has established and embedded will be for the 18 month period ending 31 October 2018, the results of which procedures and processes throughout the whole Group.
will be published in January 2019.
During the financial year ended 30 April 2017, the key board achievements were: I believe that the board continues to be well balanced, with a broad range of skills and a good understanding of the market in which we operate and the challenges which we face.
Shareholder engagement There has been extensive shareholder engagement that has resulted in significant new additions to the register, with 30% of our shares now being Board performance evaluation held in North America.
In addition there has been engagement with During the year we completed a board performance evaluation.
I have shareholders of HPE in anticipation of the merger with HPE Software.
received feedback from all of the directors conrming that the process has been extremely valuable to the board.
The results have been reviewed and The Companys market capitalization at 30 April 2017 was 5,944.0m and a number of improvement areas prioritized for 2017 18. the Micro Focus shareholders prior to the acquisition of TAG who now own approximately 56.8% of the Company have seen their investment increase Board meetings and strategy sessions from 1,178.6m to 3,376.2m over a period of 32 months.
During that period Every year in September, an extended board meeting is devoted to they have also received a Return of Value of 83.9m and ordinary dividends reviewing aspects of the Groups strategy and operation in more detail.
The strategy sessions are an important and valuable part of the Groups continued development.
Integration of acquired businesses The Company acquired TAG in November 2014 and Serena in May 2016.
Since then we have been working hard to ensure shareholders realize the benets of these acquisitions.
The key achievements over the last year have been the delivery of financial results in line with management expectations Kevin Loosemore and the announcement and commencement of integration planning for the Executive Chairman HPE Software transaction.
17 July 2017 Acquisition of HPE Software On 7 September 2016 we announced the intention to acquire the software business of HPE.
Since that time significant effort has been spent on seeking required regulatory approvals.
This transaction has featured high on the board agenda both pre and post announcement.
It has also necessitated a renancing and raising of in excess of $5bn of debt.
In addition to the HPE transaction we have completed three further tuck-in acquisitions.
Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 51
