34 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC DIRECTORS' REPORT GOVERNANCE CHAIRMANS GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW The importance of considering a companys responsibilities to a broad stakeholder group has long been core to the M&S culture, values and decision making processes.
ROBERT SWANNELL CHAIRMAN As I highlighted earlier in this report, this has debate around the closure of the longShareholder Panel, which will form an active been a year of considerable change for the standing fide ned bene t pension scheme, part of our stakeholder engagement Company.
With the appointment of Steve but recognised that this was critical to programme.
Details on this and our broader Rowe as CEO, the Board undertook a ensure a fairer reward framework for stakeholder engagement are provided on comprehensive review of all aspects of all our colleagues.
This illustrates how we have the business to ensure clarity around our considered, listened and engaged with all We spent a lot of time considering the customers and our brand positioning, our these stakeholders.
consequences of the closures within our strategy and business model, our people, international businesses to ensure we could our store portfolio, our offi ces and our assets.
RISK AND CONTROLS establish a structure and format which The progress made on our risk debate and This review, and the Board debate would be stronger and more relevant for understanding of risk appetite in previous throughout the year, resulted in a number our customers and markets, and a more years helped ensure the Board's decisionof signi cant decisions for the business.
The pro table business with foundations for making was supported by the right Board was acutely aware that these would growth.
We also reviewed the con guration discussions and considerations.
The aff ect a broad range of our stakeholders.
of our UK store estate to ensure we could enhanced level of risk debate and greater While we sought to ensure that our decisions establish a footprint to meet future involvement of the Operating Committee were taken in a way that was fair and customer needs.
We debated the necessary was also critical in ensuring that appropriate consistent with our values, we recognised changes and restructuring within our offi ces monitoring and mitigations were embedded the importance of balancing these with the to support our future plans.
In each such to support the proposals under discussion.
need to support the long-term future of the discussion, the Board carefully considered business.
The Board recognised that the the impact of its decision on our teams, our The Board spent time debating the market consequences of its decisions would lead customers, the communities in which we environment and the potential impact to signi cant adjustments to the business trade, our shareholders, our supply base of the vote to leave the European Union.
and to our financial position this year, but and our Plan A aspirations.
It continues to assess the implications of we believe that these were essential to Brexit for our customers, communities and re-establish the foundations of the business EMPLOYEE AND RETAIL the business, and the impact of currency to deliver sustainable performance and SHAREHOLDER VOICE movements on the business and our build an organisation that is t and relevant We are pleased to have established regular supply base.
The Board and Audit Board sessions for employee insight.
The We also undertook a thorough review Committees debate and associated feedback provided during our dedicated of our cyber environment to ensure that judgements are covered on pages 40-41 Board sessions by the chairs of both the we have appropriate data and information and 48-51 of this report.
Business Involvement Group BIG, which governance processes and controls, represents the interests of all our 85,000 ecommerce defences, proactive security BOARD ACTIVITIES AND colleagues across the business, and of our and strong incident management CONSIDERATION OF ALL fide ned Bene t Pension Scheme, was processes across the business.
While the STAKEHOLDERS invaluable in ensuring the Board was able Audit Committee will continue to monitor The tenets of Lord Sieff s words about the to fully consider the views of these vital business processes and provide assurance importance of considering a companys stakeholders through the period of change.
over controls, the Board considers data responsibilities to a broad stakeholder We were grateful for their candid and open governance and cyber to be so signi cant group, which I quoted earlier in the report feedback, which enabled the Board to that it will review this at least twice a year.
and which pre-date by decades the s. 172 appreciate fully the potential impact on directors' duties of the Companies Act 2006, those aff ected.
TALENT, DEVELOPMENT have long been core to the M&S culture, We also trialled our first Private Shareholder AND SUCCESSION values and decision-making.
The objective was to give our In addition to the strategic debate, the These were particularly evident in our private shareholders additional access Board and Nomination Committee also deliberations around the introduction of an and information, as is provided to our major focused on ensuring we had the right talent M&S living wage and the ambition to deliver institutional shareholders.
The candour in our business to support our plans.
Senior fairer pay for our store colleagues in a way and insights provided by these panel succession discussions have long featured that was true and relevant to M&S.
This led discussions were helpful in ensuring we on the Board agenda, but we took this us to go beyond the National Living Wage were listening to this important stakeholder substantially further this year to include and establish ourselves as one of the best group.
The success of these trial panels a comprehensive review of our people employers in the market.
We had signi cant led to the formal launch of our Private 35 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 capabilities and speci c development me and the Board.
I am delighted that with at the AGM in July 2017.
The Committees needs against the future requirements Steve and Archie's appointments this aspect activities and its considerations on of our business.
The Board reviewed has been successfully achieved in a rigorous remuneration, along with our Remuneration assessments for over 100 of our senior way.
I know that succession planning and the Policy, are outlined in detail on pages 54 leaders in the business and discussed their development of talent at M&S will remain to 78. leadership qualities, strengths, areas for very high priorities of the Board.
In line with the requirements of the development, and medium and long-term Corporate Governance Code, the Board succession plans to ensure that we BOARD OVERSIGHT AND MONITORING was independently evaluated during the have the right skills, career paths and The Audit Committee played a key role year.
We were pleased that, overall, the understanding of our talent to support in ensuring that there was appropriate Board has made signi cant progress since our future business growth.
challenge and governance around the the last external review in 2015, especially in accounting treatment of the decisions As highlighted earlier, following the relation to the quality of Board debate and taken in the year and ensuring robust risk appointment of Steve Rowe as CEO and decision-making, Board papers and process.
management, controls and assurance the announcement of our plans to build a The findings of the review and the action processes were in place.
The Committee simpler and more relevant M&S, I considered plans for the year ahead are set out on continues to closely monitor the it was the right time to deal with my own page 42 of this report.
management of our cyber and data succession and for the business to appoint We have had to take some bold and tough governance processes, health and safety a new Chairman.
So, in December 2016, decisions to ensure M&S is set up for the and business continuity plans for our I informed the Board that I intended to future.
The Board made these changes as UK and international operations.
The retire as Chairman during 2017 after six they are the right and relevant thing to do.
Committees activities, considerations years in the post.
From a strong core set of well-established and judgements are set out on I am grateful to Vindi Banga, our Senior timeless values, we have sought to ensure pages 48 to 50.
Independent Director, for leading such fairness, integrity and rigour with each Fairness and pay has featured strongly in a rigorous process for the Nomination decision for all our stakeholders.
We the Boards debate this year.
To support Committee to appoint my successor.
We are recognise that the business has had to leadership and talent within our business, delighted that Archie Norman will succeed deliver a signi cant scale of change the Remuneration Committee has reviewed me in September 2017.
Overviews of the this year, but the feedback from our our remuneration framework, measures and recruitment process undertaken by the stakeholders and the early progress we are targets.
This review was particularly topical Nomination Committee and the induction seeing encourages us to continue to be given the Business, Energy & Industrial programme being undertaken by Archie bold, con dent, remain on the front foot, Strategy BEIS Green Paper on corporate are provided on page 39.
This programme and embrace the challenges ahead.
governance reform earlier in the year.
The is extremely comprehensive and will Committee held a number of discussions ensure that he has an extensive insight with shareholders on framework design into our business, our colleagues and during the year.
It also reviewed and stakeholders prior to taking up his updated the Remuneration Policy to ensure appointment as Chairman.
it remains both in line with best practice ROBERT SWANNELL CHAIRMAN When I joined M&S as Chairman I made it and relevant to our business.
It will be put clear that I regarded eff ective succession forward for formal shareholder approval planning as a vital responsibility for both THIS REPORT'S KEY FEATURES Over the next few pages we look at the Board, its Report, and has now been incorporated into Senior Independent Director Our Senior role, performance and oversight.
As in previous the Strategic Report, a list of page references is Independent Director is Vindi Banga.
years, we provide detail on the Board activities available within the Other Disclosures section Accountability and election Clear separation and discussions during the year pages 41 and 42, on page 79. of duties between Chairman and CEO roles, the actions arising from these and the progress Every year we review and benchmark our all the directors are to stand for annual made against them.
We also provide insight on: Governance Framework against best practice.
director independence: eff ectiveness and our The framework sets out the roles, accountabilities Board evaluation: succession planning: and Evaluation An externally facilitated performance and expectations for our directors and our induction and ongoing development.
evaluation of the Board and its Committees structures.
This format has been adopted widely was undertaken during the year.
Governance at M&S is an important element of across the business and can be viewed at our Board environment.
To support how we do marksandspencer.
Attendance The directors have all business and how we serve our stakeholders it attended an acceptable level of Board needs to be relevant, authentic and meaningful.
UK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE and Committee meetings.
"In line with previous years, we have used the key The UK Corporate Governance Code 2016 the Experience The Audit Committee chairman themes of the Code to articulate the Boards ""Code"" is the standard against which we measured met the speci c requirements with regard activities during the year: ourselves in 2016 17."
A copy of the Code is available to recent and relevant financial experience from the Financial Reporting Councils website.
Leadership and eff ectiveness pages 36 to 43 throughout 2016 17. and 46 to 47.
We are pleased to con rm that we complied Auditor tenure We changed our auditor in with all of the provisions set out in the Code Accountability pages 30 to 33 within the 2014 15, following a thorough tender process.
for the period under review.
Strategic Report and pages 48 to 52 in the Directors Report.
Non-audit policy This is disclosed on our To keep this report interesting and engaging, website, along with the limited non-audit we continue to focus on the key insights from Our stakeholders: how we listen and engage work undertaken during 2016 17. the business: however, further detail on how pages 44 to 45. we comply with the Code can be found in our Auditor appointment We disclose our external Remuneration pages 54 to 78.
Corporate Governance Statement, available auditor appointment policy on our website.
Information on the governance of our Pension Internal Audit Details on the Internal Audit Scheme is provided on page 53. function are provided within this report.
GOVERNANCE SUMMARY The required governance and regulatory Our compliance with key areas of the Code is Performance-related pay A signi cant part assurances are provided throughout this report summarised as follows: of performance-related pay is delivered re ecting their relevance to the business.
Our reward framework is provide insight into how governance supports and Independence Over half of our Board simple, transparent and designed to support protects the M&S business and our stakeholders comprises independent non-executive and drive our business strategy.
Where information would directors and the composition of all Board previously have been located within the Directors Committees complies with the Code.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE OUR PERFORMANCE OUR BUSINESS
