Pennon Group plc Annual Report 2017 Chairmans letter toshareholders Dear Shareholder I am pleased to introduce the corporate governance report for 2017 on behalf of the Board.
This is the principal method of reporting to our shareholders onthe Boards governance policies and the practicalapplication of the principles of good corporate governance.
Strong governance is central to the successful management of any company.
At Pennon it provides the framework for effective delivery of our strategy, the creation of shareholder value and the ongoing development of our sustainable business.
In my second year as Chairman of Pennon I remain committed to ensuring that we continue to operate to the highest standards of corporate governance.
During the year we monitored the operation of the revised governance structures that were put in place in April 2016 and a review was carried out by our Senior Independent Director, Gill Rider, alongside anindependent external evaluation of the Boards structure, operation and performance.
Based on Sir John Parker these assessments, the Board has concluded that thegovernance framework, which comprises the Chairman operation of the Board, its Committees, executive management and the board of South West Water, aswell as the risk management and internal control environment described on pages 46 and 62, is robust Good governance and effective, and is operating smoothly.
It provides a strong foundation for efficient and transparent provides the framework decision-making while preserving the degree of regulatory independence that Ofwat requires for for effective delivery of thewater business.
Role of the Board and its effectiveness our strategy, the My primary role as Chairman is to provide leadership to the Board and to provide the right environment creation of shareholder toenable each of the Directors and the Board as a whole to perform effectively to promote the success value and the ongoing of the Company for the benefit of its shareholders.
In doing so we take account of the interests of our development of our customers, employees, suppliers, the communities in which we operate and other interested stakeholders sustainable business.
including Ofwat, the Drinking Water Inspectorate, the UK environment agencies and other regulatory bodies in the UK.
54 The revised governance structure implemented The Chief Financial Officer continues to report to the inApril 2016 has reinforced the good governance Board regularly on major shareholders views about 103 already in place and has helped us to operate the Group, and every six months the Companys effectively and cohesively as a Board.
It is my corporate brokers present to the Board on equity meetings and calls in responsibility to act on the results of the annual market developments and shareholder perceptions.
ourcomprehensive performance evaluation of the Board and its This ensures that the Board is fully briefed on the IRprogramme Committees via an action plan approved by the views and aspirations of shareholders.
The aim is to identify further areas for I will actively encourage the participation of our improvement and ensure that our knowledge, shareholders at our AGMs and will welcome skillsand processes remain relevant as the Groups 16 questions on any business issues affecting the businesses develop and grow.
Further details of the city conferences, salesforce Group.
As usual, at our 2017 AGM on 6 July all of review, which was facilitated by an external governance briefings and roadshows ourDirectors intend to be present together with a consultancy, are set out later in this report.
number of other senior executives of our businesses The revised Board structure also assists the to meet with shareholders to further explain Directorsin maintaining up-to-date knowledge developments at Pennon.
andunderstanding of our total business as we Compliance with the UK Corporate pursueour strategy described in the strategic report.
Governance Code and other Shareholder engagement requirements We maintain appropriate and regular dialogue I am pleased to report that throughout the year the withour shareholders to ensure that there is a Company complied with the provisions and applied goodunderstanding of our rationale for our the main principles set out in the UK Code with strategyand our performance actions.
It also allows noexceptions to report.
The UK Code is published shareholders to provide feedback on the matters onthe Financial Reporting Council FRC website, they consider to be important and any issues which www.
In accordance with the FRCs require addressing.
requirements, we have reported against the September 2014 version of the Code, which is We have a comprehensive investor relations effective for reporting periods commencing on programme.
During the year some 103 meetings orafter 1 October 2014 and before 17 June 2016. andconference calls were held.
Pennon attended eight city conferences and sales force briefings and In addition, as the holding company of South West eight roadshows, including in the US and mainland Water Limited, the Company has complied with Europe.
This engagement covered both current and Ofwats principles for holding companies in respect prospective shareholders, the majority of which are ofBoard leadership, transparency and governance.
institutional, with the remainder being a selection of large private client investment managers.
In addition, My introduction to this corporate governance report this year we held a site visit to Viridors Ardley Energy and the following sections are made in compliance Recovery Facility near Oxford.
with the UK Code, Financial Conduct Authority FCA Listing Rule 9.8.
6 and FCA Disclosure and Transparency Rules 7.1 and 7.2 and cover the workofour Board and its Committees, our internal control systems and procedures including risk management, our corporate governance statements relating to share capital and control, our confirmation of the Company as a going concern and Directors responsibility statements.
Finally, in accordance with reporting requirements, on page 103 the Board confirms to shareholders that the Annual Report andAccounts taken as a whole is fair, balanced andunderstandable and provides the information necessary to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
Sir John Parker Chairman Pennon Group plc 23 May 2017 Exeter ERF 55 Governance
