44 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2017 Chairmans governance statement Committed to the highest standards of governance Integrity and accountability are at the heart of everything we do and are integral to creating long-term value for our shareholders.
We are in full compliance with the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code.
Board highlights of the year Culture and governance As a Board we try to spend quality time on those aspects of governance The Board is committed to ensuring there is a strong and effective that contribute most to the success of the Company: the development system of corporate governance in place to support the successful of a strategy with an attractive value creation potential, having the right execution of Vodafones strategy.
During the period under review and people and processes for its successful implementation, monitoring as of the date of publication of this report we have fully complied with progress against plan and managing risk in an ever more volatile the provisions and applied the main principles of the 2014 UK Corporate external environment.
We intend to be in full compliance with the 2016 UK Corporate Governance Code which will apply to us in our 201718 The Board held its annual strategy meeting and a Board meeting financial year.
in Rome, providing an opportunity for the Directors to meet our Italian colleagues, customers and other stakeholders.
During the year several Good governance and a commitment to operating with integrity aspects of the strategy were explored in further detail through strategy is central to our culture, at all levels and in all parts of our business.
The environment in which we operate evolves continuously, shaped by emerging trends in consumer behaviours and expectations, The rapidly evolving competitive situation in India was a recurring item shifts in regulatory and legal requirements and changing attitudes on the Boards agenda, eventually resulting in the Boards approval towards the role of large companies in society.
Our internal culture of the proposed merger of Vodafone India and Idea Cellular, announced evolves accordingly as we seek to ensure that the way in which in March 2017. we work conforms to our many stakeholders highest expectations.
The Board also supported and approved the creation of VodafoneZiggo, Everyone who works with us is required to comply with our Business a joint venture in the Netherlands established to deliver converged Principles the values we respect and our Code of Conduct the consumer services and a further illustration of the execution of our behaviours we expect at all times, reinforced through what we call convergence and enterprise strategy.
The Vodafone Way, which sets out the type of organisation we want to be.
An overview of The Vodafone Way, our Business Principles and The Board paid a special visit to our UK local business, with detailed our Code of Conduct can be found on pages 24 and 25.
The Board and discussions focused on performance and trends in our UK consumer Executive Committee are critical in setting the tone of the organisation and enterprise base, customer services operations andnetwork and play a key role in embedding our culture throughout the Group, operations.
Board engagement with operations is also an important in order to ensure that Vodafones reputation is protected effectively.
aspect of our focus on talent development and succession planning.
More information on our culture can be found on page 46.
More detail of these meetings and other topics on the Boards agenda The success of our business is dependent on the Board taking decisions can be found on pages 52 and 53. for the benefit of its members as a whole and in doing so having regard for all its stakeholders: its employees, its suppliers, customers and the wider community and environment.
This is consistent with the Groups core and sustainable business objectives.
It is always rewarding to see instances of our governance being Contents recognised externally.
I was delighted that Vodafone was the winner of the Best Audit Disclosure award at the ICSA: The Governance Institute 44 Chairmans governance 56 Nominations and Governance Awards 2016.
We will always strive to ensure that our governance statement Committee processes are in line with latest best practice and that our approach 46 Leadership structure 57 Audit and Risk Committee to disclosure is clear and transparent.
48 Board of Directors 64 Communicating with ourshareholders 50 Executive Committee Board changes and diversity 66 Our US listing requirements 52 Board activities In January 2017, we announced the appointment of Maria Amparo 67 Directors remuneration 54 Board evaluation, induction Moraleda Martinez as a Non-Executive Director with effect from 1 June and training 86 Directors report 2017.
Amparo is an international business leader with an engineering We comply with the corporate governance statement requirements background and IT and technology expertise.
She will be a valuable pursuantto the FCAs Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules by virtue addition to the Board and will become a member of the Audit and of the information included in this Governance section of the Annual Report Risk Committee.
together with information contained in the Shareholder information section on pages 190 to 196.
Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Additional information Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2017 45 In this section Transactions in India and the Netherlands The Board approved the intended merger of Vodafone India and Idea Cellular and the creation of VodafoneZiggo in the Netherlands.
For more information: Pages 52 and 53 The Boards review of the UK business The Board visited our UK business with focused discussions on In March we announced that Nick Land and Phil Yea will not seek Customer eXperience eXcellence and technology.
re-election at our Annual General Meeting in July 2017 after more than For more information: ten years of service.
On behalf of the Board, I would like to express our Pages 52 and 53 thanks and appreciation to Nick and Phil for their valuable contributions.
Details of the resulting changes to the Board and its Committees are detailed in the Nominations and Governance Committee Report on page 56.
Board meeting in Italy The Board went to Rome in October The Board believes that diversity, both in the boardroom and for a Board meeting and annual throughout the organisation, is key to our success.
to report that 25% of our Board roles are currently held by women: For more information: Page 52 furthermore, after the AGM in July 2017, this percentage will rise to 36%.
We are also looking at measures to increase diversity on the boards of our subsidiary businesses in local markets.
Details of our commitment to increase the number of women throughout our organisation can be found on page 21.
Alignment with the UK Corporate Listening to our shareholders Governance Code Effective communication with our shareholders is fundamental to our We have structured this years report in the following way, based success.
We strive to communicate our strategy and activities clearly upon the principles set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We also welcome active engagement with Leadership all of our shareholders to answer their questions and receive their feedback.
Further details of our approach to shareholder engagement The Board has clear divisions of responsibility and is collectively can be found on pages 64 and 65. responsible for the long-term success of Vodafone.
For more information: Shareholders will vote this year on the adoption of our remuneration Pages 46 to 51 policy.
That vote, which is binding, is in line with the requirement that the Effectiveness policy receives shareholder approval at least every three years.
The full remuneration policy is set out on pages 71 to 76.
We evaluate the balance of experience, skills, knowledge and independence of the Board to ensure we are effective.
Objectives for the year ahead For more information: Pages 52 to 56 Your Board remains committed to ensuring the highest standards of corporate governance across the Group in all aspects of the delivery Accountability of our strategy.
I am confident that the Directors and our senior leaders We present a fair, balanced and understandable assessment understand fully that how we work is as important as what we achieve of Vodafones position and prospects.
Our decisions are discussed and that, throughout the organisation as a whole, there is a rigorous within the context of the risks involved.
focus on the importance of compliance and integrity when meeting the For more information: challenges, and seizing the opportunities, over the year ahead.
Pages 57 to 63 Relations with shareholders Strong relationships with our shareholders are crucial for the successful execution of our strategy.
For more information: Pages 64 and 65 Gerard Kleisterlee Chairman Remuneration 16 May 2017 Director remuneration is set to promote the long-term success of Vodafone.
For more information: Pages 67 to 85
