Overview Strategic Report Financial Statements Additional Information Our Governance Chairmans governance statement Dear Shareholder Our strategic priorities The Companys business model and strategy are outlined on pages I am pleased to present the Corporate Governance Report for the 14 and 15, and 18 to 23. financial year ended 31 March 2017 which highlights the work undertaken during the year by the Board.
The Board regularly debates the relevance and effectiveness of the strategy and oversees the Executive Committee to ensure it is being The Company fully complied with the UK Corporate Governance successfully implemented and is delivering the desired performance.
Details of the Companys governance This year, the Board reaffirmed its belief that the current strategy is arrangements and activities in compliance with the Principles of the the right one for the business at this time.
UK Corporate Governance Code are included on pages 51 to 120.
Board effectiveness Why is good governance important to us?
The annual Board effectiveness reviews including its Committees The Board of Workspace is committed to conducting business continue to provide a valuable opportunity for the Board to reflect on responsibly and ensuring that our governance structures at Board how it operates and to propose any improvements.
The performance and Committee level remain appropriate for our business while evaluation process for this year was led by me and assisted by the supporting the delivery of our overall strategy.
We are committed to Company Secretary.
This years review took the form of a maintaining high standards of Corporate Governance in terms of questionnaire which was completed by the Directors and members of leadership, Board effectiveness, accountability, remuneration matters, the Executive Committee.
The questionnaires covered the processes and our relationship with shareholders.
and performance of the Board and its Committees.
The Company Secretary consolidated the responses and prepared reports for me, Corporate Governance at Workspace is treated as an important as Chairman, as well as for the Chairmen of the relevant Committees.
discipline which complements our desire to continuously improve the The findings from the Board evaluation were discussed at our performance of the Company.
Our approach to governance is set by meeting in March 2017. the Board and our Executive Committee ensures that the approach is effectively implemented across the business.
The performance of the Executive Directors was assessed by the Remuneration Committee as part of the salary review process.
49Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Chairmans governance statement continued I can confirm that no issues were raised and the view of the Board is Market Abuse Regulations The Board also considered the implications of the Market Abuse that the governance structure, together with the Board and its Committees, all continue to operate effectively.
Regulations, which came into force in July 2016.
To assist with meeting the Companys obligations under the regime, a Disclosure Furthermore, I am satisfied that the Non-Executive Directors, all of Committee of the Board was established to monitor inside information and closed periods.
whom are standing for re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, continue to be effective and show a high level of Engagement with our shareholders commitment to their roles.
They have a broad and complementary mix of business skills, knowledge and experience acquired across We have continued to operate a comprehensive investor relations programme during the year with our Executive Directors regularly different business sectors.
meeting with investors and analysts.
During the year, presentations were made to shareholders and potential shareholders by the The independence of our Non-Executive Directors is extremely important to us in maintaining good governance.
July 2017 will mark Executive Directors.
On 28 February 2017, we held a Capital Markets three years since Stephen Hubbard was first elected to the Board.
Day for sell-side analysts and investors at our newly refurbished During the year we have considered Stephens independence.
More information can be found on pages 78 Stephen is Chairman of CBRE UK and is a member of their to 79.
The Valuation Advisory Division of CBRE acts as the Groups external valuer and, recognising the effect that this may In addition to regular meetings with the Executive Directors, I am potentially have on the perception of his independence, and in view of available to meet with investors on request and encourage an open this continuing relationship, the Board has rigorously evaluated dialogue on all matters and in particular, if they wish to raise any Stephens independence as a Non-Executive Director and any points with respect to Board governance.
Having made that assessment, the Board is completely satisfied that he remains independent in judgement and I am pleased with the progress we have made this year across the character.
Stephen will therefore stand for re-election at this years governance agenda.
We have built a committed Board that is working AGM.
As advised last year, it has been agreed that Stephen will not well in the interests of all shareholders and each Director continues to take part in any considerations of the valuation of the Groups contribute effectively.
We extend our thanks to all our shareholders property portfolio.
In addition, he will not have involvement in any for your continued support as we look forward to the year ahead.
discussions or decisions regarding CBRE or the fees paid to them.
Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code Appointment of External Auditor The Company has, throughout the year ended 31 March 2017, fully In last years Annual Report the Company confirmed that it would complied with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance undertake a competitive tender for the selection and appointment of Code the Code published in September 2014, which is applicable an External Auditor during the financial year as a result of mandatory to the Company for the financial year.
A copy of the Code is firm rotation.
As part of its work this year, the Audit Committee has available at www.
The application of the principles undertaken this exercise which resulted in the appointment of a new contained in the Code is described within the Corporate External Auditor, KPMG LLP KPMG in January 2017, subject to final Governance report.
Detailed reports on the Nomination Committee, approval by shareholders at the next AGM on 14 July 2017.
The the Audit Committee and Remuneration Committee can be found selection and appointment process is fully described on page 92. on pages 82 to 93 and pages 94 to 115.
Remuneration Policy Daniel Kitchen The Companys Remuneration Policy was approved in 2014 and has Non-Executive Chairman been operating for three years.
During the year, the Remuneration 6 June 2017 Committee has spent time discussing a new Remuneration Policy.
The Chairman of the Remuneration Committee engaged with major shareholders and sought feedback on the proposals.
In accordance with the regulations, shareholders will be asked to approve the new policy at the AGM in July 2017.
You can read full details about this in the Directors Remuneration Report from page 94.
How governance supports our strategy The principles in the Code set the framework for how the Board, through its governance activities, provides effective oversight of delivering against the strategy.
Leadership Effectiveness Accountability Relations with Remuneration The Board is responsible The Nomination Committee The work of the Audit Shareholders Through the work of the for setting the tone to continues to make sure the Committee plays an Explaining the strategy Remuneration Committee, embed the Groups Board has the necessary important role to provide and how it is being the Companys policy is to strategy into the business.
skills and experience to the necessary safeguards operationalised, through align reward of the The Board carefully understand the market and to manage risks and our business model, is an Executive Directors with monitors the progress of provide challenge to the achieve high standards in important part of the the performance of the the strategy and receives business to deliver the transparency and Boards work in keeping Company and incentivise regular briefings on the strategy.
accountability to shareholders informed on long-term and sustainable state of the London shareholders.
For more information see and future prospects.
For more information see For more information see For more information see pages 86 to 93.
For more information see pages 94 to 115. pages 70 to 73. pages 77 and 78.
50Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017
