Directors Report Corporate governance Chairmans introduction The Board is committed to ensuring good corporate governance and effective Board practice in support of SSEs sustainable success over the long term The UK Corporate Governance Code Through the Listing Rules, the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code underpins the overarching corporate governance framework for premium listed companies within theUK.
It contains principles and provisions which set out standards of good practice in relation to Board leadership, effectiveness, accountability, relations with stakeholders and remuneration and this Directors Report is .
The Code is published by the FRC and is available to view on their website.
Each year, through this Directors' Report, we describe how we have applied the Main Principles of the Code and in line with its comply or explain model detail any departures from its specific provisions.
A departure is only ever made when it is deemed appropriate to do so, and good governance can be achieved by other means.
For 2016 17 we are again reporting against the 2014 version of the Code and confirm compliance with its provisions with the exception of C. 3.7 that the external audit contract be put out to tender at least every ten years.
This remains unchanged from last year and a full explanation of our reasons for non-compliance, including details of the timeline to address the position are set out in the Audit Committee Report on page 74.
Dear Shareholder, As outlined in my earlier letter on pages Board members and meetings 6 and 7 and as evidenced throughout the Member Attended Strategic Report, the Board have considered Member Position since scheduled a wide range of matters throughout 2016 17.
Richard Gillingwater Chairman 2007 7 7 These have covered current investments in capital projects, to support the maintenance Gregor Alexander Finance Director 2002 7 7 of a balanced portfolio of assets, through to Jeremy Beeton Independent non-Executive Director 2011 7 7 reviewing the risks associated with operating such a diverse range of businesses.
We have Katie Bickerstaffe Independent non-Executive Director 2011 7 7 also considered our people and stakeholders, Sue Bruce Independent non-Executive Director 2013 7 7 which has been both explicit through Crawford Gillies Senior Independent Director SID 2015 7 7 a review of cultural matters, talent and succession plans: and implicit when Peter Lynas Independent non-Executive Director 2014 7 7 assessing the impact of all our decisions Helen Mahy Independent non-Executive Director 2016 7 7 on our customers, society at large and in delivering value for our shareholders.
All Alistair Phillips-Davies Chief Executive 2002 7 7 of these deliberations have been against a backdrop of change, as we acknowledge the existence of some political uncertainty, control.
Further information on our work dedicated advisory panels and customer the move towards a low-carbon future and and responsibilities in these areas can be forums and also meetings with shareholders the impact of changing energy markets on found on pages 24 to 27 in the Strategic and the relevant regulatory bodies.
In line with Report and within our section on our stewardship position, we continually accountability on pages 70 to 75, Corporate culture monitor and reflect upon all of these which includes a description of the Corporate culture within SSE is an area which external developments when discharging work of the Audit Committee.
has received our specific focus this year, our role as a Board.
although the behavioural aspects and impacts Talent and succession of agenda items have long been an integral Corporate governance As outlined in the Nomination Committee part of the Boards discussion.
Our work in this The Directors Report which follows explains Report there have been no changes to the area has included the launch of a new guide the different elements of our Corporate Board this year, as we have continued to to ethical business conduct for SSE Governance Framework, which has been benefit from our experienced and diverse employees, as well as updating the Matters designed to ensure that as a Board we fulfil membership.
Increased focus has however Reserved for the Board and the terms of our responsibilities effectively and create been provided to reviewing the internal reference of the Boards Committees, to value for the longer term.
This is achieved talent pipeline, including the work which explicitly consider the impact of decisions by ensuring that we have appropriate is being carried out to support inclusion on culture and to reinforce our ultimate oversight of all matters affecting the Group and diversity throughout the Group.
During responsibility to set the tone for the Group.
and that all risks and opportunities are the year I had the opportunity to attend a We have agreed that our initial work in this identified and considered by the correct number of employee events, including one area has formed a platform for further individuals, for example by one of our which was held at our new visitor centre in initiatives in 2017 18, with culture being an supporting Committees, the Executive Pitlochry, and these allowed me to meet and area which we will continue to monitor and Committee or management teams below.
understand the issues which are important assess, in recognition of its fundamental role The dedicated work of the Board to our workforce.
We have a highly skilled in the successful and responsible delivery Committees is set out in each of and committed group of people who of our strategic priorities, our values and our their respective reports which follow.
underpin the operations and future success financial objectives.
of the Group and as a Board we have a The relationships between the Board and responsibility to ensure the appropriate I hope you find the report that follows its sub-Committees, and the Executive opportunities, development and support an interesting explanation of our work team and the business, are central to the are available to them.
throughout the year and supportive of Groups effective operation, and we our continued commitment to deliver continually nurture these relationships to Stakeholder engagement transparent and sustainable value to ensure that all of our decisions are informed Energy is an essential requirement of our shareholders.
I believe this is an area in everyday life and SSEs role in its generation, which we have seen continued development transmission, distribution, and supply means throughout the year, as demonstrated that as a Company, we must interact with, through inviting members of senior and acknowledge the potential impact of our management to attend and present at Board operations upon a wide range of stakeholders.
meetings, and through specific engagements In our duty as a responsible Company each Richard Gillingwater CBE such as site visits, technical teach-ins and the matter considered by the Board therefore Chairman strategy development process.
has to be in the context of relevant economic, 16 May 2017 social and environmental factors, and in order Risk for the Board to understand what these are, Over the last year, focus has again been constructive engagement is required.
The given to the iterative development of SSEs ways in which this is achieved is explained Risk Management Framework, and the wider on pages 76 and 77 and includes the use of review of the Groups system of internal 55
