STRATEGIC REPORT 0152 GOVERNANCE 5391 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 92139 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 140148 G O V E R NAN C E CHAIRMANS INTRODUCTION MARKET ABUSE REGULATION REMUNERATION During the year and in direct response to the Aligning the interests of our executive directors introduction of the new Market Abuse Regulation and employees with those of our investors in July 2016, the Company established a remains the key driver behind our Remuneration Disclosure Committee comprising the Chief policy.
This approach is further detailed in the Executive, Group Finance Director, Head of Remuneration report on pages 69 to 80.
We are Corporate Development and the Company conscious of the need for the remuneration Secretary in order to oversee the Companys arrangements to be aligned with and drive the compliance obligations.
Vision 2020 strategy and that remuneration outcomes should reflect business performance.
SUCCESSION PLANNING Whilst the primary focus of incentive The Board has adapted well in order to confront JAMIE PIKE arrangements is on profit related metrics, those challenges that arrive with scale and Chairman a number of other key financial metrics are complexity.
I plan to remain focused on ensuring incorporated into the incentive arrangements that we have a Board that will work effectively including return based measures in both the I am pleased to introduce RPC Groups 2017 and collaboratively and that possesses the correct annual and long-term incentive plans.
balance of skills and experience to provide the Group continues to focus on its health and safety right stewardship for the Group now and in performance and culture, Reportable Accident Maintaining a governance framework that the future.
Frequency Rate RAFR has been removed as supports the Companys long-term strategic a moderator from the Annual Bonus Plan for objectives is a key responsibility of the Board.
As previously announced Heike van fide Kerkhof 2017 18 in order to increase the weighting on In this report and those of the principal resigned from the Board with effect from the key financial metrics of Return of Capital Committees that follow, we explain how we 24 November 2016.
As a result the Nomination Employed ROCE and free cash flow FCF.
applied the principles of the UK Corporate Committee led the search for a suitable However, the Committee maintains the discretion Governance Code the Code during the year.
The recruitment process that was to reduce bonus outcomes if overall performance followed and the induction provided to new An updated version of the Code was published is unsatisfactory and this includes an assessment members of the Board more generally is described 1 by the Financial Reporting Council FRC in April of actual RAFR performance during the year.
in more detail in the Nomination Committee report 2016 and will apply to the Company for the year on page 62.
The successful completion of this The appropriateness of the annual bonus and ending 31 March 2018.
Although the Board is process meant that I was delighted to formally long-term incentive measures remains a key item already looking at its impacts, we will not report welcome Dr Ros Rivaz onto the Board in March on the Remuneration Committees annual agenda formally in accordance with the revised Code until this year.
and will form a key part of its deliberations ahead next years report.
As a result all references to the of the next Remuneration policy review.
Code this year relate to the 2014 edition.
As in previous years, all directors will be seeking election or re-election at our forthcoming Annual The dynamic culture at RPC means that we are COMPLIANCE STATEMENT General Meeting AGM and full details can be constantly challenged by the need to evaluate found in the Notice of AGM Notice.
The Board has considered and is of the view that the nature of the Companys policies and the Group has complied with the provisions of procedures, systems and processes that are in Oversight of the Companys financial reporting the Code throughout the year ended 31 March place to ensure we meet all of our obligations and ensuring appropriate remuneration policies 2017 with the exception of Code B.
1.2 number of in the areas of the world in which we operate.
are aligned to long-term success is delegated independent directors, Code B.
2.1 membership of Ensuring that these remain appropriate and to the Audit and Remuneration Committees.
Nomination Committee, Code C. 3.1 membership fit-for-purpose is something that is considered Full details of their activities can be found in their of the Audit Committee and Code D. 2.1, to be of key importance to not only the Board respective reports.
membership of the Remuneration Committee.
but also the Extended Executive team and the I am confident that the Board and governance This was as a result of the resignation of Heike wider organisation.
structures in place provide a solid base for the van fide Kerkhof on 24 November 2016, which Groups continued growth and success.
reduced the number of independent directors to less than half the Board.
This position has been addressed following the recruitment and appointment of Dr Ros Rivaz on 30 March 2017.
JAMIE PIKE Chairman 7 June 2017 1 A copy of the Code can be found on the FRCs website www.
