Chairmans introduction to Corporate Governance Inheriting a strong governance culture Dr Gerry Murphy, Chairman Focus for the 2018 financial year Dear shareholder The Board continues to devote significant time to the drivers of Since joining Tate & Lyle on 1 January, I have had the growth in the business and the challenges and opportunities opportunity to experience the strong governance culture of our the Group faces in its markets.
As such, the areas of emphasis Board and the seriousness with which it takes its responsibility in the coming year will include: for setting strategy, monitoring its execution and managing the Groups risks.
Performance of the Speciality Food Ingredients business Programmes to strengthen further our commercial focus Board effectiveness and execution As Chairman, it is my responsibility to lead the Board and to Strategic initiatives, including acquisition opportunities ensure its effectiveness in all aspects of its remit.
Innovation pipeline The Board last undertook an externally moderated evaluation Reviewing talent management and succession planning.
The UK Corporate Governance Code Notwithstanding our commercial priorities, operating our recommends such an external evaluation every three years but, business responsibly and safely continues to be an in view of the succession of both Chairman and Senior overriding imperative.
Independent Director, the Board decided to proceed instead with an internal effectiveness review in the year ended Shareholder engagement 31 March 2017.
I am grateful to our new Senior Independent As part of my induction, I met with a number of our larger Director, Douglas Hurt, for conducting this review and to him shareholders to understand their views of the business, its and the other Committee Chairs, Anne Minto and Jeanne performance and strategic direction and I very much appreciate Johns, for reviewing the work of their respective Committees.
the insights from those conversations.
The Board is committed Following the changes in Board composition last year, we will to maintaining an open dialogue with shareholders and I, and undertake an external evaluation of the Boards effectiveness in my fellow Directors, welcome the opportunity to meet with the current financial year.
As part of this review we will look at those of you who are able to attend our Annual General the alignment of our Board processes and deliberations with Meeting on 27 July 2017. the strategic needs of the business in the years ahead.
Gerry Murphy Chairman 56 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2017
