Corporate Governance Statement Chairmans letter to shareholders As outlined elsewhere in this report there have been some important Geoff Cooper changes to the structure of the Board during the year.
In February 2017 Chairman we announced that Steve Caunce, previously Chief Operating Officer, would succeed John Roberts as Chief Executive Officer, and that John would adopt a new role on the Board as Founder, Executive Director.
Steve will therefore be responsible for leading the Company, accountable for strategy and performance delivery.
John will focus on innovation and inspiring AOs people.
Both will be responsible for maintaining and developing our unique culture.
Since this change was a natural evolution of our executive team, the transition has been seamless, as expected, with no disruption to the business and with both Steve and John now comfortably executing their roles.
My predecessor, Richard Rose, resigned from the Board as Chairman at the Companys AGM in July 2016 after eight years with the Company, leading the Board through the Companys rapid stages of growth and Dear shareholder most significantly its IPO on the London Stock Exchange.
In February 2017, having served on the Company since its IPO in March 2014, by I am pleased to report to you on the Boards activities and agreement, Rudi Lamprecht retired.
On behalf of the Board I would development during my first year as Chairman.
again like to thank Richard and Rudi for their significant contributions to the business.
Since IPO in March 2014 the Group has made great progress in developing its governance framework and, as your new Chairman, Following Rudis departure, Brian McBride replaced him as a member one of my key responsibilities will be to continue to build on this by of the Audit Committee and I became a member of the Remuneration supporting and promoting good practice and applying relevant Committee.
I also succeeded Richard Rose as Chair of the Nomination requirements and guidelines in a pragmatic way to aid the longterm Committee and whilst we are confident that both of these Committees success of AO.
are well constituted and working effectively, having regard to the requirements of the Code, we will review the composition of each Following my appointment I conducted an indepth review of the following the appointment of our new Non-Executive Directors current workings of the Board, including its role in Group strategy, outlined above.
its composition and its strengths in debate and challenge.
My findings were largely positive, and the Board as a whole believes that we have During the year we have continued to build our UK business and the right mix of skills to supervise our business and to meet our to grow into new territories where we can leverage our existing governance responsibilities.
However, our business is developing knowledge and skills.
Our success will depend on our ability to deliver and growing rapidly and whilst our key processes for audit, risk, our four supporting strategic elements: culture & brand, customers, remuneration and general Board governance are working well, the categories and countries.
I believe that AO has strong governance Board is aware that it does not currently meet The UK Corporate foundations required for sustainable, longterm success and over the Governance Code 2014 the Code independence requirements in coming financial year we will continue to work towards implementing respect of the composition of the Board and the Audit and Nomination the appropriate requirements and policies for the Company.
Under the recommendation of the Nomination Committee the Board has instructed a specialist search consultancy to identify As was the case last year, all Directors wishing to remain in office will two individuals with the experience to broaden and strengthen the seek election and re-election at the AGM.
Board and to support the executive team in achieving the Groups strategic ambitions, whilst at the same time addressing our Code Since my appointment in July last year, I have engaged with a number compliance issues.
We expect the details of these appointments to of AOs shareholders and I look forward to meeting many more at our be announced in the coming months.
My review also included an assessment of the Boards role in strategy.
To increase the Boards focus on our future, Board strategy days have Geoff Cooper now been formally scheduled to allow focused time for enhanced Chairman debate, challenge and understanding of the opportunities ahead and AO World Plc how our strategy can be affected and complemented by the strategic 5 June 2017 aims of our chosen partners.
The following pages set out how AO has applied the main principles of the Code and its compliance with the various provisions.
AO World Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 52 Overview Strategic Report Our Governance Our Results Shareholders Information Introduction This Corporate Governance Statement explains key features of the Companys governance structure and how it complies with The UK Corporate Governance Code the Code published in September 2014 by the Financial Reporting Council.
This Statement also includes items required by the Listing Rules and the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules.
The Code is available on the Financial Reporting Council website at www.
Compliance with the Code The Directors consider that the Company has, throughout the reporting period, complied with the provisions of the Code save as noted below: Code provision Detail Explanation of non-compliance A.
4.2 Led by the Senior Independent Director, the Geoff Cooper became Chairman at the conclusion of the B.
6.3 Non-Executive Directors did not meet Companys AGM in July 2016.
It was therefore not appropriate without the Chairman present to appraise to appraise his performance until he had been in the role for and evaluate his performance.
an appropriate length of time.
However, an appraisal of his performance was conducted by the Non-Executive Directors shortly following the Companys reporting period in May 2017.
1.2 Less than half of the Board, excluding the Excluding the Chairman who was deemed independent on Chairman, are independent Non-Executive appointment, the Board currently has two experienced independent Directors.
As discussed elsewhere in this report, the Board is currently seeking to add to its independent component through the appointment of two new Non-Executive Directors and therefore expects to comply with this Code provision in the near future.
However, notwithstanding these appointments, the Board is satisfied that no individual has dominated its decision making, no undue reliance has been placed on particular individuals, there has been sufficient challenge of executive management in meetings of the Board and the Board has operated effectively.
2.1 The Nomination Committee does not Only Brian McBride is considered independent and while Geoff comprise a majority of independent Cooper, Chairman of the Company and the Committee, was Non-Executive Directors.
considered to be independent on appointment, and remains so, the Code provides that thereafter the test of independence is not appropriate in relation to the Chairman.
However, the Board considers that it has a strong independent nonexecutive component and that the continuity, experience and knowledge of Chris Hopkinson ensures that he made a significant contribution to the work of the Committee over the period under review.
The composition of the Committee will be continually reviewed to ensure it remains effective.
6.2 An externally facilitated evaluation of the The Company had intended to conduct an externally facilitated Board has not taken place within the last evaluation of the Board during the reporting period: however, given three years.
the appointment of the new Chairman, Geoff Cooper, in July 2016, who conducted his own evaluation, this review was not considered necessary.
The Board intends to conduct an externally facilitated evaluation during the year ending 31 March 2018.
C. 3.1 The Audit Committee does not comprise Chris Hopkinson is not considered to be independent for the three independent Non-Executive Directors.
purposes of the Code given his long-term involvement with the business.
The Board considers that the composition of the Audit Committee has a strong independent non-executive component and that the continuity, experience and knowledge of Chris Hopkinson ensured that he made a significant contribution to the work of the Committee and that it ran effectively over the period under review.
The composition of this Committee will be continually reviewed to ensure it remains effective.
More information on our approach to governance is included in the introduction, the report on corporate governance and the reports of the Committees set out on page 53 to 79.
These reports describe how we have applied the main principles of the Code.
In addition this information is set out in detail on our website at www.
AO World Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 53
