74 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2017 4.
Governance Letter from the Chairman Good governance is fundamental to a successful company.
We believe we have a governance framework which fits our needs and is effective.
Tim Stevenson Chairman This section of the annual report describes our corporate governance Succession Planning and Diversity structures and processes and how they have been applied throughout Ensuring that the group employs a process of thoughtful, strategic the year ended 31st March 2017. and practical succession planning is a key role for the board in nurturing our culture, sustaining our operating model and delivering My Role as Chairman our strategy.
The board itself needs to be refreshed over time, drawing on an appropriately diverse talent pool.
We recognise the My most important role is to ensure that Johnson Matthey has a benefits of bringing greater diversity throughout the organisation board which works effectively under my leadership.
I believe we and in the boardroom.
I am pleased that we now have real have an effective board.
We report on pages 82 to 84 on our board momentum in this area.
We explain our approaches to this and committee review, which we conducted internally this year.
component of board effectiveness in this report.
I see open and constructive evaluation as integral to improving our effectiveness.
Our governance arrangements continue to be right for the The UK Corporate Governance Code company.
They effectively support our strategy and business model We are reporting this year against the 2014 version of the UK and will enable us to respond to any challenges we may face.
For me, Corporate Governance Code and against the additional provisions in ensuring the right dynamics of the board is vital.
I am pleased to say the 2016 revised version of the Code.
We report on how we have that overall we have strong contributions and challenge from all our applied the Codes main principles and complied with its relevant directors in an open and constructive atmosphere.
This is in large provisions.
Except in one respect which is explained on page 86, part created by having a board comprising directors with a broad Johnson Matthey has complied with all relevant provisions range and balance of skills, expertise and attributes.
As Chairman, throughout the year ended 31st March 2017 and from that date I lead the setting of the boards agenda and I pay considerable up to the date of approval of this annual report.
attention to ensuring we have a plan which allows for appropriate time to discuss all necessary items, particularly the development of strategy and the consideration of risk.
A key part of the boards role is to take effective steps in shaping and embedding a healthy corporate culture throughout our organisation.
This is fundamental to being able to build sound governance behaviours and practices, all of which support the Tim Stevenson success of our company.
We describe the boards activities in the Chairman year on pages 78 and 79.
Risk Management Risk management is an important part of our wider discussion of strategy and our operating model.
In this report, we aim to demonstrate how our strategy is underpinned by a robust risk management framework.
