Governance overview Committed to high standards of corporate governance The Board takes overall responsibility for the Groups governance framework, its culture and its values.
Ed Williams Chairman I am pleased to introduce our corporate governance statement which incorporates reports from the Chairmen of each of our Board Committees.
These reports explain our governance policies and procedures in detail and describe how we have applied the principles of corporate governance contained in the UK Corporate Governance Code 2014 the Code.
Compliance with the Corporate Governance Code The Company complied with all provisions set out in the Code for the period.
Directors We continually review the composition of the Board to ensure that it has the skills, experience and balance required for the proper stewardship of the business.
With effect from 1 April 2017, we were pleased to appoint Nathan Coe as an Executive Director, in the role of Chief Operating Officer.
Nathan has been central in shaping AutoTrader into one of the UKs leading digital businesses, and the creation of the Board-level role of Chief Operating Officer reflects our confidence in his abilities and strong leadership qualities.
We have three independent Non-Executive Directors, who bring with them significant commercial and financial expertise and are well placed to support the Executive Team in implementing our strategy.
With Nathans appointment, we now have three Executive Directors and therefore we continue to comply with the relevant provision of the Code for at least half of the Board to be independent, excluding myself.
All Directors will offer themselves for election or re-election by the shareholders at the forthcoming AGM.
44 Auto Trader Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Report of the Nomination Committee page 54 Report of the Audit Committee page 56 Directors remuneration report page 60 Committees of the Board The Board has established the following Committees and has delegated certain functions and tasks within their approved Terms of Reference.
This allows the Board to operate efficiently and focus on relevant areas of its responsibilities.
The membership of each Committee and a summary of its role is below.
The full Terms of Reference of each Committee are published on the Companys website at about-us.
co. uk investors Board Nomination Audit Remuneration Disclosure Committee Committee Committee Committee Members Members Members Members Ed Williams Chairman David Keens Chairman Jill Easterbrook Chairman Trevor Mather David Keens Jill Easterbrook David Keens Sean Glithero Jill Easterbrook Jeni Mundy Jeni Mundy Nathan Coe Jeni Mundy Claire Baty Role and Terms of Reference Role and Terms of Reference Role and Terms of Reference Role and Terms of Reference Reviews the structure, Reviews and reports to the Responsible for all elements Assists the Board in size and composition of the Board on the Groups financial of the remuneration of the discharging its responsibilities Board and its Committees, reporting, internal control, Executive Directors and relating to monitoring and makes appropriate whistleblowing, internal the Chairman, and senior the existence of Inside recommendations to audit and the independence employees.
Information and its disclosure the Board.
and effectiveness of the to the market.
Read more on page 60. a bout-us.
co. uk investors Board effectiveness Culture Our annual Board, Committee and Director Governance is not just about processes evaluation was carried out internally this and structure.
A culture of transparency year and confirmed to us that the Board and and openness is an essential part of a robust Committees are operating smoothly and governance framework, and underpins that each Director continues to be effective.
everything that we do as a Board, as Further details can be found on page 52. individual Directors, and in how our business Next year, as recommended by the Code, operates.
More details on AutoTraders we intend our Board evaluation to be values and culture, and how these are externally facilitated.
embedded in the wider organisation, are included in the CSR section on page 37.
Diversity and inclusion We are committed to achieving a diverse Annual General Meeting Board and workforce, and believe in the Our Annual General Meeting will be held benefits that diversity of gender, ethnicity, at 10.00am on 21 September 2017 at 1 Tony background and experience bring.
We have Wilson Place, Fourth Floor, Manchester, this year established a Diversity & Inclusion M15 4FN.
We expect that all Directors will working group and have added to our be in attendance.
Nomination Committee Terms of Reference the responsibility to oversee the progress Ed Williams in this important area.
With two of our Chairman Directors being female, we also continue 8 June 2017 to achieve our internal target of at least 25% female Board representation.
Auto Trader Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 45
