Governance CHAIRMANS GOVERNANCE REVIEW Welcome to the Corporate Governance and Remuneration sections of our Annual Report British Land has a highly effective Board, as once again confirmed by this years Board evaluation.
Lord Macpherson, formerly Permanent Secretary to HM Treasury, was appointed as a Non-Executive Director in December 2016 and we have recently announced that Preben Prebensen, Chief Executive of Close Brothers Group plc, will join the Board on 1 September 2017.
These appointments will further strengthen the diverse mix of skills and experience of our Directors.
Lord Turnbull and Simon Borrows will retire from the Board at the end of the 2017 AGM.
Lord Turnbull has served as a Director for more than 11 years and Simon for two three year terms.
I would like to thank them both for their valuable contribution as Board members.
Lord Turnbull will also step down as Senior Independent Director and will be succeeded by William Jackson.
All Directors, other than Lord Turnbull and Simon Borrows, will stand for John Gildersleeve election or re-election at the 2017 AGM.
We recognise the value that Directors Non-Executive Chairman who serve for many years bring to the Board and are delighted that Aubrey Adams, who will have served as a Non-Executive Director for almost nine years by the time of our 2017 AGM, has agreed to serve for a further one Directors meeting attendance during the year year term as an independent Non-Executive Director.
1.2 experience in the property sector is an important part of the mix of skills and Board meetings knowledge on our Board.
The process is under way to recruit an additional Director with property sector experience to further strengthen the Board.
John Gildersleeve 7 7 Chris Grigg 7 7 Read our Board biographies on pages 56 to 59.
Aubrey Adams 7 7 Corporate culture is increasingly an area of focus for investors, governance Lucinda Bell 7 7 advisory bodies, our customers and other stakeholders.
The Board is Simon Borrows 7 7 committed to influencing and shaping British Lands culture and believes Lynn Gladden 7 7 that setting the tone from the top and strong governance underpin a healthy William Jackson 7 7 inclusive culture, which is a key part of delivering long term business success.
1 The Board has supported the executive team in the significant amount of work Lord Macpherson 3 3 that has been done this year in reinforcing the behaviours that are expected Charles Maudsley 7 7 of British Land employees, increasing employee engagement and continuing Tim Roberts 7 7 to develop a more diverse and inclusive culture at British Land.
Tim Score 7 7 Read about our diversity and inclusion initiatives on pages 24 and 25.
Lord Turnbull 7 7 2 Laura Wade-Gery 6 7 The Board will continue to focus this year on monitoring British Lands culture and promoting good governance that supports openness and accountability 1 Lord Macpherson was appointed to the Board on 19 December 2016. throughout the business, including open engagement with stakeholders.
2 Laura Wade-Gery was unable to attend one Board meeting due to Further details on the impact on culture of strategic and financial decisions travel disruption.
As reported in the Chief Executives review, we have delivered good results We welcome feedback from shareholders.
Your feedback helps us shape in an eventful year as we have continued with our strategy of differentiating our governance structure and the way we do business, I look forward to our space by providing places which reflect peoples changing lifestyles.
hearing your views at, and in advance of, our 2017 AGM.
The design and delivery of our strategy continues to be supported by our robust governance structure which ensures effective decision-making based on the right information.
The Board plays a valuable role in encouraging debate about our strategy and its implementation and overseeing the identification and management of key risks.
John Gildersleeve More information on Our strategy can be found Non-Executive Chairman on pages 14 and 15.
60 British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2017 OUR GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE Board Board of Directors Responsible for long term success of the Company Develops strategy Determines nature and extent of significant risks Approves major transactions Non-Executive Chairman Independent Non-Executive Directors Chief Executive and Executive Directors Leads the Board and ensures it Work with and challenge Executive Directors Day-to-day management of the business operates effectively Provide an independent, external perspective and implementation of strategy Maintains a culture of openness and debate Contribute with a broad range of experience Overall responsibility lies with the Chief Ensures effective dialogue between the and expertise Executive, with specific areas delegated Board and shareholders to the Executive Directors Retail, Finance, Offices Board Committees report on their activities to the Board Audit Committee Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee Oversees financial and narrative reporting Leads process for Board appointments Sets remuneration policy and remuneration Provides assurance to the Board on and succession planning of the Chairman and Executive Directors effectiveness of internal control, risk Ensures Board and senior management Approves annual and long term management systems and audit processes have appropriate skills, knowledge and performance objectives and awards Reviews effectiveness and objectivity experience to operate effectively and of external and internal auditors deliver strategy Audit Committee Report Nomination Committee Report Remuneration Report see pages 67 to 70. see pages 71 and 72. see pages 73 to 88.
Management Committees report on their activities to the Board and its committees as appropriate Executive Committee Investment Committee Risk Committee Considers day-to-day operational matters Reviews, approves or recommends Manages strategic and operational risk in for running the business capital transactions achieving the Companys performance goals Reviews performance of the Groups Recommends major transactions Recommends appropriate risk appetite levels assets and development programme for Board approval and monitors risk exposure Reports to the Board Reports to the Board Reviews operation of risk management Members are the Executive Directors Members are the Executive Directors, processes and senior executives, chaired by the chaired by the Chief Executive Reports to the Audit Committee Chief Executive Officer Members are the Executive Directors, chaired by the Chief Financial Officer Health and Safety Committee Sustainability Committee Community Investment Committee Reviews performance against targets and Reviews performance and monitors Oversees the strategic management drives actions in pursuit of the Companys progress against sustainability targets of the Community Investment Fund health and safety goals and key initiatives Approves and monitors all spend under Reports to the Risk Committee Assesses emerging social, environmental the Community Investment Fund Three subcommittees: Construction, and ethical issues, assessing associated Reports to the Risk Committee Managed Portfolio and Head Office risks and consideration of mitigating actions Reports to the Risk Committee British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2017 61 Governance GOVERNANCE REVIEW Our governance structure is an integral part of the way we design and deliver our strategy Compliance with the Code The division of responsibilities between the Chairman who is The Board has continued to apply good governance practices during responsible for running the Board and the Chief Executive who the year and considers that the Company has fully complied with the is responsible for running the Companys business is set out UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
This section of the Annual in writing and approved by the Board A.
Report outlines how we have applied the Codes principles and provisions throughout the year.
We are reporting against the Code which applies to The Board delegates authority for ensuring that the business is companies with reporting periods beginning on or after 1 October 2014. run in accordance with the agreed strategy to the Chief Executive, A copy of the Code is available at ww w. frc.
uk with responsibility for specific areas of the business delegated to the other Executive Directors.
The Executive Directors are involved in, or aware of, all major activities and are therefore extremely well For ease of reference, this is how we demonstrate our compliance placed to ensure that actions taken align with strategy.
throughout the Governance and remuneration section of the 2017 Annual Report: The major decisions reserved for Board approval and other decisions delegated to the Executive Directors are formally documented and A.
Leadership D. Remuneration reviewed regularly A.
The Executive Directors make decisions within these predefined parameters although any activities outside B.
Effectiveness E. Relations with shareholders the ordinary course of business may still be taken to the full Board for consideration and approval where this is considered appropriate, C. Accountability even if they fall within those parameters.
The parameters and controls set by the Board within which the Leadership management undertake the day-to-day running of the business ensure The Boards core responsibilities include setting British Lands that decisions are taken by people with the correct authority to make strategic aims and leading the Company as it works to achieve these these decisions.
Management Committees deal with their specific areas aims and attain long term success.
The focus on strategy by the Board of responsibility before making decisions where authority has been continues throughout the year with annual Strategy Days providing an granted or before recommending actions for Board-level approval.
opportunity to discuss, challenge and develop the Companys strategy as explained in the box below.
Progress in delivery of the agreed The Chairman meets with individual Directors outside formal Board strategy is considered at Board meetings during the year.
The strategy meetings as part of each Directors continuing contribution to the is kept under review in light of Company performance and changes Company A.
This process allows for open, two-way discussion to the external environment.
about the effectiveness of the Board, its Committees and individual Directors.
In this way, the Chairman remains mindful of the views of individual Directors and can act as necessary to deal with any issues Strategy Days relating to Board effectiveness before they become a risk to the Company.
The annual Strategy Days provide Non-Executive Directors in particular with a focused opportunity to consider, develop and Culture and composition of the Board challenge the Companys strategy.
As well as considering the The composition of the Board is fundamental to its success in Group as a whole, consideration is given to key parts of the providing strong and effective leadership: the breadth of knowledge, Groups current and prospective asset portfolio.
skills and experience of our Non-Executive Directors is detailed in their biographies on pages 56 to 59.
The Nomination Committee In 2017, the annual Strategy Days were held at the beginning of is responsible for reviewing the composition of the Board and its March.
The Executive Directors, senior executives and external Committees and assessing whether the balance of skills, experience, guests delivered a number of presentations to attendees providing knowledge and independence is appropriate to enable them to operate in-depth analysis on aspects of the business and the external effectively B.
The days were carefully structured to achieve a balance between presentations, debate and discussion.
Following recommendations by the Nomination Committee, Lord Macpherson was appointed a Non-Executive Director in December 2016 Areas focused on at the 2017 Strategy Days included: corporate and we have recently announced that Preben Prebensen will join as a strategy, Canada Water, Office strategy, Retail strategy, technology Non-Executive Director and member of the Remuneration Committee opportunities and challenges.
These appointments will further strengthen the mix of skills and experience on the Board.
62 British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2017 William Jackson will succeed Lord Turnbull as the Senior Independent We continue to have a strong mix of experienced individuals on the Director at the end of the 2017 AGM when Lord Turnbull retires as Board with the majority being independent Non-Executive Directors a Director and as Senior Independent Director.
Simon Borrows will who are able to offer an external perspective on the business, and also step down as a Director at the end of the 2017 AGM.
constructively challenge the Executive Directors, particularly when developing the Companys strategy B.
The Non-Executive Lord Macpherson joined the Audit Committee and Tim Score joined Directors scrutinise the performance of management in meeting their the Nomination Committee on 1 April 2017. agreed goals and objectives, and monitor the reporting of performance.
Our rigorous and transparent procedures for appointing new The high calibre of debate and the participation of all Directors, Directors are led by the Nomination Committee.
Non-Executive Executive and Non-Executive, allow the Board to utilise the experience Directors are appointed for specified terms and all continuing Directors and skills of the individual Directors to their maximum potential and offer themselves for election or re-election by shareholders at the make decisions that are in the best interest of the Company.
AGM each year, if the Board, on the recommendation of the Nomination Committee, deems it appropriate that they do so B.
Culture Aubrey Adams will have served as a Non-Executive Director for almost British Land recognises that: nine years by the time of our 2017 AGM.
When a Non-Executive Directors tenure goes beyond nine years, their independence is carefully reviewed the behaviours and attitudes exhibited in the way British Land and monitored.
Following a particularly rigorous review of Aubreys conducts business and in its relations with stakeholders are a contributions and independence by the Nomination Committee, key indicator of, and have a material impact on, our culture and the Board determined that he remains independent in character alignment of our business decisions with our culture, values and judgement.
and strategy is key to demonstrating our commitment to developing a long term sustainable business The Board has approved the recommendation of the Nomination Committee that it is appropriate for Aubrey Adams to remain in office The Board takes account of these factors when considering as an independent Non-Executive Director, and a member of the Audit strategic and financial decisions.
Committee, for a further year, notwithstanding the length of his service.
Aubreys considerable expertise in the property sector is an important part of the mix of skills and experience on our Board and we recognise Effectiveness the importance of continuity and the value that Directors who serve Regular Board and Committee meetings are scheduled throughout for many years bring to the Board.
We are delighted he has agreed the year and the Directors ensure that they allocate sufficient time to to stand for re-election.
The recruitment process to recruit an discharge their duties effectively.
Occasionally, Board meetings may additional director with property sector experience is ongoing.
be held at short notice when Board-level decisions of a time-critical nature need to be made.
The Board considers that Aubrey Adams, Simon Borrows, Lynn Gladden, William Jackson, Tim Score, Lord Turnbull, Laura Wade-Gery and Lord For meeting attendance, see the table on page 60.
In making this determination, the Board has reviewed the Nomination Committees assessment of whether each Non-Executive Directors letters of appointment set out the time Director remains independent in character and judgement and whether commitments expected and each Directors attendance record is there are relationships or circumstances which are likely to affect, considered when assessing whether they should stand for re-election or could appear to affect, that judgement B.
The Nomination Committee considers that all the Directors continue to devote sufficient time to discharging their The Board believes that the Non-Executive Directors are of the stature duties to the required high standard.
and have the experience required to perform their roles as independent Directors properly.
Following this years Board evaluation, the Board British Lands policy is to allow Executive Directors to take one nonbelieves each Non-Executive Director standing for re-election at the executive directorship at another FTSE company, subject to British 2017 AGM continues to fulfil effectively and remains committed to their Land Board approval.
External appointments of the Directors are role within British Land.
The terms and conditions of appointment of disclosed in their biographies and fees earned by Executive Directors Non-Executive Directors are available for inspection at the Companys are disclosed on page 86 of the Remuneration Report D. 1.2. registered office and at the AGM B.
The Directors are required to notify the Company of any potential conflicts of interest that may affect them in their roles as Directors The Board culture is one of openness and constructive debate: the of British Land.
All potential conflicts of interest are authorised by Directors voice their opinions in a relaxed and respectful environment, the Board at the earliest opportunity and the register of Directors allowing coherent discussion.
The Chairman is responsible for interests is reviewed by the full Board at least annually.
He does so by ensuring information of an appropriate quality is provided in a timely manner before Board meetings which leads to focused discussion in the boardroom.
When running Board meetings the Chairman maintains a collaborative atmosphere and ensures that all Directors contribute to debates.
The Chairman arranges informal meetings and events throughout the year to help build constructive relationships between the Board members.
British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2017 63 Governance GOVERNANCE REVIEW CONTINUED Board training and development Key areas considered by the Board British Land provides all Non-Executive Directors with a tailored during the year: and thorough induction which includes briefings on Directors duties, Group strategy, one-to-one meetings with Executive Directors and outcomes of the annual Strategy Days and progress other senior executives.
They are also provided with the opportunity towards agreed outcomes to visit key properties and developments B.
4.1. consideration and approval of risk appetite principal risks faced by the Company The Chairman reviews training and development needs with the Brexit and its affect on the Group Directors annually B.
Board members are provided with reports of the activities of the Audit including risk, opportunities to update and refresh their knowledge throughout Remuneration and Nomination Committees the year, ensuring that they are able to fulfil their role as members updates on the business, external environment and of the Board and its Committees effectively.
During the year ended investor relations 31 March 2017, the Board considered papers and presentations on updates on the portfolio, including possible developments, legal and regulatory developments, technology opportunities and acquisitions and disposals challenges and  developments as well as updates on financing and capital structure receiving regular briefings on the views of stakeholders, the results of the Board performance evaluation external environment and regulatory matters.
election and re-election of Directors at the AGM and Committee membership conflicts of interest Board evaluation approval of year end and half year financial results, The effectiveness of the Board and its Committees is reviewed the Annual Report and the Notice of AGM annually, with an independent, externally facilitated review being approval of the dividend policy and declaration of quarterly conducted at least once every three years.
The next external interim dividends review will be undertaken in 2018 B.
6.2. culture people including training and development and In 2017, an internal evaluation of the Board and its Committees succession planning was conducted by the Company Secretary and General Counsel health and safety B.
In addition to the formal evaluation, the Chairman met sustainability each Non-Executive Director individually during the year to discuss cyber security and information technology their contribution to the Board.
The Senior Independent Director led the appraisal of the Chairmans performance by the NonExecutive Directors, with the views of the Executive Directors The Non-Executive Directors are kept well informed of the key also being taken into consideration B.
6.3. developments in the business through regular reports including a Management Report delivered by the Chief Executive at each Board The Chairman and Chief Executive presented their appraisals meeting, a Finance Report and regular updates on the activities of the of the performance of the Chief Executive and other Executive Risk and Sustainability Committees.
Throughout the year presentations Directors respectively.
These appraisals were taken into account and reports on specific aspects of the business and individual assets when considering the performance of the Board as a whole as are also delivered, along with updates on the regulatory and external well as in relation to annual and long term incentive awards.
Specific input from the Non-Executive Directors is also sought when significant investment decisions and strategic initiatives The evaluation of the Board and its Committees concluded that are reviewed and discussed.
the Board and its Committees continued to operate effectively with a high standard of performance throughout the year.
Care is taken to ensure that information is circulated in good time before Board and Committee meetings whenever possible, and that reports are presented clearly and contain the appropriate level of detail Accountability to enable the Board to discharge its duties.
It is the Company Secretarys The Board is responsible for preparing the Annual Report and confirms role to facilitate effective information flows between the Board and in the Directors responsibility statement set out on page 91 that they its Committees, and between senior management and Non-Executive believe that this Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and Directors.
As a result, the Non-Executive Directors are able effectively understandable, and provides the information necessary to assess to monitor management of the business and the implementation of British Lands position, performance, business model and strategy the strategic aims as well as being able to assess the performance C. 1.1.
The basis on which the Company creates and preserves of the Chairman and Executive Directors B.
5.1. value over the long term is described in the Strategic Report C. 1.2.
The Company Secretary is responsible, through the Chairman, The content of the Annual Report is prepared by the relevant responsible for advising the Board on all aspects of governance B.
Specific sections are reviewed by Department Heads and Executive Committee members as appropriate, ensuring that key stakeholders are involved throughout the process.
The Executive Directors are closely involved in drafting and reviewing their sections of the Annual Report.
A detailed and robust due diligence process is conducted to verify key statements made within the Annual Report prior to its thorough review by the Audit Committee and presentation to the Board for consideration and approval.
64 British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2017 The procedure undertaken to enable the Board to provide the fair, The Audit Committee reviews the effectiveness of the Groups balanced and understandable confirmation to shareholders has been system of internal control annually, including the systems of control reviewed by the Audit Committee.
Meetings to review and document the for material joint ventures and funds.
During the course of its review key considerations undertaken to ensure that information presented is of the risk management and internal control systems during the fair, balanced and understandable are held between the Chief Financial year ended 31 March 2017, and to the date of this Report, the Audit Officer, Head of Investor Relations and the Group Financial Controller Committee has not identified, nor been advised of, a failing or and other appropriate employees.
A detailed report is then presented weakness which it has determined to be significant C. 2.3. to the Audit Committee which includes a summary of the process undertaken to satisfy management that the confirmation to be A number of policies and procedures have been adopted by the Group given is appropriate and accurate.
to ensure that we not only meet our legal obligations, but also behave ethically, act with integrity and protect our assets from the unlawful Risk management and internal control activities of others.
These include policies on anti-bribery and The Board determines the extent and nature of the risks it is prepared corruption and fraud awareness and know-your-client procedures.
to take in order to achieve the Companys strategic objectives.
All employees are made aware of the Groups policies and receive training appropriate to their roles and responsibilities.
The Board has responsibility for the Companys overall approach to risk management and internal control.
The Boards responsibilities Viability and going concern include ensuring the design and implementation of appropriate risk management and internal control systems.
Oversight of the The viability statement is set out on page 49 C. 2.2. effectiveness of these systems is delegated to the Audit Committee which undertakes regular reviews to ensure that the Group is The Group has considerable undrawn debt facilities and cash deposits identifying, considering and mitigating, as far as practicable, in excess of current drawn banking facilities.
There is substantial the most appropriate risks for the business C. 2.3. headroom against the covenants for its unsecured banking facilities.
It also benefits from a diverse and secure income stream from leases As well as complying with the Code, the best practice recommendations with long average lease terms.
in Guidance for Risk Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting have been adopted and the Companys internal Having assessed the principal risks and other matters discussed in control framework has been assessed against the internationally connection with the viability statement, the Directors believe that the recognised COSO Internal Control Integrated Framework.
The latter Group is well placed to manage its financing and other business risks assessment showed that all key control elements are in place.
satisfactorily, and have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operation for at least British Lands approach to risk, including the roles of the Board, the 12 months from the date of the Annual Report.
They therefore consider Audit Committee and the Executive Risk Committee in setting risk it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in appetite and monitoring risk exposure, is detailed in the Managing preparing the financial statements C. 1.3. risk in delivering our strategy section on pages 46 to 49 C. 2.1.
Taxation Formal and transparent arrangements exist for considering how Our principles of good governance extend to our responsible approach corporate reporting, risk management and internal control principles to tax.
It remains important to our stakeholders that this is aligned to the are applied and for maintaining an appropriate relationship with the long term values and strategy of the Group.
The Chief Financial Officer, Companys auditor.
with close involvement of the other Executive Directors and senior management, is responsible for developing the Groups approach The Groups internal control system is built on the following fundamental to tax.
A tax update is presented to the Audit Committee annually.
principles, and is subject to review by internal audit: Community investment a defined schedule of matters reserved for approval by British Lands approach to community investment is set out in our the Board Local Charter which details how we build trust by making positive a detailed authorisation process: no material commitments contributions locally.
Our Community Funding Guidelines set out are entered into without thorough review and approval by how we allocate funding, with a particular focus on initiatives close more than one authorised person to our assets that provide opportunities to local people through formal documentation of all significant transactions education, employment and training.
Both documents can be a robust system of business and financial planning: including found on our website at ww w. britishland.
com policies cash flows and profitability forecasting, with scenario analysis performed on major corporate, property and financing proposals Our financial donations to good causes during the year totalled a robust process for property investment appraisals 1,351,000 2016: 1,371,000.
Our Community Investment Committee monitoring of key outcomes, particularly expenditure approves all expenditure from our Community Investment Fund and performance of significant investments, against budget and reports to the Executive Committee on an annual basis.
and forecast clearly defined policies and review of actual performance In addition to funding projects approved by our Community Investment against policies Committee, the Company also supports fundraising and payroll giving benchmarking of property performance against external for causes that matter to staff.
This support includes: sources such as Investment Property Databank key controls testing 50% uplift of staff payroll giving contributions capped at 5,000 a comprehensive property and corporate insurance per person and 50,000 per annum for the whole organisation and programme and a formal whistle-blowing policy a staff matched funding pledge, matching money raised for charity by staff up to 750 per person per year British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2017 65 Governance GOVERNANCE REVIEW CONTINUED We also support fundraising by the on site teams managing Key investor relations activities during our retail and office properties around the UK by: the year included matching up to 750 for two site fundraising initiatives May 2016 Full year results presentation per year, per location and Full year roadshow, London extending our staff matched funding pledge to on site employees Investor property conference, Netherlands of Broadgate Estates Limited, our wholly-owned subsidiary Private client investor roundtable, London June 2016 Investor roadshow, Edinburgh British Land does not make donations to political organisations.
Investor property conference, London Investor property tour, Paddington Central Remuneration July 2016 Analyst roundtable, Retail strategy, London The Directors Remuneration Report is set out on pages 73 to 88.
Q1 trading update AGM The Remuneration Policy was approved by shareholders at the 2016 US Private Placement investor briefing, AGM and is summarised on page 75.
The full policy is available on teleconference our website: ww w. britishland.
We are not making any changes to the Remuneration Policy this year.
September 2016 Investor property conference, London Investor roadshow, US Relations with shareholders Private client roadshow, London The Board remains committed to maintaining open channels of November 2016 Half year results presentation communication with shareholders.
It is important that we clearly Half year roadshow, London explain the Companys strategy and objectives and that feedback is Investor property conference, London listened to and any issues and questions appropriately considered.
December 2016 Direct investor roadshow, Canada Investor property conference, South Africa British Land has a dedicated Investor Relations team which January 2017 Q3 trading update reports to the Chief Financial Officer.
Investors and analysts receive Investor property conference, London regular communications from the Company throughout the year, Analyst and investor property tour, including Investor Relations events see box to the right, one-to-one and Clarges, Mayfair group meetings with Executive Directors and property or asset tours, as well as regular contact with the Investor Relations team.
During February 2017 Investor roadshow, Netherlands the year, the Chief Executive, Chief Financial Officer and our Investor March 2017 Investor sustainability workshop, London Relations team met with representatives from over 205 institutions.
Investor property conference, London We periodically commission an independent investor perception Private client roadshow, London and Edinburgh study which is presented to the Board.
Investor roadshow, Edinburgh The Chairman encourages all Directors to attend the AGM, providing retail shareholders in particular with an opportunity to hear from the Board and to question the Directors in person.
Significant emphasis is placed on the importance of feeding shareholder views, both positive and negative, back to the Board.
The Chief Executive provides a written report to the Board at each scheduled meeting which includes direct market feedback on activity during the period.
British Land aims to be informative and accessible to all shareholders.
Announcements relating to the Groups financial results and other key matters are provided in a timely manner to both retail and institutional shareholders.
Our website also provides a number of case studies for stakeholders information covering topics from asset profiles to sustainability activities.
Shareholders are also able to contact the Company directly via the contacts page on our website: ww w. britishland.
com contacts We are pleased with the level of engagement with shareholders achieved during the year and the Board also recognises the important contribution of providers of capital other than shareholders, namely our lenders and bondholders.
We maintain a regular and open dialogue with our debt providers to help us understand their investment appetite and criteria.
As ever, our Senior Independent Director remains available to address any concerns shareholders may wish to raise, other than via the usual channels of the Chairman, Chief Executive or other Executive Directors A.
66 British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2017
