Governance Chairmans overview The Board continues to believe that As a Board we regularly discuss and good corporate governance underpins review: good business performance.
As a Our business performance and our Board we are accountable to our progress towards our strategic goals shareholders for ensuring that governance processes are in place Our customers and how we can and are eective and we are fully ensure that they are at the heart of committed to meeting the required everything we do standards of corporate governance.
Our people and how we can develop The reports that follow are intended to and support them to provide the give shareholders an understanding of our service our customers expect corporate governance arrangements and how they operated in FY17.
Our shareholders and how we communicate with them Board focus Over the last year we have delivered Our governance and controls.
strong profit growth while continuing Board changes to implement our customer focused Having served as Chief Financial Ocer growth strategy.
We have continued to since September 2012, Johnathan Ford seek out new opportunities to grow our was appointed to the new role of Group business, investing in Checkatrade and Chief Operating Ocer on 20 June acquiring Habitissimo, two innovative 2016.
Johnathan now provides focus online businesses, and completing the and support to all of our businesses in acquisition of Utility Service Partners in order to ensure high levels of operational the US.
eectiveness across the Group as it grows.
He is leading the development and implementation of plans to deliver the Groups operating objectives, sharing best practice and maximising the returns from investments in new systems and technology.
62 Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Following a selection process to identify a Edward joined Hastings Insurance Group successor to Johnathan, David Bower was in 2008 as Chief Executive Ocer and appointed as Chief Financial Ocer on was part of the MBO team of the business 6 February 2017.
He served as the Non-Executive in 2005 and has undertaken a number Chairman of Hastings Insurance Services of senior divisional and group finance Limited until October 2015 and a Nonroles including six years as Group Finance Executive Director of Hastings Group Director.
We have today announced the Prior to joining Hastings he spent three appointment of three new Directors to the years at HomeServe as Chief Executive of Board with eect from 23 May 2017.
Rusin has been appointed as an Executive I am delighted to welcome David, Director and Katrina Clie and Edward Tom, Katrina and Edward to the Board.
Fitzmaurice have both been appointed as HomeServe is becoming a bigger and Non-Executive Directors.
Katrina will also broader-based business and these join the Audit & Risk Committee.
appointments expand and strengthen Tom has been Chief Executive Ocer of the executive and non-executive HomeServe USA since July 2011 and is presence around the Board table.
Toms currently a member of the HomeServe appointment reects the increasing plc Executive Committee.
Prior to joining signicance of North America to the HomeServe he was at Anion Group Group.
Katrina and Edward both bring where he undertook a number of roles a wealth of experience in financial culminating in three years as President services and their extensive commercial and Chief Executive Ocer of Anion experience will be of great benefit as Groups North American Division.
we continue to develop and expand the business.
Katrina has spent her career in retail financial services, credit cards, customer Board eectiveness service and marketing.
Most recently she During the year, a review of the Board was General Manager at American Express and its committees was undertaken by Global Business Travel, EMEA, having Lintstock Limited, an external facilitator.
previously been General Manager, Global Based on this review and my experience Corporate Payments, UK.
as Chairman, I am satisfied that the Board and its Committees are performing Katrina is currently a non-executive eciently and that there is an appropriate Director of Cembra Money Bank, ABTA balance of skills, experience, knowledge Association of British Travel Agents and and independence to enable the Board to Shop Direct Finance Company where she discharge its duties eectively.
chairs the Risk Management Committee.
JM Barry Gibson Chairman 23 May 2017 63
