Chairmans governance report This has been a challenging year.
The Board has focused on a number of key areas to ensure BT remains a strong company.
As I write my final chairmans governance report, coming to the end In addition to our forward programme of key items, updates from of my tenth year at BT, I am delighted that Jan du Plessis will join the each line of business CEO and updates on customer experience, Board on 1 June 2017 as a non-executive director, before becoming we also had in-depth discussions on BT Italy, the Digital chairman from 1 November 2017, when I retire.
He brings great Communications Review, Deemed Consent and BT Sport.
You can experience, having been chairman of British American Tobacco, read more about what we have done on pages 109 to 111.
I wish Jan every success as he leads BT at this important time.
For 2016 17, the company secretary and I carried out a Board evaluation.
We discussed the resulting report and noted that, overall, Simon Lowth joined the Board on 12 July 2016 as group finance the results were positive.
We also identified a number of areas of director.
Simon brings a wealth of knowledge to BT: having focus and you can find our actions in these areas on page 111.
We previously been CFO and served on the boards of BG Group, have carried out the triennial external evaluation of the Board for AstraZeneca and ScottishPower.
This was conducted by Independent Board Evaluation.
who stood down as group finance director in July 2016 and left the You will find further details on this evaluation process on page 117. company on 31 March 2017.
We keep our governance framework under review to ensure I am very disappointed by the findings in our Italian business and by it enhances the Boards ability to exercise proper oversight.
In the issues that arose in Openreach around Deemed Consent, which accordance with our proposals to Ofcom on the DCR, we discussed led to a considerable fine.
We take these matters extremely seriously the independent appointments to the Openreach board, and and we have taken immediate steps to strengthen our financial approved the appointment of Mike McTighe as the first Openreach processes and controls.
You can read more on these on pages 6 chairman.
We created the Investigatory Powers Governance and7.
Committee as a result of the new Investigatory Powers Act.
You will find further details on this on page 37.
We also reviewed our I continually review the membership of the Board and its range of Board committee structure and approved changes to some of the skills.
We look to appoint outstanding candidates with a diverse committees terms of reference.
range of experience, as we recognise the importance of diversity in the widest sense to maximise Board effectiveness.
We currently have As I leave BT, I would like to thank all members of the Board for their 27% female representation on the Board.
continued support in what has been a challenging year.
I believe the Board has the right range of skills and experience to keep developing The Board has played an active role, particularly in relation to the and delivering our strategy under Jans leadership.
I look forward to key issues the company has faced this year, and the search for and following with interest BTs progress in the coming years.
Board members have also ensured they are available to support and engage with the management team.
Sir Michael Rake Chairman 11 May 2017 104 104 B BT Gr T Group plc oup plc Annual R Annual Repor eport 2017 t 2017
