70 Leadership & Effectiveness Governance report Chairmans introduction to governance Strategic report and further detail of Dear Shareholder Andrew Duff how we carried out our risk assessment I am pleased to introduce our Governance Chairman activities in the Audit Committee report report for 2017 on behalf of your Board in onpages 85 to 90. accordance with the Code.
Following your Severn Trents strength lies in the quality feedback on our 2016 report, we have of its people, wherever they work in the again structured our report to reflect the Group and whatever their role is.
We have themes of the Code.
As such, the pages clearly defined values and standards that follow provide details on the activities My role, together with your of behaviour which we expect from and governance processes of the Board, Board, is to make sure that everyone who works for Severn Trent.
Severn Trent operates to During the year, we have relaunched During the year, the Board spent a our code of conduct Doing the Right the highest standards of significant proportion of its time on Thing the Severn Trent Way across the operational delivery, retail market Corporate Governance.
Group, through an all-employee training opening, risk management and future programme, to make sure that all of our strategy development.
Further detail people embody Severn Trents values: on the scope of the Boards activities, UK Corporate Governance Code we put our customers first: we are discussions and resulting actions can be Compliance Statement passionate about what we do: we act with found on page 79 of this report.
The version of the Corporate Governance integrity: we protect our environment: Code applicable to the current reporting My role, together with your Board, is to and we are inspired to create an period is the September 2014 UK Corporate make sure that Severn Trent operates awesome company, to help us to achieve Governance Code the Code.
The Code is to the highest standards of corporate our vision of being the most trusted water available on the Financial Reporting Councils website www.
governance within a solid governance company by 2020. framework to effectively deliver the We are pleased to confirm that Severn Trent We know that the right culture must be Groups strategic objectives and to Plc was compliant with all of the provisions set set from the top and we have conducted out in the Code for the period under review.
meet its obligations to the Companys an annual review of the key metrics which stakeholders, as required by our Charter A new edition of the Code was published in indicate what kind of culture exists in April 2016 which applies to reporting periods of Expectations.
beginning on or after 17 June 2016.
As our The Board sets the Groups long term 2016 reporting period began before this My focus continues to be on maintaining date, we are continuing to report against the strategy and monitors, challenges and a strong, value adding team, with a broad 2014 edition of the Code, although we have supports the work of the Executive range of professional backgrounds, skills adopted some of the new provisions earlier Committee in delivering that strategy.
Succession planning During 2016, the Board held a dedicated continues to be a key priority for the strategy day along with the Executive Board and Nominations Committee.
Committee to consider areas of future Governance of subsidiaries Following the retirement of Martin Lamb value creation across the Group.
and Gordon Fryett after the 2016 Annual The membership of the Board of the listed Topics included asset strategy and Company, Severn Trent Plc, is the same General Meeting AGM, Kevin Beeston potential future disruptors, regulatory as that of the Groups regulated subsidiary and Dominique Reiniche were appointed strategy and growth strategies across Boards, being Severn Trent Water Limited to the Board on 1 June and 20 July 2016. and Dee Valley Water plc, together referred our portfolio of businesses.
You can find Both Kevin and Dominique benefited from to as the Board.
This structure was additional details on our strategy and implemented in 2007, and updated during a bespoke, tailored induction programme.
our progress on pages 20 and 21 of the the year to incorporate Dee Valley Water During the year, the induction process Strategic report.
plc, to make sure that the highest standards has been reviewed in light of their of corporate governance are applied at the The Board continues to focus on the feedback, to keep it refreshed, effective regulated subsidiary level and to foster Groups risk management and internal and informative.
Further details of their greater visibility and supervision by the SevernTrentPlc Board.
control systems during the year, with induction programmes can be found on Board and Audit Committee discussion, page 80.
Severn Trent Water Limited also complies with the Code to ensure the highest standards and challenge centred on ensuring of governance.
We will be ensuring that adequate mitigation of risks faced by Dee Valley Water plc operates to the same the Group.
In addition, there were two standards as Severn Trent Water Limited dedicated Board risk workshops in moving forward.
You can read more about how we identify and manage risks on pages 47 and 48 of our Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 71 Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Leadership & Effectiveness Other information The Board and Nominations Committee Charter of Expectations continue to drive the agenda of diversity In November 2014, the Severn Trent Charter across the Group and we are proud of Expectations was adopted to promote of the progress made, particularly in and implement best practice corporate regards to female representation on governance.
The Charter sets out clearly defined roles of the Chairman, Chief the Board and Executive Committee Executive, Chief Financial Officer, Senior now at 44% and 60%.
There is also Independent Director and Non-Executive a continual focus on promoting wider Directors, the operation of the Board and diversity.
We believe that our Company Board Committees, and also reflects the should reflect our communities and Boards responsibility for setting the tone for the Groups culture, values and behaviour.
customers, and embrace a diverse range of perspectives, experiences and expertise In accordance with the Code, there is a clear division of responsibilities between the roles to support our long term viability and of Chairman and CEO set out in writing in the commercial success.
We are committed to developing our The Charter of Expectations is reviewed talent pipeline, to make sure we have annually, with the last review undertaken in March 2017.
Its also used to assist appropriate representation from minority in the ongoing annual assessment ethnic candidates, as well as other of the effectiveness of the Board and relevant diverse groups.
You can find its Committees and that of individual additional details on our progress and Directors details of which can be found on ambitions on page 82 of the Nominations page 83, and is available on our website www.
Committee report and details of diversity across the Severn Trent Group on page 33.
This Annual Report remains the principal Board focus during 2016 17 means of reporting to our shareholders Operational delivery on the Boards governance policies Retail market opening and sets out how our approach to good Risk management corporate governance has been applied Future strategy development in practice.
We welcome any feedback on this report and I would like to encourage our shareholders to attend our AGM.
We look forward to the opportunity to meet with you and I hope you will take theopportunity to do so this year.
Andrew Duff Chairman Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017
