Royal Mail plc | Chairmans introduction Corporate governance Chairmans introduction Dear Shareholder During the year, our Board saw changes On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to to its composition with the retirement of presentRoyal Mails corporate governance NonExecutive Director Nick Horler in report, following my first full year as Chairman February 2017, having served on the Board of your Company.
Although it has been for almost seven years.
Wealso welcomed ayear of considerable change and challenge, Rita Griffin to the Board in December 2016 wecontinue to ensure we maintain the highest as a NonExecutive Director.
Rita brings standards of governance and confirm that the considerable knowledge developing and Company has, once again, fully complied with implementing strategies and leading the UK Governance Code 2014 throughout the substantial transformation programmes.
We were delighted that Royal Mail was Aswe have announced, further changes will recognised in the Institute of Directors 2016 take place with the stepping down of our Good Governance Report by being ranked Chief Finance Officer Matthew Lester at the in the top 10 of all FTSE100 companies for conclusion of this years AGM.
The following pages in this report explain, in detail, the structure On 15 May 2017, we announced that Stuart and processes in place to ensure excellent Simpson, Director of Group Finance, will be Index Page governance and sets out the operations of the appointed CFO and join the Royal Mail Board Chairmans introduction 48 Boards primary committees.
at the conclusion of the AGM on 20July2017.
Stuart's appointment follows a comprehensive Board of Directors 49 Our Board is committed to ensuring that it search that included both internal and Chief Executives Committee 52 provides effective leadership and promotes a externalcandidates.
culture of uncompromising ethical standards Statement of corporate governance 54 We continue to support and promote diversity based on honesty, integrity, openness and within our business and Royal Mail employs Audit and Risk Committee report 59 effective debate.
As individuals, we believe a diverse mix of people that reflects the that the highest standard of corporate Nomination Committee report 63 communities we serve.
The Board is proud governance is vitally important to the success that we were listed as a top 20 company Pensions Committee report 64 of the business and will contribute to improve for senior leader gender diversity in the company performance as well as help the HamptonAlexander Review: an independent, Directors remuneration report 66 Board discharge its duties in the best interests Government supported review of diversity of shareholders and for the long term success Directors report 84 in FTSE 100 companies.
RoyalMail has also of the Company.
TheBoard achieves this by been recognised as a Times Top 50 Employers requiring that good governance principles and for Women for the fourth consecutive year.
practices are adhered to and are embedded Westrongly believe that the business benefits throughout theCompany.
from a diverse Board and Senior Management team in all aspects not just gender and this The Board reviews Royal Mails longterm facilitates better collective decisionmaking strategy and monitors, supports and, where capacity.
We will continue to promote diversity required, challenges the executive team, in its broadestsense.
whose role it is to manage the Company successfully daytoday, driving performance The Board carries out an evaluation of and creating value for our shareholders our own performance on an annual basis.
I lead the Board Following an external evaluation facilitated and for it to be effective in discharging its by Independent Board Evaluation in 201516, responsibilities, a level of independence this year it was agreed that the annual and objectivity is maintained to ensure we evaluation would be carried out internally.
have the correct balance of experience and The results found that our Board and each skills and have sufficient knowledge of the of the Board committees function very well operations of the business.
and make an effective contribution and a strong commitment to the leadership and This year, the Board has devoted much of its progression of the Group.
The findings of the attention to strategy, market changes and evaluation are discussed in more detail on succession planning.
been held around operational delivery, our business transformation and the associated Peter Long business risks and their management.
Chairman 17May 2017 48 | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016-17
