38 ICG ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 BUSINESS MARKETPLACE GROUP GROUP RESOURCES & MODEL & STRATEGY PERFORMANCE RISKS RELATIONSHIPS OUR RESOURCES AND CONTINUED We voluntarily report our Scope 3 indirect PROVIDING A ROUTE INTO OUR RESPONSIBILITY emissions from business travel and water FINANCIAL SERVICES TO OUR ENVIRONMENT consumption using the GHG Protocol ICG has just recruited its 5th cohort of ICG recognises that businesses have a Corporate Value Chain Scope 3 Standard.
We target bright and capable responsibility to protect the environment and graduates with strong academic track understand the impact their operations have, Our absolute Scope 1 emissions have increased records but prioritise those who have little and we take appropriate measures to limit our due to the increased scope of emissions or no previous Financial Services experience.
energy use and carbon output.
There has been an increase of 11.7% in To date we have recruited 21 graduates.
our electricity use: however our overall Scope 2 We quantify and report our organisational Interns are assigned a manager, mentor emissions have decreased as certain emission greenhouse gas emissions in alignment with and buddy and provided with 12 months factors for the grid electricity have reduced.
the World Resources Institutes Greenhouse competitively paid work experience and Gas GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting Our Scope 3 emissions have increased slightly training to help them gain that all-important and Reporting Standard and in alignment due to improved data accuracy.
Accurate data first foothold in the industry.
Our unique with the Scope 2 Guidance update to the collection continues to be a challenge where approach is intended to break down some Corporate Standard.
we rely on third parties, such as the landlord of the barriers to entry into the financial or utilities consultants, or if changes in building services industry and we are very proud We quantify and report Scope 2 emissions management occur.
We are continually that over 85% of our alumni have gone on according to two different methodologies: improving the quality of our GHG disclosure.
to secure full time roles within their career the location based method, using average of choice.
emissions factors for the country in which the The number of people employed has increased reported operations take place: and the market over the past year but our GHG emissions per based method, which uses the actual emissions full time employee FTE have decreased.
factors of the energy procured.
We will continue to look for opportunities to improve performance in this area.
Operational scope Greenhouse gas emission source 2017 2016 Units Direct emissions Combustion of fuel and 74 49 Tonnes CO2e Scope 1 operation of facilities Indirect emissions Purchased electricity heat 852 881 Tonnes CO e 2 Scope 2 location based Purchased electricity heat 849 966 Tonnes CO e 2 market based Indirect emissions Business travel: 2,888 2,550 Tonnes CO2e Scope 3 flights and rail Total 3,814 3,480 Tonnes CO2e Emissions per FTE 11.7 13.7 Tonnes CO e per FTE 2 ICG ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 39 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REPORT CONTENTS Letter from the Chairman 40 Board of Directors 42 Our corporate governance framework 44 The Boards year 46 Induction and training 48 Board evaluation 49 Engagement with stakeholders 50 Audit Committee report 51 Risk Committee report 60 Nominations Committee report 65 Remuneration Committee report 69 Compensation summary 74 Directors remuneration policy 78 Annual report on remuneration 87 Directors report 99 Directors responsibilities 106
