58 LondonMetric Property Plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Introduction from the Chairman concerning the valuation of property.
This year much thought has been given This year the Committee has paid to our risk appetite and emerging risks particular attention to the alternative in the aftermath of the EU Referendum performance measures reported in and Brexit vote.
The risk dashboard these accounts and the balance of is a standing agenda item at each statutory and non statutory measures.
quarterly meeting, highlighting changes in the Groups exposure to Regular communication with investors risks and prompting further debate.
continues to be a key priority for the Executive Directors.
Understanding the Succession planning and talent views of shareholders is fundamental development has continued to be to the Companys strategic direction a key area of focus to support the and ultimate success.
This year, the Companys long term plans.
Last year, Executive Directors met with 280 we appointed The Zygos Partnership shareholders, fund managers, private to assist with a phased refreshment of wealth investors and other interested the Non Executive Board in light of their parties to discuss the Companys individual tenure and the best practice Good governance is embedded performance and plans.
into the way we manage our As a result, we welcomed Andrew The Nomination Committee led our business to create a culture of Livingston to the Board and Audit annual internal Board evaluation which appropriate decision making, risk Committee this year and said farewell involved all Directors completing a assessment and transparency at all to Charles Cayzer who had served as questionnaire which focused on the levels in the organisation.
a valuable Board member and Senior key components of good governance Independent Director for six years.
Patrick Vaughan Chairman Having further considered the size, skill Overall the findings were extremely set and tenure of the Non Executive positive and concluded that the Directors this year, Andrew Varley has individual Directors, the Board and decided to retire from the Board and its Committees continue towork well Committees in September.
I would like together with the right balance of skills to thank him for his contribution and Good governance underpins the and expertise and within a climate of dedication over the last four years at scope of transactions and our ability trust and transparency.
The Committee LondonMetric and previously as a Non to operate in a way that is both legally will lead an externally facilitated review Executive Director of Metric.
The Audit Committee has considered This approach to business builds The Remuneration Committee the updates to the UK Corporate and maintains the trust of our key has undertaken a full review of the Governance Code and Guidance stakeholders including investors, Companys Remuneration Policy for on Audit Committees, which are business partners, customers, suppliers the forthcoming three year period in mandatory for the Company next and employees.
Furthermore we are advance of the mandatory vote at year.
The Board has considered committed to enhancing the business the AGM.
The overriding principle is to the composition of the Audit environments in which we operate as maintain a fair reward structure that Committee and its experience in discussed in detail in the Responsible adequately incentivises and retains the the property sectors in which we Business section of the Strategic report.
executive team to deliver long term operate in order to satisfy the new growth and success.
The Committee The Directors and senior managers requirement that the Committee was advised by PwC, who were have formed strong relationships over as a whole has competence in the appointed new remuneration advisors several years of working together in relevant operating sectors.
The Chairman of the an open environment that welcomes reviewed the Companys policy on Committee consulted extensively challenge and constructive debate.
non audit services provided by the with shareholders, who provided Through the close involvement of external auditors.
constructive feedback and, following the Executive Directors, this culture The Audit Committee has once suggested revisions, were supportive permeates through the wider again challenged the going concern ofthe final proposals.
organisation, promoting good principal underlying the preparation governance practices beyond the of these accounts and considered the Boardroom and supporting the Companys longer termviability.
It has successful delivery of strategy.
reviewed the processes in place and The Corporate Governance report followed by management to ensure Patrick Vaughan which follows provides insight into that the financial statements are fair, Chairman 31 May 2017 our governance processes and balanced and understandable and activities in the year and demonstrates has scrutinised and challenged the our commitment to upholding the accounting treatment of significant principles and provisions of the transactions and areas of judgement UK Corporate Governance Code which could have a material impact theCode.
on the results, including those
