Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF CRANSWICK PLC IN RELATION TO THE ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable United OUR OPINION ON THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Kingdom law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group financial statements for each financial year.
Under that In our opinion: law, the Directors are required to prepare Group financial statements under IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Cranswick plcs Group financial statements and Parent company financial statements the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 March 2017 and of the groups profit for the year then ended: Under Company Law the Directors must not approve the Group financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair the group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: view of the state of affairs of the Group and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing the Group financial statements the the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union Directors are required to: as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and present fairly the financial position, financial performance and cash flows of the Group: the group financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006, and, as regards select suitable accounting policies in accordance with IAS 8 Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors and then the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
apply them consistently: present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: WHAT WE HAVE AUDITED make judgements that are reasonable: Cranswick plcs financial statements comprise: provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRSs as adopted by the European Union is insufficient Group Parent company to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the Groups financial position and financial performance: and Group balance sheet as at 31 March 2017 Company balance sheet as at 31 March 2017 state whether the Group financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, subject Group income statement for the year then ended Company statement of comprehensive income for the year then ended to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements.
Group statement of comprehensive income for the year then ended Company statement of changes in equity for the year then ended The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Groups transactions Group statement of changes in equity for the year then ended Company cash flow statement for the year then ended and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group and enable them to ensure that the Group financial Group cash flow statement for the year then ended Related notes 1 to 31 to the financial statements statements comply with the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Related notes 1 to 31 to the financial statements The Directors are also responsible for preparing the Strategic Report, the Directors Report, the Remuneration Committee Report and the The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards Governance Statement in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and applicable regulations, including the requirements of the Listing IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the parent company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the Rules and the Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
On behalf of the Board OVERVIEW OF OUR AUDIT APPROACH Risks of material Revenue recognition cut off.
misstatement Completeness and existence of commercial accruals rebates and similar agreements.
Martin Davey Mark Bottomley Accounting for acquisitions.
Chairman Finance Director Audit scope We performed an audit of the complete financial information of 15 of the 17 components.
23 May 2017 The components where we performed full audit procedures accounted for 99% of Profit before tax, 99% of Revenue and 97% of Total assets.
Materiality Overall Group materiality of 3.8m 2016: 3.2m which represents 5% 2016: 5% of adjusted profit before tax excluding non-cash transactions and non-recurring charges.
OUR ASSESSMENT OF RISK OF MATERIAL MISSTATEMENT We identified the risks of material misstatement described below as those that had the greatest effect on our overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and the direction of the efforts of the audit team.
In addressing these risks, we have performed the procedures below which were designed in the context of the financial statements as a whole and, consequently, we do not express any opinion on these individual areas.
82 Cranswick plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Cranswick plc 83 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF CRANSWICK PLC CONTINUED What we concluded to What we concluded to Risk Our response to the risk the Audit Committee Risk Our response to the risk the Audit Committee Revenue recognition cut off We gained an understanding of, and documented the key processes used We have concluded that Accounting for acquisitions For each transaction, we performed the following procedures: We have concluded to record revenue transactions and assessed the design effectiveness of revenue is appropriately that the provisional Revenue 1,245m 2016: 1,016m.
We obtained and understood the sale and purchase agreement to understand the controls.
recognised in the acquisition accounting the terms and conditions of the agreements to ensure the accounting treatment The timing of when revenue is There have been two acquisitions correct accounting is appropriately At certain locations we identified and performed testing over key revenue under IFRS3 is consistent with the terms of the agreement.
recognised is relevant to the during the financial year: CCL period in accordance calculated and controls supplemented in all locations with detailed testing of transactions.
reported performance of the Holdings Limited and its We obtained managements assessment of separately identifiable intangible with IAS18 Revenue, recognised correctly.
There is opportunity We performed analytical procedures over revenue in the year, comparing subsidiary Crown Chicken assets arising on acquisition and their fair value.
We audited this assessment to and found no evidence The fair value of assets through management override amounts recognised with our expectations and we corroborated any Limited and Dunbia Ballymena.
ensure all material separately identifiable intangible assets were recognised on of management bias.
and liabilities acquired to misstate the allocation of explanations provided in response to material variances noted.
The accounting for acquisitions acquisition based on our understanding of the business acquired, the terms of the has been recognised revenue between periods under IFRS3 can be complex and agreement and the guidance in IFRS3.
We evaluated the existence of any further We performed detailed cut off testing of revenue transactions during the period and disclosed in resulting in inappropriate cut off require significant judgement.
material intangible assets that were not initially recognised by management.
either side of the balance sheet date with reference to delivery documentation.
accordance with IFRS3 of revenue at the Balance Sheet The recognition and valuation We also performed analytical testing procedures during that same period to With the assistance of our valuations specialists we tested the most significant Business Combinations.
There is also the risk of of assets and liabilities acquired, establish whether cut off had been appropriately applied.
assumptions used to determine the valuation, which included the discount rate, error.
Therefore, there is risk that such as customer relationships forecast revenues and margin, and customer churn.
This included performing We performed correlation testing to agree revenue to trade receivables to cash revenue could be under or and other intangible assets, sensitivity analysis on these assumptions to quantify the potential impact of receipted using our journal tool.
This allowed us to audit 100% of the revenue over-stated.
is inherently complex and movements in discount rate, growth rates and customer churn.
We validated transactions in the financial year.
Any material journals or other unexpected judgmental.
As a result there Refer to the Audit Committee the inputs to the assumptions, such as the discount factor, and corroborated transactions we identified which did not correlate to trade receivables and or is a risk of material misstatement Report page 53 : Accounting these to external sources where appropriate and managements internally cash receipts were investigated to supporting documentation to verify the to the fair value allocated to policies page 100 : and Note 2 approved budgets.
assets and liabilities acquired of the Consolidated Financial We have tested how the model calculates the Weighted Average Cost of Capital, We examined material journal entries that were posted to revenue accounts including intangible assets.
Statements page 99. the carrying value of the assets and the discounted cash flows in order to gain and obtained supporting evidence to ensure the appropriateness of Refer to the Audit Committee assurance over the formulas in the model.
We audited the appropriateness revenue recognition.
Report page 53 and of the allocation of the purchase price, including the fair value of assets and Completeness and Applicable to all material rebates and other arrangements with customers: We have concluded that Accounting policies page 100. liabilities acquired in addition to the fair value of intangible assets recognised existence of commercial the commercial accruals We performed a walkthrough and gained an understanding and documented on acquisition.
accruals rebates and are appropriately the procedures and controls in place over processes for recording rebate charges We have considered the completeness of fair value adjustments recognised similar agreements recognised in the and liabilities and assessed the design effectiveness of controls.
based on events subsequent to the transaction date.
income statement and Commercial Accruals 10.2m We performed analytical review procedures to understand movements in income We evaluated the accounting treatment of contingent consideration to ensure balance sheet and the 2016: 8.2m statement and balance sheet accounts between the current and prior periods, that it is appropriate.
We obtained managements calculation of the amounts disclosures included The Groups pricing structure including ageing analysis and corroborated any unexpected and material variance payable, verified the calculations were appropriately performed, validated inputs are appropriate in includes rebate and other similar to underlying source documentation.
to the sale and purchase agreement and external sources as appropriate to accordance with IAS18 arrangements rebates with We selected a sample of customers to send confirmations to verify the terms ensure the recognition of this element of total consideration was in accordance Revenue and IAS1 certain customers.
We issued 15 confirmation letters directly to customers in with IFRS 3.
Presentation of Commercial accruals include order to agree key terms of certain new and significant contracts entered into Financial Statements.
advertising and marketing in the financial year where those contracts were consider material due to size, We have removed the risk presented in the 2016 Audit Report relating to the impairment of goodwill.
Following the disposal of the Sandwiches contributions.
We have received back 7 letters where customers confirmed business in the year there is significant headroom in the remaining Cash Generating Units in the Group and we have therefore determined exercise a degree of judgment in the terms.
there not to be a material risk of misstatement in respect of goodwill impairment.
determining the valuation of the To ensure we obtained sufficient audit evidence in those instances where a liability and the timing of when response to the confirmation may not be received, for all items selected we also the liability should be recognised.
performed the following additional procedures: Commercial accruals also include We agreed the balance to post year end payments or settlements against retrospective discounts based on customer invoices.
volumes, which are mechanical in We vouched a sample of rebate payments made and credit notes issued in nature whereby the amount due the year to supporting documentation.
is based on the quantity supplied We reviewed the ageing of rebates to identify old balances that remained in a specific period of time at a unclaimed and we also compared amounts paid to the amounts previously set amount per unit.
These provided, in order to gain assurance over the accuracy of historic balances.
amounts require less judgement and estimation to determine the We tested the completeness of amounts provided by reference to the Groups quantity supplied or the period in customer base.
Using the data extracted from the accounting system, we tested which the supply occurred.
the appropriateness of material journal entries and other adjustments posted to the over-rider income statement accounts.
As a result of these factors, there is risk of material misstatement.
We audited managements disclosure within Note 20 in respect of supplier arrangement amounts recorded in the income statement and balance sheet.
Refer to the Audit Committee Report page 53 and Accounting policies page 99.
84 Cranswick plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Cranswick plc 85
