Governance 40 Corporate Governance report Letter from the Chairman Dear shareholder The Board is ultimately accountable for ensuring that high standards of governance are maintained in all we do.
We are committed to that objective, taking pride in the way that we conduct our business and deliver our strategy.
Our governance structure is fundamental to this and enables us to manage business risks while developing the Group and delivering value for all our stakeholders.
Garry Watts Chairman The Companys strategy is underpinned by a strong corporate governance framework, which together with ethical leadership, establishes the foundation for how we operate and is strongly embedded within the culture of the business at all levels.
The high standards of behaviour and ways of working required by ourselves and our employees are guided by our Code of Conduct, which is underpinned by the BTG DNA, simply put, this is about doing what is in the best interests of the Group at all times and striving to live up to our values in everything that we do.
Governance in 2016 17 During the year we strengthened governance by The Company s strategy is conducting a comprehensive review of the specific underpinned by a strong matters required to be considered by the Board and corporate governance its primary committees, as well as the major policies underpinning business operations.
There has been framework, which together continuing work to evolve and further enhance our with ethical leadership, risk management framework and embed it in both the operational and strategic activity of the business.
establishes the foundation A specific example of that has been the focus on our for how we operate and response to cyber security threats.
As a result of this is strongly embedded continuing improvement, I believe we enter the new financial year with an even stronger governance withinthe culture of the framework overall.
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Governance Governance 41 As Chairman, I am responsible for ensuring the Board Governance Framework operates effectively.
I am supported by all the directors The Corporate Governance Report, the Directors but particularly by Giles Kerr, the Senior Independent Remuneration Report and the Directors Report have Director, who meets independently with the other been prepared to provide shareholders with a directors and is available to meet with the Companys comprehensive understanding of how the Board major shareholders if required.
and its committees operate and how we meet the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code Board changes and succession planning the Code and other guidance.
As reported last year, the Board undertook a process Our Corporate Governance Report can be found to appoint a successor to Giles Kerr in the role of on pages 40 to 71 and includes our statement of Audit Committee Chair.
As a result I was pleased to compliance with the Code and its principles on page welcome Graham Hetherington who joined as non- 44.
The Directors Remuneration Report can be found executive director and Audit Committee Chair on on pages 72 to 97.
1 August 2016 and was subsequently appointed to the Remuneration Committee.
Further description of the With the Board, I look forward to discussing BTGs process to appoint Graham can be found on page 51. progress with you at our forthcoming AGM on 13 July 2017.
As we wish to continually assess the appropriate composition of the Board, an external review was Garry Watts carried out during the year to consider whether the Board contained the right balance of skills and Chairman diversity of experience required to meet the future strategic requirements of the business.
Details of the review can be found in the Nomination Committees report on pages 51 to 53.
This will remain an area of focus for the Board for the coming year.
Reflecting on our recent internal performance evaluation, it is pleasing to note that the Board and its principal committees have, individually and collectively, worked effectively to discharge their responsibilities and support the ongoing development of the Group.
More information on the Board evaluation can be found on pages 54 and 55.
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017
