74 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 75 BOARD STRUCTURE FIGURE 1: CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK AND ROLES The Board has full and effective control of CHAIRMAN SENIOR INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE CLINICAL PERFORMANCE AND the Company and all material resolutions SUSTAINABILITY COMMITTEE DIRECTOR Dr Edwin Hertzog Jannie Durand, Alan Grieve, Seamus Membership are approved by the Board.
The Board has Membership Desmond Smith Keating, Prof Dr Robert Leu, Nandi Mandela, Four Independent Non-executive adopted a robust corporate governance Key responsibilities Two Independent Non-executive, Trevor Petersen, Desmond Smith Directors Leads the Board.
Key responsibilities framework, as summarised in Figure 1, one Non-executive and one Ensures the effective Provides a sounding board Key responsibilities Key responsibilities which assists the Board in the exercise of its Executive Director performance of the Board.
Support the development of the Groups Reviews and monitors the responsibilities, providing strategic direction Works closely with the CEO Acts, if necessary, as a focal strategy.
Key responsibilities integrity of the Groups financial to the Company in order to create long-term to ensure the point and intermediary for Scrutinise the performance of Monitors clinical performance reporting.
A Board Charter sets out implementation of Boardother Directors.
Reviews and monitors the Groups the key responsibilities of the Chairman, SID, approved actions.
Available to shareholders Provide constructive challenge, drawing Promotes culture of relationship with the external Non-executive Directors, Executive Directors, Ensures effective should they have concerns on their skills, experience and judgement.
excellence in patient auditor and the effectiveness of the Chief Executive Officer and the Company communications with if contacts outside the Monitor the reporting of performance.
safety, quality of care and the external audit.
It further demonstrates the roles of shareholders.
Satisfy themselves on the integrity of the patient experience.
Reviews the effectiveness Leads the annual appraisal Groups financial reporting and on the Monitors the sustainable the various Board committees.
of the Groups internal audit The Chairmans other of the Chairmans effectiveness of its financial controls and development performance arrangements.
significant commitments are performance and Nonrisk management systems.
Reviews and monitors the indicated in his biography on executive Directors Determine the remuneration of Ensures the Group is a good BOARD COMMITTEES effectiveness of the Groups page 70.
and responsible corporate risk management and internal Appointment removal of Directors and citizen.
The Board has delegated authority to the Board review succession planning.
committees to carry out certain tasks on its behalf, in order to operate efficiently and give the right level of attention and consideration INVESTMENT COMMITTEE to relevant matters, while reserving the BOARD COMPANY SECRETARY REMUNERATION COMMITTEE authority to approve certain key matters, as Membership: Capita Company Secretarial Services Membership Membership documented in the Groups authority levels Non-executive Chairman, one other Non-executive Director, six Three Independent Non-executive Two Independent Non-executive, Key responsibilities Independent Non-executive Directors and two Executive Directors Directors two Non-executive and two and reserved matters, which is reviewed Acts as secretary to the Board and its Executive Directors annually by the Board.
The key responsibilities Key responsibilities Committees.
Key responsibilities of the Board committees, namely the Responsible for the effective oversight of the Company.
Provides advice and guidance to Key responsibilities Makes recommendations to the Audit and Risk Committee, Remuneration Agrees the strategic direction of the Group and the nature and the Board collectively and Directors Reviews and approves Board on the Companys policy Committee, Nomination Committee, Clinical extent of the principal risks it is willing to take.
individually with regard to their duties, proposed investments and on executive remuneration.
Performance and Sustainability Committee, Establishes the governance structure, corporate reporting, risk responsibilities and powers.
capital expenditures within Establishes the parameters and management and internal control principles for the Group.
Ensures the effective administration its authority levels.
Investment Committee and the Disclosure governance of the remuneration Sets appropriate values, ethical standards and behaviours and of proceedings and matters related Reviews and makes policy.
Committee, are summarised in Figure 1.
The ensures they are embedded throughout the Group.
to the Board, the Company and its recommendations to the Determines the remuneration terms of reference of each Board committee Accountable to shareholders for the long-term success of the shareholders.
Board regarding proposed and benefits package for are available on the Companys website.
Group and delivering value to shareholders.
investments and capital individual Executive Directors Reports on the role, composition and activities Delegates authority to Board committees to carry out certain expenditures that exceed and other members of executive of the Remuneration Committee, Nomination tasks on its behalf.
Committee, Audit and Risk Committee and Monitors performance of The biographies of the Board members are set out on pages 70 to 71.
AR the Clinical Performance and Sustainability approved investments.
Committee are included in this Annual Report.
During the year, the Board approved the constitution of the Disclosure Committee, EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE NOMINATION COMMITTEE DISCLOSURE COMMITTEE previously a management committee, as a Membership Danie Meintjes Danie Meintjes Membership Membership Board committee.
One Independent Non-executive Chief Executive Officer Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Three Independent Non-executive Key responsibilities Director and two Executive Jurgens Myburgh Officer, Group Corporate Services Executive, and two Non-executive Directors Leads and oversees the Directors Chief Financial Officer Chief Clinical Officer, Group ICT Executive SEPARATION OF CHAIRMAN executive management Key responsibilities and three Operating Platform Chief Key responsibilities team.
Key responsibilities Reviews the structure, size, and AND CEO ROLES Executive Officers Contribute detailed insight Manages the business of Identifies inside information composition of the Board.
of the operations of the the Group.
and makes recommendations Key responsibilities Identifies and recommends There is a distinct division of responsibilities business enabling the Board Develops and oversees the about how and when such Responsible for the executive potential candidates to be between the Chairman and the Chief to determine feasibility and implementation of Boardinformation should be management of the Groups businesses.
appointed as Directors or Executive Officer, as summarised in practicality of proposed approved actions, the disclosed.
Considers investment opportunities, members of Board committees, Figure 1.
The separation of authority, which is strategies, goals and strategic direction of the Reviews and monitors operational matters and other aspects of as the need arises.
set out in writing and agreed by the Board, direction.
Group and its commercial internal arrangements strategic importance to the Group and Reviews succession planning.
enhances independent oversight of executive Making and implementing objectives.
regarding inside information make recommendations to the Board.
management by the Board and helps to operational decisions.
Ensures appropriate in accordance with the EU Performs any other functions delegated governance standards are Market Abuse Regulation.
ensure that no one individual on the Board has to management by the Board.
embedded throughout the unfettered powers or authority.
The biographies of the Executive Committee Group.
AR members are set out on page 72.
