Dear Shareholder, and external advisers provides us with the I am pleased to report on the key activities and best insight into areas of risk and appropriate Letter from focus of the Audit Committee during the year.
controls, and allows us to provide assurance to This will be my last report to you as Chairman the Board that the system of internal processes the Chairman of the Committee as I intend to step down later is robust.
this year after nine years on the Board.
Nicholas External valuations and valuer Cadbury, who joined the Board in January, will of the Audit CBRE was appointed in 2015 to act as the take over as the Chairman of the Committee.
Groups valuer following a tender process.
We The Committee monitors the integrity of Committee are pleased with the level of support provided the Groups reporting process and financial by CBRE, the rigorous process that they apply management.
It ensures that risks are carefully to their work and their broad industry expertise identified and assessed, and that sound systems and knowledge.
of risk management and internal control are in place.
It scrutinises the full and half-yearly External auditor Committee members financial statements before proposing them Ernst & Young LLP EY was appointed as the to the Board for approval, and reviews in detail Kevin OByrne Chairman Companys auditor in 2013.
This years internal the work of the external auditor and valuer Stacey Rauch review of their effectiveness and performance and any significant financial judgement made Chris Bartram concluded that they continue to operate at by management.
The Committee reviews the a high standard.
We have agreed a new fee Nicholas Cadbury risk management framework and reports to basis for EYs services for this year and through the Board on matters of existing and emerging Independent Non-executive Director to 2018 19, details of which are contained on risk affecting the Group.
The Committee page71 in the Accountability section.
Based on receives detailed reports from management, the Committees recommendation, the Board Highlights supplemented by other conversations and is proposing that EY be reappointed to office meetings as appropriate during the year.
Reviewed changing risk factors and atthis years AGM.
reporting matrix Acquisitions and disposals AQRT Assessment of skills and competencies The Company made a number of property During the year, an Audit Quality Review Team ofinternal audit acquisitions and disposals during the year AQRT from the FRC undertook an inspection Quality and appropriateness of as it continued to execute its strategy.
The of EYs audit of the Groups financial statements property valuation process.
Committee ensured that the accounting for the year ended 31 March 2016.
As part of treatment of all transactions was scrutinised that process I spoke with the AQRT to share and appropriate.
my and the Audit Committees perspectives Key responsibilities on the quality of EYs audit and its delivery on Changing risk landscape Monitors the integrity of the commitments made by the audit firm as part The risk landscape has evolved during the year.
Groups reporting process and of the audit tender process.
On completion We reviewed changes at a macro-economic and financial management of the review, the Audit Committee received political level and a range of other risks affecting Ensures that risks are carefully identified and considered the AQRTs final report on the business including cyber security and rapid and assessed, and that sound systems its inspection and discussed it with Eamonn technological change.
Also, we considered other of risk management and internal McGrath, the audit partner at EY.
The report factors such as the market cycle, the Brexit control are in place does not give the Committee any concerns negotiation process, and property and consumer Scrutinises the full and half-yearly overthe quality, objectivity or independence trends that are relevant to our business planning financial statements ofthe audit.
in the medium to long term.
Reviews in detail the work of the The Groups Executive Committee regularly Fair, balanced and understandable external auditor and valuer and any reviews the risk register and this is used by the The Committee assessed and recommended significant financial judgement made Committee as the basis of its risk assessment.
to the Board that, taken as a whole, the bymanagement During the year, we refreshed the risk reporting Companys 2017 Annual Report is fair, matrix within the business to provide more Reviews the risk management framework.
scope for emerging threats to be identified before they are considered as potential risks Viability Statement affecting the business.
We have also revised The Viability Statement, together with the the way that risks are reported to the Board rationale behind the chosen five year time with more regular updates through the Chief horizon, is set out on page 54.
The Committee Financial Officers Board report.
considered whether there should be any change to the period chosen for the Statement, Internal audit particularly in the context of any implications The Company maintains its own risk resulting from the UKs decision to leave the management and internal audit function.
The EU, but was of the opinion that five years Committee again reviewed the scope, skills and remained appropriate.
competencies of this function, and the level of resource available to it.
We decided that the UK Corporate Governance Code FRC knowledge, skills and resources of our internal Guidance on Audit Committees audit team, and their understanding of the The Committee considered its compliance with business, were appropriate.
However, there are the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code and occasions when we require and benefit from the FRC Guidance on Audit Committees.
We the expertise that can be offered by specialist believe that we have addressed both the spirit external advice and, accordingly, the Committee and the requirements of both: this conclusion considered when such advice was appropriate.
issupported by our external auditor.
We believe that the combination of internal 68 Landsec Annual Report 2017 Governance Committee effectiveness During the year, the Board carried out an internally facilitated evaluation of its performance and that of its Committees.
This evaluation confirmed that the Committee continued to operate at a high standard, with clear priorities, well-defined responsibilities and clarity around its workplan.
The year ahead I have referred already to the rapidly changing environment in which the Company operates, with important political and economic changes to follow from the decision to leave the EU.
The increasing pace of technological change is both a threat and opportunity that we assess on a regular basis.
The Committee will continue to work with management, and provide clear reports to the Board, to ensure that it addresses these issues in a way that is consistent with the Companys culture and values.
I would like to thank the other members ofthe Committee, together with management and EY, for their support during the year.
Audit Committee new Chairman As I mentioned earlier, this is my last year as Chairman of the Audit Committee.
I have thoroughly enjoyed my time at Landsec, and would like to thank the Chairman, my fellow Directors and the Companys management, external advisers and shareholders for the support that I have received throughout my tenure.
A rigorous process was followed by the Nomination Committee in appointing my successor, Nicholas Cadbury.
Nicholas will be replacing me later this year as Chairman of this Committee.
As the CFO of Whitbread PLC, a highly-regarded customer-facing company in the FTSE 100 with an extensive property portfolio, Nicholas has the knowledge and technical skills and recent and relevant financial experience to lead this Committee.
Nicholas will have the benefit of having been a member of the Audit Committee through the year-end process and, supported by his induction programme, I am confident this continuity will ensure a smooth transition.
I hope that you find this review, and the report that follows, a helpful explanation of thework of the Committee during the year.
Kevin OByrne Chairman, Audit Committee Landsec Annual Report 2017 69 Kevin OByrne Chairman, Audit Committee
