Dear Shareholder, Board composition and succession I am pleased to present the Nomination We believe that the current composition of the Letter Committee report which summarises our Board and its Committees remains appropriate work over the past year.
for the time being but this is kept under from the regular review.
Governance The Committee supports the ongoing I can report that we complied in full with the development of Directors.
It agreed the scope Chairman principles of the 2014 UK Corporate Governance of a comprehensive induction programme for Code throughout the year.
You will find more Nicholas Cadbury that started when he joined of the detail regarding our compliance, governance the Board and was pleased to support the and effectiveness elsewhere in thisreport.
ongoing professional development of Martin Greenslade who attended a six-week world-class Nomination Board and Committee changes Executive Program at Stanford University, USA, Last year, I explained that Kevin OByrne, who last summer.
joined our Board as a Non-executive Director Committee Board succession is a very live topic at in April 2008, would be standing down as Committee meetings.
In particular, we discuss Senior Independent Director in July 2016, and executive talent and leadership in the wider would retire from the Board in 2017.
Our goal is to retain and the external search to find Kevins successor recruit the best at Board and senior leadership in early 2016, appointing Spencer Stuart an Committee members levels.
As a matter of prudence, we monitor independent search consultancy appointed a range of candidates who may be suitable Dame Alison Carnwath Chairman following a tender process to assist with replacements for existing Directors.
We believe Chris Bartram the recruitment.
that Non-executive Directors should generally I am delighted to say that Edward Simon Palley stay for nine years, with the appointment of Bonham Carter became the Companys Senior Stacey Rauch new Directors providing an opportunity to Independent Director in July 2016, and that add diverse perspectives and skills.
However, Edward Bonham Carter the search for a new Non-executive Director it is important to ensure that the experience Independent Non-executive Director was successful with Nicholas Cadbury joining gained through one property cycle is available our Board on 1 January 2017.
Nicholas will for the next, and that we have a mixture of real succeed Kevin OByrne as Chairman of the estate, financial, retail and general expertise to Highlights Audit Committee later this year.
As such, the Committee may determine Successful and thorough appointment an announcement in due course to confirm occasionally that it is in the Companys best process to find Nicholas Cadbury thedate of Kevins retirement.
interests for a Non-executive Director with Nicholas is CFO at Whitbread PLC Increased focus on changes to the particular skills to stay beyond the nine year and therefore has all the technical skills governance landscape affecting term identified in the UK Corporate Governance required to become Chairman of the Audit the Company Code at which point some investors or Committee.
However, it was important to Thorough assessment of succession plans.
governance bodies may begin to question their the Committee that any new Director could independence.
Should this occur, we will explain bring complementary non-financial skills and the decision and the rationale to shareholders.
experience, and Nicholas role at a consumerKey responsibilities Finally, the Committee supports the Board facing business like Whitbread and previously in its work to secure the long-term health of the Reviews the structure, size and at companies such as Dixons will be a true Company, and its strategy for success in a fastcomposition of the Board and asset to our Board discussions.
On behalf of changing world.
This can only be achieved with its Committees and makes the Committee, I extend my warm welcome the right people in the organisation, and the recommendations to the toNicholas as a member of the Board.
Committee has considered the likely business Board accordingly Also, Stacey Rauch joined the Nomination needs of the Company and its management Oversight responsibility for succession Committee on 1 April 2017 to broaden her capability and succession plans at executive planning of the Board and Senior perspective of and contribution to the Company.
We also Management and leads the process recognise and support the extensive leadership fornew Board appointments development work that is being undertaken Monitors developments in corporate with all management levels within the Group.
governance and advises the Board accordingly.
64 Landsec Annual Report 2017 Governance Independence and re-election to the Board Committee effectiveness The independence, effectiveness and I am pleased to report that the recent Board commitment of each of the Non-executive performance evaluation concluded that the Directors has been reviewed by the Committee Nomination Committee operated very well.
which satisfied itself on the contributions and The Committee has decided to increase the time commitment of all the Non-executive number of meetings held during the year Directors during the year.
On behalf of the from two to four.
Partly this is in response to Committee, I conducted a specific review in the ongoing internal and external succession relation to Simon Palley as he has been in office planning work, but also it is a response to the for more than six years.
The Committee was expected increase in the number and scope confident that Simon, and each of the other of governance changes.
Non-executive Directors, remains independent You will find more information on these and will be in a position to discharge their topics and the other work of the Committee, duties and responsibilities in the coming year.
and more details of the Board evaluation With the exception of Nicholas Cadbury whose process and its outcomes, on the appointment is being ratified for the first time, following pages.
all the Directors will stand for re-election at Dame Alison Carnwath theAnnual General Meeting with the support Chairman, Nomination Committee ofthe Board.
Landsec Annual Report 2017 65 Dame Alison Carnwath Chairman
