Governance Chairmans Statement During our third year as a public Our internal governance company, our strategic priorities for the future have evolved as outlined on pages 01-39.
This year is about procedures must support ensuring that our governance framework supports growth in our businesses our strategic priorities and our focus on becoming even more customer-centric, allowing our customers to live the life they want to lead.
The Board is structured to support the Group with its relentless desire to put the customer at the centre of everything it does.
Every Board decision includes consideration of how it will affect our customers.
Details of Board activities during the year and how the governance structure supported key decisions such as the decision to build our new ship can be found on page 47.
The Audit, Risk, Remuneration and Nomination Committees the Committees have also played an important role in setting the strategic direction.
The Groups risk management processes were reviewed by the Risk Committee, which discussed our risk appetite and tolerance levels, and considered how these would affect our strategic direction.
The principal risks and uncertainties analysis played an important part in the formulation of the viability statement see page 57.
The Audit Committee considered Key features corporate the approach taken and the viability governance report statement itself see page 42, and An explanation of how governance provided assurance that the relevant works to support our strategic systems and processes were in place to priorities whilst supporting the ensure that the annual report as a whole Saga Way and the Saga Model.
is fair, balanced and understandable.
How performance is reviewed to ensure that our customers and shareholders are listened to and remain at the heart of what we do.
The findings of our first externally This year is about ensuring that our facilitated Board and Committee evaluation exercise.
governance framework supports Board discussion topics: growth in our businesses and our How to become more customer-centric.
focus on becoming even more Strategy how to grow our existing businesses and invest for customer-centric, allowing our future growth.
customers to live the life they How we can develop our people.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 SAGA PLC 40 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Details can be found in the Audit right for our customers, and she has UK Corporate Governance Code Committee Report on pages 58-61. made a strong contribution during her Our governance framework is reviewed time on the Board.
by the Board every year against best Our brand and reputation practice and regulatory requirements.
The Board is committed to ensuring that On 22 April 2016, as a result of the share our brand and reputation for outstanding placing undertaken by Acromas Bid Co A summary of how we have complied levels of customer service are never Limited, Non-Executive Director James with the Code is set out overleaf.
We also remain focused Arnell resigned from the Board.
This was approach to leadership and effectiveness on delivering the best service to our in accordance with the Relationship is detailed on pages 45-46 and 50-51 shareholders and it is vital that our Agreement dated 8 May 2014 which respectively, accountability on pages corporate governance procedures required his resignation once the indirect 54-57, and relations with shareholders support our strategic direction.
shareholding of the Private Equity on page 66.
Investor he represented ceased to exist.
Whilst there have been no changes Governance continues to support our We comply with the recommendation to the Board during the year, the strategic priorities in a practical way.
in the UK Corporate Governance Code Nomination Committee did discuss Having the right structure in place 2016 the Code that at least half of our how the Company would ensure that meansthat the decisions we make Board members are independent there is the right level of oversight of the asaBoard go through a rigorous Non-Executive Directors.
For full details regulated businesses and that those procedure, allowing for discussion at the of Board composition see pages 48-50. companies had senior leaders with the committees and at the Board, to enable right experience in place.
This Committee Our people us to grow, continue to pay down debt also considered how we manage our As well as setting the strategic direction and enhance long-term returns to our talent and succession planning for of the Group, the Board has taken steps shareholders through a progressive more details see pages 52-53. to support and develop leadership and dividend policy.
management, recognising that our During the year, we announced that Our shareholders and our AGM people are core to the success of Philip Green will resign from the Board We continue to offer a DRIP for those delivery of our strategy.
A key part of and his position as Senior Independent shareholders who wish to turn cash ourSaga People Action Plan to address Director on 31 March 2017, to chair dividends into more shares.
At our themes from Becoming the Best another business.
He will be replaced second AGM at our head office in employee survey and to ensure we asSenior Independent Director by Folkestone, Kent on 21 June 2016, areembedding the Saga Way, was to OrnaNiChionna, one of our current all resolutions were passed with a develop a Leadership Development Non-Executive Directors.
Orna will significant majority and all Directors Programme see page 16 for more alsobecome Chair of the Nomination standing for re-election were redetails.
We also awarded eligible Committee at this point.
I look forward to this years employees with free shares for the AGM and meeting our shareholders.
second year running under the 2014 Id like to thank Philip very much for his I also welcome comments from Share Incentive Plan to reward their contribution to the Board during the shareholders at any time.
Companys first three years as a listed business.
Given the opportunity that he Board evaluation has been offered, I fully understand the We conducted our first externally facilitated rationale for his decision and wish him Board and Committee evaluation during continued success in the future.
The exercise identified that our Andrew Goodsell has extensive experience within listed governance has developed well and is Chairman companies, sits on our Audit, Nomination sound and that there is a healthy culture 28 March 2017 and Remuneration Committees and oftransparency, greater strategic clarity chairs the Risk Committee.
I am and good coverage of the main risks, The delighted that Orna has agreed to take experience of the Directors, combined with over from Philip as Senior Independent a stable and strong senior management Director.
She has a good feel for what we team, means that the interests of all do as a business, our values, and whats stakeholders, including shareholders, areconsidered, A full explanation of theevaluation exercise can be found onpage 51.
The Remuneration Report was approvedby our shareholders at our AGM: over 90% voted in favour.
The full Remuneration Report can be found onpages 67-89.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 SAGA PLC 41
