Strategic Report Governance Financials Chairmans Letter Remuneration Committee Octavia Morley Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Dear Shareholder I am pleased to present our third Directors Remuneration Report as a listed company, for the financial year ended 31 January 2017.
The Remuneration Committee continues to keep all aspects of Executive Director remuneration under review against market and best practice for UK-listed companies and other retailers, investor guidelines and against the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code or the Code.
The Committee has developed a remuneration policy which it believes is appropriate and balanced, supports the Companys objective to deliver shareholder value and aligns executive and shareholder interests.
Whilst our policy is proving an appropriate framework for motivating our Executive Directors to achieve the business objectives of the Group and driving the creation of long-term shareholder value, we are mindful of the continuing debate around Executive Director remuneration and shareholder preferences, including the latest investor guidelines and the ongoing BEIS consultation into corporate governance reform.
Whilst we are not proposing making any fundamental changes to our policy until it is due for renewal at the 2018 AGM, we will continue to monitor developments, take into account developing market practice as we review our arrangements over the coming year and consult with shareholders where appropriate.
As disclosed in my letter in last years report, Karen Hubbard joined the Board on 22 February 2016, taking over as CEO in mid-April.
In the recruitment process, we were mindful of our policy to ensure the remuneration of a new Director is in the best interests of the Group and its shareholders ie to avoid overpaying and to align Karens remuneration arrangements with the Groups approved remuneration policy.
Her package comprises a salary of 445,000 together with annual bonus and LTIP opportunities in line with those of the outgoing CEO as a % of salary.
Until Karen meets the shareholding requirement of 200% of salary, up to one third of any bonus earned will be mandatorily deferred in shares for three years.
She receives an annual pension contribution of 15,000 3.4% of salary.
As part of her recruitment package, and in order that Karen was able to take up her position quickly to allow a suitable handover with the outgoing CEO the Committee approved a like-for-like buyout of her forfeited bonus, which was assessed to have a fair value of 130,000, with the time of payment matched to that of the forfeited award.
Richard Hayes stepped down as CEO in mid-April and retired from the Board at the end of June.
He did not receive an LTIP grant in 2016 nor was he eligible to receive any bonus for performance for the financial year 2016 17.
As a good leaver, he will receive his outstanding prorated LTIP awards, to the extent that they vest based on performance, at the normal vesting date.
The Committee exercised an available discretion for good leavers to disapply any holding period on vested LTIP awards, on the basis that Richards significant shareholding continued to align his interests with that of other shareholders after he left the Board.
Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 53 Chairmans Letter Remuneration Committee continued As disclosed to the market in October 2016, having consulted with shareholders and considered in detail the strategic objectives of the business and the opportunities for growth over the three year performance period, the Remuneration Committee set the EPS performance measures for 2016 LTIP awards with threshold vesting at 5% compound annual EPS growth rate EPS CAGR' 2015: 9% and maximum vesting 100% of award at 10% EPS CAGR 2015: 15%.
In addition, for awards to vest, the Companys return on capital must be consistent with historic levels, reinforcing the focus on returns for shareholders.
The Committee feels these future targets are stretching and balance the need to appropriately incentivise management whilst providing assurance to shareholders that the targets support the long-term profitable growth of the business.
During the year, the Committee has also focused on adjudicating bonuses for the year ended 31 January 2017.
The Committee has reviewed the overall vesting of the bonus scheme, taking into account both Company and personal performance and considers the outcome of 20% of maximum, based on achievement of EBITDA targets to be a fair achievement for the financial year in the light of market and internal expectations.
Similarly, in considering vesting of 2014 LTIP awards, we believe the outcome reflects fairly the growth in value achieved for shareholders in the period since our IPO, and that the maximum targets were appropriately stretching.
Based on EPS performance of 10.73% pa and satisfaction of the return on capital underpin, 46.6% of maximum vesting is expected on or around 20 May 2017.
Other key remuneration decisions during the year have included: approving salary adjustments for Executive Directors: and ratifying the terms of the 2017 grant under the all employee save as you earn scheme.
At the AGM, which will be held on 25 May 2017, the second section of this report, the Annual Report on Remuneration, which outlines the implementation of our remuneration policy for the forthcoming financial year, will be subject to an advisory vote.
The first section, the Directors Remuneration Policy, is unchanged other than for minor changes to improve clarity, and will not be submitted for a vote, having been approved by shareholders at the Companys AGM in 2015.
We continue to value all feedback from shareholders and hope to receive your support at the forthcoming AGM.
Octavia Morley Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 27 March 2017 54 54 Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017
