Chairmans Letter Nomination Committee Geoff Cooper Chairman of the Nomination Committee Dear Shareholder The main focus of the Nomination Committee over the last year has been supporting our new CEO, Karen Hubbard, through an extensive induction programme which gave her the opportunity to engage with all parts of the business.
Karens induction enabled her to fully assess the Groups four pillar strategy and development of the Groups management team.
She identified how to continue to drive this strategy as well as identifying longer-term opportunities to develop the business.
The Committee, working with Karen, has also considered in detail her proposals for improving the Groups capabilities, organisation and the development of the management team.
Additionally, the Committee have begun discussing succession planning, although work on this will now accelerate following the appointment of a Group Human Resources Director who can service the Committees needs more directly.
In January 2017, Darren Bryant, the Groups CFO for the last 8 years, informed the Board of his wish to retire in due course, once a suitable successor is identified.
A professional search firm has been appointed by the Committee with a brief to undertake a rigorous search process to identify and approach experienced candidates with the skills and experience to work closely with the Board and the senior management team in driving our existing four pillar strategy.
The Committee is being assisted in its work by Karen Hubbard, our Chief Executive Officer, who is fully involved in the selection process.
It is critical that Darrens successor builds on his exemplary work in driving the evolution and delivery of the Groups strategy, and building and leading a finance team to support this.
Darren is committed to providing his successor with a thorough and detailed handover and, with the support of the Committee, Karen will create a detailed induction plan.
Finally, the members of the Committee have begun a programme of regular one-to-one meetings with members of the management team to understand management engagement.
In the coming years, the Nomination Committees priority will be to continue to support the development, engagement and succession planning for the management team to ensure the Company can continue delivering the strategy and enhance shareholder value.
Yours sincerely Geoff Cooper Chairman of the Nomination Committee 27 March 2017 72 Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017
