S St tr ra at tegi egic c R Re ep po or rt t G Gove over rn na an nc ce e F Fiin na an nci cia alls s Chairmans Letter Corporate Governance Geoff Cooper Chairman Dear Shareholder Our activities during the year have been focused on The membership and roles of each of the Board supporting the senior management team under the Committees are detailed in separate sections of this leadership of our new CEO, Karen Hubbard, in report together with the individual reports on their continuing to develop and evolve the Groups activities during the year.
established four pillar growth strategy in an increasingly challenging retail environment.
At our Annual General Meeting AGM this year, all of our Directors will be seeking reappointment.
Whilst this strategy has driven the Groups success to date, the Board recognises the importance of I look forward to welcoming shareholders at the measuring the continuing validity of our strategy as Companys AGM in May.
economic conditions change, for example, assessing the potential impact of the governments decision to Yours sincerely interpret the referendum result as a clear mandate to leave the European Union on the Groups operations.
As the business continues to grow following its IPO, the Geoff Cooper Board remains committed to high standards of Chairman governance and continuous improvement in these 27 March 2017 arrangements.
We believe that this can be demonstrated by pragmatically applying corporate governance principles and guidelines in a way that enhances or protects the value of the business.
New challenges continue to arise in guidelines and practice, for example on executive remuneration, viability statements, quarterly reporting, share dealing regulations and diversity.
The FRC has also recently announced a comprehensive review of the Corporate Governance Code that will potentially shift the governance landscape yet again.
The Board remains confident that its approach to compliance, focusing on delivering real business benefit, will continue to serve the Company well as we respond to these challenges.
Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 37 37
