Strategic report Governance Financials Other information Governance overview A strong Ga Gar reth eth Da Davi vis s Ch Chairm airma an n governance culture Committed to achieving high standards of corporate governance in the boardroom and throughout the Group.
In the coming year your Board will continue to work to support the Dear Shareholder implementation and excellent execution of the Groups strategy.
Your Board I am pleased to present the Companys Corporate Governance continues to strive for improvement and the areas for further development Reportforthe financial year ended 31 July 2017.
This report explains identied in the annual effectiveness review have been noted as priority howthe Boardoperates and how our governance structure contributes areas for 2017 18.
Details of the effectiveness review and the Boards totheachievement of the Groups long-term strategic objectives.
priorities for the coming year are set out on page 58.
As usual, during the This section, together with the reports from the Audit, Nominations and year the NonExecutive Directors, led by the Senior Independent Director, Remuneration Committees beginning on pages 60, 64 and 69 respectively, conducted their annual evaluation of my performance.
I also chair two provide a description of how the Group has applied the main principles and other listed companies and this is specically taken into account in the complied with the relevant provisions of UK Corporate Governance Code evaluation.
The Board believes that I continue to perform effectively and to the Code.
We remain committed to full compliance with the Code and to devote sufficient time and attention to my role as Chairman of the Company.
achieving high standards of corporate governance both in the boardroom and A process to identify my successor as Chairman of William Hill PLC is throughout the Group.
We have used the core principles of the Code as the underway and I envisage that I will stand down from that role by May 2018, framework within which we explain our governance practices in this report once my successor has been appointed.
please see the boxes below, which direct you to further detail.
I also note with Fergusons Group-wide policies and procedures provide a framework for interest the UK Governments proposals for corporate governance reform governance and are underpinned by the Groups core values and its Code published in August 2017.
Your Board will continue to monitor these proposed of Conduct.
The Groups core values set the expectation that all employees, reforms as they develop to ensure that we remain fully compliant and that our at all levels, will: place value on our people by encouraging development: act high standards of corporate governance are maintained.
with integrity: and drive for results and improvement.
The Board remains committed to presenting a clear assessment of the Culture and good governance are inherently linked and your Board Companys position and prospects through the information provided in this recognises the fundamental importance of a corporate culture that is aligned report, through interim financial statements and other narrative and financial with and supportive of the Groups long-term strategic objectives.
However, reports and statements as required.
culture is, ultimately, an output resulting from the individual and collective In addition to our usual programme of business, set out on page 57, the actions of the Groups associates.
The Board has oversight of the Groups Board has this year placed particular emphasis on succession planning and Better Business framework, described in detail on pages 34 and 35, which the delivery of the Groups three strategic priorities as set out in last years sets out the 13 material issues we consider essential to how we do business.
report to generate the best profitable growth in the USA, to execute the Objectives and, where appropriate, quantied targets are set for each of these UK turnaround and repositioning plan and to review the Nordics operational material issues and regular performance updates are submitted to the Board.
strategy and restore the business to profitable growth.
Detail of how your I would like to take this opportunity to thank our shareholders for their Board has supported delivery of the Groups strategic priorities is provided continuing support.
The Board and I will be available to respond to any in my Chairmans statement on page 13, and later in this section on page 57. questions on this report or any of the Committees activities at our 2017 AGM in It has also been a particularly active year for the Board in terms of succession November and I look forward to welcoming those shareholders able to attend.
planning and Board appointments, more detail is provided in the Nominations Committee report on pages 64 and 65.
The Board is responsible for determining the nature and extent of the principal risks it is willing to take in achieving its strategic objectives and for maintaining sound risk management and internal control systems.
The effectiveness Gareth Davis of these systems is reviewed through the work of the Audit Committee Chairman described on pages 60 to 63.
During the year, the Board and its Committees carried out a robust assessment of the risks facing the business and the principal risks which the Board has focused on are set out in the Principal risks and their management section on pages 42 to 49.
Core principles Leadership Effectiveness Accountability Remuneration Relations with shareholders Continued close focus on A strong, open and Close scrutiny of risks Prudent oversight of Open engagement strategy and its execution.
Pages 52 to 58, 64 and 65 Pages 52 to 58, 64 and 65 Pages 60 to 63 Pages 69 to 84 Page 59 Ferguson plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 51
