Governance|Chairman's introduction Chairmans introduction The Board is accountable to our stakeholders, including our customers, shareholders and employees, for ensuring good corporate governance is at the heart of our business.
Don Robert, Chairman On behalf of the Board, Im pleased to and discussed the evaluation report in further induction in May 2017.
We provide present the Corporate governance report February 2017, while the Nomination and more detail on Board induction, training for the year ended 31 March 2017.
The Corporate Governance Committee and and ongoing interaction with the business Board remains committed to maintaining the Board later considered areas of focus later in this report.
Judith Sprieser retired the highest standards of corporate for the coming year.
You will read later as a director of the Company following governance, which it achieves by ensuring about the results of the evaluation and the 2016 AGM.
The Committee continues the Groups governance framework is the areas of focus that weve agreed.
to focus on Board succession and on appropriate and effective.
This report ensuring the correct balance of skills and I work closely with the Chief Executive describes that framework and the Boards experience on the Board.
Officer, Brian Cassin, and the Company approach to achieving good corporate Secretary, Charles Brown, to plan the Roger Davis was appointed to the Board governance during the year.
agenda for each Board meeting.
This on 1 January 2007 and, while the Board A key component of Experians strategic ensures the right balance between continues to consider Roger to be wholly direction is effective corporate strategic planning and performance independent, it is intended to appoint a governance, which the Board is updates, corporate development and new independent non-executive director responsible for overseeing, under my governance matters.
We plan for an to succeed Roger as Chairman of the leadership.
By having a sound corporate appropriate mix of standing items and Remuneration Committee after he or she governance framework, we can ensure subjects that may, in the context of has been a member of that Committee for effective and efficient decision making, events or challenges, be directly relevant at least one year.
Whilst we do not publish and the right balance of skills, experience at the time.
This process, together with specific diversity targets, we recognise and diversity to monitor and manage visits to the business and presentations the significant benefits of a diverse Board the risks we face.
As Chairman, on relevant issues, means that the Board and, when recruiting, will continue to seek I ensure that the Board is empowered is focused on the important areas.
to address diversity gaps on our Board.
and resourced to do these things.
The Conclusion The Nomination and Corporate Board is committed to operating openly Governance Committee, under the The Board considers that the Company and with integrity, and these principles chairmanship of George Rose, the Deputy has applied the principles and complied are embedded in the boardroom and in Chairman and Senior Independent with the provisions of the Code, published how the Board operates.
An effective Director, continues to regularly review in April 2016, throughout the year ended Board must also maintain a level of Board composition and executive 31 March 2017. independence and objectivity.
During the year, Caroline The Corporate governance report, This year, in line with the UK Corporate Donahue joined the Board, bringing together with the Report on directors Governance Code the 'Code' and best extensive international markets and remuneration, explains how we have practice, our Board evaluation was technology experience, and knowledge of applied the Codes main principles and facilitated by an independent external consumer sales and marketing, innovation complied with its provisions during consultant, Condign Board Consulting.
and consumer-centricity, all of which the year.
The information required by The evaluation provided the Board with are valuable attributes for Experian.
the UK FCA Disclosure Guidance and greater insights into its performance, and These skills will be instrumental, as we Transparency Rule 'DTR' 7.2 is set it confirmed that the Board operates in shape our vision to place consumers at out on these pages and the Corporate a fully functional way which is effective, the centre of what we do.
Following her governance report, other than that purposeful and challenging.
The appointment, Caroline commenced a required by DTR 7.2.
6R, which is set out evaluation also identified opportunities comprehensive induction programme, in the Directors report.
for the Board to further improve its which included presentations on all key effectiveness.
The Board reviewed aspects of Experians operations, with 63
