Governance and accounts Introduction to Governance The Directors statement contains the corporate governance statement required by FCA The Board remains committed Disclosure and Transparency Rule 7.2.
The Company is committed to upholding the toupholding the high standard of highest standards of corporate governance.
It observes the requirements of the UK Corporate corporate governance that underpins Governance Code the Code, a copy of which is available from the Financial Reporting Council website www.
uk, subject to the FCAs the management and long-term Listing Rule 15.6.
6 2, and to the extent applicable to the Company, given that it has no Executive Directors.
The Code applies to all companies with success of the business.
a Premium Listing on the London Stock Exchange, irrespective of their country of incorporation.
The Company complied with all the provisions of Good governance is a fundamental part of how we do business.
the Code for the financial year ending 31 March Following recommendations made by the Nomination Committee, 2017 except as set out below: it is the responsibility of the Board to procure the right balance of skills a the role of the chief executive amongst the Directors to ensure we can be responsible to shareholders b executive directors remuneration for the overall management and oversight of the Company, for agreeing c the need for an internal audit function d the Company considers Steven Wilderspin to its strategy, monitoring its financial performance, setting and monitoring be independent despite having served nine its risk appetite and maintaining an effective system of internal controls.
The Board recognises the importance of maintaining a purposeful The Board considers provisions a to c above are not relevant to the Company as it is an externally relationship with shareholders.
It is my responsibility to ensure that managed investment company.
In particular, all there is the opportunity for shareholders to enter into dialogue with of the Companys day-to-day management and the Board on strategy and corporate governance and I welcome the administrative functions are outsourced to third parties.
As a result, the Company has no executive opportunity to meet with shareholders as required.
I am grateful to all directors, employees or internal operations.
The our shareholders for their continued support and to those who have Company has therefore not reported further in given feedback.
In respect of Steven Wilderspins independence, This section describes how the Company is governed.
It explains the Company has determined that Steven has how the Board is organised and operates, including the roles and continued to demonstrate independence, composition of each of its Committees, and provides details on our character and judgment and given his experience Board members and how they are remunerated.
and knowledge of the business, it is considered to be in the best interests of the Company for Steven The Companys policy is to have a Board with a diverse range of skills, to remain a Director.
To that end it will continue to The Board has adopted a revised code for Directors dealings in ordinary shares following ensure that in making appointments to the Board it, and any executive the implementation of the EU Market Abuse search rm that assists it, will consider a wide range of candidates from Regulation MAR on 3 July 2016.
The Board is different backgrounds while making appointments solely on merit and responsible for taking all proper and reasonable which meet the objectives of its policy on diversity, including gender.
steps to ensure compliance with the MAR by theDirectors.
Ric Richard Laing Chair Ch man, 3i Infrastructure plc 1 10 0 May 2017 54
