GOVERNANCE REPORT OF THE CHAIRMAN OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE Wizz Air has grown significantly and successfully as a result, in part, of constantly re-examining the way it does things and ensuring that its business is run to the best possible standards.
The work of the Audit Committee during the 2017 financial year reflects this philosophy.
As well as the continued engagement on day-to-day financial issues, including further discussion on hedging strategy and approval of hedging transactions, the Audit Committee has worked closely with the Companys Internal Audit function together with external advisers to run an effective programme of internal audits and to overhaul completely the Companys system for enterprise risk management ERM, to ensure that the Companys risk management processes continue to provide a strong foundation for its future growth.
Main activities of the Audit Committee during the 2017 financial year Risk management The Audit Committee is tasked with ensuring that the Board has adequate oversight of risk management and that it deems the controls sufficient and effective.
The Companys Internal Audit function conducts an annual risk assessment exercise involving senior management from the level of heads of function upwards.
Following implementation of the new ERM framework, the assessment of each risk involves consideration of the inherent risk, existing mitigating measures and residual risk, along with a determination of how that risk should be dealt with in accordance with the Companys risk appetite.
The resulting risk register is then used to prepare a principal risk report.
A new, internal Risk Council, comprising the Companys senior management team as well as a number of other senior members of management, reviews the risk register and the principal risk report at least once a quarter.
The Risk Council then reports to the Audit Committee on, among other things, changes to be made to the principal risk report.
The principal risk report, once approved by the Audit Committee, is delivered to the Board.
The risk register is also used to develop an Internal Audit plan for the upcoming year, which is approved by the Audit Committee.
Internal audits are performed by Ernst & Young and the Head of Internal Audit, who has direct responsibility to the Chairman of the Audit Committee as well as a reporting line to the Companys Chief Executive Officer.
Following completion of an Internal Audit, a report is compiled which sets out the findings, makes recommendations for control improvement and presents the improvement actions undertaken by management.
Internal audit reports are submitted and presented to the Audit Committee for approval.
The Chairman gives a report of the Internal Audit reports completed in a particular period to the full Board.
Internal Audit then verifies that actions have been taken and controls implemented and reports back to the Audit Committee on the status.
The Audit Committee will work to ensure that the Company continues to develop effective risk assessment and management processes.
More information on risk management within the Company is set out on pages 26 to 30 of this annual report.
Financial information The Audit Committee reviews and approves all interim and final financial statements, as well as the content of the Companys annual report.
The Companys external auditors provide the Audit Committee with a briefing on any issues arising.
The Audit Committee also reviews and approves any regulatory announcements that are made in connection with such financial information.
It is only after the Audit Committees approval that the statements are put to the Board for approval.
Relationship with external auditors The Audit Committee has approved the fees to be paid and the external audit plan for the 2017 financial year and reviewed the reports of the auditors on the half-year review and the annual audit performed.
Taking into account the above, and the result of the AQR review see later, the Audit Committee was satisfied with the performance of the external auditors and with the effectiveness of the external audit process.
The audit of the 2017 financial statements and of this annual report, and the review of the half-year financial report, were all completed in time and in good quality, addressing the key issues.
The Audit Committee will consider the appointment of external auditors for the financial year ending 31 March 2018 and the Directors will propose a resolution in this respect for the forthcoming annual general meeting of the Company.
Should the Directors later decide to appoint a firm other than the current auditor , the Directors would ask the shareholders to ratify the appointment of the new auditor at the 2018 annual general meeting.
The Audit Committee ensures the independence of the Companys external auditors.
The Audit Committee reviewed the independence letter of the auditors and considered in particular the non-audit fees paid to the external auditors during the year see Note 6 to the financial statements.
While fees paid on tax and other advisory services were higher in 2017 than the audit fees, the Audit Committee was satisfied that this did not compromise the objectivity and independence of the auditors, mainly because: i the engagement leaders from the relevant Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2017 44 GOVERNANCE REPORT OF THE CHAIRMAN OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE CONTINUED Main activities of the Audit Committee during the 2017 financial year continued Relationship with external auditors continued advisory departments are not part of the audit team: and ii no such services were ordered by the Company that carried self-review threat for the auditor.
Significant matters relating to the annual report In the course of the preparation of the Companys financial statements, the following issues were considered by the Audit Committee: Maintenance accounting: As part of reviewing the reports from management and the auditor on the halfyear and the year-end accounts, the Audit Committee satisfied itself that the policy and the procedures applicable to this complex area were followed in the year consistently, including the regular updates to estimates and judgments and the maintenance of the system supporting the calculations.
Membership revenues: Until 2016 the Group recognised membership revenues arising from the Wizz Discount Club WDC customer loyalty program on a straight-line basis over the twelve-month period of the membership.
During the year management presented its analysis showing that the actual pattern of customers taking benefit of the program is different from being straight line, and proposed that going forward membership revenues would be better recognised based on the actual historic usage pattern.
The Audit Committee approved this change in estimate for the purposes of accounting for membership revenues, on the condition that management should review the applicability of the pattern at least once every year see Note 4 for more information.
Segment reporting: The Audit Committee satisfied itself that starting from the 2017 financial year it was appropriate to introduce separate presentation for the results of the airline and the online tour operator business units of the Group.
This applies both for segment reporting disclosures under IFRS 8 and for the business analysis of revenues, operating expenses and certain KPIs in the Strategic Report.
At the request of the Board, the Audit Committee also considered whether the annual report taken as a whole was fair, balanced and understandable and whether it provided the necessary information for Shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy.
The Committee is satisfied that the annual report meets these criteria.
Other matters considered during the year FRC AQR review: During the year the Audit Quality Review AQR team of the UK Financial Reporting Council FRC reviewed the audit of the 2016 financial statements of the Group, that had been performed by  LLP UK.
The AQR team monitors the quality of the audit work of statutory auditors and audit firms in the UK, that audit Public Interest Entities PIEs and certain other entities.
The overall assessment of the audit found that there were no significant areas of concern.
The report from the AQR was received and reviewed by the Audit Committee and the Committee was satisfied with the good result of the review.
The recommendations from the review have been incorporated into the audit of the 2017 financial statements.
New accounting standards: There were important developments during the year in relation to three new IFRSs that will have a material impact on the financial statements of the Group.
In order of importance: IFRS 16 Leases: The standard is awaiting endorsement by the EU, that is currently expected by the end of 2017.
The Committee has not taken a position whether to adopt the standard early from 1 April 2018 or from the date required by the standard 1 April 2019.
The Committee has reviewed managements preliminary analysis of the potential impacts of the standard on the financial statements of the Group and approved the related disclosure see Note 2 Accounting policies to the financial statements.
IFRS 9 Financial instruments: The Committee supported managements proposal to early adopt IFRS 9 starting from 1 April 2017.
IFRS 9 enables the Group to eliminate the impact on earnings resulting from changes in the time value of hedges.
The change in the time value of hedges was the last transaction of recurring nature that the Group classified as exceptional item in its financial statements.
Therefore the adoption of IFRS 9 means that, commencing from the 2018 financial year, it is expected that the Group will not have any exceptional items and therefore it can discontinue the presentation of underlying earnings which differ from IFRS earnings.
IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers: The Committee reviewed managements preliminary assessment for the implications of this standard and supported managements recommendation to adopt it from the standard date, that is 1 April 2018.
Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2017 45 GOVERNANCE REPORT OF THE CHAIRMAN OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE CONTINUED Main activities of the Audit Committee during the 2017 financial year continued Other matters considered during the year continued Hedging Policy update: In January 2017 management proposed and the Committee approved the following changes to the Groups Hedging Policy: The maximum hedge coverage levels allowed by the Policy were increased by 10 per cent.
both on jet fuel and on FX hedges.
This means moving from 60 to 70 per cent.
on a rolling twelve-month basis, and moving from 50 to 60 per cent.
For the closest quarter the maximum level allowed by the Policy was increased from 75 to 85 per cent..
Implement new hedging instruments for short dated exposures, particularly fuel and FX swaps with a tenure of 1-3 months.
Introduce FX hedging for the GBP EUR currency pair, with a view to the significant GBP long position of the Group and the increased volatility of GBP FX rates following the Brexit vote.
Tendering statutory audit services for the Group: The EU Competition and Market Authoritys CMA Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies Market Investigation Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender Processes and Audit Committee Responsibilities Order 2014 the CMA Order defines requirements for mandatory tendering of statutory audit services, and the responsibility of audit committees in this respect.
It applies to EU-incorporated companies in FTSE 350 companies for financial years beginning on or after January 1, 2015.
The CMA Order technically does not apply to the Group given that its holding entity is incorporated outside the EU.
At the same time, while the comply-or-explain provision in the UK Corporate Governance Code on audit tendering continues to apply to the Company for the current year it has been withdrawn in the version of the Corporate Governance Code which applies to the 2018 financial year.
Nevertheless, the Audit Committee confirms that the Group is willing to voluntarily comply with the Order.
The Audit Committee also confirms that the Group complied with the provisions of the CMA Order in its 2017 financial year.
 have been the auditors since 2007 and audit services were last tendered in 2011.
Management proposed and the Committee approved the plan that during the 2018 financial year the statutory audit services for the Group will be tendered.
The tendering process will also ensure that audit and non-audit services will be properly separated.
The Committee trusts that these measures will overall support the independence, objectivity and value for money of the audit process.
Tax matters: The Committee reviewed managements analysis i of the significant developments in the international tax environment in the last 1-2 years including the OECD BEPS measures, and ii of the Swiss Corporate Tax Reform III.
initiative, which has since then been suspended in its current form as a result of a public referendum in Switzerland.
The Committee is satisfied that currently there are no explicit impacts of these changes on the tax position of the Group and therefore that immediate changes are not required.
However, together with management the Committee will continue to monitor developments closely.
Simon Duffy Chairman of the Audit Committee Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2017 46
