CHAIRMANS INTRODUCTION It is the Boards responsibility to provide both strategic oversight and appropriate guidance to ensure the Company is able to create stakeholder value over the long term.
year the Board continued to provide Governance and risk management Rijnhard van Tets support, thereby enabling management to Notwithstanding the ongoing investigation, Non-executive focus on effective strategic execution and governance and risk management Chairman project delivery.
This ensured that process continue to be a key area of focus for the improvements and lessons learned from Group to ensure that enhanced processes prior projects could be implemented.
can be embedded throughout the organisation.
The risks associated with Investigation non-compliance with laws and regulations We reported last year that the Board had can be significant and the Board is committed to carrying out additional audit therefore committed to ensuring that work during 2017 to strengthen the robust internal controls are in place to Companys existing controls environment.
mitigate threats that may be encountered.
This was prompted by the 2016 media allegations relating to the historical provision Diversity of services to the Company by Unaoil.
While Petrofac continues to believe that diversity is this work was underway, the instigation of wider than simply gender and aims to recruit the Serious Fraud Office SFO investigation on merit and hire the best candidates with in May 2017 changed the focus for the the widest range of skills and experience, Board.
The Board sub-committee, which whatever their background or gender.
With had been initially formed in 2016, was around 80 nationalities employed within Dear shareholder expanded and its membership increased Petrofac, we consider that our business This is my final governance report because, with the remit of being solely responsible for benefits greatly from our varied employee as reported on page 6, I will be stepping the Companys engagement with the SFO, base, including those at senior management down from the Board at the forthcoming and to oversee the Companys response and Board levels.
The Petrofac Board, made Annual General Meeting in May.
Since to the SFO investigation.
up of six different nationalities, with both joining the Board back in 2007, and then male and female members, is already becoming Chairman in 2014, I have seen This sub-committee recommended the diverse, but we will continue to keep this significant changes across the Company.
establishment of a new Board Committee matter under review.
to uphold and oversee the implementation We have made great progress in many of the compliance and ethics principles and Changes to the Board areas, but we recognise that further rules, which are set out in the Companys Details of changes to the Board that took improvements within our governance Code of Conduct and the appointment of place during 2017 are set out on pages framework and internal controls can always an external specialist.
The Compliance and 80 and 81. be achieved.
As a company, Petrofac is Ethics Committee was formed during the facing challenging times but it remains a second half of 2017 and further details of I am honoured to have served the Company key priority for the Board to continue to the work carried out by this Committee as its Chairman over the last four years.
I am strive to do what is best for our Company, are set out on pages 88 and 89.
While the content that I will leave behind not only a our clients, and our shareholders.
SFO investigation is ongoing, it is not yet competent Board, ably led by Ren Mdori, possible to identify the timescale in which but a strong senior management team that Board oversight this matter might reach a conclusion.
can work together effectively and provide As a Board, it is our responsibility to provide Nonetheless, the Board continues to have oversight and governance to implement strategic management oversight and confidence in Petrofacs people, processes best practice recommendations and appropriate guidance, where necessary, to and its long-term prospects to deliver the improvements throughout the year.
ensure the Company is able to create and strategy, and acknowledges the significant sustain stakeholder value over the long amount of work undertaken during 2017 Rijnhard van Tets term.
This can be achieved by ensuring that across the Group.
Chairman appropriate information, on all key matters affecting the Group, is duly considered and 28 February 2018 that material risks and opportunities are identified and discussed both at Board and senior management level.
Throughout the 66 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2017 Governance CORPORATE STRUCTURE AND FRAMEWORK 2017 Objectives and highlights The Board is now assisted by four Individual reports from each committee Objectives Achieved committees Audit, Nominations, chairman for 2017 are provided on pages Strategy execution oversaw Remuneration and Compliance 80 to 105. the continued strategic and Ethics.
development of the Company In addition to these Board committees, Project delivery remained a Each Committee is responsible for the Company has a number of executive significant area of focus for the reviewing and overseeing activities within management committees, which are Board to ensure that we continued its particular terms of reference copies of involved in the day-to-day operational to implement lessons learned from which are available on the Companys management of Petrofac and have been prior projects across the Group website, www.
The established to consider various matters Succession planning chairman of each committee provides a for recommendation to the Board and remained important to ensure Board summary at each scheduled Board its committees.
and senior management changes meeting of any committee meeting held were managed effectively, with the aim of retaining knowledge since the previous meeting and, once and continuity, while attracting approved, the minutes of all committee new talent where required, to meetings are circulated to the full Board.
successfully implement the strategic agenda SHAREHOLDERS Compliance and risk management continued to embed and enhance processes Elect the external Elect the Ongoing throughout the organisation ensuring auditors Directors dialogue that robust internal controls were in BOARD place and the risks associated with Provides leadership and direction for the Group.
Sets overall non-compliance with laws and strategy and oversees its implementation.
Ensures regulations were reduced appropriate systems and processes are in place to monitor Stakeholder engagement and manage Group risk.
Responsible for financial engaged with stakeholders performance and corporate governance.
to explain corporate changes and to understand their views and discuss any areas of concern Audit Committee Nominations Remuneration Compliance and Reviews and monitors Committee Committee Ethics Committee the integrity of the Reviews the Reviews and agrees Reviews and has Priorities for 2018 Groups financial structure, size remuneration policy direct oversight over Objectives statements, reporting and composition and determines compliance and Strategy execution provide leadership processes, financial of the Board and individual ethical risks.
and guidance to support the Companys and regulatory its committees.
compensation levels Monitors the strategic priorities, with the focus to drive compliance: the Takes primary for Executive adequacy and operational delivery systems of internal responsibility Directors and effectiveness of control and risk for Group level members of senior controls.
Ensures Compliance and risk management management, succession planning management.
ethical policies and will remain a significant area of focus including viability and Director practices are subject for the Board as enhanced processes and assessment: and the succession.
to independent procedures are fully embedded throughout external and internal internal scrutiny.
the Group, thereby ensuring adherence audit processes.
to robust internal controls Succession planning focus on Committee report Committee report Committee report Committee report ensuring changes are managed so on pages 82 to 87 on pages 80 to 81 on pages 90 to 105 on pages 88 to 89 that core capabilities are preserved, thereby positioning the business for longer-term growth EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT Project delivery and execution Responsible for day-to-day operational management, the communication and continue to focus on flawless execution implementation of strategic decisions, administrative matters for recommendation to the to secure new awards and reach Board and its committees.
Underpinned by the following management committees: commercial settlements, in order to Executive Disclosure Group Risk protect net margins and reduce net debt Committee Committee Committee Stakeholder engagement encourage open engagement with Operational Treasury Third Party Risk Guarantee stakeholders, to understand views and Committee Committee Committee Committee clarify and explain any potential changes Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2017 67
