Letter from the Chairman of the Compensation Committee Dear share owner first awards were made in 2013, completed the first five-year performance period on 31 December 2017.
This plan is a n behalf of the WPP Board I am pleased to present performance share plan that measures achievement against the Directors Compensation Report for the year three performance measures: relative TSR, return on equity ended 31 December 2017.
The report includes an and earnings per share.
While 2017 produced disappointing Oat a glance snapshot of WPPs performance and financial and share price performance, over the five-year corresponding compensation for the year.
This is followed period the aggregate performance was strong.
by our Compensation Committee Report, which details WPPs TSR outperformed 63% of the weighted peer the compensation decisions made by the Committee and group on a common currency basis and 77% on a local the resulting outcomes for the directors.
To simplify this report, we are not presenting the full EPS grew by 64.0% from 73.4p to 120.4p a CAGR Directors Compensation Policy in the Annual Report this of 10.4%.
year but have instead included a summary of each element ROE averaged 15.8%.
of the policy in the relevant section of the Compensation Such strong financial performance produced an overall Committee Report.
The full policy can be found at vesting level of 72.8%.
com wpp about howwebehave governance.
The Board considers that Executive and Non-Executive Performance targets for 2018 incentive awards Directors compensation conforms with the requirements The Committee, in light of the recent revisions to our financial of the current UK Corporate Governance Code.
guidance, is currently reviewing the 2018-2022 EPSP measures Following a re-evaluation of the policy and extensive and targets to ensure they remain appropriate.
If any changes consultation with share owners, we presented a new Directors are felt necessary, the Committee will consult with major Compensation Policy for approval at the 2017 AGM.
We were share owners to seek views and support.
pleased that this was approved with a 92% vote in favour The three financial measures for the short-term incentive and has been in effect since the date of the AGM.
However, plan remain the same as the prior year and are: headline unfortunately the 2016 Compensation Committee Report PBT growth: headline revenue less pass-through cost received a 20.8% vote against owing to discomfort with the margin improvement formerly headline net sales margin level of the 2016 Single Figure.
The last Leadership Equity improvement : and growth in revenue less pass-through costs Acquisition Plan LEAP award, which vested in full following formerly growth in net sales.
The performance targets and strong five-year relative TSR and share price performance, was outcomes will be disclosed in next years Annual Report.
the key driver of the single figure.
The LEAP was replaced in 2013 and, in addition, the compensation packages of the Group Looking forward Chief Executive and Group Finance Director were, following The Committee continues to monitor developments in corporate extensive discussion with our share owners, substantially governance related to compensation.
In 2018, our focus will reduced in both 2014 and 2017 to address concerns.
be considering changes to the UK Corporate Governance Code and ensuring that our compensation practices and processes Pay for performance in 2017 meet the Companys needs and align to best practice.
As stated elsewhere in this Annual Report, 2017 has proven The WPP UK Gender Pay Gap Report 2017 was published as a very challenging period and this has directly impacted the required by UK Gender Pay Gap legislation on 1 March 2018, incentive plans for the Executive Directors and other senior showing consolidated data for the UK companies, and executives in the Group.
With regard to the annual short-term individually for each UK employing company with more than incentive plan, the financial targets were missed and this 250 employees.
The Committee will be monitoring progress in resulted in no bonus payment being earned in relation to this relation to the gender pay gap over the coming years.
More part of the scorecard, which represent 70% of the total.
The information can be found in the sustainability review on page 47. directors also have personal strategic goals as described later Finally, on behalf of the Committee, I would like to extend in the report.
While good progress was made against most thanks to our major share owners who have provided us with of those goals, in light of the disappointing financial results valuable advice and support over the last year.
the Committee exercised its discretion and determined that it would be inappropriate to award a bonus for 2017.
Sir John Hood The Executive Performance Share Plan EPSP, the successor Chairman of the Compensation Committee to the former LEAP, which was introduced and under which 24 April 2018 89 WPPAnnual Report 2017
