61 PLAYTECH PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT TAX PLANNING data protection and is supported by a cross- 4 functional GDPR project team.
The GDPR As a global company, Playtech operates TAX GOVERNANCE project team is overseeing the implementation in many markets.
Playtech engages in tax of the EU GDPR requirements across the TAX GOVERNANCE AND POLICIES planning that supports the business and reflects Playtech Group.
Playtech Playtechs tax strategy is governed by the selects the location of its operations based on Board and monitored by the Audit Committee.
Training and Awareness commercial and operational factors that extend The Audit Committee reviews the tax strategy Throughout 2017, the Playtech Group Data well beyond tax, including: annually.
The Head of Tax is responsible for Protection Office, supported by the GDPR ensuring that policies and procedures that project team, has been raising awareness the prevailing regulatory environment support the approach to tax are in place, about GDPR through workshops and training.
available: maintained and used consistently around the The internal awareness activities are fully world.
The Head of Tax reports to the Board a widely available pool of technical talent: supported and reiterated by executive and on how tax risks are managed, monitored and the linguistic capabilities in these divisional management, who are instrumental assured jurisdictions: in delivering the tone from the top on all compliance issues.
the location of our licensees: and Approach to tax labour and operational cost factors.
Playtech is committed to complying with all Programme Management relevant tax laws in a responsible manner.
The The Group Data Protection Office has Playtech adheres to relevant tax law and seeks Company manages its tax affairs in line with developed a detailed road map for to minimise the risk of uncertainty or disputes.
the Groups governance framework and tax implementing GDPR and is currently on track Playtech conducts transactions between Group strategy.
Playtech is headquartered in the Isle of to meet the May 2018 deadline.
The roadmap companies on an arms-length basis.
Playtech Man, where its Parent Company is tax resident.
includes a review of all Playtech systems, engages constructively with local tax authorities, This location was chosen as a jurisdiction in policies and processes currently in place.
In either directly or through trade associations and which to develop the head office function due addition, Playtech is working with each division other similar bodies, as appropriate.
to shareholders benefiting from an Isle of Man to ensure that organisational controls are in line company falling under the remit of the City Code with the GDPR requirements for data handling.
SAFEGUARDING DATA The Group Data Protection Office has been Playtech has offices in 17 countries with the The safe and secure handling of data and holding workshops for all relevant departments majority of its development and technical protection of personal data are critical and functions.
The objectives were to raise operations in Ukraine, Estonia, Latvia, Bulgaria to Playtechs long-term success.
During awareness amongst key divisions, functions and Gibraltar.
These locations are well known 2017, Playtech continued to strengthen its and employees, review current processes and for being among the best technology hubs capabilities, ensuring resilience plans comply procedures and implement detailed GDPR with a large population of well educated, with national data protection laws, governing Privacy Management Activities PMAs.
The Companys presence in the collection, use, and disclosure of personal workshops allowed internal stakeholders to some markets, such as Austria, Australia and data in our countries of operation.
understand their role, responsibilities and Denmark is a result of acquisitions.
In these accountabilities for GDPR implementation.
locations, business activities result in payments Playtech launched a Group wide program The workshops also provided senior leaders to government which include corporate income to ensure compliance with the General Data with an in depth understanding of actions taxes, royalty withholding tax, employment Protection Regulation GDPR.
The project and timelines required for compliance.
taxes, property taxes, duties and other taxes.
In covers governance, risk assessment, policies addition, Playtech collects and pays employee and processes, training, incident management, The GDPR project team is also working to taxes as well as indirect taxes such as VAT and monitoring and data cleansing in order to ensure that operator licensee requirements sales tax.
The taxes paid and collected form a drive the right behaviours regarding the are taken into consideration as part of the significant part of our economic contribution handling of personal data.
Playtech aims to be overall project plan.
With respect to contractual to the countries in which we operate.
fully compliant with the new EU general data obligations, Playtech primarily acts as a Data protection regulations by May 2018.
Processor with respect to platform services.
The corporate tax charge for 2017 was 17.5 Accordingly, Playtech will process personal million 2016: 6.3 million, and our effective SUMMARY OF PLAYTECH GDPR data only on documented instructions from the tax rate was 6.6% 2016: 3%.
Please refer to Data Controller.
In Playtechs B2B operations, GOVERNANCE AND PROGRAM taxation Note 8 for additional information.
it serves as a data processor, and cannot MANAGEMENT collect consent from consumers players nor Governance hold records of player consent or purpose Throughout 2017, GDPR readiness has been for which it was given.
a priority issue for the Playtech Board and Executive Management.
The Risk Committee On that basis, Playtech is engaging with of the Board has primary oversight over licensees on GDPR: reinforcing respective data protection and nominated Claire Milne responsibilities and encouraging necessary as the Board level champion.
The Board updates on processes or policies and or to and Executive team have fully endorsed a instructions for Playtech on changes required comprehensive roadmap, developed by the to the contractually agreed services.
The Group Data Protection Office has oversight for
