CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Another year of strong revenue growth, consis stent inv tent inves estment, tment, integration successes, organisational alignment and har ent and hard d work from all employees.
SIR COLIN TERRY Chairman Meggitts excellent performance continued In 2008, we won virtually every major I would like to take this opportunity to in 2008.
Revenues increased 32% to 1,162.6 braking systems bid we entered and thank them for yet another outstanding year million and underlying pro t before taxation manufacturing increased substantially to of hard work and commitment to building was up 36% to 243.3 million.
Our US carbon facility in our increasingly successful Group.
again strong with 100% of underlying Kentucky doubled its capacity as we operating pro t converted to operating cash.
shared the best of friction materials Outlook technology and practice from our dual Meggitt is broadly balanced and well Investing for the future facilities in the UK and US.
We delivered an excellent financial 2008s synergy target of 10 million and we We continued to invest signi cant sums performance in 2008.
We will roll out are on track to achieve our goal of annual in 2008: 120 million in our facilities and signi cant cost reduction measures in savings of 22 million by 2010. the development of intellectual property.
2009 and we have plenty of headroom This included new regional of ces in India K&Fs Engineered Fabrics Corporation EFC within our bank facilities and covenants.
and Abu Dhabi and expanded low-cost continued to enhance Meggitts military With these great strengths, we are manufacturing facilities in Mexico and sales to helicopters and jets with a variety well-placed to address the economic China.
Advances in intellectual property of products.
Based on current included developments in electric braking crashworthy fuel tanks received a record market indicators and at constant 2008 and control technologies and next follow-on order valued at $41 million for the exchange rates, the Group expects revenues generation training products for our law KC-135 aircraft programme, underpinning in 2009 to be close to those achieved in 2008. enforcement customers.
its order book for the next five years.
The Board has recommended a final During the year, we closed our UK-based dividend of 5.75 pence, with the total dividend Acquisitions and disposals fuelling products facility, transferring the for the year increasing by 3% to 8.45 pence.
In 2008, we disposed of S-TEC, our non-core product lines to our facilities in China and autopilot business, for a net consideration the United States.
of 17.2 million and acquired Ferroperm, We also consolidated our US livere and a supplier of advanced sensing materials for virtual training businesses into one new up to 9.8 million.
This acquisition extends facility in Atlanta and two UK polymers the ability of our sensing systems division to factories onto a single site in Loughborough.
respond to customers requirements for more data from cryogenic and higher Our people temperature environments.
Meggitt people continue to meet the Integration and rationalisation Groups ambitious goals, spurred on by the excitement of being part of a growing The integration of the K&F Industries business with a clear vision and strategy Holdings K&F acquisition continues to and opportunities for professional progress well.
Meggitts combined wheels, development at all levels.
brakes and brake control systems business now has a leading position in the regional, I continue to be impressed by the drive, business jet and military aircraft markets.
enthusiasm and air of our people and 2 Chairmans statement Meggitt PLC Report and accounts 2008
