Chairmans statement I am pleased to report Melroses sixth set of annual results since flotation in October 2003.
Results for the Group These accounts report the results for the Group for the year to 31 December 2008 and the relevant comparatives for the previous year.
FKI plc was acquired on 1 July 2008 and its results have been included from that date.
Revenue for the year was 938.3 million 2007: 288.6 million.
Headline profit before tax before exceptional costs, exceptional income and intangible asset amortisation other than computer software was 75.4 million 2007: 28.1 million.
Headline Earnings Per Share, which the Board considers to best represent the true underlying performance of the Group, increased 15% to 16.8p compared with Proforma Earnings Per Share of 14.6p as defined in the Finance Directors review in 2007.
Further explanation of these results is provided in the Finance Directors review.
Much hard work and dedication, from our employees, has gone CHRISTOPHER MILLER EXECUTIVE CHAIRMAN into producing these highly satisfactory results and on behalf of shareholders I would like to thank and congratulate them.
2008 was a very active FKI plc On 1 July 2008 we completed the acquisition of FKI plc for a total year for Melrose and many consideration, including debt, of just under 1 billion.
As I said at the time of our interim results last August, a substantial opportunity exists actions were taken, for improving the performance of FKIs businesses over the next few years, principally through an increased focus on profitability and much particularly as regards FKI, has already been achieved.
We are confident that FKI will prove to be an excellent acquisition and produce significant value for shareholders to further strengthen our within our original time frame of three to five years.
We are ahead of underlying performance.
our plans to improve profitability and generate cash.
Melrose PLC Annual Report 2008 04 INTRODUCTION INTRODUCTION & BUSINESSES Your Board recognises the 15% importance of dividends Increase in Headline Earnings Per Share particularly during difficult economic times and regards 60m the maintenance of the Cash generated during 2008 after dividends dividend, at the very least, as an important objective.
These results demonstrate that 2008 was a good trading year for Strategy the Group as a whole.
However, it will be no surprise to learn that Melroses strategy is to acquire businesses it understands, improve some of our businesses began to feel the effect of the global them by a mixture of investment and changed management focus downturn in the final quarter of the year and this, of course, has and, in a three to five year time frame, realise the value created and continued into 2009.
However, our managers have been quick to return it to shareholders in the most efficient way possible.
Although respond to this changed environment, where appropriate, by reducing current economic and stock market conditions suggest the latter end manpower and other costs to align their businesses with current and of the time frame is most likely to be appropriate for realisations, the expected order books.
It is important to emphasise that not all of our strategy remains unchanged.
Indeed we believe our competitive businesses have been equally affected by the downturn and in many advantage in pursuing this strategy has never been better and we of our businesses order books remain at a good level.
would expect there to be exciting opportunities to make further Cash generation, which was an excellent 60.0 million after acquisitions when the time is right.
dividends in 2008, will remain a key priority in 2009.
We will however continue to invest in those businesses with demonstrable Outlook growth prospects.
It is important to maintain a balance between short Certain things are clear: we have within our Group, businesses which term cost reduction and the need to be positioned for resumed are able to withstand the worst of the downturn: we have substantial growth when the upturn comes.
potential, particularly within the FKI businesses: we have excellent 2008 was a very active year for Melrose and many actions were cash generation: and we have a strong management team.
Although taken, particularly as regards FKI, to further strengthen our underlying this year promises to be the most difficult for some time, we have full performance.
More information on these actions together with a confidence in the long term prospects for your Company.
detailed review of our businesses and financial position are contained in the reviews of the Chief Executive and Finance Director on the following pages.
Dividends The Board intends to propose a final dividend of 4.25p per share, the CHRISTOPHER MILLER same level as last year.
Together with the interim dividend of 2.75p 11 March 2009 per share paid on 14 November 2008 this gives a total for the year of 7p per share 2007: 6.75p per share, an increase of 3.7%.
If approved, the dividend will be payable on 15 May 2009 to shareholders on the Register at 17 April 2009.
This total dividend would be covered 2.4 times by Headline Earnings Per Share.
Your Board recognises the importance of dividends particularly during difficult economic times and regards the maintenance of the dividend, at the very least, as an important objective.
