chAirMAns stAteMent Q Is Misys now moving in the right direction?
We have completed the first A phase of the turnaround successfully and the Company is entering a new phase, establishing a platform for growth.
We have seen 12 months of good performance from all of our businesses and the Company is now in much better shape to compete and win more.
Sir Dominic Cadbury, Chairman 02 02 | | Misys pl c Annual report 2008 financing for the cash portion of the this year Misys generated Group revenue are conscious of the effects of the economic transaction.
of 492m up 6% on a like-for-like basis and and financial issues affecting north adjusted operating profit of 81m up 37% America and western europe, we have the executive team has performed on the prior year.
On a statutory basis Group benefited from the rapid growth in financial extremely well this year, leading the revenue is up 5% and operating profit is services across Asia, eastern europe and company through the first phase of the 52m.
Adjusted basic earnings per share elsewhere.
Meanwhile, the mission-critical turnaround and achieving levels of growth from continuing operations were 12.6p.
nature of the financial systems we provide ahead of expectations.
the matrix structure the Board recommends a final dividend continues to stimulate strong demand, and of the company requires collaborative of 4.95p per share, bringing the full year in the us long-term government working between the senior leaders of our dividend to 7.91p.
investment in healthcare is helping to five businesses and this is operating well.
increase demand for our services and Fit to compete solutions.
Our global reach and strong I congratulate and thank the whole team at last years Annual report reflected the rapid recurring revenues means that the credit Misys for their dedication and hard work in and far-reaching changes going on within the crisis to date has not affected our transforming Misys.
My chairmans message focused expectations for Misys.
on the significant Board and management we believe the rewards offered to the changes we had made, our new strategy and Accelerating growth executive team must continue to be aligned our immediate objectives.
with the company in better shape our with shareholder return but their targets challenge now is to accelerate growth must also relate to aspects of performance this year i am pleased to report that Misys significantly.
we must take our commitment they can influence directly.
with this in has moved forward and has made the to customers to the next level, introducing mind, we propose to introduce a number of changes required quickly and successfully.
more innovative solutions and services.
changes to our executive remuneration we have seen 12 months of good we must ensure that we continue to focus policies, and these proposed changes to performance from all of our businesses on the most valuable market areas within long-term incentives will be presented for and the company is now in much better financial services and healthcare while growing the opportunity for Misys in shareholder approval at the Annual General shape to compete and win more.
we must continue to Meeting.
strengthen our presence in growth last year we announced six strategic geographies.
we must also further enhance Looking ahead imperatives in order to deliver on our vision our processes and systems, so the revenue i am pleased by the progress made this to be the leading application software and growth we achieve is translated into year.
the inclusion of major global financial services provider to the most important improved margins and enhanced institutions on our share register suggests industries in the world.
i am pleased to shareholder value.
there is recognition of the strength and report good progress against each of the vitality of the transformed Misys.
the proposed merger of our healthcare we are heading in the right direction and business with Allscripts is a particularly i look forward to reporting on a year of highlights this year included progress on exciting prospect.
the combined business growth and significant progress in the development of fundamentally would be a leader in its chosen markets and 12 months time.
important platforms and solutions, such as a strong platform from which to accelerate Misys Bankfusion in Banking, where we growth.
Achieving faster levels of growth is announced that standard Bank of south also the rationale for our proposed change Africa will be the first bank to implement in dividend policy.
from 2009 the company Misys Bankfusion universal Banking.
will retain funds that would otherwise have been issued as dividends to shareholders, Sir Dominic Cadbury in our healthcare business, we filled a and we will reinvest these funds in the Misys Chairman major portfolio gap with the launch of Misys businesses.
we believe this capital structure Myway.
we also saw strong growth in our will help increase our rate of growth, services business, and with the launch of creating greater long-term value for strategic partnerships we increased our shareholders.
access to opportunities in growth geographies such as china, india, the A strong leadership team Middle east and eastern europe.
the Board comprises five experienced throughout the year the company non-executive directors together with the maintained a clear focus on meeting the chief executive, Mike lawrie, and the chief needs of our clients and this has played a financial Officer, Jim Malone.
the Board major role in our progress.
has worked together very effectively this year and acted quickly and decisively over this year we also saw the enduring value of the proposed merger with Allscripts.
the companys global reach and expanded valueAct capital Master fund l. P. provided our presence in two important sectors, an underwriting commitment for the equity financial services and healthcare.
while we Misys plc Annual report 2008 | 03
