Chairmans statement My key priority is the continuation of the Boards commitment to the creation of value in Mitchells & Butlers for the benefit of all its shareholders.
Drummond Hall Chairman I was appointed as Chairman in June this year conclusions were the following: our business Mitchells & Butlers operational performance having been a Board member of the Company model was robust, sustainable and powerful: has been robust with operating profits since July 2004.
I am pleased to have the the Company should extend its leadership maintained for the year ended, while current opportunity to take on this role in a business in the pub eating-out market by continuing trading is resilient, reflecting an acceleration which I believe is well positioned for to pursue our successful value and volume in the rate of market share gains.
My key priority is the strategy: the Board should investigate options of this performance, cash generation has continuation of the Boards commitment to create value from the non-core assets been strong with net cash flow last year of to the creation of value in Mitchells & Butlers including Lodges, Hollywood Bowl and Alex: 164m, before dividend payments but after for the benefit of all its shareholders.
the creation of value through a REIT should amortisation of secured debt.
Overall, since be pursued when the timing is appropriate: the end of January, net debt has reduced It has been a very challenging year for the pub and the executive management were proven, by 175m to 2,735m.
We delivered respected and committed to shareholder value.
a strong operational performance despite the We are also conserving cash by reducing pressures resulting from the first year of the Following the strategic review we were current year expansionary capital expenditure smoking ban, the acceleration in the rate of able successfully to refinance and extend to focus resources on the maintenance of the on-trade beer market volume declines and our short-term borrowings into a threeexisting high amenity standards in the estate significant cost inflationary pressures.
year unsecured facility to November 2011. as well as implementing further cost efficiency Unfortunately, we were an early casualty of The facility has been set to 600m initially: measures in the business.
the difficulties caused by the credit crunch.
reducing to 550m from December 2008: In January the Company announced that, 400m from December 2009: and 300m We will continue to seek value creative following a rapid deterioration in the mark-toby December 2010. disposal opportunities.
However, our ability market deficit on the financial hedges taken to realise cash at acceptable values from out in connection with last years proposed Given current market uncertainties, the Board the remaining non-core assets, as envisaged property joint venture, it had closed out is focused on reducing the levels of unsecured in the strategic review, has been significantly in cash the hedges no longer required medium-term debt.
It has therefore decided, impacted by the prevailing conditions in the at a pre-tax cost of 386m.
On behalf of all despite a resilient trading performance and financial markets in recent months.
We are the members of the Board I want to express strong cash generation, not to propose a final not prepared to dispose of non-core assets our deep regret for the loss that occurred dividend and will suspend dividend payments for amounts materially below their fair value.
and the effect it has had on your business.
until drawing levels on its medium-term facility are adequately below 300m.
The Board Based on the steps we are taking with At that time, in the absence of a property recognises the importance of dividends regard to dividends and capital expenditure, joint venture, we announced that we would to shareholders and expects to resume and absent any further corporate disposals conduct a thorough strategic review to dividend payments once a comfortable level or alternative financing arrangements, determine clearly and openly what the best of headroom has been reached.
Drawings we anticipate that the appropriate level options were for creating value for our on the facility were 514m at the year end and of drawings will be achieved in FY 2010, shareholders.
This review examined an have since fallen to 475m at todays date.
in advance of the scheduled amortisation.
Its main For our latest financial information, go to: www.
com investors Mitchells & Butlers 2 Annual report and accounts 2008 4.7bn 10.6% Property valuation Cash return A cash return of 10.6% after tax was achieved in the year, four to five percentage points above the Companys weighted average cost of capital.
The Company is focusing its substantial Roger Carr resigned in June on his cash flow generation on reducing debt to appointment as Chairman of Cadbury plc an appropriate long-term level and securing having chaired the business since demerger a resilient operating performance amidst in 2003 and having successfully guided challenging market conditions.
The the business into its strong competitive suspension of dividend payments reflects position today.
I share Rogers strong proactive debt reduction in uncertain markets, commitment to the creation and delivery not a change in the fundamental long-term of value to all shareholders by whatever prospects of the business.
route is the most appropriate.
The underlying performance of the business Jeremy Townsend was appointed as this year, under Tim Clarkes leadership, Finance Director in January having joined has been strong and is delivering significant the Company in June 2005 as Deputy market share gains.
This reflects the strength Finance Director.
After the strategic review, of the management team and the hard Aaron Brown and Tim Smalley from R20 Ltd work and commitment of all our operational joined as Non-Executive Directors in June teams allied to the expertise of our support but, as a result of R20 Ltds disposal of its functions.
Mitchells & Butlers has reinforced shareholding, they both resigned from the its leadership position in the managed pub Board in October 2008.
A recruitment sector by continuing to leverage profitable process, led by the Nomination Committee market share gains from the value and volume using an external agency, is underway to sales strategy, the strength of the brand effect an appropriate balance between the portfolio and the quality of the estate.
These independent Non-Executive Directors and operational factors have helped offset the the Executive Directors on the Board.
This impact of the first year of the smoking ban process is expected to be completed during Top: as well as the increased interest costs in the FY 2009.
I look forward, with the Board, The Oystercatcher, Vintage Inns, Climping, West Sussex year.
As a result we have delivered same to developing the business further in the Bottom: outlet like-for-like sales growth of 1%: and year ahead.
The Argyll Arms, Nicholson's, central London maintained operating profits with earnings per share before exceptional items down 11.3%.
We believe our value focused strategy is I would like to thank all our 41,000 employees even more relevant and appealing to the for their efforts in delivering these results in consumer in these difficult times, when difficult conditions.
discretionary incomes are under pressure, than it has been over the past two or three There have been a number of changes to the years.
We are determined not just to weather Board during the year.
Karim Naffah elected to the economic storm, but to emerge from the step down from the Board as Finance Director current difficult conditions in an even stronger in January having joined Bass plc in 1991. competitive position.
Mitchells & Butlers 3 Annual report and accounts 2008
