Business review Pensions Corporate governance Chairmans The Group contributes to a range We are committed to maintaining of fide ned bene t and fide ned high standards of corporate contribution pension schemes.
The Board recognises statement pleased to report that the surplus that MITIE is expected to act to the I am delighted to announce that within the fide ned bene t schemes highest standards of responsibility at 2008 has been another year of has continued this year with a net all times and we therefore have in strong growth for MITIE.
place a set of governance structures th was our 20 year of revenue and and practices designed to ensure Board changes pro ts growth.
that MITIE is run responsibly in the best This will be my last year as noninterests of all its stakeholders.
Throughout the last year we have executive Chairman of MITIE as I continued to forge new relationships will retire at the Companys Annual Outlook and build on long-term partnerships General Meeting AGM on 31 July In this my last year as Chairman with our clients and are delighted to 2008.
I have thoroughly enjoyed the of MITIE, I would like to wish the welcome thousands of new people last six years with MITIE.
I will leave the management team every success to MITIE.
Company in a very strong financial for the future.
We enter the new position and with excellent prospects financial year with our business We are now well positioned for to succeed in the future under the aligned to meet the needs of our the next stage in our development stewardship of Roger Matthews, who ever changing markets.
Current with an excellent management will be appointed as non-executive economic conditions are requiring team and a well developed Chairman at the close of the AGM.
businesses to re-evaluate their cost strategy in place targeting our Roger has been a non-executive base and to focus resource and three markets of facilities, property director since December 2006 and attention on reducing risk and and engineering services.
brings with him a wide range of skills uncertainty in volatile markets.
This Results and experience from his previous provides us with opportunities as MITIE has had another excellent year, positions as Group Finance director of organisations seek to reduce costs with 14.5% growth in our revenue J Sainsbury plc and Group Managing through outsourcing.
director and Group Finance director We are con dent that we are well Operating pro t before amortisation of Compass Group PLC.
positioned to continue our strategy rose by 20.5% to 72.2m 2007: Cullum McAlpine, who has been of delivering stakeholder value by 59.9m with pro t before tax a non-executive director of MITIE focusing on sustainable, pro table increasing by 20.0% to 67.9m 2007: since April 2003 and is Chairman growth through 2008 and beyond.
Adjusted earnings per share of the Audit Committee and senior grew by 21.1% to 14.9p per share David C Ord independent non-executive director, 2007: 12.3p per share.
Underlying Chairman will also retire from the Board at operating pro t margins were the Companys AGM.
I would like maintained within our target range to thank Cullum for his support to of 56% at 5.1% 2007: 5.1% whilst MITIE and the Board over the past reported operating pro t margins five years.
The following Board changes will Dividend also take effect from 31 July 2008.
The Board is recommending a David Jenkins will be appointed as final dividend of 3.2p per Ordinary senior independent non-executive share making a total of 6.0p per director and Chairman of the Audit share for the year, a 17.6% increase Committee.
This increase is in line with assume the chairmanship of the our dividend policy to maintain Nomination Committee.
dividends in line with underlying The recruitment of a new nonearnings growth at a cover ratio executive director will commence of 2.5 times adjusted earnings.
The dividend will be paid on 4 August 2008 to shareholders on the register at 4 July 2008.
18 MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 David Ord Non-executive Chairman MITIE is well positioned to continue its history of strong growth.
MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 19
