Business Review Chairmans Statement Our second year as a public company has been It is a tribute to Simons vision and commitment that characterised by change both within and outside the Group.
the Group has developed into the business it is today.
On behalf of the Board and shareholders I would like to The credit crunch, or liquidity crisis in the banking thank Simon for the immense contribution he has made system, spread and deepened during the year.
We saw to the development of the Group and look forward to the failure of a number of banks, whilst others both in the working with him in his new role.
UK and overseas required rescue packages from Governments and Central Banks.
In December we announced that Peter Plumb, who joined the Group earlier in the year, would join the Against this economic backdrop and the deteriorating Board as an Executive Director with effect from market conditions in the second half of the year, the 1 January 2009 and replace Simon as Chief Executive Group recorded revenue growth of 10% to 178.8m for Officer on 25 February 2009.
Peter is a tried and tested the year ending 31 December 2008 underpinned by general manager in international, marketing-intensive strong visitor growth in the year of 32% to 120.1m businesses and brings with him a wide mix of skills and visitors.
These solid figures are in spite of a significant experience.
He was previously UK managing director of decline in revenue from the Money vertical in the second dunnhumby Limited, the customer insights business and half of the year, due entirely to the credit crunch.
prior to that held senior positions with Disney, Dyson and PepsiCo.
The Board is confident that Peter will steer the The diversity of our business has proved to be, and executive management team through the challenging will continue to be, an important strength with the market environment.
growth in the Insurance, Travel and Home Services verticals helping to offset declines experienced in The Group has further strengthened the Board with the Money vertical.
the appointment of Graham Donoghue, the Managing Director of Travel, and David Osborne, the Marketing The worsening economic conditions and the turmoil in Director, as Executive Directors with effect from the credit and wider financial markets have resulted in 23 February 2009.
Graham joined the Group in July 2008 the Group recording an impairment charge of 70.0m from TUI Travel plc where he was new media director and against goodwill in 2008.
The Group is therefore reporting David joined the Group in February 2009 from easyJet a statutory loss after tax of 59.1m for the year.
where he was UK regional general manager.
However, we remain strongly cash generative and ended These changes will help take the Group to the next 2008 with a balance sheet containing no debt and a stage of its development as we concentrate not only on cash balance which increased during the year by 19.5m growing the Group, but also running the business that we to 73.5m.
Despite a 9% decline in adjusted EBITDA to have better.
Like many UK consumer facing companies, 48.4m, this is a creditable set of results given the the immediate outlook is not good.
We cannot assume challenging market conditions experienced during that the effects of the credit crunch will suddenly lift the year.
and our business return to the levels of 2007.
All of In August 2008, we announced that we would implement our verticals have begun the year down on the same an enhanced dividend policy paying approximately one period last year and are suffering from the effects of half of adjusted net profits as dividends each year.
October 2008 we paid our maiden interim dividend of 1.3p per ordinary share.
In the short term we must reconfigure ourselves for lower levels of demand.
We are helped by the fact that most of In line with this revised dividend policy, the Board our profit converts to cash, we have no debt and 73.5m recommends a final dividend of 2.2p per ordinary of cash balances at the end of 2008.
Our task is to share, to be paid on 1 May 2009.
If approved by improve what we have so we are well positioned when shareholders, this will make a full year dividend of our markets eventually recover, which they will.
In these challenging times, our results demonstrate the In last years statement I referred to the importance robust and diversified nature of our business.
These of improving our management process and upgrading results are to the credit of our employees and on behalf the quality of our management team.
The Group has of the Board I would like to thank them for their hard work grown rapidly in the last nine years, but is now of a size and commitment during the year.
I would also like to and complexity that requires a different management thank my colleagues on the Board for their contributions approach to that when the Group was in its during the course of the year.
The Group remains well entrepreneurial super-growth phase.
This is particularly placed despite the current market conditions and this so given the challenges of the credit crunch and the gives us all confidence for the future.
In December, we announced that the Groups founder, Simon Nixon, had decided to step down from his role as Chief Executive Officer on 25 February 2009.
Simon Gerald Corbett became Executive Deputy Chairman on that date.
In his new role, Simon will focus on strategic innovation and development.
com Group PLC Annual Report 2008 Gerald Corbett Full year dividend 3.5p per ordinary share 15 Moneysupermarket.
com Group PLC Annual Report 2008
