CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Chairmans Statement Los Pelambres port facility at Punta Chungo.
The Group had a successful year in 2008, with 12.7% over 2007, as its networks benefited from the strong operating and financial performance across ramp-up of new mining projects in northern Chile and its business units and continued progress with both Bolivia, while road tonnages remained substantially capital projects and longer-term growth plans through unchanged at 1.4 million tons.
Volumes at Aguas fide exploration and early-stage ventures.
This was Antofagasta S. A. the water division, increased by despite the global economic downturn which created 7.1% to 42.7 million cubic metres as both domestic extremely challenging conditions, particularly in the and industrial sales increased.
Nevertheless, results particularly in the second half Volume growth was achieved at all three business of the year were affected by the sudden weakening of divisions.
Group copper production at the mining commodity markets, as much of the developed world division, managed by Antofagasta Minerals S. A. in moved into recession matched by slower growth Chile, rose by 11.6% compared with 2007 to reach in many emerging economies, particularly in China.
Production at all three of our mines, This was accentuated by a reduction in the level of Los Pelambres, El Tesoro and Michilla, either met or financial investment in commodities.
While London exceeded their production targets to enable the Group Metal Exchange LME copper prices averaged over to exceed its original forecast for the year of 463,000 315 cents per pound for 2008, only 2.5% below 2007, tonnes.
Molybdenum production at Los Pelambres spot prices fell by two-thirds from just under 400 was 7,800 tonnes, a decrease of 23.5% compared cents at the end of June to just over 130 cents at the with 2007 when a higher grade area of the open pit end of December.
Similarly, molybdenum prices for had been mined, but 14.7% above the forecast for 2008 averaged US$28.9 per pound in 2008, but fell the year.
The transport division, managed by the from US$32.3 per pound at the end of September to Antofagasta Railway Company plc FCAB, achieved US$9.5 per pound at the end of the year.
Consensus record rail tonnages of 5.6 million tons, an increase of estimates are that global economic activity is likely to Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008 5 Chairmans Statement continued million.
Earnings per share were accordingly 173.1 cents 85.5 cents per share excluding exceptional items compared with 140.2 cents in 2007.
Cash flow from operations which do not include disposal proceeds of US$1,401.2 million were US$2,454.3 million, compared with US$2,817.7 million in 2007.
At the end of 2008, the Group had a net cash position of US$2,919.1 million, which leaves it well placed in the current challenging economic environment.
The Board has recommended a final dividend for 2008 of 53.6 cents per ordinary share which amounts to US$528.4 million and, if approved at the Annual General Meeting, will be paid on 11 June 2009.
This comprises an ordinary dividend of 5.6 cents and a special dividend of 48.0 cents.
This gives total dividends for the year of 60.0 cents, amounting to US$591.4 million and represents a distribution of 35% Open pit at Los Pelambres.
of 2008 net earnings and compares with 49.6 cents per share in 2007.
As we have previously stated, remain weak well into 2009 and possibly 2010, and our policy is to establish an ordinary dividend which the effect this will have on metal demand and hence can be maintained or progressively increased and to commodity prices will clearly affect Group pay special dividends when appropriate, taking into performance in 2009. account the profit earned, the Groups cash position Operating costs also remained under pressure for and expected funding commitments.
much of the year, with higher energy, sulphuric acid Strategy and fuel prices all contributing to a 16.8% increase Despite the significantly weaker near-term in cash costs, excluding by-product credits, to 129.3 macroeconomic outlook and the impact this has cents per pound in 2008.
These appear however to had on commodity prices, the Group considers the have peaked in the third quarter, and the combination long-term prospects for copper demand to remain of falling input prices as supply constraints ease and sound as industrialisation of developing economies the steps we have taken to reduce costs across will continue to generate demand growth and the Group and eliminate unprofitable production at the cost structure of the industry continues to the Lince open pit mine at Michilla should reduce be supported by the higher marginal cost of new costs, excluding by-product credits, to approximately production.
In the fourth quarter of 2008 the Board 110 cents per pound in 2009, a level similar to 2007. approved a strategic plan for the development of Results and Dividends the Groups mining businesses for the period 2009 The Groups net earnings in 2008 were US$1,706.5 to 2015.
This is built on three key pillars: securing million, 23.5% above US$1,382.1 million in 2007, as and strengthening the core business of the Group, the Group benefited from the gain realised through comprising its operations and development projects including Marubeni Corporation as a partner in the including the Los Pelambres expansion and Sierra Gorda district by selling 30% of Esperanza Esperanza: continuing to grow this core business and El Tesoro as announced in April 2008.
Excluding in a sustainable manner in the longer-term with exceptional items, which relate to the disposal gain particular focus on the significant Sierra Gorda and partly offset by impairment provisions, net earnings Los Pelambres districts: and finally continuing to for 2008 were US$842.9 million 2007 US$1,382.1 develop and search for additional opportunities Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008 6 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT CHAIRMANS STATEMENT ADASAs desalination plant in the city of Antofagasta.
including early stage growth in copper both in Progress with Capital Projects Chile and abroad, such as the Groups interest in During 2008 we progressed with our three major the prospective Reko Diq joint venture in Pakistan.
capital projects in Chile the Mauro tailings dam The Board considers that the Groups strong financial and plant expansion projects at Los Pelambres in position, the quality of its existing assets and the the Coquimbo Region and the Esperanza project strength of its experienced management teams in the Antofagasta Region, with total Group capital leaves it well placed to progress with these objectives expenditure in the year of US$1.2 billion.
despite the current challenging macroeconomic At Los Pelambres the Mauro tailings dam is now environment.
in operation, following completion of construction in November and resolution of outstanding litigation Sustainable Development during 2008.
The total cost since the project was The Group considers sustainable development to initiated at the end of 2004 was approximately be central to its business conduct and fully accepts US$630 million and the Mauro dam, which is located its obligation to ensure that management of health, approximately 60 kilometres from the Los Pelambres safety, environmental and social issues is rigorous plant, will provide sufficient tailings capacity to support and effective.
Growth in the core business creates the remaining 28 years of the existing mine plan.
In economic, social and environmental value, increasing July 2008 the Los Pelambres board also approved a production in a profitable way while building and further plant expansion at a cost of approximately consolidating the reputation of the Group as a US$1.0 billion, which will increase copper production contributor to society and achieving efficient use by approximately 90,000 tonnes per year from early of natural resources through investment in new 2010.
By the end of 2008 this project was around technologies.
During the year the Group began one-third complete.
formalising corporate sustainability governance and the systems needed to provide a consistent and The US$2.2 billion Esperanza copper-gold project, unified framework across the Group in respect of which is located near our El Tesoro mine, received the range of matters which have been addressed environmental approvals in June and commenced by each of its operations for several years.
construction in the third quarter of 2008.
It is expected Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008 7 Chairmans Statement continued to enter into production in late 2010 with average feasibility study was initiated at Reko Diq in Pakistan annual production of approximately 191,000 tonnes and this is expected to be completed in the second of payable copper and 215,000 ounces of gold.
Reko Diq is a substantial copper-gold porphyry district in south-west Pakistan which is Exploration and Other Early-stage held through Tethyan Copper Company Limited, a Opportunities 50-50 joint venture with Barrick Gold Corporation of The Group believes that it is important to continue Canada, with the Government of Balochistan holding developing its resource base to secure future growth, a 25% interest in the main exploration licence, giving and during 2008 it invested nearly US$55 million in the Group an effective 37.5% interest.
In the Sierra Gorda district further drilling prospect within this licence, the Western Porphyries, was carried out at Telgrafo, which is 70%-owned has a resource estimate of just over 4 billion tonnes through Esperanza, as well as at Caracoles, which is with an attractive gold credit.
Work is also continuing now wholly-owned by the Group.
A further prospect on the feasibility study for the Antucoya project near known as Mirador was also identified and further Michilla in Chile.
This study, which commenced in exploration is planned for 2009.
The total mineral 2008, is expected to be completed during 2009. inventory in the Sierra Gorda district is estimated The Group also signed exploration agreements to be in the range of 2.2 billion 3.4 billion tonnes, to acquire interests in two prospecting licences in addition to the combined resource estimate in Zambia as well as an interest in the Ro Figueroa of 1.5 billion tonnes at Esperanza and El Tesoro.
It also formed a joint-venture in In Los Pelambres, the evaluation of the drilling which it has a 60% interest with Empresa Nacional programme started in 2006 has been completed with del Petrleo the Chilean state-owned oil company an increase in total resources from 2.9 billion tonnes through a newly-created vehicle, Energa Andina S. A. to 4.9 billion tonnes.
A feasibility study is also in to explore for geothermal energy resources in Chile progress at Antucoya, a low grade deposit in northern given structural shortages in the countrys energy Chile which could eventually provide material to be market.
It is continuing with an active target processed by Michillas plant.
generation programme to identify further The Group has also continued with its other early opportunities.
During 2008 a FCAB train transporting copper cathodes.
Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008 8 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Camp facilities at Esperanza.
The Groups exploration programmes also continue Outlook to show encouraging results, with increased resources There is no doubt that 2009 will prove to be a and long-term prospects in both the Pelambres and challenging year.
The prospects for both our main Sierra Gorda districts.
The Reko Diq and Antucoya commodities of copper and molybdenum remain projects could eventually contribute additional uncertain at best.
It may take a considerable time production in future years.
The Group intends for demand for industrial goods, upon which we to use its sound financial position to advance its depend for metals demand, to regain previous levels.
existing assets and properties while continuing In the meantime, we will concentrate our efforts on to seek opportunities globally to secure further remaining at the lower end of the production cost world-class mining assets.
curve, which will ensure that we will be well placed for any upturn when it comes.
For 2009, we expect Antofagastas Team copper production to be 433,000 tonnes, a 9% I would like to take this opportunity on behalf of decrease over 2008, mainly due to lower grades the Board to thank all our management, staff and and throughput at Los Pelambres.
Molybdenum workforce for the extra efforts they have made this production at Los Pelambres is expected to be year in creating such a positive result for the Group 8,100 tonnes.
However, longer-term prospects for copper are expected to remain sound and, in the medium to longer-term, prices are expected to recover when macroeconomic conditions eventually improve.
The Groups current strong financial position allows it to continue with its current development plans at Los Pelambres and Esperanza, which should deliver J-P Luksic additional low-cost and profitable growth in 2010 and Chairman 2011 respectively.
With these projects, Group copper 9 March 2009 production is expected to reach around 500,000 tonnes in 2010 and nearly 700,000 tonnes in 2011.
Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008 9
