The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual report 2008 Overview 14 Business review Governance Financial statements Chairmans statement I am delighted to report another successful year for Morgan Crucible.
Our performance demonstrates the success of our focused strategy to be a world-leading advanced materials company.
Tim Stevenson Chairman The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual report 2008 Overview 15 Business review Governance Financial statements Overview Acquisitions Dividend I am delighted to report that 2008 was Both of the acquisitions we announced The Board has proposed a final dividend another successful year for Morgan Crucible in 2007 the technical ceramics businesses of 4.5 pence per Ordinary share.
This brings despite an economic environment which of Carpenter Technology Corporation the total dividend for the year to 7.0 pence has proved to be increasingly difficult.
and our initial 49% stake in NP Aerospace 2007: 6.75 pence and reects the Boards This performance clearly demonstrates performed extremely well in 2008, ahead confidence in the financial health of the successful implementation of our vision of our expectations at the point of purchase.
to be a world-leading advanced materials The complex task of integrating the former People company.
The five strategic priorities Carpenter businesses into our Technical In my second year as Chairman, I have highlighted in the Group CEOs report Ceramics Division has been carried out with continued the process of visiting Morgan which underpin this vision are being great commitment and efficiency.
Together sites and meeting as many of our people rigorously implemented across our three these two acquisitions represent an as I can.
Again I have been impressed by the Divisions with demonstrable success.
The important part of the strategy of moving consistent quality of our senior, middle and formula is one which is transforming the Morgan into higher growth, higher margin junior management: their understanding nature of Morgans business.
The Board and less economically cyclical markets.
I am of our businesses and the markets in which believes that this will stand your Company also delighted to report that, since the year they operate, and their commitment to the in good stead for the difficult economic end, we have increased our stake in NP success of the Group.
In particular, we are circumstances that surely lie ahead of us Aerospace to 60%.
This additional stake will proud to have many employees who have in 2009 and potentially beyond.
help further accelerate plans to realise the full worked for the business for many years potential of the combined NP Aerospace and in 2008 we celebrated 20 further staff The Group benets from many years of Morgan Crucible businesses in the armour achieving 40 years of service with Morgan investment in customer-focused research systems market.
We make particular effort to and development and in global manufacturing ensure the cross-fertilisation of experience capability.
From this customer-centric Board approach, we have continued to build Our non-executive Directors play a vital role across and within Divisions, and to keep on our strong technological and market in the governance of the Company and a senior employees abreast of developments positions.
Selected examples are included key measure of the success of the Board is in the business as a whole.
in the case studies on the preceding pages.
its ability to add real value to the work of I would like to extend my personal thanks the executive team.
As I announced in my to all of the Groups employees for their statement last year, Joe MacHale retired dedication and energy in driving the business from the Board following the AGM held forward in 2008 such that we enter 2009 on 18 April 2008.
Joe joined the Board in having made further significant progress 2003 and made an invaluable contribution towards our vision of being one of the worlds to the strategic development of the Group very best advanced materials companies with both as Chairman of the Audit Committee the aim of creating long-term superior and Senior Independent Director.
Joes retirement Andrew Given became Chairman of the Audit Committee and Martin Flower was appointed as Senior Tim Stevenson Independent Director.
Chairman This years appraisal of the effectiveness of Underlying earnings per share the Board, reported on later in this Annual pence Report, demonstrated that it is working 23.4 effectively.
Of particular importance is the 19.7 18.6 effort to ensure that a number of our 13.3 Board meetings each year involve visits to 21.7 operations in different parts of the world, giving the Board both real insight into the business, and exposure to senior 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 management.
Based on profit after tax and minority interest, before amortisation of intangible assets.
