Chairmans Statement The group has achieved record results for the 53 weeks ended March 2008 and has also made a good start to the new financial year.
To reflect this, and our ongoing confidence in our business strategy, the directors are proposing a 20% increase in the final dividend.
Group efficiency have allowed us to invest in Group revenue from continuing operations higher levels of customer recruitment, yet for the year is up by 16.6% to 610.9m and still increase the operating margin by 0.4% operating profit is up by 20.3% to 91.8m.
On a like-for-like basis sales are up 12.5% excluding the benefit of the 53rd week in Customers this year which generated additional The size and quality of our customer revenue of 12.5m and 1.9m of operating database is a core strength of the business, profit.
Earnings per share from continuing and in the year the overall number of operations are up by 30.8% to 20.75p, established customers with active accounts benefiting both from ongoing profit growth increased by 5%.
In addition there was and also the return of value to shareholders an 8% increase in average spend per and associated consolidation of share established customer.
Sales resulting capital in March 2007.
The directors are from our new customer recruitment have proposing a 20% increase in the final increased by 15% for the year, following dividend to 6.41p, making a total for the the significant investment that has been year of 9.06p up 20.3%, covered 2.3 times.
made to enhance the database, and we Lord Alliance of Manchester, CBE have launched a number of new brands Chairman Net borrowings at the year-end stood at to extend our offers to a wider audience.
199.4m, an increase of 95.4m on last These include Simply Yours, a younger, year, due to the 80m return of value to outsize lingerie range, Marisota, offering a shareholders, and 15m special contribution complete size proposition of contemporary to the pension fund, which had a deficit clothing for confident women, and Jacamo, of only 5.8m at 1 March 2008.
The group providing clothing and footwear for younger, has committed borrowing facilities of larger men.
The results from these new 320m which are in place until 2012. launches are encouraging and will be Net interest payable on borrowings was developed further in the coming year.
covered 5.9 times, and gearing is 80% 2007, 51% based on net assets of This growth has been achieved across all 248.5m 2007, 202.5m.
our brands, and whilst our mid-life titles, targeting customers aged 45-65, remain Home Shopping Highlights the most significant in volume terms and Key highlights have been the increase in grew by a creditable 14%, the fastest our customer base, partly by the launch growing have been our younger titles of new brands, expansion of our product catering for the larger woman under 45 ranges and growth of the online channel.
The results are especially pleasing given the strange weather patterns, the general Product Ranges economic downturn and the impact on Sales growth has been seen across all the business of the Royal Mail dispute in our major categories, and we continue to October 2007.
The ongoing improvements increase both the breadth and depth of the in customer service and our operating range.
Ladieswear sales were up 18% from 04 N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Group revenue up 6.6% to Total dividend up 20.3% to Earnings per share up 30.8% to 6 0.9m 9.06p 20.75p a wider choice of size fittings and ongoing costs, resulting in an increase in the will also continue to deliver incremental development of exclusive product from operating profit margin by 0.4% to 15.0%.
demand and cost savings, complementing designers, such as Anna Scholtz, and more the ongoing development of catalogues branded lines.
Footwear sales are up by Service and product ranges.
12% as we continue to offer the marketFor the Autumn Winter 2007 season, we leading range in wider fittings.
Although achieved our highest ever level of customer As a result the board remain confident that menswear currently accounts for just 8% satisfaction, which was reflected in a lower the management and staff, who have of our total sales it has grown by 24% in rate of goods returned by customers.
performed very well over the last year, can the year and is an area where we see In May 2007 the 10m project to extend deliver another good performance this year.
Strong electrical the bulk and hanging garment warehouses sales in particular have contributed to at our Hadfield site was completed home and leisure sales growing by 14%, successfully which is helping to improve now accounting for 27% of total revenue.
productivity and speed up the time taken to despatch customers orders.
Later this Online Sales year it will enable the integration of Gray & In the last 12 months our online sales have Osbourns operations, which are currently grown by 50% and now represent 28% of outsourced, to further drive cost efficiencies.
Lord Alliance all sales, compared with 22% last year, as of Manchester, CBE customers of all ages gain confidence with Current Trading and Outlook online shopping.
Ongoing improvements Home shopping sales for 8 weeks to 26th to web functionality, alongside internet-only April 2008 are up by 12.1% on the same product offers and promotions, are driving period last year continuing the trends from online order values to be 25% higher than the prior year.
As expected the rate of gross those taken by telephone, which, in addition margin has reduced by 0.4% compared to to cost savings achieved through bypassing last year due to product and customer mix, the contact centre, have generated and we would expect this to be the situation operational efficiencies.
The proportion of sales transacted over the internet in this period The internet is additionally providing an was 31%, an increase of 42% in value.
effective recruitment channel and further developments are in place to exploit this.
Despite the current economic climate, Our new brands have achieved a notably the board believes there are a number of strong internet penetration.
reasons why the business is well placed to continue to outperform the retail sector as a Gross and Operating Margins whole.
Firstly the age and socio-demographic Due to the planned changes in customer distribution of our customer base means it and product mix we anticipated a reduction is less impacted by higher interest rates.
in the gross margin, and the fall of 0.3% In addition the increased strength of the to 55.3% was better than expected.
customer database, coupled with the This drop was more than offset by lower potential from the roll-out of our new costs achieved as a result of the higher brands, gives us a firm foundation for the online penetration and lower distribution year.
The upward trend in online penetration N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 05 Chief Executives Review The results for the 53 weeks to March 2008 continue to demonstrate the successful implementation of our strategy to focus on niche customers and products.
Sales were 6 0.9m, up by 6.6% on last year and operating profit from continuing businesses was 9.
Home Shopping Summary been Simply Be with sales growth of 39%.
On a like-for-like basis, sales were up by Simply Be caters for female customers in 12.5% excluding the benefit of the 53rd their thirties who want fashionable clothing week which contributed an additional in sizes 14 to 32, but find it hard to buy 12.5m of revenue and an extra 1.9m clothes on the high street to fit.
The increases in sales continued to expand the product range, across all customer and product groups, notably with the introduction of brands alongside record customer satisfaction such as Joe Browns and Ben Sherman, levels and ongoing reductions in major where we have exclusivity in larger sizes.
operating costs, are encouraging, as is the To complement the Simply Be brand we strong growth of our e-commerce activities.
have also launched Simply Yours, recruiting customers to a younger lingerie catalogue.
We have invested significantly more in Additionally we have created and launched marketing and recruitment costs during the Jacamo for younger, but larger, fashion year but the efficiency we have achieved in conscious men.
The initial results from these our operating costs has led to an overall 0.4% new brands are encouraging with customer increase in the operating margin to 15.0%.
recruitment levels, repeat order rates, and Alan White online penetration all beating their targets.
Chief Executive The good start to the new financial year demonstrates that our home shopping Our mid-life brands are the largest group, portfolio of catalogues and websites is in with sales of 415m, representing 68% of good shape and is well placed for further group sales.
Despite these being our most progress.
established brands, we have seen sales growth of 14%, with particularly strong Customer Groups performances from JD Williams, Ambrose We have a range of twenty different Wilson, Oxendales and Premier Man.
propositions to which we recruit customers, These customers love to shop from our with each having a target customer profile, catalogues and websites, for our range of or product focus.
We group them for stylish, comfortable clothing and footwear simplicity in three age bands: which is almost invariably available in their size, length or fitting.
To further develop this Younger targeting customers under 45 group we launched Marisota in the Autumn Mid-life targeting customers aged 45-65 Winter 2007 season.
It is targeted at middleOlder targeting customers over 65 aged women who are not currently home shoppers, and who we can attract through In the last year, the younger customer group a contemporary clothing offer which has been the fastest growing with sales up emphasises the wide range of sizes, 24% to 168m.
Fashion World, which has lengths, colours and fittings.
The early the highest sales in this category by targeting results from Marisota have exceeded initial value-conscious customers in their forties, expectations and further investment is had strong growth, but the key driver has planned for 2008 9.
06 N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Number of established customers over Younger customer sales up Sales from mid-life brands up 4% to 5 million 24% 4 5m In June 2006 we acquired Gray & Osbourn, a dramatic increase in customers recruited the Simply Yours brand and in particular we an upmarket ladieswear catalogue in this through search engine marketing.
have introduced more branded merchandise.
mid-life group, specialising in German Last year our lingerie was heavily featured branded merchandise.
Growth from this Product Groups on Channel 4s How To Look Good Naked.
has been exceptionally strong, with sales Our core selling points are around size for the full twelve months of 25m, and fit, and in the year we have continued Within footwear we are the market leader compared with 12m in the eight months to extend the range we offer with a 20% in wide fittings and new developments in the previous year.
increase in options to over 180,000. have included a multi-fit range, with variable We can service such an extensive range by insoles allowing a perfect fit, and boots The third group of catalogue brands is the operating from two centralised warehouses.
available in up to four calf fittings.
Footwear older group which includes Heather Valley sales have grown by 12% in the year, with and Special Collection.
These customers Ladieswear sales increased by 18% to success in both the core ranges and the delivered sales of 28m, up by 12%, and 332m and account for 54% of the total.
introduction of styles suited to the younger account for 5% of total sales.
Our extensive range of sizes go up to size Fashion World and Simply Be customers.
38, and over half our ladieswear sales are Sales growth has been driven from both in size 20 or above where availability on the Menswear has continued to grow with sales our established customers who have high street is limited.
The range continues of 46m, up by 24%, driven both by our purchased in previous years and new to be expanded with more length options mid-life Premier Man and Southbay ranges customers those recruited during the on skirts and trousers and even swimwear and our more fashionable Resume range.
We have an established database is now available in two lengths.
Younger Although menswear accounts for only 8% of over five million customers who have fashion has grown due to strong Simply of our total sales at present, it is a key ordered in the past two years and in the Be sales and our casual ranges which offer area for future development.
The launch period we saw an increase in active great fashion and value.
With improved of Jacamo in August 2007 was designed customers of 5%, coupled with an 8% presentation in both our Wardrobe and to gain an increased share of the younger increase in average spend per customer.
Joanna Hope ranges we saw impressive menswear market, and involved acquiring sales growth in smartwear, and the more branded lines in larger sizes.
Due to the operating cost efficiencies expanded sportswear range is proving being driven across the business as a highly popular.
We have also launched a Home and leisure sales have grown by whole, we have been able to invest fast fashion range, with new products 14% and now account for 27% of total significantly in new customer recruitment, designed and then featured on our sales.
Our extended gift range for Christmas both for the established brands and the websites within eight weeks.
As well as proved successful and further developments new launches of Simply Yours, Marisota generating its own sales stream, it gives a are planned for 2008 9.
The sales from newly recruited strong indicator as to trends and winning strong electrical sales as our customers customers in the year rose by 15%, and lines, which can be incorporated into future adopt newer technologies such as digital we are experiencing improved second editions of the catalogue.
television and radio, personal computers order rates due to the investment in more and satellite navigation systems.
In addition targeted advertising, albeit at a marginally The corsetry and lingerie ranges now feature we have successfully expanded the home higher initial cost per acquisition, as bra sizes from 32A up to 56L, with an and leisure range for younger customers we switch from individual product unsurpassed array of styles and colours.
with the Simply Be Home catalogue which advertisements to promotion of our The younger styles have again been has a more contemporary collection of unique selling propositions.
This includes expanded to support the development of home dcor and garden products.
N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 07 Chief Executives Review Online sales up 50% to Average customer spend up Ladieswear sales up 8% to 68m 8% 332m A key part of our strategy is to encourage new customers and the mix of the active very strong online penetration.
For example, customers to trade across our departments customer base.
Overall debtors at the end 60% of Simply Bes sales are online and this and the main measure is the proportion of the year had increased by 13% to 389m.
of customers who purchase something during the year from each of the ladieswear E-Commerce Service and Costs outerwear, underwear and footwear ranges.
A key element of our success this year For the Autumn Winter 2007 season we This has increased to 14% through an active has been the increase in our online sales achieved our highest ever level of customer cross-selling programme which in turn will to 168m, accounting for 28% of total satisfaction as measured through ongoing drive higher spend per customer and loyalty sales compared to 22% last year.
This demonstrates in future seasons.
is an increase of 50% on the prior year.
continued satisfaction with our products, The increase is driven by customers of all which is also reflected in a 0.3% reduction Managing the multiplicity of catalogues, ages becoming more confident in shopping in the rate at which customers return brochures, leaflets and online offers with online.
The websites are actively promoted goods as a result of product quality and such a large range of product options is to established customers through the more fit improvements.
Additionally, the core strength of the business and we have traditional, paper based communications customer satisfaction level shows that succeeded in delivering high service yet we send out, as well as using the channel the service delivered by our call centre low dormancy levels.
as an effective recruitment vehicle for new and fulfilment logistics teams is improving.
A key measure is that the proportion of The achieved gross margin is a complex enquiries made by our customers actually mix, based on the performance of different The internet brings a number of benefits fell from the previous year.
product and customer segments, including to us, and is proving highly cost effective.
the financial income and bad debts arising The average order value online is 25% In May 2007 we completed a 10m project from sales on credit.
For 2007 8, the higher than for orders placed offline as developing our Hadfield warehouse, which reduction in gross margin by 0.3% to 55.3% customers find it easy to browse our many has increased bulk and hanging garment was better than we had anticipated based websites, taking their online basket with capacity, and allowed a faster delivery to on the change in this mix.
Once an online shopper, we then see customers.
We are also in the process of a customers frequency of order increase migrating the courier delivery service from Credit due to the convenience the channel offers, TNT Post to Parcelnet, following TNTs exit Most of our customers have a credit and we utilise e-mail marketing campaigns from the low cost parcel network.
Courier account but less than half incur any interest extensively to generate incremental demand delivery currently accounts for around 70% charges as they pay their balance in full.
of deliveries and the move to Parcelnet will Our credit scoring policy has increased be complete by mid-2008 with better service credit limits to established customers During the year we have again invested levels anticipated for no additional cost.
through behavioural scoring, and assisted heavily in improving the capacity and new customer recruitment through increased functionality of our websites, and the Distribution costs in the year have only acceptance at marginal levels.
Although this new features are encouraging customers increased by 12.5% primarily due to the has increased bad debt, this is in line with to spend longer periods logged on to our collation benefits achieved on the back our plan and the strategy continues to prove websites which generates additional revenue.
of higher order values, mainly via the web, profitable.
We are monitoring our portfolio and improved stock availability.
very closely for any signs of degradation Encouragingly, our developing younger but to date there have been no significant brands and new launches, which have all changes after allowing for the influx of been backed with a web offering, are seeing 08 N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Menswear sales up Home and Leisure sales up 4% to Proportion of total sales online 24% 67m 28% Management The rate of gross margin has reduced by The internet is the channel of choice for We have strengthened the operating board 0.4% due to the mix of turnover slightly a large proportion of our customers, and in the last few months with three senior favouring new customers and our younger we will continue to invest in an ongoing appointments.
Mark Cheshire joined as brands for the 30-45 age group.
Improvements Customer Service Director, Paul Kendrick we expect to achieve further operational will include enhanced search engine as Group Development Director and Neil cost savings from the increasing proportion optimisation to make online customer McGowan as Information Technology of online sales during the year.
recruitment even more effective, and Director.
improving the online experience through The demographic trends continue to benefit better product presentation and guided Environment our business, with the customer population navigation, which in turn should improve We take the impact our business has on the aged 45 forecast to grow steadily over the visitor order conversion levels.
environment seriously and have instigated medium term, and we are well positioned a number of initiatives to reduce our carbon through our range of brands and niche As we continue to seek improvements in footprint.
For example, 75% of group waste products to capitalise on this.
Moving the way we deal with customers, we will is now re-cycled, compared to just 25% in forward we will continue to grow the offer a differentiated service within our 2005 6, and we aim to move this to 85% by business by recruiting new customers, contact centres dependent on brand.
Despite the growth of the increasingly through the internet, and Initially this is being trialled on Nightingales, business, and the increases in volumes and increasing the spend of established Gray & Osbourn and House of Bath.
working hours at our warehouses, we have customers, as we encourage them to maintained gas and electricity consumption shop across our various product ranges.
The combination of the demographic at previous years levels, and this year will trends, strength of our database, rollout migrate to 100% Green Energy.
All the new brands launched in 2007 of the new titles, expansion of the product have shown strong early results and ranges, investment in our e-commerce Zendor activity on these will be increased in activities and improvement to our customer In December 2007 we completed the 2008 9.
Additionally we have acquired the service give us confidence that the business disposal of non-core activities with the sale Nightingales brand and customer file from will make further progress in the 52 weeks of Zendor to GSi Luxembourg S. a. r. l. The the administrators.
This will add to our older to 28th February 2009. net proceeds in cash, including repayment catalogue group with a more upmarket, of inter-company loans, was 3.6m and traditional ladieswear range, and the first allows the group to focus exclusively on catalogue has met our expectations.
its core home shopping business.
The product ranges have been significantly Current Trading and Prospects expanded in recent years, and the exclusive The development of our established home product is proving highly popular.
We will shopping brands and the launch of new build on the designer ranges featured and Alan White titles, have given us a good platform for the have also launched a ladieswear range with future.
This is evidenced by the sales for the Caryn Franklin within our spring summer 8 weeks to 26th April 2008 which are up by catalogues.
Following the success of the 12.1% with the growth spread across all home and leisure Christmas range, we will customer and product groups.
be rolling out an all-year round gift offering under thebrilliantgiftshop.
N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 09 Financial Review The 53 weeks to March 2008 was another record year for the group reflecting the successful continuation of our strategy to develop our home shopping business.
As a result group sales exceeded the prior year by 6.6% to 6 0.9m.
Group Trading Summary Total capital expenditure for the year was Group operating profit for the same period 15.5m of which 6m related to further amounted to 91.8m 2007, 76.3m and investment in our warehousing infrastructure was achieved despite a 0.3% reduction in at Hadfield and Shaw.
6.7m was spent on gross margin arising from a higher rate of website development and customer service charge for bad debts due to a planned management systems which will continue change in the customer profile.
Lower to generate operational savings.
Year end distribution costs due mainly to improved stock levels at 68.1m were 24% up on collation rates and other cost efficiencies last year reflecting the wide range of arising from the customers propensity to merchandise on offer and advanced use the internet more than offset this shortfall, purchasing to satisfy customer service.
increasing the groups operating margin to 15.0%, compared with 14.6% last year.
Trade debtors at the year end were up 13.3% to 389.3m compared to 343.4m Zendor, our third party fulfilment business last year.
The rate of bad debt increased due was sold in December 2007 for a net to the mix of debtors favouring newer and consideration of 1.7m and consequently is younger customers as planned.
Dean Moore accounted for as a discontinued operation.
Finance Director The groups defined benefit pension scheme Profit before taxation amounted to 78.0m deficit has reduced to 5.8m 2007, 27.7m 2007, 65.3m, despite a rise in net finance following the 15m special contribution paid charges to 15.6m 2007, 8.6m on higher during the year which will be followed by net debt as a result of the 79.9m return of three further contributions of 4m per value to shareholders paid in March 2007 annum for three years, with the final payment and a 15m special contribution to the in 2010 being subject to the results of the pension fund.
A favourable movement in actuarial valuation in 2009. the fair value of the groups forward foreign currency contracts contributed a profit of Net cash generated from operating activities 1.8m compared to a 2.4m loss in the fell from 42.8m to 31.7m primarily due prior year.
to the special pension contribution which together with the return of value payment Taxation to shareholders in March 2007 of 79.9m The effective rate of corporation tax for the increased net debt in the year to 199.4m year is 28.5% 2007, 28.3% as we continue 2007, 104.0m and gearing to 80% to benefit from lower overseas tax rates and 2007, 51%.
We expect the rate to fall slightly going forward due to the reduction in rate.
Key Performance Indicators The directors use a number of key Balance Sheet and Cash Flow performance indicators KPIs to monitor The strong trading performance has resulted the progress of the group, including: in net assets increasing to 248.5m at the year end from 202.5m last year.
0 N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Group profit before tax up 9.4% to Operating margin up 0.4% to Capital investment 78m 5.0% 5.5m Like for like sales see page 6.
Treasury Financial Reporting Standards as adopted Internet sales see page 8.
Funding arrangements have been set to for use in the EU.
The number of customer debtor accounts adequately support the ongoing trading and their average debtor balance, which and development activity of the group.
Having made appropriate enquiries and at the year end was 1,627,000 2007, The group has committed borrowing having continued to operate an appropriate 1,467,000 and 253 2007, 234 facilities of 320m until 2012, of which risk management process during the year, respectively.
250m were utilised at the year end.
The the directors are pleased to report that Mix of sales by product and customer primary facilities are a 200m securitisation adequate resources exist to enable the groups see pages 6 to 8. programme through an HSBC A-1 P1 rated group to operate for the foreseeable future.
Gross Margin see page 5. conduit that has no exposure to the US subA going concern basis adopted in the Operating margin see page 5. prime mortgage market and has a matching preparation of the accounts is therefore standby facility.
The group also last year considered appropriate.
Risks and Uncertainties entered into two five-year revolving credit There are a number of risks and loan facilities of 50m each with HSBC Shareholders Return uncertainties which could have an impact Bank plc and The Royal Bank of Scotland The share price of 334.5p at the start of on the groups long-term performance.
plc, primarily in order to finance the return the year had fallen to 250.5p at the year They include the potential threat from of value payment to shareholders.
All the end giving a market capitalisation of 679.6m our competitors: our relationship with current facilities are arranged at floating 2007, 895.5m.
A final dividend of 6.41p key suppliers: the loss of key personnel: interest rates.
Where appropriate, exposure per share has been recommended by the potential disruption to our key information to interest rate fluctuations on indebtedness board and represents an increase of 20% systems, warehousing or call centre facilities is managed by using derivatives such as on the previous year giving a total dividend arising from events beyond our control such interest rate swaps.
In addition the group for the year of 9.06p per share, up by as fire or other issues which could have has cash balances of 50.8m 2007, 40.0m.
a detrimental impact on sales and profit: changes to the regulatory environment Anticipated foreign exchange requirements that the business operates under, primarily for the purchase of stocks denominated regulated by the Financial Services in US dollars are hedged for up to three Authority and the Office of Fair Trading.
years ahead to fix the cost of sterling.
This hedging activity involves the use of The directors routinely monitor all these spot, forward and option contracts.
At the risks and uncertainties and appropriate year end the group had outstanding forward Dean Moore actions are taken to mitigate these risks, foreign exchange contract commitments of such as having business continuity $66m 2007, $61m.
procedures in place, a dedicated team assessing regulatory developments, Accounting Standards and ensuring we treat our customers fairly Going Concern and hosting regular reviews with all of Group accounting policies reflect current our strategic partners.
The board are also professional standards and related committed to continually invest in updating guidelines issued by the International its systems and infrastructure to keep pace Accounting Standards Board and are with new technology.
prepared in accordance with International N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Directors and Officers.
Lord Alliance of Manchester CBE 75 c Non-executive Chairman Appointed a director and Chairman in 1968.
Formerly Chairman of Coats Viyella Plc.
He is also a director of a number of private companies, and was appointed a life peer in 2004.
Alan White 53 Chief Executive Rejoined the company as Chief Executive in 2002.
Previously with Arthur Andersen and Sharp Electronics, he originally started with the company in 1985 and was Finance Director until 1999, when he left to become Group 2 Finance Director of Littlewoods Plc.
Non-executive director of Topps Tiles plc.
Dean Moore 50 Group Finance Director Appointed in November 2003.
Previously Group Finance Director at T&S Stores Plc and Graham Group Plc.
Also held various roles with Lloyds Chemist Plc, Sketchley Plc, Blue Circle Industries and Grant Thornton.
Nigel Alliance OBE 73 Non-executive Director Appointed a director in 1969, he changed to non-executive status in 1995.
He is also a director of a number of private companies.
Ivan Fallon 63 a, b, c Non-executive Director Appointed a director in 1994.
He is the Chief Executive of Independent News & Media UK, a director of Independent News & Media Plc, Chairman of Verivox and also a director of Truphone.
Chairman of the remuneration committee.
Lord Stone of Blackheath 65 a, b, c Non-executive Director Appointed a director in 2002.
Formerly with Marks & Spencer Plc until he retired as Joint Managing Director in 1999, currently Deputy Chairman of Sindicatum Carbon Capital.
5 6 Chairman of the nomination committee.
Philip Harland 52 Company Secretary Joined the company in 2000.
Previously company secretary and associate director of legal services at GUS Home Shopping Ltd.
John McGuire 59 a, b, c Non-executive Director Appointed a director in March 2004.
Formerly Chairman of Corporate Banking for Royal Bank of Scotland Group in the North of England and Midland regions.
Associate Councillor with Manchester Chamber of Commerce 7 8 and Industry, Audit Chair of Stockport NHS Foundation Trust.
Non executive director of The University of Manchester.
Chairman of the audit committee.
a Audit committee member b Remuneration committee member 2 N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 c Nomination committee member N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 13 Over the last twelve months weve quietly gone from strength to strength.
This section shows some of the facts behind this growth.
14 N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 01.
In the last 12 months weve launched a number of highly targeted new brands.
For example Marisota is aimed at contemporary, internet savvy women home shoppers with a thirst for fashionable clothing that really fits their shape and size.
Many larger women are unable to buy fashionable bras on the high street.
Thats why weve launched Simply Yours, a range of underwear that recognises size shouldnt be a constraint for any woman who wants beautiful looking lingerie.
N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 15 03.
As a part of our niche products and niche customers approach were continually looking for underserved areas of the market.
Younger, larger menswear is one of those areas where branded clothes are an essential element.
issueoneautumn07  16 N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 04.
Were always looking for new product opportunities and refining our existing products and ranges to fill any gaps we identify.
One of our main selling points is size, with merchandise available in a range of lengths and fits not available elsewhere.
During the year we offered over 180,000 different product options.
N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 17 05.
Celebrity designers like Caryn Franklin, Gok Wan and Anna Scholz are increasingly important for N Brown.
Were working in partnership with these big names, harnessing our size experience to create new ranges.
18 N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 19 06.
Weve strengthened our active customer base in two ways firstly by attracting new customers, and secondly by improving the response rate from our established customers.
20 N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 21 07.
Our commitment to fast fashion means we can now take an idea from drawing board to customer in just eight weeks.
Were also trialling more products online, and only moving them to our catalogues if they prove successful.
This ability to test ideas on the web means we can back our winners with real confidence.
For many years weve benefited as the UK population gets older and larger.
To make the most of this demographic trend were now offering merchandise in a larger range of fits, lengths and sizes than our competitors.
In fact three quarters of all our trousers and half of skirts now come in different lengths.
73 22 N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 23 09.
Many of our web pages have been improved, with better navigation and more compelling content.
The result is increased stickiness as more people stay online with us for longer.
24 N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 10.
Were developing a series of incremental ranges, particularly in the home and gift sectors.
Simply Be Home brings the same ideas and attitudes that made Simply Be such a success to a great range of contemporary home products.
Weve also expanded our Christmas range to include a broader range of ideas for the perfect present, such as perfume and jewellery.
co. uk is now offering these products all year round.
N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 25 EUROPEAN GLAMOUR STYLE 26 N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 09.
Gray and Osbourn one of our more recent acquisitions has generated turnover of 25 million in its first full year with N Brown.
The mix of formal outfits and smart casual leisurewear enhances N Browns appeal to a more upmarket audience and helps open up a new demographic for us.
Were seeing encouraging results from our customer recruitment drive involving online and offline channels.
Today one in four of our new customers come to us through a search engine, even if initially they saw the advertisement on TV or in a magazine.
N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 27 28 N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 13.
The N Brown Golden Triangle of lingerie, shoes and larger size clothes is an ongoing success story, with 14% of customers buying across the triangle.
The loyalty and buying activity of these customers is as important to us today as its ever been.
N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 29 14.
Weve an increasing number of unique, successful products.
Last years best seller a mid length boot with variable calf fittings has now grown into a complete range.
This year a multifit shoe aimed at people with different size feet is proving a huge success.
30 N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 31 15.
Sales to our core mid life audience are going from strength to strength.
Were getting more purchases and more market share across more categories.
Weve strengthened our offering by responding to their wants and needs, for example by providing more lengths and more sizes.
The result is increased loyalty from this growing socio-demographic group.
Customer satisfaction is at an all time high.
Firstly we know our customers and give them bright, stylish clothes that are sized to fit and flatter the larger, older figure.
Secondly our customer service and speed of delivery are improving every year.
32 N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Financial Statements 34 Directors Report 38 Corporate Governance Report 41 Remuneration Report 50 Independent Auditors Report Group Accounts 51 Consolidated Income Statement 51 Consolidated Statement of Recognised Income and Expense 52 Consolidated Balance Sheet 53 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 54 Reconciliation of Operating Profit to Net Cash from Operating Activities 55 Notes to the Group Accounts 80 Independent Auditors Report Company Accounts 81 Company Balance Sheet 82 Notes to the Company Accounts IBC Shareholder Information N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 33 Directors Report The directors present their report and of which will be 17.4m 2007, 14.3m.
members by way of separate circular accounts for the 53 weeks ended The dividend will be paid on 25 July 2008. together with full explanatory notes on each 1 March 2008. resolution to be proposed at the meeting.
Movements in reserves are shown in note Activities and results 27 on page 72.
Directors The principal activities of the group is The biographies of the directors, all of retailing through direct home shopping.
Acquisitions and disposals whom served throughout the year are The activities are more fully explained in the On 14 December 2007 the group sold the shown on page 12.
In accordance with Chief Executives Review on pages 6 to 9. entire share capital of Zendor.
com Limited, the provisions of the Combined Code Group profit before taxation from continuing its fulfilment subsidiary, for net cash 2006 those non executive directors who operations for the 53 weeks ended 1 March proceeds of 3.6m and a profit on disposal have served a term of more than 9 years 2008 amounted to 78.0m 2007, 65.3m.
on the board will be subject to annual No geographical segmentation is provided re-election.
Those affected by such a as, apart from a small operation in the Share capital provision are, Lord Alliance of Manchester Republic of Ireland, all activities take place Details of the companys authorised and CBE, Nigel Alliance OBE and Ivan Fallon.
issued share capital are shown in note Accordingly they will retire at the next 23 on page 71.
Details of outstanding annual general meeting and, being eligible, Enhanced Business Review employee share options and the operation offer themselves for reappointment at that The company is required by the Companies of the relevant scheme are shown in note meeting.
Act to set out in this report a fair review 32 on page 74.
No person has any special of the business of the group during the rights of control over the companys share In addition, in accordance with the Articles 53 weeks ended 1 March 2008 and capital and all issued shares are fully paid.
of Association of the company Lord Stone the position of the group at the end of that of Blackheath will retire at the next annual period.
The company is also required to At an Extraordinary General Meeting of general meeting and being eligible, offers set out a description of the principal risks the company held on 21 February 2007, himself for reappointment at the meeting.
and uncertainties facing the group.
The shareholders approved a return of value information fulfilling the above requirements of 79.9m, by way of a B share scheme Details of directors interests beneficial can be found within this report and of 27 pence per existing ordinary share of and non-beneficial in shares of the within the Chairmans Statement, the 10 pence each and the consolidation of company are given in the Remuneration Chief Executives Review and the Financial existing ordinary shares on the basis of 19 Report on page 49 and are deemed to Review pages 4 to 11 and are deemed new ordinary shares of 11 1 19 pence each be incorporated into this report by this to be incorporated in this report by this for every 21 existing ordinary shares of 10 cross-reference.
With regard to the appointment and The board monitors a number of financial 295,906,293 B shares of 0.01 of a penny replacement of directors, the company is and non-financial Key Performance each were allotted and issued on 21 governed by its Articles of Association, the Indicators and these are detailed on February 2007.
On 2 March 2007, the Combined Code and the Companies Acts.
page 10 of the Financial Review.
company declared a dividend of 27 pence The powers of directors are described in per B share.
In accordance with the articles the board terms of reference and the Dividends and reserves of association of the company, following Corporate Governance Report on page 38.
An interim dividend of 2.65p per share the declaration of the dividend on the B 2007, 2.19p was paid on the ordinary shares, all B shares were converted into Directors and officers liabilities shares of the company on 4 January 2008. deferred shares.
The deferred shares The group maintains insurance for directors The net cost of this dividend was 7.2m carried limited rights and negligible value.
and officers of the group, indemnifying 2007, 6.5m.
On 13 March 2007, the company them against certain liabilities incurred by repurchased all the deferred shares for an them whilst acting on behalf of the group.
Details of a return of value undertaken aggregate consideration of one penny.
by the company on 2 March 2007 are These deferred shares were cancelled on Major shareholders set out below under the section headed repurchase.
In addition to the directors shareholdings Share capital.
shown in the Remuneration Report on page Annual general meeting 49, the following notifications had been The directors recommend a final dividend The annual general meeting is to be held received from holders of notifiable interests of 6.41p per share 2007, 5.34p for the 53 on 1 July 2008.
The notice convening the in the companys issued share capital as at weeks ended 1 March 2008, the net cost annual general meeting is being sent to 30 April 2008: Holding % of issued share capital Standard Life Investments 26,349,331 9.71 Legal & General Investment Management 9,345,869 3.44 Aberforth Partners 9,151,599 3.37 Liontrust Asset Management 8,784,703 3.24 Fidelity Investment Services Europe 8,570,401 3.16 34 N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Directors Report 05 06 level.
Environmental, social and The group has drawn up and issued a Landfill waste levels reduced by 5% from governance issues comprehensive whistleblowing policy 06 07 level 75% less than 05 06 level, providing employees with an appropriate with commensurate increase in recycling.
Governance and risk management means of communication in case of ethical Existing recycling contract expanded to The board is committed to maintaining high concerns regarding the way the group include bottles glass plastic, drinks standards of corporate governance.
The operates in its day-to-day activities.
company monitors and evaluates risk on an New Group Electricity Contract starting ongoing basis as part of its commitment to Environment on 1 October 2008 will be via a 100% sustainable business.
Further details are The group recognises its environmental Green energy provider.
contained in the Corporate Governance responsibilities and is committed to New contract established regarding ecoReport on pages 38 to 40. minimising any damage which its activities friendly disposal of defective fluorescent may cause to the environment.
It has tubes and control gear consumed by the Ethics delegated specific responsibility for group.
The board regards achievement and environmental matters to a nominated maintenance of the highest ethical director on each of its principal subsidiary Employees standards in business as an essential boards.
In addition, it actively pursues a Employee involvement.
The group firmly feature in the way in which the group number of environmental policies, including believes that continuing success can only conducts its business.
A code of ethical those designed to contain energy costs, the be achieved by an enthusiastic, motivated conduct dealing with commercial standards, recycling of paper and packaging materials and well-trained workforce.
Consequently, conflicts of interest, gifts and hospitality wherever practical and the use of considerable resources are devoted to staff has been circulated to all staff.
All directors information technology systems to reduce training.
Departmental team briefings are and employees of the group are required the level of consumption of paper by its held and a staff attitude survey is to comply with both the letter and the spirit employees.
The Packaging Waste Directive conducted regularly.
Over 500 group of the code of ethical conduct in all their 94 62 EC, requires larger companies to employees either hold shares in the dealings on behalf of the group and recover and recycle the packaging waste company or have options awards to directors and senior staff are required to that they put into the environment.
The acquire them through the groups various file an electronic return detailing compliance group was one of the first organisations share option and long-term incentive with the policy on gifts and hospitality, to join the Valpak Organisation, which is schemes.
a nationwide sustainable recovery and recycling infrastructure.
The vast majority of training and In their dealings with each other, other development is delivered by our in-house group companies and their shareholders, The groups packaging technologists look learning and development team who work customers, suppliers, competitors with at every product sold within the groups closely with directors and managers across regulatory authorities and the wider publications to ensure its compliance to the whole business.
This enables them to community, employees are required to: European Environmental Law with particular identify what development is required and emphasis on the Pack Minimisation design and deliver a wide variety of conduct all dealings with honesty, integrity Essential Requirements 1998 Regulations.
interventions to meet those needs.
and fairness: comply with all relevant laws, regulations All packaging components are made from As well as bespoke interventions, there is and internal company policy: materials and processes causing minimum also a suite of 12 workshops covering a encourage and support a business culture harm to the environment when either range of topics from negotiation skills to which exhibits and promotes ethical manufactured, processed, recycled or effective influencing.
All employees are free conduct at all levels within the eventually disposed of.
All of the groups to request any of these workshops, which organisation: and paper packaging is made from a minimum encourages them to be proactive and take avoid any situation or action which could of 75% recycled paper and all other paper ownership of their own development.
cause damage to the groups reputation.
is sourced from 100% recyclable papers.
Wherever practically possible packaging Since 2003, the company, working in Directors of all group companies are materials and processes are derived from partnership with Dale Carnegie, has also required to disclose details of related party managed and renewable sources.
The taken over a hundred managers through transactions for review by the audit majority of the paper used by the group in a tailor-made leadership development committee.
its publications comes from such sources.
programme, which encourages crossThe group adopts a cradle to grave functional collaboration and the A register of gifts and benefits offered by, view on all packaging products used by it.
identification of revenue generating cost and to, suppliers and other parties whether saving innovation projects.
accepted or declined is maintained under In the year under review the following the control of the head of internal audit.
environmental mileposts were achieved:- The MBTI Myers Briggs Type Indicator Summary information is presented to the has also been used effectively across groups audit committee.
All employees, 174K 11% savings in Utilities Charges the business to enhance personal and managers and directors are required, direct by reduced consumption cost leadership development, team-building each month, to declare any offer of gifts avoidance by selective contract and communication.
or hospitality with a value of 25 or negotiations.
more, offered, accepted or declined.
Group Carbon Footprint reduced by Consultation.
Constructive relationships 6% from 06 07 level, 35% less than with the trade unions which represent the N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 35 Directors Report groups employees principally USDAW and reduction on the same period last year, In the last financial year, via this method, SATA are encouraged.
Elements of with both reportable accidents and days more than 136,000 was raised for the group are covered by a collective lost through accident showing reductions.
noteworthy causes such as the Cancer bargaining arrangement with USDAW.
Research Foundation and MacMillan Customers Cancer Support.
The group has previously Equal Opportunities.
The group One of the key factors of the groups agreed to donate its redundant IT supports the principle of equal success is the quality of its relationship equipment to charities operating in third opportunities in employment and is with its customers.
Regular customer world and developing countries.
opposed to all forms of discrimination, satisfaction surveys are conducted, both including those on the grounds of colour, directly and through third parties, to ensure Charitable and political donations race, nationality, ethnic or national origin, that the group closely monitors the opinions During the year, the group made charitable religion, gender, age, sexual orientation, and requirements of its customers.
In donations of 114,392 2007, 52,371 marital status or disability.
addition, telephone enquiry and complaint principally to local charities serving the calls received from customers are analysed communities in which the group operates.
Our selection processes for recruitment, and appropriate action taken to improve No political donations have been made promotion, training and development are the levels of service offered to them.
We believe it is in the best interests of employees and the group Suppliers Pension fund to provide these opportunities to the most The group sources products and services The group continues to ensure that the suitable candidates.
A significant N Brown Group Pension Fund is managed in proportion of this expenditure is with accordance with best practice and current Applications for employment by disabled suppliers with whom the group has a longlegislation, including the Pensions Act persons are welcomed and are fully term relationship, which helps to provide a 1995.
The funds assets are administered considered, bearing in mind the aptitudes continually improving quality of product and by a trustee company which is controlled of the applicant concerned.
In the event service to customers, whilst reducing costs.
by a board of directors, all of whom have of any employee becoming disabled, a vested interest in the performance of the every effort is made to ensure that their It is the groups policy to comply with the fund, representing the interests of pension employment with the group continues and terms of payment agreed with its suppliers.
fund members, pensioners and N Brown that appropriate training is arranged.
It is Trade creditors of the group at 1 March Group plc.
The funds investments are the policy of the group that the training, 2008 represented 41 days 2007, 34 days managed by Aberdeen Asset Management career development and promotion of of purchases.
Limited and Legal and General Assurance disabled persons should, as far as possible, Pensions Management Limited and the be identical to that of other employees.
The group is aware of the potential social actuarial and administration services are impact of its business dealings, particularly provided by Mercer Human Resource Each year the group rewards and in developing countries.
recognises significant contribution from its terms and conditions for the purchase customer contact centre staff by inviting of all goods for resale require that, in The N Brown Group Pension Fund was them to compete for a nomination to relation to the manufacture of merchandise, closed to new entrants with effect from 31 receive an award for outstanding customer the supplier warrants that all labour, safety January 2002.
New employees joining the service.
The award ceremony is a Redand other relevant laws in the country of group after 31 January 2002 and existing Carpet event which is well received by manufacture will be strictly observed with employees who had not joined the N all staff who are nominated for an award.
respect to all workers at all stages of Brown Group Pension Fund as at that date, production.
are entitled to join a stakeholder pension Health and safety.
The groups policy scheme providing a defined contribution is to adhere to all relevant legislation to Community pension arrangement, administered by ensure, as far as is reasonably practicable, The group believes that it has a Prudential Stakeholder Pensions.
the health, safety and welfare at work of responsibility to invest in the communities all employees and of other people working in which it operates.
The family, health and As part of the B share return of value in on our premises but not employed by well-being programme, now in its fifth year, early 2007, the directors also decided to the group.
We endeavour to ensure provides additional benefits for all our increase the contributions towards the that products and services used in the employees is actively supported and funding deficit in the N Brown Group workplace or sold by us are designed continues.
The group maintains close links Pension Fund by paying a one off so that they are safe and without risk with the Christie Hospital in Manchester, contribution of 15 million at the same time when properly used.
Pre-employment the Marie Curie Foundation and the that the return of value was made, followed questionnaires, physiotherapy, audiometry, Retail Trust.
The group encourages staff by three further contributions of 4 million an improved management referral process to participate in fundraising activities for per annum for three years, with the final and rehabilitation programs have enabled these, and other, worthwhile causes and payment subject to review.
The Pensions occupational health issues to be better maximises the potential donation by Regulator made a determination on 23 controlled.
matching the level of money raised by January 2007 to issue a clearance employees to double the size of the statement in relation to the return of value Cumulative group accident statistics for donation.
in view of the companys support of the the last 12 months immediately prior to pension scheme.
the publication of this report show a 27% 36 N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Directors Report Financial risk management, objectives the directors to prepare such financial The directors are responsible for the and policies statements in accordance with IFRS, UK maintenance and integrity of the company The group is exposed to certain financial GAAP, the Companies Act 1985 and Article website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom risks, namely interest rate risk, currency 4 of the IAS Regulation.
governing the preparation and dissemination risk, liquidity risk and credit risk.
Information of financial statements may differ from regarding such financial risks is detailed in In the case of UK GAAP accounts, the legislation in other jurisdictions.
The groups risk directors are required to prepare financial management policies and procedures are statements for each financial period which Each of the directors at the date of approval also discussed in the Financial Review on give a true and fair view of the state of of this report confirms that: page 11. affairs of the company and of the profit or loss of the company for that period.
So far as the director is aware, there is In preparing these financial statements, no relevant audit information of which Change of control the directors are required to: the companys auditors are unaware: and There are a number of agreements that take The directors have taken all the steps they effect, alter or terminate upon a change of select suitable accounting policies ought to have taken as a director to make control of the company such as commercial and then apply them consistently: themselves aware of any relevant audit contracts, bank loan agreements, property make judgements and estimates that information and to establish that the lease arrangements and employee share are reasonable and prudent: and companys auditors are aware of that plans.
None of these are considered to be state whether applicable accounting information.
significant in terms of their likely impact on standards have been followed.
the business of the group as a whole.
This confirmation is given and should In the case of IFRS accounts, International be interpreted in accordance with the Directors service contracts are terminable Accounting Standard 1 requires that provisions of section 234ZA of the by the company on giving 12 months financial statements present fairly for Companies Act 1985. notice.
There are no agreements between each financial year the groups financial the company and its directors or employees position, financial performance and cash By order of the board that provide for additional compensation for flows.
This requires the faithful loss of office or employment that occurs representation of the effects of transactions, because of a takeover bid.
other events and conditions in accordance Philip F Harland LL.
B Hons Solicitor with the definitions and recognition criteria Secretary Tax status for assets, liabilities, income and expenses The company is not a close company within set out in the International Accounting 9 May 2008 the meaning of the Income and Corporation Standards Boards Framework for the Taxes Act 1988. preparation and Presentation of Financial Responsibility Statement Statements.
In virtually all circumstances, We confirm that to the best of our Auditors a fair presentation will be achieved by knowledge: A resolution to reappoint Deloitte & Touche compliance with all applicable International LLP as auditors to the company and to Financial Reporting Standards.
Directors are a the financial statements prepared in authorise the directors to fix their also required to: accordance with International Financial remuneration will be proposed at the Reporting Standards as adopted for annual general meeting on 1 July 2008. properly select and apply accounting use in the European Union, give a true policies: and fair view of the assets, liabilities, Liability present information, including accounting financial position and profit of the All the information supplied in the policies, in a manner that provides company and group: Chairmans Statement on pages 4 to 5, relevant, reliable, comparable and b the management report incorporated the Chief Executives Review on pages 6 understandable information: and into the directors report includes a to 9, Financial Review on pages 10 to 11, provide additional disclosures when fair review of the development and Remuneration Report and the Corporate compliance with the specific requirements performance of the business and the Governance Report on pages 38 to 49 form in IFRS is insufficient to enable users to position of the company and the group, part of this Directors Report.
Any liability for understand the impact of particular together with a description of the the information is restricted to the extent transactions, other events and conditions principal risk and uncertainties that prescribed in the Companies on the entitys financial position and they face.
By order of the board Directors responsibilities The directors are responsible for keeping The directors are responsible for preparing proper accounting records which disclose the annual report and the financial with reasonable accuracy at any time the Alan White statements.
The directors are required to financial position of the company, for Chief Executive prepare financial statements for the group safeguarding the assets, for taking in accordance with International Financial reasonable steps for the prevention and Reporting Standards IFRS and have detection of fraud and other irregularities Dean Moore chosen to prepare company financial and for the preparation of a directors report Finance Director statements in accordance with United and directors remuneration report which Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting comply with the requirements of the 9 May 2008 Practice UK GAAP.
Company law requires Companies Act.
N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 37 Corporate Governance Report Combined Code thereafter.
All non executive directors have risk control procedures, board membership The board is committed to high standards written letters of appointment.
These letters and that of its committees.
Currently, at of corporate governance and compliance of appointment stipulate terms of indefinite least one of its meetings in each year with the principles in the Combined Code duration terminable on six months notice.
held over two days is entirely devoted on Corporate Governance issued by the All letters of appointment are subject to to the development and review of UK Financial Reporting Council in 2006 early termination provisions, for example corporate strategy and the groups the Code.
The purpose of this statement allowing earlier termination without three year plan.
The board delegates the is to explain how the company has applied compensation in the event a director is day-to-day management of the group to the principles of good governance set out not re-elected upon retirement by rotation the J D Williams & Company Limited in the code.
in accordance with the articles.
In line with operational board.
the Code all non executive directors who For the year in review the company has have served for nine years will be subject Comprehensive briefing papers including been in compliance with the provisions to annual re-election.
As such, Lord Alliance management accounts, broker analyses set out in section 1 of the Code.
of Manchester CBE, Nigel Alliance OBE and shareholder analyses are circulated and Ivan Fallon will be subject to re-election to each director in a timely manner not Board composition at the forthcoming AGM.
Sufficient less than seven days prior to each board The board currently comprises seven biographical detail will be provided in the meeting.
Procedures are in place to enable members, five of whom are non executive.
circular accompanying the AGM notice to all directors to obtain independent There is a clear division of responsibilities enable shareholders to make an informed professional advice in respect of their between the Chairman, Lord Alliance of decision on any re-election resolution.
All fiduciary duties and obligations and all Manchester CBE, who is responsible for appointments to the board are made on board members have full and direct access the effective operation of the board and the merit against objective criteria and with the to the company secretary, who is a fully Chief Executive, Alan White, who is intention of ensuring that appointees have admitted solicitor and who attends all responsible for the groups operational sufficient time available to devote to the board and committee meetings.
Secretary is charged with providing advice to the board on regulatory issues, matters The five non executive directors comprise Details of directors contract terms are of corporate governance, continuing the Chairman, Lord Alliance of Manchester shown in the Remuneration Report on director education and ensuring the CBE, Nigel Alliance OBE, both of whom are page 45. timely provision of information.
not regarded by the board as independent under the provisions of the Combined Board operation Since the last report the board has once Code, and Ivan Fallon, Lord Stone of An effective board of directors leads and again undertaken a formal appraisal of its Blackheath and John McGuire all of whom controls the group.
The members of the own performance, that of the Chairman are considered by the board to be board are shown on page 12 of this report.
and that of its committees.
The senior independent non The board met 9 times during the year.
consisted of individual assessment by executive director is Ivan Fallon.
Directors attendance at board meetings detailed questionnaire completed by all was as follows: directors.
The results were compiled by Ivan Fallon was appointed to the board in the company secretary for review by the Attendance Apologies October 1994.
Ivan Fallon has served on Chairman and then joint review by the the board for a period beyond which the board.
The performance of the Chairman Lord Alliance of Code suggests that his independence may was appraised by the senior non executive Manchester CBE 7 2 be affected.
The board, nonetheless, holds director in consultation with the other Ivan Fallon 8 1 Ivan Fallon to be independent and that his board members.
The Chief Executives Alan White 9 0 broad-based commercial experience, performance was appraised by the together with his extensive knowledge of Chairman and the non executive directors.
Lord Stone of Blackheath 9 0 the groups businesses gained during his The performance of the Finance Director Nigel Alliance OBE 9 0 thirteen years as a non executive director the only other executive director on the with the group is invaluable to the board.
Dean Moore 9 0 board was carried out in the same manner as the Chief Executive.
John McGuire 9 0 The board considers that it had a majority of independent non executive directors The process of evaluation is designed to during the year.
It is considered that the The board is collectively responsible for ascertain whether each director continues composition of the board during the year providing effective leadership and promoting to contribute effectively and is devoted to had the necessary balance of executive the success of the group.
and non executive directors providing the schedule of matters reserved for its approval skills and experience appropriate for the a copy of which is available on the Committee structure requirements of the business.
The board has delegated specific This document includes decisions on all authorities to a number of sub committees All directors joining the board are required major strategic issues, approval of financial to deal with specific aspects of to submit themselves for election at the statements, capital and operating management and control of the group.
next following annual general meeting.
They expenditure, investment, treasury and All of these committees meet regularly are subject to re-election every third year dividend policy, overseeing the groups and have formal written terms of reference 38 N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Corporate Governance Report which are available for inspection on auditors or the groups internal audit team Nominations committee request and are also available on the as and when required.
In the year under The nominations committee is chaired companys website.
The minutes of the review four such meetings have taken place.
by Lord Stone of Blackheath.
The other meetings of these committees are members are currently Lord Alliance of circulated to all committee members in The board consider that the processes Manchester CBE, Ivan Fallon and John advance of the next following committee of the audit committee comply with the McGuire.
The formal terms of reference meeting, at which they are ratified.
The guidance issued by the Smith Committee.
for this committee require it to make following committees of the board have recommendations to the board for been established: As stated above, part of the role of the appointments of directors including audit committee is to review the directors of the operating company board Audit committee independence of the companys auditors.
J D Williams & Company Limited and Remuneration committee The companys external auditors, Deloitte other senior executive staff.
Where Nomination committee & Touche LLP have provided non-audit appropriate, the chief executive and services to the company in the form of tax, company secretary attend meetings Twice each year the Chairman of the regulatory and remuneration advice.
The of the nominations committee.
committee makes a formal report to the audit committee is aware that providing board of directors concerning the work audit and non-audit advice could give rise The nominations committee evaluates carried out by the committee and its to a potential conflict of interest.
To address board candidates on merit, against recommendations to the board.
this concern recognised by the audit objective criteria, taking into account the committee, when the need has arisen the skills and experience required.
Where Audit committee remuneration committee has sought advice appropriate, external search consultants The audit committee consists entirely of on executive remuneration issues, where are enlisted.
The appropriate, from independent advisors current chairman is John McGuire.
The who do not provide the group with other The company secretary is responsible other members are Ivan Fallon and Lord services further details are set out in the for the induction of new directors.
All members of the Remuneration Report on page 41.
Some New directors are provided with a audit committee are regarded as having due diligence and other corporate strategic comprehensive pack of information recent and relevant financial experience.
work is handled by other external advisors.
including terms of reference, information The committee meetings are attended by The audit committee has concluded that in regarding the business and guidance on the Chief Executive, the Finance Director the circumstances, it is satisfied that the their roles and duties as directors and and the Head of Internal Audit as required.
independence of the auditors, Deloitte & meetings site visits with key employee Touche LLP, has not been compromised.
contacts are arranged as appropriate.
The committee met two times in the year.
Committee attendance was as follows: Remuneration committee The nominations committee had no The remuneration committee consists occasion to meet this year.
entirely of independent non executive Attendance Apologies directors.
The current chairman is Ivan Internal control Lord Stone of Blackheath 2 0 Fallon.
The other members are Lord Stone The directors have overall responsibility for John McGuire 2 0 of Blackheath and John McGuire.
ensuring that the group maintains a sound system of internal control, to give them Ivan Fallon 1 1 The remuneration committee met four reasonable assurance regarding effective times this year.
Members attendance and efficient operations and compliance The audit committee considers the nature was as follows: with laws and regulations.
There are, of and scope of the audit process both course, inherent limitations in any system internal and external and its effectiveness.
of internal control and accordingly even Attendance Apologies The committee reviews and approves the the most effective system can provide only Lord Stone of Blackheath 4 0 internal audit programme, meets with the reasonable, and not absolute, assurance John McGuire 4 0 external auditors and considers the annual against loss or failure.
The board has and interim financial statements before established a continuous process for Ivan Fallon 4 0 submission to the board.
The committee identifying, evaluating and managing the also reviews the groups system of internal significant risks the group faces.
control and reports its findings twice yearly The purpose of this committee is to review to the board.
Each year the committee and formulate the companys remuneration The board continues to operate a formal holds a meeting to which certain senior policy and consider how the company is risk management process throughout the employees of the group are invited.
This applying the principles of the Code in group.
A cyclical programme of meeting is not attended by the executive respect of directors remuneration.
assessments of operational, financial and directors or the chairman.
In addition the other business risks has been implemented committee meets with the external auditors, Further details are set out in the at each principal operating subsidiary of the in the absence of the executive directors, remuneration report on pages 41 to 49 group each cycle comprising at least two at least twice a year.
The chairman of the which will be put to an advisory vote by reviews annually, which takes into account committee also holds ad-hoc meetings the members at the companys annual the internal controls that exist to mitigate with the Finance Director, the external general meeting.
the impact of those risks.
Any significant N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 39 Corporate Governance Report residual risks are then evaluated and action The company has complied and continues plans to further reduce their impact are to comply with the provisions of the code initiated and monitored where necessary.
on internal controls, and the relevant parts of the Turnbull and Smith Guidance.
Seventeen such cycles have been carried There is an ongoing process in place for out to date.
A risk management committee, identifying, evaluating and managing the which met three times last year, oversees significant risks facing the group that has the above process and reports progress been in place throughout the year under to the audit committee, which thereafter review and to the date of approval of the reports to the board and draws all accounts.
This process has been reviewed appropriate matters to its attention.
regularly by the audit committee and The risk committee, together with the the board, and accords with guidance audit committee, is also responsible for appended to the Code.
The board has not ensuring that the principles of sound risk identified nor been advised of any failings management and effective internal control or weaknesses which it has determined to are fully embedded within the organisation, be significant.
a process which the board, and the audit committee, has satisfied itself has Relations with investors continued to operate during the year.
The company believes in the importance of good communications with shareholders, In pursuance of the above, the board both institutional and individual investors.
of directors through the processes of Institutional investors, fund managers the audit committee has reviewed the and analysts are kept informed of the effectiveness of the system of internal companys overall strategy through control for the year under review.
As well regular meetings and roadshows.
as receiving regular reports from the risk All non executive directors are kept management committee described above, informed of shareholders views through the board through the audit committee detailed feedback and analysts and broker discusses with the external auditors the reports tabled at each board meeting.
results of their work and any resulting The senior independent director is available internal control issues, and also reviews to meet with, and understand, the views the work carried out by the internal audit of major shareholders.
department, including monitoring the implementation of actions arising from The company aims to ensure that all previous audits.
shareholders have full and timely access to information it discloses and that The internal audit function is independent shareholders have opportunities to meet of management and the head of the with management through ad hoc and onefunction has direct access to the chief to-one meetings at least twice a year at the executive and the chairman of the audit announcement of results and also at events committee.
Internal audit plans are such as the analysts dinner and financial discussed and agreed annually between presentation held in January 2008 and the head of internal audit and the audit by constructive use of the AGM.
as being provided with a copy of the annual report and results announcements, Appropriate internal financial controls are our website provides shareholders with operated throughout the group, some of comprehensive and accessible information which have already been referred to in this about the group.
Other examples include the existence of a well defined group organisation structure, with clear lines of responsibility and explicit authority delegated to divisional boards and executive management, and a comprehensive financial reporting system which communicates plans, budgets and monthly results to relevant levels of management, including the board.
40 N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Remuneration Report Introduction In setting remuneration levels of the strengthen individual and corporate This report has been prepared in executive directors the committee had performance targets.
The normal accordance with the Companies Act regard to the findings of a remuneration remuneration package for executive 1985 as amended by the Directors survey and research issued generally by directors comprises basic salary, an annual Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 Deloitte & Touche LLP, the companys performance-related bonus including a the regulations.
This report also meets auditors, who have also provided audit and deferred element with a matching share the relevant requirements of the listing rules tax services to the group, Pinsent Masons award subject to a further performance of the Financial Services Authority and LLP provide legal advice in relation to the condition, a long-term incentive program, describes how the board have applied the share incentive arrangements and have a pension and other benefits in kind principles of good governance relating to also provided general legal advice to the including a company car allowance and directors remuneration.
The committee received advice medical insurance.
concerning the chief executives This report will be put to an advisory remuneration and specifically his pension The committee regularly reviews the vote of the companys shareholders at the arrangements from Mercer Human structure of the executive package, annual general meeting on 1 July 2008.
Resource Consulting Limited, AON including the balance between fixed The auditors are required to report on the Consulting Limited, Mr. Charles Evers and variable pay to ensure that the audited section of this report and to state Pension Consultant, Deloitte & Touche remuneration remains competitive and whether, in their opinion, that part of the LLP and Pinsent Masons LLP.
The policy will continue to report has been properly prepared in two are general advisers to the company apply for the current financial year.
The accordance with the Companies Act 1985 who were not specifically appointed by committee will review the policy on an as amended by the regulations.
Mercer Human Resource annual basis and recommend changes as is therefore divided into separate sections Consulting Limited, AON Consulting and when appropriate.
The committee is for audited and unaudited information.
Limited and Charles Evers were specifically entitled to consider corporate performance appointed by the committee.
In determining on Environmental, Social and Governance Unaudited information: executive directors remuneration for the ESG issues as well as any other pertinent year, the committee consulted Alan White, issue when settling the remuneration of any Remuneration committee the Chief Executive.
No director played executive director.
The committee is of the During the financial year, the remuneration any part in any discussion about his own opinion that the structure of the incentive committee of the board the committee remuneration.
arrangements for senior managers does not comprised Ivan Fallon chairman, Lord raise ESG risks by inadvertently motivating Stone of Blackheath and John McGuire, The board have reviewed the groups irresponsible behaviour.
all of whom are non executive directors compliance with the Combined Code and considered by the company to be 2006 the Code on remuneration related A review of the bonus structure and the independent.
It is the opinion of the board that use of long-term share based incentives have no personal financial interest other the group complied with the remuneration was undertaken in the year.
The charts than as shareholders in matters to be related aspects of the Code during the year.
below demonstrate the balance between decided, no potential conflicts of interest fixed and variable performance based pay arising from cross-directorships and no Remuneration policy for executive for each executive director: day-to-day involvement in running the directors and senior executives business.
The committee has formal written The committees policy is designed Basic salary terms of reference which are available for to ensure that the main elements of the When determining the salary of the shareholders to inspect at the registered remuneration package attract, motivate executive directors the committee has office of the company and on the corporate and retain executive directors and senior taken into consideration the levels of base website.
The committee met three times executives by offering them competitive salary for similar positions with comparable during the year in question.
remuneration packages, which are status, responsibility and skills in competitor prudently constructed and linked to organisations of broadly similar size and Analysis of Performance vs Non Performance element of Remuneration Package Fixed Pay Variable Performance Related Pay 30% 33% 70% 67% Alan White Dean Moore N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 41 Remuneration Report complexity, in particular those existing objectives.
These targets are reviewed and of any additional performance in the home shopping and retail market agreed by the committee at the beginning requirements.
It was the opinion of the sectors: the performance of the individual of each financial year to ensure that they committee that the difficulty in satisfying executive director: the individual executive are appropriate to the current market the underlying performance requirements to directors experience and responsibilities: conditions, the objectives of the company earn the annual bonus was commensurate and the pay and conditions throughout the and that they continue to remain stretching with the potential value of the maximum group.
Salaries and conditions are reviewed and challenging.
Payments under the immediate and deferred bonus payable.
annual bonus schemes consist of an However, since 2006 the grant of matching immediate cash element, a deferred shares has been made subject to an Annual performance-related bonus element in shares net of tax and a 1:1 additional performance requirement for all Each executive director and senior matching share element based on the prefuture grants.
The matching shares will not executive participates in one of a number tax value of the bonus used to acquire the be issued unless the growth in earnings per of annual performance-related bonus deferred shares.
Matching shares are share is equal to or greater than the growth schemes.
Each scheme is designed to released two years from their date of award of the retail price index over the deferral stretch the performance of the executive provided the executive retains his deferred period.
The levels of bonus earned for this and is linked to the growth in annual profit, shares and remains in employment.
year are set out in the following table: the achievement of other business targets Previously the provision of the matching and the achievement of personal shares was not subject to the satisfaction Name Alan White Dean Moore 2007 08 Bonus & Deferred Shares Paid 465,905 246,875 2007 08 Contingent Matching Share Award 116,476 61,719 Total 2007 08 Bonus & Matching Share Award as a %age of Salary 112% 116% The performance targets used for 2007 08 share option schemes in any one year, TSR as a performance condition is and 2008 09 are based upon a combination the committee will carefully assess the considered appropriate for the following of profit, an increase in the volumes of expected value of the combined total reasons: customers placing an order and the award, particularly if it exceeds the achievement of personal objectives.
maximum value possible under either market research indicated that TSR is a The maximum potential bonus payable scheme individually.
In addition, it is the more appropriate and common measure to an executive director for 2007 08 was committees policy only to grant combined for long-term incentive arrangements 100% of basic salary of which, if achieved, grants where there are some or all of the within FTSE 250 companies: 75% will be immediately payable in cash following circumstances: a TSR performance condition is more and 25% will be deferred.
It has been closely aligned with shareholder interests agreed to keep these levels for 2008 09. to minimise the P&L cost to the company than EPS Growth: and dilutive cost for shareholders for a a TSR performance condition more Share incentives given share commitment to an executive: closely evaluates company performance It is the policy of the committee that where different performance conditions against a basket of comparator executive directors and senior executives apply to awards and options: or companies in the same sector: and generally receive an annual award under on initial recruitment of a senior executive.
a TSR performance condition is more either the long-term incentive plan or one easily understood and measurable by of the companys executive share option For the year under review no combined eligible executives and is considered to schemes.
Before allowing any individual awards were made.
In respect of share be a suitably challenging measure in the to participate in both the long-term awards the performance condition is based current retail sector trading environment.
incentive plan and one of the executive upon Total Shareholder Return TSR.
42 N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Remuneration Report The committee determines whether the lower quartile will mean that no award will For share option schemes a performance TSR performance conditions for share vest, a 10% to 50% award will vest in the condition of growth in earnings per share awards and options are satisfied by ranking third quartile depending on rank, a 60% to EPS applies see below.
the company over a 3 year performance 95% award will vest in the second quartile period measured from the date of grant depending on rank and a 100% award will Long-term incentive share plan against a matrix of comparator companies vest in the upper quartile regardless of rank.
Executive directors and certain senior currently comprising Alexon, Blacks executives are eligible to participate in Leisure, Debenhams, DSG International, For 2006 awards and onwards the the groups long-term incentive share plan.
Findel, Flying Brands, French Connection, committee determined that if TSR is below The plan provides appropriate incentives Home Retail Group, Homestyle, Instore, the median ranking company there will be to reward sustained success through the JJB Sports, Kesa Electrical, Laura Ashley, no entitlement to any of the award.
For achievement of challenging business Marks & Spencer, Moss Bros Group, median performance the entitlement will targets, thereby better aligning the Mothercare, Next, Stylo and Woolworths.
be 50% of the maximum award rising interests of shareholders and executives.
The committee determines which pro rata in the second quartile to 90% companies are to be added or removed depending on rank.
A 100% award will from this comparator group.
For 2005 vest upon the company ranking in the awards vesting 2008 a ranking in the upper quartile regardless of rank.
Long-term Incentive Share Plan Description Maximum Annual Award %age Salary 150% Nature of Right To receive a fixed number of shares subject to the satisfaction of conditions Performance Period Three years Performance Requirements TSR subject to decile ranking of company against comparator group of companies calculated over a performance period of 3 years Additional Features None Executive directors are normally eligible to receive up to 75% of their salary as an award under the LTIP scheme.
For the award years 2004 to 2007 inclusive Alan White was granted LTIP awards equivalent to 105% of his salary.
Executive share option schemes The rationale for executives participating in the option schemes is the same as for their participation in the LTIP.
Term Description Schemes Inland Revenue Approved Option Scheme and the 2000 Unapproved Option Scheme Aggregate under both Approved and Unapproved Schemes Maximum Annual Award 200% of remuneration salary, bonus and commission %age Remuneration Normal maximum 100% of remuneration Nature of Right A right to purchase a fixed number of shares at the market price on the date of grant subject to the satisfaction of conditions Performance Period Three years from the date of grant Performance requirements Growth in EPS equal to, or greater than, the growth of the Retail Price Index RPI 9.2% equivalent to 3% p. a. compound growth over the three year performance period N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 43 Remuneration Report All employee share schemes lump sum death benefit of four times Dean Moore is a member of the defined The group operates an Inland Revenue pensionable salary.
The pension is contribution scheme.
Members of this approved savings related share option calculated on a final salary basis for service scheme pay contributions at the rate of scheme for the benefit of group employees, prior to 30 June 2005 and from then on a 6% of pensionable salary.
The company provided they have completed at least career average revalued earnings basis.
contributes 6% of Dean Moores annual six months service.
Eligible employees, Provided Alan White remains in service until salary into the defined contribution scheme.
including executive directors and senior August 2010, his previous period of service executives, may be granted options over with the group from 1985 to 1999 will be Benefits in kind the companys shares at a discount of up included in full in the calculation of his Executive directors receive the following to 20% to the prevailing market price at the current pension.
Should Alan White not additional benefits: time of grant of the option, which subject remain in service until August 2010 his to certain conditions can be exercised previous service shall count towards the a car and fuel allowance: and after either three or five years.
calculation of his current pension on a pro medical insurance rata basis.
In each case the pension will be Over 500 eligible group employees subject to the above two-thirds maximum.
Directors contracts currently participate in the scheme.
In the case of early retirement the whole It is the companys policy that executive pension will be reduced for early payment directors should have contracts with an An all-employee share ownership plan in line with the fund rules and other factors indefinite term providing for a maximum now known as a share incentive plan was agreed with Alan White.
On retirement from of 12 months notice.
established and approved by shareholders the group, both Mr White and the group in July 2000.
No invitations or awards have have an option that any pension payable to The policy, on termination, is that the yet been made under this plan.
Mr White in excess of the amount payable company does not make payments beyond under the registered scheme can be paid its contractual obligations.
In addition, Pension as a single lump sum.
No part of a executive directors are expected to mitigate The group operates a number of pension directors pensionable salary includes their loss or, within existing contractual schemes for the benefit of all eligible remuneration other than basic pay.
Alan White is a member of the The committee seeks to ensure that there N Brown Group Pension Fund the fund, All members of the fund currently pay are no unjustified payments for failure.
which is an Inland Revenue registered contributions at the rate of 8% of None of the executive directors contracts defined benefit scheme.
The group has pensionable salary.
The group bears the provides for liquidated damages.
There also made an unregistered promise of cost of providing the lump sum death are no special provisions contained in any benefits in addition to those of the fund benefit and the balance of contributions of the executive directors contracts that such that overall the group provides for necessary to finance fund benefits.
provide for longer periods of notice on him, at his normal retirement age of 60, a change of control of the company.
a pension accrual rate of 1 40th of The fund is now closed to new entrants.
Further, there are no special provisions pensionable salary to give a maximum Eligible employees who would otherwise providing for additional compensation pension of 2 3 of pensionable salary at have been entitled to join the fund are on an executive directors cessation normal retirement date, including retained now able to join a new defined contribution of employment with the company.
benefits and benefits earned in the fund pension scheme.
He is also provided with a Potential payment Potential Potential on termination payment upon payment in event Name of contract company takeover of liquidation Alan White 12 months salary Nil unless terminated Nil unless terminated Dean Moore 12 months salary Nil unless terminated Nil unless terminated 44 N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Remuneration Report Non executive directors are retained on upon retirement by rotation as required The details of directors contracts are letters of appointment.
All non executive by the companys articles of association.
summarised below: appointments are for indefinite terms Termination carries no right to compensation terminable upon six months notice and other than that provided for by general law.
are subject to successful re-election Name Status Date of Unexpired Notice contract letter term period Lord Alliance of Manchester CBE non executive 16 May 2007 n a 6 months Alan White executive 10 August 2002 n a 12 months Dean Moore executive 20 December 2004 n a 12 months Nigel Alliance OBE non executive 16 May 2007 n a 6 months Ivan Fallon non executive 30 May 2007 n a 6 months Lord Stone of Blackheath non executive 30 May 2007 n a 6 months John McGuire non executive 16 May 2007 n a 6 months Non executive directors fee of 5,000 is payable for additional work Performance graph All non executive directors have performed in respect of the chairmanship The graph shows the companys 5 specific terms of engagement and of the remuneration, audit and nominations year performance, measured by total their remuneration is determined by the committee.
The Senior Non Executive shareholder return TSR, compared board within the limits set by the articles director also receives an additional fee of with the performance of the FTSE Mid-250 of association and based on independent 3,000 in recognition of the further duties Index, also measured by TSR.
The company surveys of fees paid to non executive that post entrails.
Non executive directors is a member of this index and accordingly directors of similar companies.
cannot participate in any of the companys it is felt to be the most appropriate share incentive schemes or performance comparator group for this purpose.
The basic fee paid to each non executive based plans and are not eligible to join the director in the year was within the range companys pension scheme.
A further Total Shareholder Return Performance: N Brown vs FTSE 250 400 FTSE Mid-250 Index 350 N Brown Group plc 300 250 200 150 100 50 0 Feb Feb Feb Feb Feb Feb 03 04 05 06 07 08 Financial Year Source: Datastream N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 45 Total Return rebased to 100 Remuneration Report Audited information: Directors remuneration and interests Emoluments The individual elements of directors emoluments for the year are as follows: PerformanceSalaries Taxable related 2008 2007 1 2 fees benefits bonuses total total 000 000 000 000 000 Executive salaries Alan White 519 7 466 992 853 Dean Moore 266 2 247 515 459 Non executive fees Lord Alliance of Manchester CBE 17 17 17 Nigel Alliance OBE 18 18 18 Ivan Fallon 40 40 36 Lord Stone of Blackheath 35 35 33 John McGuire 37 37 33 932 9 713 1,654 1,449 1.
Taxable benefits comprise the provision of private medical cover and life assurance cover.
Included in the performance-related bonus awards stated above are 116,476 for Alan White and 61,719 for Dean Moore which after deduction of income tax are shortly due to be transferred to the deferred annual bonus scheme referred to above.
46 N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Remuneration Report Pensions Details of directors accrued pension entitlements under the groups defined benefit schemes are as follows: Transfer Transfer value of Increase value Accrued Increase Accrued Transfer accrued in transfer of accrued pension at during pension at value of pension at value during pension at 1 2 1 2,3, 4 3 3,4, 5 3 24 Feb 2007 year 01 Mar 2008 increase 24 Feb 2007 year 1 Mar 2008 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 Alan White 157 27 190 348 1,821 845 2,666 1.
Pension entitlements shown are those that would be paid annually on retirement, based on service to the end of the year or leaving date if earlier.
Increase stated net of inflation.
Transfer values have been calculated on the basis of actuarial advice in accordance with Actuarial Guidance Note 11.
Stated after deduction of members contributions.
The change in the transfer value includes the effects of fluctuations in the transfer value due to factors beyond the control of the company and directors, such as gilt yield changes.
Members of the scheme have the option to pay additional voluntary contributions: neither the contributions nor the resulting benefits are included in the above table.
Contributions paid by the company into the groups defined contribution scheme during the year in respect of Dean Moore amounted to 14,610 2007, 13,133.
Exercise subject to achievement of minimum 3% p. a. average annual growth in the groups earnings per share over and above that of the Retail Price Index, measured over the three year period commencing with the year in which the option was granted.
The total gain made by Dean Moore on the exercise of the share options during the year was 320,400.
The market price of the companys shares at 1 March 2008 was 250.5p 2007, 334.5p and the range during the year was 205p to 350p.
Exercise is subject to performance condition geared to Total Shareholder Return.
The total gains made by Alan White and Dean Moore on the exercise of the awards during the year were 612,500 and 333,271 respectively.
48 N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Remuneration Report Interests Directors interests in shares of the company are as follows: At At 1 Mar 24 Feb 2008 2007 Ordinary Ordinary shares shares 1 1 of 11 19p each of 11 19p each Lord Alliance of Manchester CBE 86,525,232 86,525,232 Lord Alliance of Manchester CBE non beneficial 8,512,737 8,512,737 Alan White 359,772 211,742 Dean Moore 119,405 21,335 Nigel Alliance OBE 31,489,268 31,489,268 Ivan Fallon Lord Stone of Blackheath 6,333 6,333 John McGuire 9,047 9,047 Together with other employees and former employees of the group, the executive directors are potential beneficiaries of the following trusts, and as such are deemed to have a beneficial interest in the following shares of the company held by these trusts: At At 1 Mar 24 Feb 2008 2007 N Brown Group plc No.
2 Employee Share Ownership Trust 70,247 16,195 There have been no changes in the above interests of the directors between the year end and 30 April 2008.
Approval This report was approved by the board of directors on 9 May 2008 and signed on its behalf by: Ivan Fallon Chairman of the remuneration committee N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 49 Independent Auditors Report Group Accounts To the members of N Brown Group plc statements, Article 4 of the IAS regulation.
assurance that the group financial We have audited the group financial We report to you if, whether in our opinion, statements and the part of the statements of N Brown Group plc for the information given in the directors remuneration report described as having the 53 week period ended 1 March 2008, report is consistent with the group been audited are free from material which comprise the consolidated income financial statements.
misstatement, whether caused by fraud statement, the consolidated statement or other irregularity or error.
In forming In addition we report to you if, in our of recognised income and expense, our opinion we also evaluated the opinion, the company has not kept the consolidated balance sheet, the overall adequacy of the presentation proper accounting records, if we have consolidated cash flow statement, of information in the group financial not received all the information and reconciliation of operating profit to net statements and the part of the explanations we require for our audit, cash from operating activities, and the remuneration report to be audited.
or if information specified by law related notes 1 to 34.
These group regarding directors remuneration and Opinion financial statements have been prepared other transactions is not disclosed.
In our opinion: under the accounting policies set out We review whether the corporate therein.
We have also audited the information the group financial statements give a true governance statement reflects the in the directors remuneration report that and fair view, in accordance with those companys compliance with the nine is described as having been audited.
IFRSs adopted by the European Union, provisions of the 2003 Combined Code of the state of the groups affairs as at We have reported separately on the parent specified for our review by the Listing 1 March 2008 and of its profit for company financial statements of N Brown Rules of the Financial Services Authority, the 53 week period then ended: Group plc for the 53 week period ended and we report if it does not.
We are not 1 March 2008. the group financial statements and required to consider whether the boards the part of the directors remuneration This report is made solely to the companys statement on internal control covers all report required to be audited have been members, as a body, in accordance with risks and controls, or form an opinion on properly prepared in accordance with the section 235 of the Companies Act 1985. the effectiveness of the groups corporate Companies Act 1985 and, as regards Our audit work has been undertaken so governance procedures or its risk and the group financial statements, Article that we might state to the companys control procedures.
4 of the IAS regulation: and members those matters we are required We read the other information contained to state to them in an auditors report and the information given in the directors in the annual report as described in the for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent report is consistent with the group contents section and consider whether it is permitted by law, we do not accept or financial statements.
consistent with the audited group financial assume responsibility to anyone other than statements.
We consider the implications the company and the companys members Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs for our report if we become aware of any as a body, for our audit work, for this As explained in note 2 to the group apparent misstatements or material report, or for the opinions we have formed.
financial statements, the group in addition inconsistencies with the group financial to complying with its legal obligation to statements.
Our responsibilities do not Respective responsibilities of directors comply with IFRSs as adopted by the extend to any other information.
and auditors European Union, has also complied with The directors responsibilities for preparing Basis of audit opinion IFRSs as issued by the International the annual report, the directors remuneration We conducted our audit in accordance Accounting Standards Board.
In our report and the group financial statements with International Standards on Auditing opinion the group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing give a true and fair view, in accordance International Financial Reporting Standards Practices Board.
An audit includes with IFRSs, of the state of the groups IFRSs as adopted by the European Union examination, on a test basis, of evidence affairs at 1 March 2008 and of its are set out in the directors report.
relevant to the amounts and disclosures profit for the 53 week period then ended.
Our responsibility is to audit the group in the group financial statements and the financial statements and the part of the part of the remuneration report described remuneration report described as having as having been audited.
It also includes been audited in accordance with relevant an assessment of the significant estimates United Kingdom legal and regulatory and judgements made by the directors Deloitte & Touche LLP requirements and International Standards in the preparation of the group financial Chartered Accountants and Registered on Auditing UK and Ireland.
statements, and of whether the accounting Auditors policies are appropriate to the companys Manchester We report to you our opinion as to whether circumstances, consistently applied and the group financial statements give a 9 May 2008 adequately disclosed.
true and fair view and whether the group financial statements and the part of the We planned and performed our audit directors remuneration report to be so as to obtain all the information and audited have been properly prepared in explanations which we considered accordance with the Companies Act 1985 necessary in order to provide us with and, as regards to the group financial sufficient evidence to give reasonable 50 N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Consolidated Income Statement 2008 2007 For the 53 weeks ended 1 March 2008 Note m m Revenue continuing operations 3 610.9 523.8 Operating profit continuing operations 5 91.8 76.3 Investment income 7 4.2 2.7 Finance costs 8 19.8 11.3 Fair value adjustments to financial instruments 19 1.8 2.4 Profit before taxation 78.0 65.3 Taxation 9 22.2 18.5 Profit for the year from continuing operations 55.8 46.8 Profit loss for the year from discontinued operations 10 1.1 1.1 Profit attributable to equity holders of the parent 56.9 45.7 Earnings per share from continuing operations 12 Basic 20.75p 15.86p Diluted 20.67p 15.77p Earnings per share from continuing and discontinued operations Basic 21.16p 15.48p Diluted 21.08p 15.40p Consolidated Statement of Recognised Income and Expense 2008 2007 For the 53 weeks ended 1 March 2008 Note m m Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations 26 0.8 0.4 Actuarial gains on defined benefit pension schemes 7.9 8.3 Tax on items recognised directly in equity 1.0 0.5 Net income recognised directly in equity 7.7 8.2 Profit for the year 56.9 45.7 Recognised income for the year attributable to equity holders of the parent 27 64.6 53.9 N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 51 Consolidated Balance Sheet 2008 2007 As at 1 March 2008 Note m m Non-current assets Intangible assets 13 30.9 30.9 Property, plant & equipment 14 70.5 68.9 Deferred tax assets 21 7.1 11.3 108.5 111.1 Current assets Inventories 16 68.1 54.9 Trade and other receivables 17 406.2 359.2 Derivative financial instruments 19 0.1 Cash and cash equivalents 29 50.8 40.0 525.2 454.1 Total assets 633.7 565.2 Current liabilities Bank overdrafts 18 0.2 0.2 Trade and other payables 22 103.6 83.7 Derivative financial instruments 19 1.7 Dividends declared 23 79.9 Current tax liability 13.2 18.6 117.0 184.1 Net current assets 408.2 270.0 Non-current liabilities Bank loans 18 250.0 143.8 Retirement benefit obligation 33 5.8 27.7 Deferred tax liabilities 21 12.4 7.1 268.2 178.6 Total liabilities 385.2 362.7 Net assets 248.5 202.5 Equity Share capital 23 30.0 29.6 Share premium account 24 11.0 10.3 Own shares 25 0.1 Foreign currency translation reserve 26 1.2 0.4 Retained earnings 27 206.4 162.2 Total equity 248.5 202.5 The financial statements were approved by the board of directors on 9 May 2008 and signed on its behalf by: Alan White Dean Moore Directors 52 N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008
