Overview Pages 01 p 03 Chairmans Statement Operating and Financial Review Pages 04 p 35 Governance Pages 36p 56 Financial statements Pages 58 p 130 Shareholder information Pages 131p 132 During 2008 we delivered strong revenue 2009, compared to last year, and sets a and profit growth for National Express.
dividend which we see as a sustainable Total Group revenue grew nearly 6% to base for the future.
We are also focusing almost 2.8 billion.
We increased normalised on a restrained period of capital investment profit before tax by almost 10% to 194.1 and have identified opportunities to reduce million.
At the same time, we improved our working capital.
We will continue to review performance in rail, meeting all first year other opportunities to strengthen our franchise commitments for East Coast.
We saw a successful integration of the UK businesses, driving efficiencies and shared ideas.
In Spain, we saw the full benefits of the Continental Auto acquisition, whilst in Our employees North America we had a successful year for contract retention and began delivery I have been particularly impressed by the of the Business Transformation project.
way in which our employees have risen to both the opportunities and challenges of 2008 was also a year of significant the past 12 months.
They continue to show weakening in the global economy.
The fourth immense commitment and work tirelessly quarter saw a marked slowdown in growth, to deliver great service to our customers.
particularly in UK Rail and in Spain.
With the I would like to thank them for this dedication.
unprecedented disruption in bank markets, any business with higher than average debt, including National Express, has suffered a significant adverse rerating of its equity: in short, a reduced share price.
Your Board Tim Score Interim Chairman 2009 presents many challenges and the In November 2008, we were delighted to transport industry is not immune from these.
welcome Jez Maiden as Group Finance Many parts of our business are less Director, replacing Adam Walker.
Jezs sensitive to economic change, benefiting experience adds significant strength to from government-backed contracts and the management team and a clear focus concessions, and offering value-orientated on driving improvement.
public transport services used for In December 2008, David Ross resigned commuting, business and essential student as director and Chairman of the Group.
transport, as well as more discretionary I would like to thank David for his significant leisure travel.
Nevertheless, we are contribution to the business since he joined taking appropriate actions to ensure the company in 2001.
that National Express comes through I have assumed the Chairmanship of the the current recession resiliently.
Board on an interim basis.
The process to In particular, the UK rail industry faces appoint a new Chairman is well underway.
challenging conditions, given the large In June 2008, we strengthened the Board number of franchises that were agreed in with the appointment of Miranda Curtis as a very different economic climate.
These a Non Executive Director, following the franchises do not benefit from government retirement of Barry Gibson after nearly nine revenue support in the early years of the years on the Board.
I would like to thank contracts.
Whilst our East Anglia franchise Barry for his tremendous contribution already benefits from this support during his tenure on the Board.
mechanism, our East Coast franchise does not until December 2011.
We are therefore As we face the challenges of 2009, we engaged in constructive discussions with have a strong Board and management Government on a wide range of issues team in place, committed and experienced relating to managing the difficult outlook colleagues and clear actions to ensure for UK Rail.
Notwithstanding this, we have that we succeed in delivering a better, plans in place to reduce costs in order to stronger Group.
deliver a profitable rail business in 2009.
Tim Score We have also made cash management and Interim Chairman the strengthening of our balance sheet our priority.
As part of this programme, the Board is proposing to reduce the full year dividend by 40% to 22.72 pence per share, recommending a final dividend of 10 pence per share.
Although this is a difficult decision, the Board feels this is an essential part of our self help measures to reduce debt.
The proposal will save over 30 million in cash in National Express Group PLC 03 Annual Report and Accounts 2008
