Chairmans Statement The year to January 2008 was another successful year for Next, with earnings per share growth of 15.5% to a new record for the Group of 168.7p.
These are good results in a period of economic slow down and are a reflection of the efforts we have made in building and improving the Next Brand.
The Board is pleased to recommend a final dividend of 37p compared with 33.5p last year making 55p for the year, an increase of 12.2%.
The continued use of surplus capital to buy back shares has again enabled us to deliver superior growth in earnings per share, our main financial objective.
Despite recent share price volatility we remain convinced that, in the long term, growth in earnings per share will deliver growth in value to shareholders.
In the last five years we have returned over 1.3 billion to shareholders in this way.
Trading conditions in the year ahead will continue to be difficult as increased costs and rising taxes put pressure on our customers.
In these circumstances, we believe that our main strategy of investing in the Next Brand whilst improving and extending our product ranges will offer us the best protection against any downturn in the UK economy.
Our Directory business, in particular, gives us a strong and flexible base from which to grow our product offering.
We are also extending the Next Brand into new overseas markets where we believe there are opportunities to build profitable businesses.
If this is successful it will bring new sources of growth over the longer term.
Derek Netherton will step down from the Board at the AGM in May.
Derek has served on the Board for eleven years during which Next has grown its profit by over three times, dividend by over four times and earnings per share by over five times.
He has been a wise counsel to both the Board and the executive team.
We owe him many thanks for his help and advice.
During the year Steve Barber joined the Board as a non executive director and he will take over from Derek as Chairman of the Audit Committee.
We have a robust operating model and strong cash flows, which will stand us in good stead as we go through what we anticipate will be a difficult trading period.
We will continue to return cash to our shareholders through dividends and share buybacks.
However, our first priority will be to ensure that the Company protects its strong financial base.
Our strategy of concentrating on the design, quality and value of product, together with customer service and delivery, will remain the cornerstone of our success in the future.
That success cannot be secured without the commitment and hard work of our management team, all our staff and the support of our suppliers.
I would like to thank them all for the contribution they have made in achieving these results.
