NORTHUMBRIAN WATER GROUP PLC 02 ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2008 Chairmans statement The water industry demands careful long term planning and investment.
That was brought home to us this year as we celebrated the 50th anniversary of Hanningfield reservoir in Essex, the 40th for Derwent and the 25th for Kielder, our largest reservoirs in the north east.
These anniversaries were important reminders to us of previous planning and of major investment programmes designed to secure water supplies for our customers, using our knowledge, experience and the best forecasts available at the time.
There have been major changes in the world around us since the opening of Hanningfield reservoir and even Kielder.
Many of these changes our predecessors could not have predicted and many new challenges need to be faced.
current investment programmes build on their work as we deal with new standards, changing demand and the inevitable uncertainty created by external influences.
The Group continues to have a strong reputation, one that the Board believes has a significant impact on the Groups ability to raise finance, carry out its business, providing both water and waste water services, and deliver its investment programme.
During the year, the Group has successfully delivered its plans and performed well against a broad range of internal and external measures.
Our performance is in line with our targets and we are in a sound position to take the business forward, without the need to increase prices by the full amount allowed by Ofwat.
Our performance is in line with our targets and we are in a sound position to take the business forward NORTHUMBRIAN WATER GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2008 03 We aim to continue our high levels of investment while making sure water and waste water services are affordable.
We expect bills in the south to continue to be relatively low while in our northern operating area, we believe they will be the lowest in the country by 2009 10.
Every employee within the Group has contributed to these results and I would like to record my thanks to them all, for their efforts and commitment.
We will continue to support them by investing in their training and development at all levels.
Another milestone was passed this year when we submitted for planning Sir Derek Wanless, John Mowbray and partners at the regional launch of Water@work in Essex.
permission our plans to extend Abberton reservoir, near Colchester, in our southern operating area.
This marked the culmination of over a decade of extensive investigation, consultation and working with partners to identify a solution both to the commitment guided our planning as 2010-2015.
That plan will set out the pressure on existing water resources we prepared our proposed strategy, first steps towards achieving our long and also to the predicted impact of as required, for the next 25 years or term goals.
Our Strategic Direction Statements have been published as consultation Looking to the future builds on what has At Abberton, and throughout our documents, Looking to the future, already been achieved.
Our business has operating areas, the Group has a with separate versions for each of our a firm foundation.
As we go forward, our significant impact on the environment operating areas.
The two regions are priority remains long term sustainability and we are determined to continue to very different in terms of supply and and we will do all we can to achieve that improve our environmental performance demand for water, and in the services for the business, our investors, customers to safeguard the sustainability of both we offer, and it is right that we tailor and the environment.
our own resources and the environment our strategies to meet the needs of the where we and our customers live customers and stakeholders accordingly.
We have consulted widely and I am Sir Derek Wanless pleased to report that our proposals Chairman A constant feature of our work is our have been widely welcomed.
We are 3 June 2008 commitment to give our customers now in the process of refining the and stakeholders an excellent service strategy and preparing a detailed plan and good value for money.
That for the next five year price review period
