Directorsreport | Businessreview KenHarvey Chairmansstatement Chairman PennonGroupPlc  .
WaterCare is the companys new  to151.0million.
 breaking customer care programme which was 2.3million  %to875.0 launched in early 2007.
It aims to help those of2.5million,  %to most in need pay their bills by advising them , reducedproperty 242.1million.
% on how to manage better both their water use   and household budget, including claiming of2.5million  36.9p, anincreaseof19.4% allfiguresbeing all the benefits to which they are entitled.
During this last year WaterCare has delivered .
tangible benefits to around 2,000 customers  and has been commended by the Government  of13.56pwhich,  as an exemplary service offered to customers.
Thisrepresentsan The RCV of South West Water is expected Ofwat,  increaseof6.8% to grow by 36% over the current regulatory Assessment OPA,  previousyear.
 period to March 2010 the highest forecast   10by3% percentage increase of any quoted UK water , comparedwith .
After adjusting for the effect of the sixthplacein2005 06.
OfwatsFinancial  2006 capital return to shareholders, the , published , company expects its growth in RCV to outstrip inSeptember2007,  .
significantly the anticipated growth in net  borrowings over the period.
 In the year Group capital expenditure was  07.
228.8 million 2006 07 245.1 million As part of its preparation for the next and net borrowings at 31 March 2008 were Periodic Review in 2009, South West Water South West Water is implementing detailed 1,763.8 million, an increase of 206.5 million last December published its Strategic Direction plans to target outperformance of the over the year.
Gearing, being net borrowings to Statement setting out its vision for the next operating cost efficiency targets set by Ofwat shareholders funds plus net borrowings, was 25 years.
This Statement outlines the first for the period up to 2010.
Interest cover was 2.8 times steps the company proposes to take towards projects are under way to enable further 2006 07 2.9 times.
South West Waters net facing the challenges of the future, including improvements to operational and customer debt to Regulatory Capital Value RCV was climate change and new legislative service performance.
The draft Water Resources Plan todeliver efficiencies through investment in published in May 2008 affirms that, despite a infrastructure to move the organisation towards SOUTHWESTWATER forecast 12% regional population increase by a more centralised operational structure 2035 and new challenges created by climate  employing increased levels of automation and change, no new reservoirs will need to be built  remote working.
The company also has an ongoing programme of organisational in the region.
Operatingcosts, restructuring across the business.
several new water conservation proposals ,  PennonGroup focus    businessareas.
Right: Restored landfill site, Heathfield Far right: Wimbleball Lake 2 Pennon Group Annual Report and Accounts PennonGroup to manage demand efficiently and to As part of its overall strategy Viridor is is expected to continue through capitalising improve future water availability, including pursuing a number of energy from waste on its landfill asset base, maximising its further strengthening of the companys EfW opportunities.
The Lakeside joint renewable energy generation from landfill gas existing infrastructure.
venture with Grundon Waste Management and energy from waste and pursuing profitable involves capital expenditure of 160 million opportunities in line with the Governments for the construction of an EfW plant at landfill diversion and recycling targets.
VIRIDOR Colnbrook near Heathrow with a capacity In addition the Group has put in place a Viridor traded particularly strongly during the of 410,000 tonnes and up to 37MW.
long-term funding structure to enable it to year, building further on the growth achieved Construction is advanced and a profit continue to finance its activities efficiently.
Revenue was up contribution is expected in 2009 10.
Last 87.4 million 23.8% to 455.1 million, summer Viridor also achieved planning BOARDMATTERS of which acquisitions accounted for 35.0 permissions for a 60,000 tonne and 3MW There have been no changes to the Board million and existing business 52.4 million.
EfW plant in Exeter and it is pursuing other during the year.
We have continued to The total increase included landfill tax of possible long-term EfW opportunities in strengthen our corporate governance to 26.2 million.
Viridors earnings before Cardiff and Dunbar.
ensure best practice is applied throughout interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation the Group in terms of risk management and EBITDA for the year increased by 24.1% As Private Finance Initiative PFI and Public corporate responsibility in the interests of our to 58.1 million.
This increase included a Private Partnership PPP contracts are also shareholders, employees and all other key full years contribution from last years a key part of Viridors strategy, it continues groups important to the success of the Group.
Wyvern Waste and Skipaway acquisitions, to bid selectively for further integrated the positive effect of this years acquisition municipal contracts.
It was reported last EMPLOYEES of Grosvenor Waste Management and 12.2% year that the Viridor Laing consortium had of organic growth.
During the period I have been Chairman there achieved preferred bidder status on the have been many changes and developments in Greater Manchester PFI, the UKs largest Total landfill disposal volumes grew strongly the Group, throughout which employees have waste contract.
Financial close on this and were 11% higher compared with the continued to be loyal and committed and have contract is expected shortly.
Landfill gas power generation carried out their work with a high standard of continues to bid selectively for other output also increased by a further 13% with professionalism.
I thank them most sincerely contracts elsewhere in the UK.
power generation capacity now 84 Megawatt for their continuing support.
My personal MW compared with 75MW at the previous STRATEGYANDPROSPECTS thanks also go to the Executive Directors and year end.
Viridor collects nearly 90% of the Non-executive Directors for their significant The Boards priority continues to be the estimated total methane generated by its contributions during what has been another creation of shareholder value through its landfill sites and uses the majority of this successful and demanding year.
strategic focus on water and sewerage services for energy generation.
This has the double and waste management.
The further significant environmental benefit of reducing emissions profitable growth achieved in the year is of methane to the atmosphere methane is 21 testament to the Boards strategy of focusing times more harmful than CO as a greenhouse 2 on these key business areas.
gas and generating renewable energy.
Whilst consented landfill void fell from 90 The Board remains confident that South West million cubic metres to 84 million cubic metres Water will successfully deliver the current at the year end, reflecting usage, planning regulatory contract and significantly grow KENHARVEY, Chairman consents for additional void of 2.4 million its RCV up to 2010.
Viridors successful strategy PennonGroupPlc cubic metres were gained after the year end.
to create long-term sustainable profit growth 26June2008 Pennon Group Annual Report and Accounts 3
