12 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2008 Business review 13 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2008 Chairmans statement Chairmans statement 2008 was another outstanding year for Petrofac, as we again delivered record revenue and profits.
Not only are we maintaining the trend for growth, but we are now winning business and executing projects of significant scale.
Revenue grew by 36% to US$3,330 million during the year and net profits increased by 40% to US$265.0 million.
Market overview Corporate governance and corporate social responsibility 2008 was a year of extraordinary turbulence and uncertainty in the The Board has continued to focus on corporate governance issues, global economy.
Fuelled by the crisis in banking and a marked fall ensuring that our processes are comparable to those recognised in confidence, the downturn is impacting businesses in most as best practice.
We have also worked hard during the year to meet sectors worldwide.
our responsibilities to the wider stakeholder community.
The environment in our industry has, so far, remained broadly Some of the countries in which we operate are facing deep-seated positive.
Despite extreme volatility in the price of oil, which at one challenges and we are committed to being a positive force point during the year rose to US$147 per barrel before falling away wherever possible.
In practical terms, this is frequently expressed to less than US$40 in December, continuing supplies of through an increasing range of community support initiatives where reasonably-priced energy will remain fundamental to world our focus is primarily on education and training.
We believe it is economic growth for many years to come.
extremely important that we play a part in the advancement of the people and communities who interact with Petrofac.
In many Our progress locations, young people do not have the opportunity to learn and In the past year, we experienced strong demand for our services.
to contribute to the development of their countries.
From building Our Company is in a strong position financially with very little debt, schools to funding scholarships, Petrofac programmes are helping substantial cash balances and a healthy order book that continues young people fulfil their potential.
to position us very well for the future.
Our people Petrofac is developing as a public company and now has the Attracting, retaining and developing our people is both an enduring organisational capability, the leadership talent and an expanded strength and an ongoing challenge.
During the year, our numbers 1 engineering skills base to compete at the highest level.
We have rose from around 9,800 to around 11,100 as we continued to now joined an exclusive list of companies capable of participating invest in the technical skills as well as the leadership talent that will in the largest and most challenging projects in our sector maintain our market-leading position.
and executing them with a high degree of technical and commercial success.
We operate in difficult and challenging environments and I extend the Boards thanks to all of our employees who worked so tirelessly As you will read elsewhere in this Report, our three divisions throughout 2008 to execute our projects with great skill and Engineering & Construction, Operations Services and Energy intelligence and with an unyielding focus on safety at all times.
Developments have all reported significant progress.
The Board This has been achieved through our proven technical capability, This has been a year of stability for your Board.
No changes have entrepreneurial business attitude and a focus on geographic been made to its composition since the 2007 Annual General regions where there are programmes of work in place that are not Meeting held on 16 May 2008. as susceptible to factors affecting the global economic environment and the cost of production is competitive.
Driving our continued Outlook competitive advantage is a group-wide commitment to our people, There is no doubting the severity of the global recession.
I am to the environment and, crucially, to safety above all other confident, however, that our group is well placed to record good considerations.
Our year-end backlog and recent contract awards provide a sound operational and financial basis, and the Dividends prospects for the future are excellent.
The Board is recommending a final dividend of 17.90 cents per ordinary share, equivalent to 12.57 pence per ordinary share which, In order to turn those prospects into performance, we will continue if approved, will be paid on 22 May 2009 to eligible shareholders on to work closely with customers, shareholders, partners and the register at 24 April 2009.
Given the strong cash generation of suppliers.
I thank all of these stakeholders for their support in the the group, the Board has taken the decision to increase the past and look forward to sharing our success with them in 2009 percentage of earnings to be distributed by way of dividend to and beyond.
approximately 35% of full-year post-tax profits previously 30%, which will continue to be paid approximately one-third as an interim dividend and two-thirds as a final dividend.
Together with the interim dividend of 7.50 cents, equivalent to 4.09 pence, this gives a total dividend for the year of 25.40 cents per ordinary share, an increase of 55% over 2007.
Rodney Chase Chairman 1 Employee numbers include the groups share of joint venture employees.
