02 Chairmans Statement I am confident that we are building the foundations to deliver significant value.
2008 has been a year of is a strong and committed team.
After nine years of Introduction continued progress across dedicated service to the Companys Board, John Roques the business as our strategy and Cary Nolan will retire in June 2008.
Both John and takes effect.
We have demonstrated an ability to Cary have provided wise counsel, valuable guidance and grow faster than the market, increasing profits and continued support to their Board colleagues throughout delivering value to shareholders.
I would like to thank them for their significant contributions and on behalf of everyone at Premier Farnell We have delivered year on year sales growth of 5% wish them well for the future.
with an accompanyinggross margin of 39.7%.
The gross margin stability reflects changes across The implementation of the strategy, announced by Chief the business with all geographic regions experiencing Executive Harriet Green at the end of 2006 is progressing growth.
Cash generation has also been strong and, well and starting to have a very positive impact on the combined with the ongoing focus on operational business.
In light of this the Board is proposing to increase excellence, has led to an increase in operating profit the final dividend by 4%.
This is the first proposed dividend for the year of 9%, at constant exchange rates.
The strategy is delivering profitable growth through an increased focus on Electronic Design Following on from the previous years senior management Engineers EDEs globally: driving sales via the web: and changes, we have made two more key additions to our internationalising our business model.
Harriet discusses board during the period.
Dennis Millard and Paul Withers how this is increasing shareholder value in her Q&A over both joined as non-executive directors at the beginning the next few pages.
You will also see the impact of our of September.
I welcome them both to, what I believe, strategy throughout this report from the growing levels of eCommerce to the development of new geographic markets.
We are measuring our performance and communicating our progress relative to these strategic objectives and have identified eight important Key Performance Indicators.
These are highlighted on pages 8-9 and, once again, referred to throughout this document.
Similarly, our CSR report on pages 43-53 includes a number of other indicators that show progress on our environmental, community and marketplace targets.
We believe that together, these targets give a clear indication of our improved performance in responsible creation of value for our shareholders.
An innovative and accountable workplace is crucial to our future.
Our employees are the drivers behind the business as we work to deliver what our customers need.
Whether adding further product lines or helping to expand the business into Eastern Europe and Asia, it is our employees that execute flawlessly on a day by day basis.
I take this opportunity to thank them once again for their contribution to our success.
The coming year will be about building on the positive momentum that we have developed since the new strategy was implemented.
With a strong Board and a highly committed, customer focussed workforce, I am confident that we are building the foundations to deliver significant value to our shareholders.
Sir Peter Gershon Chairman Sir Peter Gershon Chairman
