Inside Arriva continued Eastern Europe Revenue In July 2008 we entered the Hungarian and Slovakian 37.9 million 2007: 7.4 million bus markets through the acquisition of 80 per cent of Hungarian-based bus group Eurobus.
Hungary Slovakia Buses Buses 120 670 Employees Employees 230 1,150 Entered bus market Entered bus market 2008 2008 Population Population Bratislava Budapest 10.1 million 5.4 million Liberalisation Liberalisation stage stage Yet to emerge Bus, mid-liberalisation Rail, yet to emerge Bus Bus The national government is responsible for regional public Competitive tendering of contracts is not yet common transport provision, whilst municipalities are responsible practice in Slovakia.
City authorities are responsible for for local public transport, and may provide this through public transport provision and funding.
In some cities, municipally-owned operators.
New contracts may only be services are operated by city-owned companies, in other awarded to an operator selected by a tendering procedure, areas services are typically provided by the local operators, however contracts signed before 2004 can remain in force SADs, through public-interest contracts, with exclusive for eight years, so there is currently little tendering.
rights of up to nine years.
Arrivas Eurobus business has a Regional services are primarily operated by the state-owned 60 per cent interest in two of these, SAD Novzmky and Volan companies.
Rail Rail The Hungarian rail market has not yet opened to Rail is operated by Slovak Railways, the state monopoly liberalisation and remains dominated by state-owned service incumbent rail company.
No rail privatisation has taken place.
The rail market is not expected to open to The future competitive tendering in the near future.
Privatisation is underway in the bus market, and will remain The future a theme in coming years.
There is potential for city transport companies to introduce In rail, regional procurement is due to be devolved to tenders to operate bus services.
regional authorities in the coming years.
The Volan companies have committed to sub-contracting some of their services.
16 | Driving on Arriva plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Eastern Europe Czech Republic Poland Buses Train sets 285 9 Employees Employees 430 75 Entered bus market Entered 2006 rail market Warsaw Prague 2007 Population 10.2 million Population 38.2 million Liberalisation stage Emerging Liberalisation stage Emerging Bus Bus Regional government controls route licensing and maximum There are increasing instances of bus tendering and fares, and individual cities are responsible for urban public sub-contracting in the larger towns and cities.
The bus transport and its funding.
There is currently little competitive market is divided between 167 publicly-owned companies tendering, and direct award of concessions is not PKS, providing rural, inter-urban and long-distance uncommon.
There are around 250 bus companies transport, and around 140 municipal bus operators in towns operating in the market, many of which are the inter-urban and cities.
CSAD companies that were formed in the 1990s as part Rail of the original privatisation process.
PKP SA, the state-owned railway company, dominates the Rail rail passenger market.
After entering the market in Regional rail routes have been transferred to local December 2007, with the start of a three-year rail franchise government and competitive tendering has recently started in the north west of the country, the Arriva-PCC joint in some regions, with the potential to expand in the mid venture is the only other company currently operating to near future.
Rail in the Czech Republic is dominated tendered passenger rail services in Poland.
by state-owned CD, which has a 99 per cent share of The future the market.
There may be opportunities to grow in bus following the The future governments announcement of its intention to privatise up There is a gradual move towards competitive bus tendering, to 11 PKS companies during 2009. particularly in cities such as Prague where the market is Regional rail provison has been devolved to the regions, growing.
We have built a position around Prague and are potentially creating further opportunities in this market.
well placed to grow as the market opens.
The government has committed to enhancing the role of the private sector in the Czech Republic rail market.
There has been some market testing of passenger concessions by regional and central government.
