02 PV Crystalox Solar PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 cHAiRMAns stAtEMEnt Maarten henDerSOn NoNExEcutivE chairmaN We will continue to evaluate strategic opportunities, SuMMary OF ChairManS StateMent i am delighted to report that 2008, our first full year as a public company, was another very good year for the group, b Another very good year for the group with growth in sales, operating profit and operating margin.
We have maintained our very strong cash position despite significant levels of investment in our Bitterfeld polysilicon b We have retained a solid position facility and our ingot and wafer production capacity.
within the FtsE 250 index group revenues totalled 274.1 million up 4.0% while underlying growth in our core silicon products business b We have strengthened rose 28.6% to 273.8 million compared against 2007. partnerships through the Our EBit excluding currency gains show a substantial signing of long-term agreements improvement of 60.7% to 106.5 million.
Earnings before taxes including the 36.3 million currency gain in the year was 147.2 million, an increase of 108.0% over 2007.
Our strong b Employed a number of personnel cash conversion rate was demonstrated by our net cash flow from operating activities of 89.0 million.
After continuing net in key positions including the capital investment of 61.0 million mainly in respect of our new appointment of Matthew Wethey polysilicon plant at Bitterfeld the group enjoyed a positive as group company secretary cash flow of 28.0 million before financing activities.
the global economic crisis during the past year has led to significant volatility in share prices generally and a sharp decline in the share prices of many PV companies.
However, the impact has been less severe on the share price of PV crystalox solar.
Accordingly we have retained a solid position within the FtsE 250 index and have also outperformed the index in the period from the time of our iPO in June 2007 until 31 December 2008. the Board recognises the importance of dividends to shareholders and has recommended a final dividend of 0.04 per share to be payable on 10 June 2009 to shareholders on the register on 15 May 2009. this is in line with our previous indications that the interim and final dividends in respect of each year will be paid in approximate proportions of 1 3 and 2 3 of the total annual dividend respectively.
the recommended final dividend represents a 60% increase on the final dividend last year.
We have long established relationships with PV companies in our major markets, Japan and germany.
Our strategic focus remains on the major module producers with 68% of our silicon product sales made to customers in the top ten global companies.
03 PV Crystalox Solar PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 our strategic focus remains on the major module producers with 68% of our silicon product sales made to customers in the top ten global companies whilst maintaining our prudent approach Furthermore we have strengthened partnerships with several We recognise that the quality of our employees is one of of these companies through the signing of long-term agreements.
the groups key attributes and on behalf of the Board i would Our fundamental strategic philosophy remains one of prudent like to record our thanks to all of them for their outstanding controlled long-term growth and we believe this philosophy commitment and contribution over the past year.
has strengthened our position in these difficult times.
We have continued to develop and strengthen our organisation We plan to drive growth through a secured silicon feedstock and have employed a number of personnel in key positions supply and to expand our production capacity at a flexible rate throughout the group including the appointment of to ensure a sustainable business.
We believe that the availability Matthew Wethey as group company secretary.
of economically priced silicon and continual incremental cost reduction in the production of silicon wafers will be imperative the current economic uncertainty means that we remain cautious to ensure the growth of the global PV market during the coming about the outlook for 2009.
While the Board recognises that 2009 years.
We continue on this path of solid controlled growth and will be a challenging year for the PV industry we remain positive have now strengthened our position by further diversifying about our medium term prospects.
We believe the PV crystalox the source of our silicon supply.
going forward we will continue solar group is well positioned for future growth with our own to evaluate strategic opportunities, whilst maintaining our internal silicon production complementing our contracted prudent approach.
polysilicon supplies and enabling us to strengthen our position as one of the PV industrys leading wafer producers.
construction of our solar grade polysilicon facility in Bitterfeld, Furthermore, the groups strong cash position, which is a direct germany has continued on schedule and within the budget of consequence of our basic strategic philosophy, will provide a 100 million, which will be partially offset by the 21 million grants significant advantage.
receivable in respect of the project.
since november 2008 all silicon production activities in Bitterfeld have been concentrated within PV crystalox solar silicon gmbH, a newly formed 100% subsidiary of PV crystalox solar Plc.
the inauguration ceremony was held on 4 February 2009 and was attended by Dr Reiner Haseloff, Maarten henDerSOn Minister for Economic Affairs and Employment of saxony-Anhalt, chairmaN the Board and numerous invited guests.
We now anticipate that 25 march 2009 polysilicon production will start in May with a projected output of 450 metric tonnes Mt in 2009 in balance with our current wafer production requirements.
in the medium term our production target for 2011 remains at 1,800Mt.
