ChAIRmANs sTATEmENT I am pleased to advise shareholders that 2008 has been another successful year for PZ Cussons with profitability being delivered on track despite the challenging economic environment and the significant increases in input costs.
The diverse geographic spread of our businesses together healthy balance sheet maintained with a small net debt with the growing number of categories in which we operate position of 32 million following The sanctuary acquisition has demonstrated that we can successfully evolve both as strong cashflow supporting an on-going capital markets develop and as economic conditions, both local and investment programme global, change.
Creation of an Operational Board to support the Plc board in the operational management of the Groups businesses It is the strength of the Groups balance sheet which enabled and to enable further growth opportunities to be pursued the acquisition of The sanctuary brand and spa whilst still Total dividend increased 10% year on year leaving us in a very strong position.
This will serve us well in the challenging global environment and still allow us the The creation of an Operational Board during the year potential to pursue further investment opportunities.
provides the senior management capability to press ahead with the significant number of opportunities that exist in highlights in the year have been as follows: our current markets.
strong trading performance across all regions, particularly in Nigeria As previously advised, mike smith retired from the board on Innovation and margin improvement programmes have 31st may 2008. mike joined the board in 2000 and more successfully countered significant ongoing increases in raw recently held the position of senior non-executive director and material costs chairman of the remuneration committee.
his advice during significant growth in our electricals and nutrition joint this time has been greatly appreciated.
ventures in Nigeria successful first year of the electrical retail superstore in Lagos On 1st January this year, I was delighted to welcome and the opening of two further stores in Nigeria simon heale to the board as a non-executive director.
simon Commencement of a 39 million investment programme to has held a number of senior management positions both upgrade the Nigerian manufacturing facilities over the next in the UK and overseas and is currently chief executive of three years China Now.
Revenues and profitability in both Australia and Indonesia ahead of last year These very encouraging results are the result of the hard Acquisition and successful integration of The sanctuary work and dedication of all our staff throughout the PZ Cussons brand and spa, acquired in January 2008 for a consideration Group.
As always I should like to thank all of them very of 75 million in cash much indeed.
1 position in the UK personal wash category extended through a successful brand renovation programme Construction of the new 26 million Innovation Centre in manchester on schedule with production now started at the new facility Anthony J Green | Chairman 02 Annual Report 2008 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Annual Report 2008 03
