QinetiQ Group plc Annual report and Accounts 2008 Chairmans statement Chairmans statement I am pleased to report on another year of strong performance, our second as a publicly listed company.
The Group has a distinctive strategy to address a robust core market, which has enabled good growth across all of our key financial metrics.
As a result of these strong results, we are continuing with our progressive dividend policy with a proposed final dividend of 2.92p per share giving a total dividend up 16% to 4.25p per share 2007: 3.65p per share, reflecting our confidence in the prospects for the Group.
Sir John Chisholm, Chairman 02 salterbaxter 8907 QinetiQ Annual report Front 4 June 2008 account manager cs designer co setting lm ProoF Five final............. proofreader final............. a c manager overview QinetiQ Group plc Annual report and Accounts 2008 Chairmans statement continued The challenges to global peace and security are as persistent now as they have ever been.
Globalisation is delivering enormous benefit to the world in terms of total GDP growth: however, the level of particular community imbalances leads to ethnic tensions, commodity shortages and population dislocation.
Advanced nations have a need and an obligation to equip themselves to defend their own populations and to participate in international action to intervene in trouble spots.
The Group has a special role to play in bringing innovation and technology-based services to assist nations discharge this mission effectively, economically and with minimum risk of casualties.
Our historic focus is in North America and the UK, but this year we have begun broadening our reach.
In all our principal markets, the demand for our services is driven by factors above and beyond the current issues in financial markets, giving the Group visible earnings, sustainable growth and strong cash generation.
This years results show that our North American region is again the fastest growing part of the Group, delivering strong organic growth, which we continue to supplement with selective acquisitions.
We are addressing a very large market within which we have carefully chosen to target specific high-end segments in defence, security and intelligence where demand is increasing rapidly.
The need is such that it is likely to prove resilient to changes in the US Administration.
Within EMEA, the UK remains the primary market that we serve and the inevitable changes in our relationships with the UK Ministry of Defence MOD have enabled the Group to reposition itself away from legacy activity and into competitively acquired roles.
The MODs budget faces tough spending challenges following the conclusion of the Comprehensive Spending Review in 2007.
We are well positioned to respond positively to these challenges through our wide range of technology services and solutions that address the valuefor-money issues that the MOD faces, as well as enhancing their use and application of technology.
During the year, we identified Australia as a country with strong and persistent needs in our field and, after careful analysis, we entered the market with three quality acquisitions.
A key focus of my activity as Chairman has been to ensure we have the strongest Board to oversee the activities of the Group.
George Tenet has provided great insight to the Board on the North American market to the extent that, given his other increasing commitments, we agreed that his time with us would be better spent through membership of our QinetiQ North America Board.
In addition, we are pleased to have recruited Admiral Edmund Giambastiani Jr who joined the Board in February 2008 as an independent Non-executive Director.
He brings with him a vast reservoir of experience from a military career that included service as the second highest-ranking military officer in the United States, serving as the Vice Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff between 2005 and 2007.
Doug Webb leaves the Group at the end of May 2008 to join the London Stock Exchange as its Chief Financial Officer.
I would like to take this opportunity to thank him for his considerable contribution to the Group through the IPO process and during QinetiQs early years as a public company.
He will be succeeded by David Mellors who will join the Board as Chief Financial Officer in August 2008 from Logica plc.
Following another successful year for QinetiQ, I would like to thank and congratulate all our people for their continued commitment, hard work and dedication to the Group, in particular our QinetiQ North America team for their success in growing our business and our EMEA employees for their diligent work in reorganising their business to further strengthen our position.
Sir John Chisholm Chairman 28 May 2008 03 salterbaxter 8907 QinetiQ Annual report Front 4 June 2008 account manager cs designer co setting lm ProoF Five final............. proofreader final............. a c manager
