2008 has been a successful 4 Reed Elsevier year for Reed Elsevier with Annual Reports and Financial Statements significant strategic and 2008 financial progress.
Chairmans Strategic and financial progress On strategy, our focus has been on the statement reshaping and strengthening of the portfolio, on streamlining the cost base Jan Hommen and on product innovation.
With the sale Chairman of Harcourt Education completed early in the year and the acquisition of ChoicePoint in September, Reed Elsevier has become a sharper, more cohesive and synergistic business.
We were clearly disappointed not to be able to sell Reed Business Information due to the difficult credit market and economic conditions, and our priority now is to manage RBI through the economic downturn whilst developing its online franchises further to be better positioned for a more favourable market environment.
The major restructuring programme we announced at the start of 2008 is progressing on plan, and is delivering cost savings and support for margin development.
Across the portfolio, we have continued to invest in new and enhanced online product offerings to make our customers more productive and Reed Elsevier a more valued partner.
In financial performance, our focus has been on margin development and capital discipline.
Good revenue growth, tight cost control and our restructuring programmes have delivered meaningful underlying margin improvement: our cash generation was strong: and our return on capital at record levels.
Adjusted earnings per share growth of 15% at constant currencies was the highest rate of growth in the last ten years.
Following the return to shareholders of the net proceeds of the Harcourt Education sale and the acquisition of ChoicePoint, we increased our debt beyond more usual levels for Reed Elsevier.
However, with the refinancing programme well advanced and our substantial free cash flow, we are in a strong financial position.
Overview Operating and financial review Our business Governance Financial statements and other information Outlook I will step down as Chairman and from 5 Going into 2009, the economic environment the Boards following the Annual General Reed Elsevier is more challenging than it has been for Meetings in April 2009.
It will not be possible Annual Reports and Financial Statements a long time.
Although the professional for me to combine the Chairmanship with 2008 markets we serve are more resilient than the CEO position of ING Group which I take most, they are not immune and businessup in April.
Chairmans to-business markets are more significantly Looking back affected.
Our strategy, however, is clear and statement During my tenure as Chairman, next to my the business well positioned, with investment continued normal duties, I have especially focused on continuing in our online product and helping management with a number of restructuring plans already demonstrating important areas: management results.
We should therefore see positive development, capital management, earnings growth at constant currencies in innovation management, portfolio 2009, even if not at the growth levels seen in management and making processes and recent years.
The longer term prospects for systems more common and standardised.
Reed Elsevier continue to be promising and I must compliment the management and we are well placed as markets recover.
the people of Reed Elsevier with the Board changes progress they have made in these areas.
Crispin Davis will hand over the reins I would like to thank my Board colleagues to Ian Smith towards the end of March.
and all those I have worked with over the Crispin has been CEO for the last nine years last four years: it has been a privilege to which have seen significant change in the work with such dedicated and talented publishing industry and the transformation people.
Although the economic environment of Reed Elsevier.
Today Reed Elsevier is is currently the most challenging many of one of the leading digital, professional us have ever encountered, it will pass and information companies in the world, and Reed Elsevier is firmly positioned for long is a market leader in most of its markets, term success for its customers, its with a strong online presence and well employees and its shareholders.
Crispin leaves an impressive record on which to build, and I would like to thank him for his exceptional contribution.
Ian Smith joined Reed Elsevier as CEOdesignate in January.
Ian is spending his Jan Hommen time getting to know Reed Elseviers Chairman businesses, employees and customers before he takes over from Crispin in March.
So far the handover has been smooth and well planned.
We have every reason to believe that Ian will provide strong leadership to the business.
