ANNUAl REPORT 2008 chAirMAns stAteMent our passion is perFormanCe revenue i am delighted to announce Revenue growth has accelerated since the half year resulting in an overall increase of record results for the financial 11% to 201.2m 2007 180.9m representing growth of 9% at constant exchange rates.
We have experienced growth across all geographical markets, in particular the Far East and Europe, and there was significant progress in our laser calibration, machine tool and encoder product lines.
proFiT Operating profit, excluding pension curtailment credits in Ireland in 2008 and in the UK in 2007, increased by 28% to 37.3m 2007 29.7m, reflecting in part 1.4m of additional profit due to favourable exchange rates.
Profit before tax, excluding pension curtailment credits, increased by 28% to 41.7m 2007 32.7m, resulting in adjusted earnings per share up 28% to 45.9p 2007 35.9p.
saLes anD markeTinG Renishaw increased its market penetration and market offering.
We continue to focus on existing markets, customers and new applications for our ever-increasing product range.
Our overseas marketing and sales network has been further strengthened during the year, particularly in the Far East, India and Brazil.
Renishaws 5-axis scanning and measuring product Renscan5 and REVO is now being widely accepted for new sales and also increasingly for the substantial retrofit market, reflecting the significant improvements available to customers on throughput and productivity.
The new laser interferometer Xl-80 and XC-80 compensator products within the laser and calibration market have also been very warmly welcomed.
neuro l inspire software packages to plan placement of Deep Brain Stimulation electrodes.
Powerful incise dental CAD software.
PAGE 08 09 MP250 high-accuracy probe for grinding machines.
manuFaCTurinG researCH anD DeveLopmenT During the year we have completed the introduction in both Research and development remains at the core of Renishaws the UK and India of our new manufacturing Enterprise Resource business and new and updated products continue to increase Planning ERP system which will give rise to improved our product range and help maintain our market position.
Total manufacturing efficiencies, from the ordering of goods from engineering expenditure including research and development suppliers to the production of finished products.
increased by 14% to 35.4m 2007 31.1m prior to the capitalisation of development costs net of amortisation of 2.8m 2007 1.6m In addition a groupwide initiative to review and implement changes giving a net profit and loss charge of 32.6m 2007 29.5m.
to inventory management policies was established.
This has resulted in group inventory being reduced by 2.0m at 17% of A number of new products have been introduced during the sales 2007 20%, despite the increase in turnover: at the same year including: time the level of finished stock has increased by 12%, maintaining Two new high-accuracy strain gauge touch trigger probes and improving our ability to respond to customer demands.
The for machine tool applications effects of this initiative should continue to be evident in the current A contact sensing probe for articulating arm measuring financial year.
In India our production facility in Pune is to be further machines enlarged, building on its success in improved quality control, cost neuro | inspire software and neuro | guide devices for reduction and increasing volumes.
neurosurgical procedures New CAD software for the design of dental crowns and bridges New interfaces for our laser scales and encoders New and improved range of angle and linear encoders New low-cost servo controller and handset for CMMs Thermally controlled module rack for scanning probes The application of Renishaw technology to markets outside traditional engineering continues to challenge and excite the Company.
The development of precision functional neurosurgery is the latest to offer significant potential in the medium-term to add to our growing interest in advancing dental technology.
Sir David McMurtry, Chairman and Chief Executive.
ANNUAl REPORT 2008 chAirMAns stAteMent: CONTINUED paTenTs empLoyees Renishaw invests heavily in the research and This year has involved a great deal of hard work and development of new products and in protecting commitment by our employees who, at the year end, intellectual property rights by way of patents and numbered 2,151 2007 2,154.
I am grateful to them proprietary processes.
As a matter of policy therefore, all for their individual contribution which has led to Renishaw takes action for alleged patent infringements this successful year.
In June 2008 we announced that I am also pleased to welcome Bill Whiteley as a new Renishaw has commenced legal proceedings in the non-executive director.
I am sure his experience at US in the Northern District of Illinois against Tesa SA Rotork plc where he was CEO during a period of and Hexagon Metrology Inc, each part of the Hexagon substantial growth will be invaluable to Renishaw.
Metrology Group of Hexagon AB, a Swedish company.
It is considered that the litigation could take several years to reach a final decision.
baLanCe sHeeT Operating cash flow more than doubled to 46.9m 2007 22.4m reflecting both improved profitability and management of working capital.
Capital expenditure was 5.3m, compared with 9.7m.
At the year end group net cash balances increased to 38.2m 2007 20.8m, providing a sound basis for future investment opportunities.
TONiC range of high-speed, highaccuracy angle and linear encoders.
PAGE 10 11 prospeCTs anD DiviDenD engineering costs capital expenditure million million 2008 was a very successful year with record results.
The Group continues to expand its international other land and buildings presence and the flow of new products entering research and development plant and vehicles the market.
These provide the platforms to maintain % of revenue progress despite the less than certain current economic environment worldwide.
We start the current year with a record order book 35 60 and, although historically this order book provides 35 60 little longer-term visibility, it is clear that many of our customers who traditionally have much longer lead-times than ourselves are still very buoyant.
Encouraged by the increasing market opportunities for the application of our technologies, we view the Companys future with confidence and optimism.
Your board proposes a final dividend of 17.63p per share, giving a total for the year of 25.39p per share 2007 22.87p, an increase of 11%.
sir David r mcmurtry 04 05 06 07 08 04 05 06 07 08 CBE, RDI, CEng, FIMechE, FREng Chairman & Chief Executive 23rd July 2008 Above and right: RMP600 high-accuracy touch probe.
