Chairmans Statement Last year we said that we were looking forward to returning to year.
Our intention remains to be free cash flow positive after the profitable growth in 2008 and I am delighted to report that we payment of dividends in 2009. fulfilled that expectation, despite facing unprecedented global Net debt at year end was 2.6bn.
The favourable foreign exchange financial and economic volatility.
rates benefit our profit lines but are detrimental to our net debt level Overall Rexam delivered a good set of results as we continued when translated into sterling, given our currency debt profile where to pursue our strategic objectives.
In common with many companies, around 80% of our net debt is in US dollars.
The level of debt also we experienced a year of two halves, where a strong start to the reflects the acquisition of Rostar, the Russian beverage can maker, year was followed by a progressively weaker second half as market which completed on 31 January 2008, as well as a number of oneconditions grew tougher.
However, given our global spread, we off working capital outflows in the second half of the year, some of benefited from favourable exchange rate movements which resulted which we expect to reverse in 2009. in the Group producing record sales and profits.
Interest cover was 3.5 times which is slightly lower than last year, The details of our performance can be found in the Business Review but Rexam remains a cash generative business.
on pages 10 to 37 but, in brief, Group sales rose to 4.6bn In June 2008, we successfully completed the refinancing of the including the benefit of recent acquisitions and foreign currency 370m sterling bond due in March 2009 with $775m of bonds exchange, an increase of 28% on 2007.
Underlying operating profit, issued in the US market.
Our next major round of financing arises in which excludes amortisation of certain acquired intangible assets, the final quarter of 2010 although we are targeting to secure renewal exceptional items and discontinued operations, increased 32% to of this funding during the first half of 2009.
In all, we currently have 466m.
At Group level, margins improved from 9.8% to 10.1%.
3.3bn of committed bond and bank facilities available to the Free cash flow generation was negative at 128m.
This is largely Group, a headroom of 0.7bn versus year end net debt.
a result of the capital investments made to secure the foundations Positioning our business of our business going forward and capture profitable growth.
The Consumer packaging is a relatively defensive industry and although investment was made mostly in our European Beverage Can business.
it is certainly not immune to downturns, Rexams position within it We have been planning for a significant reduction in 2009 capital offers a degree of resilience and performance in times of economic expenditure for some time and in light of the current economic weakness.
Our results in 2008 reflect the organisations pragmatism environment we have further reviewed our spending for the current and its resolve to act swiftly and focus on the levers which it can influence to secure the profits and cash flow of the business going forward.
Significant pricing initiatives, continued cost control, the closure of plants to ensure capacity and demand stay in balance, and the hedging of raw material costs are just some examples of where we took strong, positive and timely action.
The rapid and successful integration of the OI Plastics and Rostar acquisitions provides further evidence of the strength and skills of the leadership team.
In both cases, synergies are on track.
Exceptional costs arising in 2008, mainly from the plant closures mentioned above detailed on page 34, totalled 42m before tax.
Focusing on people In times such as these, people and organisations come under huge pressure.
Obviously we will do what is necessary to manage our cost base effectively and we have already taken a number of tough decisions with plant closures and redundancies.
However, during Peter Ellwood Chairman Rexam delivers and returns to pro table growth 4 Rexam Annual Report 2008 these times it is critical that we do all we can to manage and retain of the Beverage Can leadership team.
I would like to thank Bill for our talent pool and protect the foundations of our business so that his drive and determination in making our global Beverage Can we are positioned for profitable growth.
operation a truly world class manufacturing organisation.
He leaves the legacy of a strong team and a strong platform on which to build During 2008 we revitalised a number of our people processes as further.
We wish him well as he returns home to a new life in the we continue to strengthen the organisation and create an even more United States.
The introduction of a more integrated approach to performance and talent management is just Increasing dividends one example of the work undertaken.
After considerable thought in view of the current economic environment, the Board has recommended a final dividend of We have also reviewed and re-engineered the key components 12.3p per ordinary share, which, including the interim dividend of of our executive reward package to ensure that it supports both our 8.7p, represents an increase of 5% on last year.
Subject to approval core values and our business strategy.
The aim of the new reward by the shareholders at the AGM on 7 May 2009, the dividend will package, which we have discussed with our major shareholders, be paid on 2 July 2009 to holders of ordinary shares registered on is to recompense both business and individual performance, to 5 June 2009.
Given the economic uncertainty and the emphasis on reinforce the need to focus on key company objectives and to align prudence, any further dividend increase in the short term will be kept the management rewards with the interests of shareholders.
to approval at the Annual General Meeting AGM 2009, we are planning to adopt a new long term incentive plan arising out of the Looking ahead same review.
The key differences from the existing plan and the way This has been my first year with Rexam and it has certainly been in which the new plan forms part of Rexams overall reward package an interesting one.
I have seen at first hand the high calibre of our are explained in detail in the Remuneration Report.
leadership team and I have witnessed the enthusiasm, professionalism and dedication of our people during my visits to Rexams businesses Changing the Board around the world.
I have also met with customers and shareholders At the AGM in May 2008, Rolf Brjesson, my predecessor as to understand their thoughts about Rexam.
I am delighted to report Chairman, retired.
Rolf was the architect of the modern Rexam.
His that, overall, the feedback I received was extremely positive.
vision and determination guided Rexam to become what it is today a leading global consumer packaging company.
On behalf of the Rexam is a resilient business as proved by this set of results, but we Board and, indeed, all of Rexam, I would like to thank him for the are not immune to the global economic crisis, and trading in the work he did, first as Chief Executive and then as Chairman, and to second half of 2008 weakened as market conditions deteriorated.
offer him our very best wishes for the future.
However, the Company is flexible and able to adapt to new, more challenging circumstances without compromising our vision of being In December 2008, we announced that Mike Buzzacott would retire the worlds leading consumer packaging company.
at the AGM on 7 May 2009 after three consecutive terms on the Board.
His insight and specialist knowledge have been of great help We recognise that times are uncertain and that it is difficult to predict to the Board and particularly the Audit Committee.
I would like to how the economic downturn will affect our trading in 2009 but we thank Mike for his contribution over the last nine years and we also remain focused on generating cash and managing costs to underpin wish him every success.
His place on the Board has been taken by the progress we made in 2008.
John Langston, Finance Director of Smiths Group plc.
John will take on the role of chairman of the Audit Committee when Mike retires.
Given Johns commercial and financial experience, the Board and I are confident he will make an excellent contribution, both as a non executive director and as the Audit Committee chairman.
Peter Ellwood At the start of 2009, Bill Barker, Executive Director and Group Chairman Director Beverage Cans, left the Company following a restructuring 19 February 2009 Consumer packaging is a relatively defensive industry and although it is certainly not immune to downturns, Rexams position within it offers a degree of resilience and performance in times of economic weakness.
