04 | Ashtead Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2008 | Chairmans statement Chairmans statement Strategy and operations Ashtead aims to be a leading rental provider in the geographies in which it operates.
Our strategy is to provide a broad range of products and value added service to our customers to support their business needs.
We seek to ensure that through both the range and quality of our eet, together with the systems and support we provide in areas such as health and safety and training, we become the outsourcing partner of choice in the markets we serve.
A combination of legislation and best practice is driving our customers, the larger contractors, to focus on a range of key performance requirements that only the best managed and invested rental companies can provide.
We have invested in the people, equipment and systems necessary to ensure that our I am pleased to report that Ashtead has traded well during the businesses are at the forefront of these developments.
As a major last year, with all three divisions performing strongly.
This year player in both the UK and US, we expect to bene t from the our focus has been on organic growth in both Sunbelt and inevitable, continuing consolidation of our fragmented industry.
A-Plant and on further strengthening the operational and financial base of the Company.
Over the past 18 months we Additionally, following the good performance of Sunbelt in the have completed successfully the integration of NationsRent first full year of ownership of NationsRent, we are now positioned with Sunbelt in the US and achieved a signi cant repositioning to utilise our enlarged national footprint of pro t centres to of A-Plant in the UK.
gain greater market share in the US and to further bene t from the increasing US rental penetration, a process that is likely to Financial results and dividend accelerate given the current economic uncertainty.
Both of these initiatives have driven strong growth in total underlying pre-tax pro t which was 123m, up 51% from last Despite our progress in the past year and the excellent financial years 81m.
Underlying total Group revenue was 1,003m results, we are disappointed that our strong operational and 2007: 896m whilst the reported pro t before tax was 110m financial performance is not yet re ected in our share price relative to our peer group.
We are fully cognisant of concerns 2007: loss of 43m after signi cant one-time costs associated regarding a downturn in the US construction market in particular.
with, principally, the NationsRent acquisition.
Our underlying However, we have, as yet, seen little evidence of this in our own earnings per share grew 44% to 14.8p 2007: 10.3p.
Nonetheless we practice prudent operational and continuing basis excluding Ashtead Technology underlying financial management, as well as having a exible business earnings per share grew 40% to 13.4p.
model that is highly adaptable to market conditions.
As announced in December, the Board also reviewed the level We are also a very different business now to the one that was of the dividend during the year.
As a result, the payout has been impacted by the last US economic downturn in 2001 that went rebased to take account of the Groups improved pro tability.
on to affect the construction industry in the 2002 to 2004 Accordingly, following a 50% increase in the interim dividend period.
We have a very different financial structure, a different to 0.825p per share, the Board is recommending a further strategy and different management.
I sincerely hope that over substantial increase in the final dividend to 1.675p per share, the coming year, the institutional investment community will making 2.5p for the year, up 52% on last years total of 1.65p recognise that to a greater degree.
On the current issued share capital, the dividend is covered 5.6 times by earnings from continuing operations.
Over the last year we have focused in particular on ensuring that Following this rebasing, the Boards objective is to increase the we have a signi cantly stronger platform from which to either dividend progressively over time, considering both the underlying bene t from further growth or withstand any economic performance of the Group and the ongoing cash ow of the downturn.
For example, having invested heavily in recent years to business.
If approved at the forthcoming Annual General fide-age and renew our rental eets in both the US and UK, we are Meeting, the final dividend will be paid on 26 September to now entering a cash generative phase during which we intend to shareholders on the register on 5 September 2008. use our free cash ow primarily to lower outstanding debt.
This will, of course, help us maintain exibility in our capital structure.
Ashtead Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2008 | Chairmans statement | 05 Total underlying pre-tax pro ts Total Group revenue Earnings per share 123m 1,003m 14.8p 51% 12% 44% Group structure and balance sheet strength give back to the communities in which we do business.
As was During the year we completed a strategic review of Ashtead our stated intention last year, we have made good progress this Technology and, as a result, decided to divest it as it was year in formalising and developing our environment, health and non-core.
Ashtead Technology has leading positions in safety initiatives and the Corporate Responsibility Report specialised markets but these markets are unrelated to those of included later in this Report and Accounts provides expanded our two core businesses, Sunbelt and A-Plant.
The Technology reporting on corporate responsibility issues.
business was also small compared to the core operations and was not a major contributor to the Groups pro tability.
Following an Our people extensive auction process, Ashtead Technology has been sold to The Board and management of Ashtead owe a huge debt of Phoenix Equity Partners Limited for 96m.
We believe the price thanks to our employees, without whom Ashtead would simply achieved re ects good value for Ashtead and the proceeds will be not be the company it is today.
We are extremely fortunate applied to reduce outstanding debt.
I would like to thank the staff to bene t from a highly skilled, dedicated and enthusiastic Geoff Drabble of Ashtead Technology for their contribution to Ashtead over the workforce which strives on a daily basis to deliver the highest Chief Executive years and wish them all the best under new ownership.
standards of service to our customers.
Excellent client care is a rmly embedded element of the Ashtead culture.
In addition to the increased dividend outlined above, now that the NationsRent integration is complete and debt leverage has I would also like to thank our investors who have remained with us been reduced to the midpoint of our target range with further during a dif cult share price performance this year.
I hope we will reductions expected, the Board also decided that it was demonstrate in this report that your support is well founded and appropriate to make an additional equity return in the form of an that you will continue to share our con dence in Ashteads future.
Accordingly the Companys brokers, UBS and Hoare Govett, have been making selective purchases Current trading and outlook in the market of the Companys issued share capital up to 10% Current trading is in line with our expectations with both Sunbelt of the outstanding capital.
To 20 June 2008, we have purchased and A-Plant delivering improved year on year performance in May.
7.5% of the Companys capital at a cost of 30m.
The Annual General Meeting notice will seek shareholders approval for a We continue to enjoy high levels of utilisation and expect to renewed buy-back authority over up to a further 10% of the bene t further from the momentum established in the Group.
authorised share capital in the forthcoming year which the Board, Therefore, despite the current economic uncertainty, the Board however, intends to use only selectively, depending on the anticipates the Group continuing to trade in line with its development of the share price and having regard to its overall expectations in the coming year.
objective of managing the capital structure conservatively.
With the Technology disposal, and having regard to our anticipated strong cash ow, by 30 April 2009 we are targeting net debt at constant exchange rates of 785m 2008: 963m and to be at the lower end of our 2 to 3 times net debt to EBITDA range.
Chris Cole 23 June 2008 Corporate governance The Board continues to be committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance at Ashtead and to continuing to ensure that Ashtead acts responsibly in all areas of its business as well as ful lling its obligations as a good corporate citizen.
We take our social, ethical and environmental commitments very seriously, to ensure the safety of both our employees and our customers, limit the impact we have on the environment, and From beginning to end, we provide the tools and support to achieve success
