Chairmans statement No one in the basic resources industry will BHP Billitons approach forget 2008 quickly.
It was a year of two You will recall in November 2007 Rio Tinto parts starting with a continuation of strong received an unsolicited approach from BHP demand and prices but finishing with a Billiton proposing a combination of the two dramatic slide in prices driven by the companies.
This was followed in February collapse in global economic conditions.
2008 by a pre-conditional takeover offer Our long standing strategy of investing which BHP Billiton finally withdrew in in large, long life, low cost mining and November 2008, citing deterioration of near processing assets remains our core strength term global economic conditions.
in the current downturn of the world During the term of the offer, our board economy.
Despite market declines, this monitored the situation closely and nothing uncomplicated approach will continue to changed our view that the BHP Billiton bid deliver long term shareholder value and significantly undervalued our assets and ensure we are well positioned to take future prospects.
The board also believes advantage of our top quality assets when the the great majority of synergies that would recovery comes.
have resulted would have come from the We remain convinced that the addition Rio Tinto assets, and Rio Tinto shareholders of the Alcan assets to our portfolio, and their would not have been adequately rewarded.
integration into Rio Tinto will be a source of Those synergies would, in any event, have long term value creation.
We are ahead of been highly dependent on any remedies target to deliver US$1.1 billion after tax in required by competition regulators and on synergies from the end of 2010. delivery risk.
We made net capital expenditures We remain a very strong standalone totalling US$8.5 billion in 2008.
We will now company and have a world class portfolio of limit capital expenditures for 2009 to around assets which, even in tough markets, are US$4 billion, to reflect falling demand, while highly cash generative.
We retain the goal of returning our balance sheet to a Proposed transaction with Chinalco single A credit rating and will reduce net debt On 12 February 2009 we announced the by US$10 billion in 2009.
In the meantime intention to form a major strategic our cash flows are able to repay the existing partnership with Chinalco, a leading Chinese level of debt.
diversified resources company, that the board We are focused on the future to ensure unanimously recommends to shareholders.
we are best positioned for the upturn when Chinalcos cash investment of US$19.5 billion it comes.
In 2008 we put important building will strengthen our balance sheet on terms blocks in place with major development that add value to the Group and increase our projects, testing technology for automated flexibility to grow as markets recover.
It will mines, renewing our organisational strengthen Rio Tintos position in the industry structure to maximise the benefits of during a period in which Chinas importance standardised and shared management in the global economy is growing rapidly.
approaches, and introducing our progressive More detail on the proposal is set out on new Rio Tinto brand identity.
Despite a sharp reversal Results and dividends Value creation strategy in prices, the strong The Groups underlying earnings in 2008 Rio Tinto has, for decades, followed a were US$10,303 million, 38 per cent above consistent and successful strategy with the medium to long run 2007.
Net earnings were US$3,676 million goal of maximising shareholder value outlook for commodity compared with US$7,312 million in 2007 through excellence in mining, the operation reflecting impairment charges resulting from of large scale, long life, low cost assets, and markets has not recent significant weakening in economic an emphasis on quality.
We draw strength fundamentally changed and market circumstances, principally from our product diversity and broad relating to goodwill on the Alcan acquisition.
This includes a charge of US$8.4 billion The strategy focuses on the upstream At the end of 2008 many metals and related to impairments, partly offset by gains activities of metals and minerals production minerals prices remained well above the of US$1.5 billion from asset divestments.
- particularly mining and, as in Rio Tinto historical trend.
Cash flow from operations increased 64 per Alcan, on advantaged primary processing.
The total Through a rigorous and risk aware Subdued conditions are expected in dividends declared for 2008 of 136 US cents investment appraisal process, we seek early 2009. per share maintained the level of the 2007 opportunities that will create value at all dividend.
The Groups objective remains to points of the economic cycle, investing in Chinese investment is expected to start maximise its value and increase the dollar expansions in line with market demand.
gaining strength in the second half of 2009. value of ordinary dividends over time.
Rio Tinto has always preferred value to growth.
Quality assets will perform better in Marginal producers are expected to tough times.
Our strategic priorities today curtail supply.
10 Rio Tinto 2008 Annual report Overview are to adjust the speed of our expansion and promises to communities, governments, major share of total global demand.
Just as development activities in line with market employees and shareholders.
We strive for a China decelerated sharply, with a strong developments.
Accordingly, a number of zero harm environment and all of us on the impact on metals demand, it will also work business units have been reviewing and board regret very much the tragic loss of life powerfully in the upswing.
that occurred at our operations in 2008.
We believe the fundamentals of the Another priority is our programme of We know we can always do better, but it Chinese market, and other fast growing disposal of non core assets which will lower is very encouraging to note the broad markets like India, remain intact and the our debt level and create the opportunity to endorsement we have received from many in industrys long term prospects remain focus our business on world class, market the global conservation community for our positive.
While activity is likely to be leading positions.
In 2008 we realised approach to managing biodiversity, the awards relatively muted in the first half of this year, US$2.6 billion from disposals and the our businesses receive for work to combat Chinese investment is expected to start divestment programme has continued HIV-AIDS, our renewed focus on tackling the gaining strength in the second half of 2009 in 2009. causes of climate change with a revamped with the support of substantial domestic energy and climate strategy team, and the savings and a shift in government policy Board and governance efforts we are making to prepare nationals towards promoting growth objectives Good governance is the foundation of an for careers in the mining industry ahead of including expansion of transport ethical approach to business.
The board our projects in Mongolia and Guinea.
While continued their focus on promoting the high Rio Tinto was again identified as a government spending will support Chinese standards of conduct we expect of our sustainable development leader during the GDP growth, it is expected nevertheless to employees around the world, recognising year by retaining its listing on the Dow Jones slow further in 2009. that actions speak louder than words.
In Sustainability Index DJSI World Index and 2008 we renewed our commitment to our the FTSE4Good, as well as again attaining Our people values with a revised version of our platinum status on the Business in the We have a high performing organisation and statement of principles and standards of Community Corporate Responsibility Index.
I regret that deteriorating business conditions conduct, The way we work.
The Group was also added to the DJSI STOXX have caused us to slow our development The boardwas pleased to welcome Jan du Index.
programme and reduce the size of our Plessis as a non executive director from Rio Tinto became a signatory to the UN workforce.
In 2008 we conducted a global 1 September 2008 and he will be standing for Global Compact in 2000 and we were one of employee engagement survey to give our election at the 2009 Annual general meetings.
We also remain an people an opportunity to have their say about He is currently chairman of British American active member of the World Business working for Rio Tinto.
It gave us clear insights Tobacco plc as well as a non executive Council for Sustainable Development and into what we need to do to enhance business director of Lloyds Banking Group plc and the International Council on Mining and performance.
Marks and Spencer Group plc.
His Metals, whose members are committed to The Group benefits enormously from the appointment brings additional financial superior business practices in sustainable strong commitment of the Rio Tinto team expertise to the board and a broad experience development.
I thank them for their of major global businesses, particularly in unfailing efforts in 2008 during a period of Africa.
Jan has also joined the Audit committee.
Outlook quite extraordinary and challenging corporate As was announced on 14 January 2009, I We have recently seen an unprecedented activity.
In spite of many distractions, notified the board of my preference to retire rate of decline in our markets, but our strong management and employees have stayed at the conclusion of the annual general long term outlook for commodity markets focused on safety, maintaining deliveries to meeting in Australia on 20 April 2009.
After has not fundamentally changed.
At the end customers and conducting our business in a the termination of the BHP Billiton preof 2008 prices remained above the historical socially reponsible way.
The board is highly conditional offer for the Group, and the trend, despite the downturn.
appreciative of these efforts which, during my identification of a successor which started in Although the current slowdown has period as chairman, I have found late 2008, I felt this was the right time to step been much more dramatic than anticipated, inspirational.
down after five and a half years as chairman.
we expect Chinas long term growth to Jim Leng was appointed chairman designate continue as a major driver of commodities in January 2009.
China has been temporarily hit by from the board in February, and I have agreed the combined effect of the Western world to the boards request to remain as chairman slowdown and a correction in its housing until a successor is appointed.
market, partly a function of the tightening of Dick Evans, who joined the board monetary policy introduced in 2007 to damp Paul Skinner Chairman following the acquisition of Alcan, will be down rising inflationary pressures.
stepping down and I thank him for the When global economic activity recovers contribution he has made to Rio Tinto.
we could see metals and minerals demand pick up rapidly, driven by the requirement to Sustainable development rebuild stocks, at a time when supply is A commitment to sustainable development constrained by the cutbacks that occurred remains central to our strategy.
Our during the downturn and by the challenges operations have long time horizons and of delivering new supply, often from new involve the investment of large amounts of sources.
China particularly may surprise the fixed capital.
We need careful management of market.
It is the rate of deceleration and social, environmental and economic issues acceleration of the Chinese economy which with strong governance to deliver on our drives metal demand and prices, given its Rio Tinto 2008 Annual report 11
