Business review continued 02 Chairmans statement Simon Robertson I am very pleased to report that in dicult market conditions, Rolls-Royce has again performed well in 2008.
We delivered a strong underlying profit and cash performance and our order book increased from 45.9 billion in 2007 to 55.5 billion in 2008.
We are proposing a final payment to shareholders of 8.58p per share making 14.30p for the full year, an increase of ten per cent, reecting the Boards continuing confidence in the Groups business.
The adverse economic outlook inevitably We attach particular importance to our creates huge challenges for all businesses and businesses being run in a way which reects it is clear that Rolls-Royce will also be impacted.
That is why we It is dicult to determine the precise scale of decided last year to establish a new Board the impact on the Group until the severity committee, the Ethics Committee, under the of the current downturn is clearer.
However, chairmanship of Ian Strachan, to bring a better Rolls-Royce does enter this testing period with focus to this issue across the Group.
We have There have been a number of changes pursued a consistent strategy, which has to the Board during the year.
We have created a business that is well diversied in welcomed John McAdam and John Neill as terms of its products, customers and geography.
new non-executive directors, both of whom We also have a strong balance sheet with will bring valuable experience to the Board.
Early action was taken to reduce Helen Alexander has been appointed as operating costs and to put our pension schemes Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
We are therefore Carl Symon has retired from the Board during better prepared to deal with the uncertainties the year after nine yearsservice and I would which undoubtedly lie ahead.
like to thank him for his valuable contribution The Board is committed to improving the to the Group.
Sadly, Boris Federov, a valued environmental performance of our products member of our International Advisory Board, through continuous innovation and the died suddenly during the year.
For example, I would like to congratulate John Rose who since the first commercial jet engines were was recently made a Commandeur fide la produced our engineering expertise has helped Lgion dhonneur.
reduce aircraft fuel burn by 70 per cent and noise by 75 per cent.
We are also committed I would also like to thank the management and to reducing the carbon footprint of our all our employees for their dedication, hard work operations.
We have invested in new facilities and commitment to the success of the Group and implemented energy eciency measures over what has been a very demanding year.
that have delivered a reduction in greenhouse I am also indebted to my fellow directors for gas emissions of some 30 per cent over the support they have given to me personally the last decade.
We are actively developing and to the Group over this period.
opportunities in civil nuclear power and 2009 will clearly be a very dicult year for the other low carbon technologies.
world economy but I strongly believe that our The Board is determined to achieve and business is particularly well placed to respond maintain best practice in all areas of corporate to these challenges and to take advantage of responsibility, including all aspects of health the opportunities that will undoubtedly arise.
Unfortunately over the past two years we have Simon Robertson had to announce some redundancies.
The Board Chairman does not make such decisions lightly, as we take February 11, 2009 our responsibilities to our people very seriously.
However, in order to reduce our operating costs in response to the global economic upheavals, the Board felt these were decisions it had to take.
Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Rolls-Royce Group plc | Annual report 2008 Simon Robertson Chairman The Group performed well in dicult market conditions The Group delivered a strong underlying profit and cash performance, and our order book increased by 21 per cent.
The business is well diversied and we have a strong balance sheet with no net debt.
