CHAIRMANS STATEMENT I am pleased to report another year of strong growth for the Group during a period of significant volatility in markets generally.
Although the progressive strengthening of the US dollar and euro throughout the year has aided performance, nonetheless both revenues and profits advanced substantially in real terms across the Group.
The year closed with a record order book and measured optimism across all divisional businesses.
The appointment of Peter France as Chief Executive saw a review of all our business activities, resulting in changes to our operating structure and to the way we target specic geographical regions to further increase our product and market reach.
Whilst important to our continued growth, these changes are not intended to be fundamentally revolutionary and we therefore refer to this approach as accelerated evolution.
The benets of these actions are already beginning to be felt progressively throughout the whole Group.
FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS Total sales increased by 35.9% on 2007 ROGER LOCKWOOD, CHAIRMAN to 320.2m and profit before tax before amortisation of intangible assets arising on acquisitions was up 34.1% to 76.9m.
At WE WILL CONTINUE TO INCREASE SHAREHOLDER 162.0m the closing order book increased VALUE BY OUR LEADERSHIP POSITION IN by 66% year on year.
Due to the nature of WORLDWIDE VALVE ACTUATOR ACTIVITIES our business and the point in the demand cycle when business is placed with Rotork, it is unusual for orders to be cancelled and we have experienced virtually no instances of this during the year.
TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN REBASED 350 309 300 259 250 261 200 200 150 120 100 JAN 04 DEC 04 DEC 05 DEC 06 DEC 07 DEC 08 ROTORK p. l. c. FTSE INDUSTRIAL ENGINEERING SECTOR FOR MORE DETAILED INFORMATION SEE REMUNERATION REPORT ON PAGE 41 ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2008 10 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Notwithstanding its positive inuence on CASH OUTLOOK Cash generation in the year has been Rotork started 2009 with an order book the business in 2008, the impact of currency extends beyond the conversion of reported strong, resulting in year end net cash at record levels and a strong balance sheet.
During the We continue to invest in our future and gures in that it increases our competitive edge in markets where previously sterlings year we spent a total of 14.0m on the RC have identied a number of growth acquisition and the intangible asset relating opportunities as part of our business strength has been a constraining factor.
to the Drallim SVM product.
DIVISIONAL HIGHLIGHTS 10m was paid as an additional dividend Rotork is not immune to wider economic Rotork Controls is the market leader in to shareholders in July.
electric valve actuation and is our largest trends and we may see some slowing in the The strong order intake in 2008 has growth of order intake.
However, quotation divisional business accounting for 63.9% of Group turnover.
In 2008, sales revenue required working capital increases in some activity and project visibility for mediumareas to support the year end order book and long-term projects are up on levels advanced by 24.5% to 204.5m and operating profit increased by 32.0% to and the increase in inventory reects this.
As a result, the conversion of profit into 57.5m.
Demand for our products In addition, the Groups trading results remained strong and with growth spread cash has been partially suppressed as the would be expected to benefit from a Group prepares for what will be strong across all sectors and geographical areas continued weakness of sterling against we continue to reinforce our position as shipments in the first quarter of 2009. the US dollar and the euro.
DIVIDEND Taken together, these factors underpin The Board is recommending an increase Rotork Fluid Systems RFS continued its our confidence in making progress expansion, delivering an impressive 84.8% of 19.6% for the 2008 final dividend.
This during 2009. equates to a payment of 16.75p per share increase in sales and 68.6% in operating profit to new highs of 88.6m and 12.1m payable on 8 May to shareholders on the register at 14 April 2009. respectively.
We have won a number of prestigious projects in the year and are now BOARD PERFORMANCE well established in this market.
We have One of my principal responsibilities is to grown our market share substantially over ensure Rotork is headed by an effective the last few years and have brought Board accountable to shareholders for the innovation and technology to a relatively Companys performance.
To this end the conservative market and product line.
ROGER LOCKWOOD Board continues, annually, to evaluate its CHAIRMAN performance and that of its Committees The acquisition of Remote Control Sweden 2 MARCH 2009 RC in January was an important step through a structured process the results of which are then reviewed and, where for the division and has been well received by our customers.
It provides access to appropriate, acted upon.
market areas that we can develop with PERFORMANCE AND RISK these products as well as with the wider Our approach to performance RFS portfolio.
measurement and the assessment and Rotork Gears maintained its consistent mitigation of risk is dealt with on page 24 and in the Corporate Responsibility section growth trend with year on year sales up 15.3% to 36.8m and with an operating of this Annual Report.
There we explain how we ensure that we have correct profit of 8.6m being 18.8% ahead of 2007.
We are the largest manufacturer in health & safety and environmental policies, a robust system for dealing our eld and the market leader in terms of size and product range.
with the assessment and management of risk through the organisation, and appropriate KPIs to ensure focus on those performance issues that are really relevant to the business.
We take great care to ensure that we deal with these matters responsibly and our reformatted disclosure is intended to bring increased clarity to the underlying issues.
