Chairmans statement The fact that weve been able to deliver such a good performance is testament to the strength of our brands and the groups operational capability.
Market overview in the price of barley and hops.
At the There has been increasing uncertainty same time, rising oil prices have put up over the last 12 months about the the cost of transport, glass and aluminium.
health of the global economy and this Despite higher input costs, weve been has translated into substantial falls in able to maintain our group margin this year financial markets.
Against this background, at 17.4%, which is quite an achievement SABMillers share price has outperformed as the Chief Financial Officer explains in the FTSE100 by 9.4% and our position in his review.
the ranking of the top 100 companies by Given the medium-term growth momentum market capitalisation has improved one in our business we continue to make place to stand at number 25, as calculated substantial investments.
In recent months on 31 March 2008. weve been upgrading our breweries, We have benefited from our bias towards building new facilities in countries such as developing markets where we have well Colombia, Russia and China and investing established and advantageous positions.
in sales and distribution in the form of new We are number one in China, through our bottles and fridges.
As a result, our overall Meyer Kahn, Chairman associate CR Snow, and in the Andean investment has almost doubled from just region of Latin America, and the second over US$1.2 billion to US$2.0 billion over Dear Shareholder: biggest brewer in India.
We supply six the past 12 months and will remain high This strong out-turn to the year is out of every ten beers drunk in Africa, in the current year.
particularly pleasing given the scale of if you include our Castel Alliance.
Growth the challenge we faced at its outset, Also essential to our future growth in our key markets still outstrips the global with exceptional prior-year comparatives, is our ability to address the social and average and is predicted to remain strong rising input costs and an increasingly environmental issues that affect the health over the medium term.
competitive environment in many of our and prosperity of the communities in which markets.
It is a clear testament to the The question is how well the developing we operate.
As we describe more fully on strength of our brands and the groups world will survive the slowdown in the page 30, were guided in this respect by operational capability that we have been global economy.
In most of these markets, 10 social and environmental priorities.
Two able to deliver such a good performance.
the economic fundamentals are sounder years on from introducing these priorities, than those in developed markets.
were at the point where every SABMiller In the event, total beverage volumes Commentators generally believe that business has either reached the minimum grew 6% to 288 million hectolitres Asia will remain economically dynamic.
level of compliance with all ten or has a and earnings before interest, tax and Africas ability to continue growing is less plan to do so.
amortisation EBITA increased by 15% predictable, but its strong momentum, to US$4.1 billion, translating into profit Operational highlights falling debt levels and improving balances before tax of US$3.3 billion.
This reflects In October 2007, we announced our of trade suggest that the continents the benefits of price increases, higher sales intention to combine Miller with the US economies will prove resilient.
Despite of premium brands, gains in productivity and Puerto Rico operations of another high interest rates in the short term in and the strength of a number of currencies.
great US brewing company, Coors.
countries such as Colombia, we also Adjusted earnings per share benefited The proposed joint venture will create see robust economic growth continuing also from a lower tax rate, growing 19% a stronger, brand-led US brewer with in Latin America.
the scale, resources and distribution One effect of the recent rapid growth capabilities to operate more effectively In the light of this strong performance, the in developing markets is that national in the increasingly competitive US board has recommended a final dividend infrastructures have sometimes failed marketplace.
We hope to complete of 42 US cents per share, bringing the total to keep pace witness the recent power the transaction in mid-2008.
for the year to 58 US cents per share shortages in South Africa.
A period of an increase of 16%.
The other main highlight of the year slower growth will allow infrastructure was our acquisition of the Dutch company, Net cash generated from our operations, investment to catch up, as is now Royal Grolsch N. V. With its rich northern at US$4.3 billion, was 6% above the prior happening in South Africa where business European heritage, the Grolsch brand is year.
Our gearing increased, as expected, and government are working together not only a powerful addition to SABMillers to 49.7%, mainly as a result of higher to address the issues.
portfolio but also we hope it will open borrowings to fund acquisitions and Although rising demand for commodities new doors in premium markets around the substantial US$2.0 billion capital has helped to create strong demand the world.
for our beers in commodity-producing In Latin America we continued our countries, the same trend has added to programme of investment and raising our costs as a brewer with sharp increases the perception of the beer category.
4 Chairmans statement SABMiller plc Annual Report 2008 Overview Operating and financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information During the year both Andr Parker, Share price1 April 2003 to 31 March 2008 Managing Director of SABMiller Africa sterling and Asia, and Norman Adami, President and CEO of SABMiller Americas, retired.
15.00 As long serving executives they have 12.00 both made significant and enduring contributions to the business and will SABMiller 9.00 be greatly missed.
The group has been fortunate in having a number of long- 6.00 serving executives who have shown their dedication and commitment to 3.00 International brewers index the company over many decades.
In this regard I congratulate the Chief Executive, 03 04 05 06 07 08 Graham Mackay, on completing 30 years service, 11 years leading the company, Source: Thomson Datastream and wish him continued success.
I am grateful to all my board colleagues for While the full benefits are yet to be However, reported EBITA declined by their guidance and advice not to mention realised, progress has been in line with 7%, reflecting lower premium volumes their invaluable contribution in upholding our expectations with lager volumes up and significant cost increases in brewing the highest standards of corporate 5% against an exceptional prior-year materials and distribution, and a weakening governance.
The recent board changes performance, and EBITA rising 17%.
will enhance the balance of independence Europe delivered another excellent result Board and executive on the board, while continuing the process with organic lager volume growth of 8% It is now nine years since the company of progressive renewal.
Volumes listed on the London Stock Exchange.
Finally, I would like to welcome to the were particularly strong in Poland, Romania We have been fortunate to retain the SABMiller family our new colleagues from and Russia while stronger pricing and services of several distinguished nonGrolsch and to thank all our executives, improved productivity more than offset executive directors for the whole of that managers and staff who have worked higher input costs.
period, benefiting considerably from their extremely hard to produce the current insight and experience.
The board does In North America, Miller Brewing set of results.
I am also indebted to our not consider it to be in the interests of the Company made good progress in many business partners and to you, company to require all four of the directors reshaping its portfolio to address higherour shareholders, for your support.
who have served for nine years to retire margin, higher-growth segments of the at the same time, favouring continuity Outlook market while also achieving price gains and stability through orderly succession.
This has been another year of strong and a segment-leading 1.1% growth in Accordingly, we have announced, at growth for the group.
In the current year, sales for its flagship brand, Miller Lite.
his own request, the retirement of Robin volume growth in the first half will be Reported EBITA grew by 27%, mainly Renwick and the appointment of two affected by high comparative growth as a result of strong pricing, higher new independent directors.
rates, and pressure on input costs will volumes and productivity and a continue to increase although pricing one-off reduction in canning costs.
Robin Renwick has made a unique and and mix benefits are again expected to important contribution to your companys The strong growth in Africa and Asia compensate for these cost increases.
He continued with lager volumes growing The economic outlook across our global has been a diligent and committed director, organically by 15%.
Our African operations footprint, which is biased towards growth chairing almost all the board committees benefited from robust economic conditions markets in developing countries, remains at various times during his tenure.
I thank and a major investment programme is positive, and we will continue to benefit him most warmly for his efforts.
under way to meet growing demand.
from the strength of our brands, In China, the Snow brand enjoyed Our two new directors joined the board operational capability and investment exceptional growth of 63%, cementing on 15 May.
Rob Pieterse is Chairman of the for growth.
its position among the top three beer supervisory boards of Mercurius Groep B. V. brands in the world.
EBITA for the region and Royal Grolsch N. V. and was formerly increased by 22% to US$568 million.
Chairman of Wolters Kluwer N. V. Maria Meyer Kahn Ramos is Group Chief Executive of South Chairman Finally, in South Africa, SAB Ltd posted Africas largest transport, infrastructure a satisfactory result, maintaining sales and logistics firm, Transnet Limited, having volumes despite losing a major premium previously been Director-General of the beer brand before the start of the year.
Chairmans statement 5 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2008
