02 Our large and international customer base, the exibilityof our business model and our consistently strong cash ows position us favourablyto manage the current market conditions.
To see Tonys biography please go to page 44 Total dividend The UKand North America recorded respectable growth, and ourbusinesses 7.21p in Mainland Europe and Rest of World reported another yearofstrong growth.
3% pence 2008 7.21 2007 7.00 2006 3.59 2005 2.88 2004 2.33 0.000 1.442 2.884 4.326 5.768 7.210 03 DearShareholder As a result, we are increasing the full year dividend by This has been a challenging year with volatile and difficult 3% to 7.21p per share 2007: 7.00p per share, with a market conditions.
After a resilient performance in the first proposed final dividend of 4.78p per share 2007: 5.73p half of the year, the Group saw softening customer per share, following the rebasing of our dividend policy demand in the second half, most notably in software which was reflected in our final dividend in the second and software-related services.
Despite these market conditions, the Group reported a Management changes solid performance for the year.
The UK and North America David Clayton joined the Board on 1 October 2007 as recorded respectable growth, and our businesses in Group Strategy and Mergers and Acquisitions Director.
Mainland Europe and Rest of World reported another On 1 November 2007, Ian Mason, Chief Executive of year of strong growth.
Electrocomponents plc, joined the Board as a nonSubscription revenues, including combined software executive director.
Mark Rolfe, formerly Finance Director of Gallaher Group plc, joined the Board on 1 December 2007 support contracts, performed strongly in all our markets, driving growth in established markets such as the UK, and became chair of the Audit Committee on 1 April 2008.
France, South Africa and Australia, as well as in our newer We were also very pleased to welcome Sue Swenson to markets of Poland, Spain, China and Malaysia.
Software the Group as CEO, North America.
Sue joined us in March and software-related services reported modest growth, 2008 and brings a formidable record of achievements to affected by both the macro-economic conditions and the our North American business.
trend for customers increasingly to purchase combined software support contracts.
People We now employ over 14,500 people 2007: 13,900, Financial strength and our employees are at the heart of our strategy The Group remains highly cash generative and our balance continuously to improve our customers experience.
In addition, we have committed facilities of As markets become more challenging over the coming 850m, of which 750m is committed until 2011.
In these year, we rely on our employees to enhance our competitive market conditions, this positions the Group very well.
advantage in all our markets.
Our loyal, dedicated and This financial year saw major movements in foreign customer-focused employees have greatly contributed to exchange rates and a major weakening of Sterling which our results in this challenging year, and we thank them for continued after the year end.
More than 70% of the their continuing efforts.
Groups profits are earned outside the UK and recent exchange rate trends will have a favourable effect on Outlook our reported earnings going forward.
We will continue to strive to create value for our shareholders by focusing on tight cost control, improved Dividend operational efficiency and leveraging our strong geographic The Board is strongly committed to enhancing shareholder market positions.
It is uncertain as to how long these value.
We believe that our consistently strong cash flows, difficult market conditions will continue and, therefore, we robust balance sheet and recurring revenue streams remain cautious in our outlook.
However, our large and provide a sustainable basis for a progressive dividend international customer base, the flexibility of our business policy, whilst ensuring that the Board can continue model and our consistently strong cash flows position us to maintain the appropriate levels of organic and favourably to manage the current market conditions.
Tony Hobson Chairman Awards Sage prides itself on providing high quality Payroll Software Provider of the Year Product of the Year award for Sage SalesLogix software and customer support tailored to a at Pay Magazines annual Pay Awards.
We constantly Mainland Europe SMB Software Suites Channel Champion strive to provide outstanding customer service Customer Service Golden Laurel and at CRN Channel Champion Awards.
and this year we have won many awards in the Golden BIT award for Best HR Software Gold and silver medals for Best Contact Centre recognition of this.
Agent and Best Contact Centre, respectively, UK & Ireland Preferred Vendor 2008 award from Channel at the World Contact Centre Awards.
Business Software Supplier of the Year Partner Magazine and ERP System of the Rest of World at Computing Magazines Awards for Year from the Centre of Enterprise Research Best Customer Service Award in the Business Excellence 2008. in Germany.
Process Enabling South Africa Awards.
Payroll Software Provider of the Year Golden Customer Relation Centre award for medium to large companies at the Irish in Spain.
For further details on our awards please visit Payroll Association awards.
com ourbusiness newsroom North America Product of the Year award for ACT!
by Sage 2008 from Communication Solutions magazine.
