24526 Txt 01 48. qxp 12 6 08 11:15 am Page 4 Chairmans statement The right team to deliver For example, we are determined to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by being more efficient in what we do and also by increasing renewable energy generation.
We have a target of generating 30% of our gross energy requirements from renewable sources by 2012 and are working on longer term targets to support our 25 year plan.
We will be increasing our focus on water efficiency.
This involves improving our own efficient use of water.
It also involves engaging with Sir John Egan our customers and the wider community to influence all our behaviours.
Chairman Severn Trent continues to focus on the health and safety of employees and contractors.
I firmly believe that improving safety behaviours of I am pleased to report on a year of significant our staff and all who work with us and our increasing focus on safety progress in implementing Severn Trents process review to improve the engineering safety of our assets will focus on water business strategy.
contribute to Severn Trents overall performance.
Legacy issues Last year I wrote that when I joined the Severn Trent Plc board and Twelve months ago we took the unique step of publishing became its Chairman in 2005 I did not know the full extent of the Key Performance Indicators KPIs for Severn Trent Water to challenges which my new board and incoming management team demonstrate our ongoing journey to raise standards through were to uncover and the immense commitment of time and energy continuous improvement.
which would be needed to manage these issues.
In this Annual Report I am able to present our performance I am now able to say we are finally close to resolving the legacy against the KPIs twelve months on, so that there is transparency issues and putting this organisation back into the positive position in our performance.
our customers, regulators and employees deserve.
Tony Wray, our Chief Executive, will outline in his review some of We pleaded guilty to two offences relating to leakage data supplied our key achievements and where we need to strive much harder as to Ofwat in 2001 and 2002.
The sentencing hearing to determine we continue to recover from the consequences of past management.
the amount of the fine started on 2 June 2008 and is scheduled to resume on 1 July 2008.
Once that is concluded, we will be able to We believe we can raise standards while reducing costs through the commence discussions with Ofwat concerning the resolution of their implementation of better processes and innovation.
We are currently interim report of March 2006 which may result in further amends very close to having the lowest bills in the UK.
The cost of all Severn being made to customers.
Trent water and waste activities is on average around 80p a day per household, one of the lowest costs in our industry.
Our economic regulator, Ofwat, has proposed fines of 35.8 million for misreporting customer service data and failing to meet Guaranteed Our plans for the next 25 years are set out in our Strategic Direction Service Standards in 2005 06.
We accept the principle of a financial Statement which is summarised on pages 8 and 9. sanction but we have raised issues in relation to the amounts and the In addition we will continue to grow Water Technologies and Services approach taken by Ofwat to determine them.
branded Severn Trent Services internationally by operating at the We have already credited customers accounts and altered bills forefront of new technology as a leading supplier of water and waste appropriately for subsequent years to ensure we have not profited water treatment solutions.
in any way from these past misdeeds.
Group results There is no doubt that the previous regime and culture in place during Overall Severn Trent has delivered a good performance in 2007 08, the era from 2000 to 2004 was overly bureaucratic and lacked with group profit from continuing operations before tax, gains losses appropriate controls and procedures.
on financial instruments and exceptional items at 292.2 million, an increase of 16%.
Group profit from continuing operations before Those who were responsible have long since left Severn Trent and we tax was 192.4 million 2007: 325.5 million.
who are responsible for resolving the legacy issues have apologised to our customers for their failings.
A comprehensive root and branch In line with our declared policy, the board is proposing a final dividend reorganisation of Severn Trent Water has been undertaken by Tony Wray of 41.29p 38.68p to be paid on 1 August 2008.
This would give and his management team.
a total dividend for the year of 65.63p per ordinary share, an increase of 6.8%.
My board and management team has taken, and will continue to take, all actions we think appropriate to ensure the maintenance of both high Corporate responsibility ethical and professional standards and resilient and effective controls Corporate responsibility is at the heart of the way we develop, throughout our organisation.
manage and operate Severn Trent for long term sustainable benefit.
To this end, we are reviewing our corporate responsibility principles and policies to make sure they are in line with our Strategic Direction Statement.
4 Severn Trent Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Direction 24526 Txt 01 48. qxp 12 6 08 11:15 am Page 5 Board, management and employees Outlook Colin Matthews retired from the boards of Severn Trent Plc and Severn The outlook for the coming year is one of continued improvement.
In Severn Trent Water, our improvement plans are progressing well.
I thank him for his outstanding contribution to Severn Trent during a We expect to incur around 24 million of restructuring costs over the period of substantial change.
His leadership in corporate restructuring remaining two years of the AMP4 period.
These restructuring costs will has been crucial in laying firm foundations on which we are now help drive increases in standards and deliver efficiency savings in the building for Severn Trents future success, by focusing on water.
We expect that the achievement of our plans will enable us to deliver around 30 million of cost efficiencies Tony Wray, Managing Director of Severn Trent Water Ltd since March over the last two years of the AMP4 period, which represents around 2005, replaced Colin on 2 October 2007 and is already demonstrating 3% annual out performance against the Ofwat determination for the positive results of our focus on water strategy.
At the same time, three directors were appointed as executive directors Risks to the achievement of these objectives include the potential impact of Severn Trent Plc and Severn Trent Water Ltd, namely Tony Ballance of new, externally imposed requirements on the business, principally Regulation and Competition, Martin Kane Customer Relations and the Traffic Management Act, which became law in April 2008, and Andy Smith Water Services.
unforeseen variations in commodity prices or unhedged energy costs.
These appointments reinforce the boards commitment to the Our energy costs are hedged to 93% of estimated volume in 2008 09 successful transformation of the group into a focused water company.
John Smith stepped down as a non-executive director of Severn Trent We have a strong liquidity position and our capital programme is Plc and Severn Trent Water Ltd on 29 February 2008 and as Chairman proceeding according to plan.
We continue to expect to deliver on our of the Audit Committee of Severn Trent Plc.
We thank him warmly for regulatory commitments whilst achieving around 6% efficiency over his four years of service during a particularly intense period of the the AMP4 period.
Achieving this level of efficiency has allowed us to companys history.
consider further options to enhance long term value, support our improvement plans and deliver greater efficiency.
The three key areas At the same time, we announced the appointments of Baroness Noakes we are focused on are: DBE and Martin Lamb as independent non-executive directors to both the boards of Severn Trent Plc and Severn Trent Water Ltd. Baroness accelerating our renewable energy programme to deliver greater Noakes was also appointed Chairman of the Audit Committee of Severn operational efficiency, enhance our natural hedge to energy costs Trent Plc.
They both bring a formidable breadth of experience to Severn and reduce our carbon footprint: Trent which is already proving invaluable.
to engage with our supply chain to develop an early start contracting strategy and investment plan to deliver benefits The board of Severn Trent Plc continually reviews its management plans in the AMP5 investment programme: and to ensure orderly succession and continuity of leadership.
investments in economically enhancing technology and locations, We have also carried out rigorous board effectiveness reviews with principally the construction of the new Severn Trent Centre.
the help of independent consultants which will generate a number Our decisions to invest in these areas to provide sustainable future of actions to secure improvements to board performance.
improvements in efficiency will be equivalent to the 6% capex efficiency.
I would like to pay a special tribute to our dedicated employees who In Water Technologies and Services, the markets for all three areas have steadfastly focused on implementing our strategy despite also of activity remain strong.
We are working to an accelerated and having to resolve and repair legacy issues from the past.
focused growth strategy, building on our brand recognition and I would also like to thank Severn Trent Water employees for their reputation, our strong market positions, our international scale outstanding support during the floods last July and the commitment and our advanced technologies.
and hard work to restore service to our customers as soon as possible.
At group level, we remain committed to achieving our stated target of around 60% group net debt to Regulatory Capital Value.
At 31 March 2008, group net debt was 58.0% of RCV.
Severn Trent is a high quality business whose investment programme drives strong growth prospects.
The management team has a clear and focused strategy and is engaged in the single minded pursuit of higher standards as the means to achieve both higher levels of customer satisfaction, and also sustained strong financial returns to shareholders.
