We have a clear strategy for growing the business to create long term value for all our stakeholders chairmans statement Financial Performance Boards request Tom undertook a thorough part in this challenge and achieving the I am pleased to be able to report upon review of the Groups activities and we highest professional standards in all its another good set of financial results for believe that this has provided us with operations.
Whilst we have a proud record the year to 31 March 2008.
Group clarity of direction and focus for our in this area we will continue to examine revenue increased by 11% to 564m and investment plans going forward.
This is ways to improve further our performance headline profit rose 11% to 44.8m.
This described in the Chief Executives and measure our contribution to a society improvement reflects strong trading in the statement and the Business Overview.
based upon more sustainable waste majority of our businesses, the principal management techniques.
We will be exception being landfill in Belgium which, At the end of March 2008 the Head of setting specific targets during 2008. as expected, reported a reduced our Dutch business Fred Knitel retired contribution as new legislative restrictions from the Group after 14 years of It was pleasing during the year to report a came into effect.
Adjusted basic earnings dedicated service to Shanks and its 21% reduction in reportable accident rate, per share improved by 10% to 12.9p after predecessor companies.
Fred led the with particular improvements in our a reduction in the headline tax rate of 1% development of our Dutch business as Belgian business.
Whilst there were some to 32%.
managing director from 2000 and was enforcement actions by regulators relating successful in positioning Shanks as one to our environmental permits, these were Recognising the improving long term of the leading waste management relatively minor and our performance growth prospects of the Group the Board companies in the Netherlands with a clear remains good in this area compared to in future intends to follow a progressive market focus and strong financial our peers.
Finally, last year we submitted dividend policy, which balances earnings performance.
We would like to thank Fred a response to the Business in the growth and cash generation with the for his contribution to the Group and wish Environment BiE index of corporate future investment needs of the Group.
environmental engagement and I am This year your Board is recommending a pleased that we improved our final dividend of 4.2p per share which I am delighted that we were able to assessment from a silver to a gold band.
together with the interim dividend replace Fred through an internal produces a total dividend of 6.2p, a 5% appointment and on 1 April 2008 Michael Outlook increase on last year.
van Hulst was appointed managing The Board is confident concerning the director of the Netherlands.
Michael was future prospects for the Group.
The full People previously general manager of Icova, one year effect of the recent decline in landfill The good results for the year reflect the of our largest companies in the volumes in Belgium should be more than efforts of all our employees across the Netherlands and has 17 years experience compensated by improved performances Group.
Shanks is a service business and in the waste industry.
As a result the delivering consistently high levels of Board continues to expect a good overall customer service in such an environment Corporate Responsibility performance in 2009 with increasing is only possible with a highly committed Shanks operates in a highly regulated growth thereafter as the Group benefits workforce.
On behalf of the Board I would industry which rightly requires high from its more focused investment plans.
like to thank them for their hard work and standards of health and safety and commitment.
It is also an industry that is undergoing considerable During the year Tom Drury took over from change and is increasingly seen as an Michael Averill as Group Chief Executive.
important contributor to supporting The Board is very pleased with the smooth governments efforts to manage transition and the fresh perspective that resources and control climate change.
Adrian Auer he has brought to the Group.
At the Shanks is committed to playing its fullest Chairman shanks.
