7598 US GAAP 2008. qxd 19 3 09 15:25 Page 2 2 Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended December 31, 2008 Chairmans review Shire remains in the hunt for new technologiesfully focused on unmet patient needs and thoroughly committed to making the right difference.
The future of healthcare, many say, lies At the same time, Angus and his I am grateful to Angus Russell, his in personalized medicinein helping team have paid careful attention to the management team, and all the people physicians optimize outcomes for Shire pipeline, bolstering a diverse of Shire who come to work each day patients through individualized treatments and innovative product development determined to make the most of the that make a measurable difference program.
Priority has also been given opportunities that present themselves, to their lives.
The industry will continue to fully globalizing Shire, a strategy that and the opportunities that Shire people to experience enormous pressures Shirewhich can enter new markets create.
Shire is leading the way to on prices, through regulations, by virtue through Human Genetic Therapies a brighter future.
I look forward to the of new leaders and legislators, by the HGT products that require relatively year ahead.
hard reality that there is a worldwide little  with shortage of cash.
But the future is bright extreme efficiency.
An increasing for biopharmaceutical companies with emphasis has also been placed, over financial resources and with product the course of the year, on Shires role portfolios that can deliver tangible as a global corporate citizen intent benefits to patients and their caregivers, on acting responsibly and protecting Matthew Emmens and Shire is one of those companies.
the precious resources of our planet.
Chairman In 2008, Shire once again demonstrated At the end of 2008, Shire remains the value of its specialty-focused a cash generative company capable business model and unique culture.
of pursuing new technologies and Since succeeding me as Chief Executive products that boast good supportive Officer CEO in June, Angus Russell data and can be acquired for the right has exercised consistently good price.
These factors, combined with judgment.
He has brought new focus, Shires robust balance sheet, leave enthusiasm, and creativity to the Shire the company unusually well positioned business while leading a team that for our current economic environment.
has overseen the continued flawless It remains a Company that can not execution of its strategy.
He has only measurably improve lives, but revisited Shires mission and values, sometimes contribute to saving them.
developed a corporate brand that asserts the importance of being brave, and looked ahead to the coming seven years with the conviction that Shire will continue to develop into one of the worlds most valuable specialty biopharmaceutical companies.
7598 US GAAP 2008. qxd 19 3 09 15:25 Page 3 3 Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended December 31, 2008 Chairmans review The future is bright: we have the financial resources and a products portfolio that can deliver tangible results
