Chairmans statement The year saw steadily worsening economic conditions with sharp rises in Primark achieved strong growth in both sales and profits.
Like-for-like sales input costs, particularly raw materials and energy, and falling consumer growth was very satisfactory in a marketplace which, as a whole, became confidence.
In these circumstances the group delivered good results and progressively tighter during the year.
Selling space was expanded further, adjusted operating profit increased by 7%.
If the results of the businesses although not at the exceptional rate of the previous year.
In the increasingly which were affected by EU sugar regime change are excluded, profits were difficult economic environment, Primark is well placed to compete.
ahead by 18%, an excellent achievement.
Expansion is continuing in the UK, Ireland and on the Continent, where the results of the Spanish stores have been very encouraging.
Another major Considerable further investment was made during the year, particularly UK distribution centre was opened recently and we have strengthened in the expansion of our sugar interests in China and Africa and in Primarks management further in light of the significant expansion of the business.
retail space, and also in our grocery and ingredients businesses.
Additional investment and higher working capital, together with higher interest rates, The groups grocery businesses made excellent progress in the year, resulted in a substantial increase in interest payable.
Adjusted profit before delivering substantially higher profits against a background of sharply rising tax rose by 3% and, with a slightly lower rate of tax than last year, adjusted commodity costs.
In most cases, successful steps were taken to adjust sales earnings per share increased by 4%.
prices, although there was a lag in the ability of the US oils business to recover, fully, quite exceptional rises.
Twinings and Ovaltine made advances This years result includes a net exceptional charge of 46m arising both in major established markets and other markets where there is much from major restructuring initiatives.
This comprises a provision for the scope for development.
There was strong improvement in the performance rationalisation of our Australian meat business, following the acquisition of Allied Bakeries following the very successful relaunch of Kingsmill in of KR Castlemaine at the end of March, less a net gain on the renunciation 2007.
The integration of the World Foods businesses, Pataks and Blue of sugar quota in the UK and Poland.
Dragon, proceeded well and good sales growth was achieved by both Revenue grew by 21% to 8.2bn driven, in good part, by our ability to brands.
It was also pleasing to move forward with the merger of Ryvita recover rising input costs, but also by volume increases reflecting our past and Jordans where we now have a 62% stake.
Our grocery businesses are capital investment, acquisitions and favourable currency translation.
a major strength of the group.
The year has seen further development for the sugar businesses.
In Europe the transition to the new EU sugar regime is largely over and there is now SuGAR PROduCTIOn In THE YEAR the prospect of reasonable equilibrium in a market where consumption will AMOunTEd TO SOME 3.85 MIllIOn exceed domestic production.
In China, development plans for the north east have been taken forward and major phased expansion will take place TOnnES.
These plans will lead to the development of factory operations and are expected to achieve marked improvements in agricultural performance in the region.
Illovo has also extended capacity Among our other businesses, AB Agri had an exceptional year.
While part through various projects and has well-developed plans for further increases of the success was due to its ability to operate well in extremely volatile in the next few years.
Across the three major regions in which the group commodity markets, long-term improvements in fundamentals played operates, sugar production in the year amounted to some 3.85 million a major role.
The ingredients businesses posted sound growth in tonnes and will be substantially increased over the next few years.
joint venture with BP and DuPont has commenced construction of the Net capital expenditure and investment in new businesses net of disposals bioethanol plant in Hull and is on schedule for commissioning in 2010. amounted to 710m.
Over 500m was incurred to expand plant capacity The profits of the European sugar businesses fell sharply in the year, caused and on new Primark stores.
Major acquisitions in the year included beet by an increase in the restructuring levy and the temporary reduction of sugar factories in north east China, the KR Castlemaine meat business in quota, and the results in China were adversely affected by lower prices Australia, which is being integrated with our existing meat business, and after an exceptional crop.
By contrast, Illovos results were very good.
further expansion of our European yeast operations.
4 Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Business review Our business in action Financial statements The recent and planned capital investment positions the group well for the longer term.
Working capital at the financial year end was some 340m higher than Board changes last year end driven, in part, by the acquisitions in the year but mainly I reported a year ago that Lord MacGregor and Mike Alexander would retire as a consequence of the rises in input prices referred to throughout this as directors on 7 December 2007 and paid tribute, at that time, to their statement.
This much higher working capital was one of the major reasons contributions to the board.
for the increase of 480m in year end net debt to 791m, the other major On 1 October 2008 Charles Sinclair was appointed to the board as an contributors being acquisition spend net of disposal proceeds, and higher independent non-executive director.
Until 30 September 2008, Mr Sinclair capital expenditure.
Although the group was well within its borrowing was chief executive of Daily Mail & General Trust.
He is also a nonfacilities at year end, we have secured additional borrowing capacity since executive director of SVG Capital Plc.
I am confident Charles will make the year end in anticipation of further investment.
a valuable contribution to the boards work.
Employees nET CAPITAl ExPEndITuRE And The group now employs 96,000 people in 44 countries.
Their skills, ingenuity and hard work, often in very demanding conditions, deliver the InVESTMEnT In nEW BuSInESSES results covered in this report.
When I visit our operations in the UK and nET OF dISPOSAlS AMOunTEd abroad, I am always impressed by the ability and enthusiasm of the people who work in the group.
I am grateful to them all for their continued efforts TO 710M.
dividends The group is becoming increasingly involved with developing countries, A final dividend of 13.5p is proposed, to be paid on 9 January 2009 to both through ownership of local manufacturing operations and through shareholders on the register on 5 December 2008.
Together with the sourcing from local, third-party manufacturers.
The value of economic interim dividend of 6.75p paid on 3 July 2008, this will make a total of growth to developing countries of both local operations and third-party 20.25p for the year, an increase of 4%.
In our own manufacturing operations we are the employers of the local workforce.
As a consequence, we are able to set Outlook employment standards and agree benefits directly with the workforce.
As The economies in which the group operates face extremely testing an example, in several countries in southern Africa, Illovo provides housing, conditions.
There is also very great uncertainty about how these conditions education, healthcare, infrastructure and other benefits for employees and will develop over the coming year.
The groups businesses will not be their dependants.
Where we source from third-party manufacturers, the immune to a worsening economic climate.
However, by virtue of the nature, position is different as the group does not have an employer employee range and market position of the groups businesses we are well placed to relationship.
This is particularly the case for Primark which, with other face this demanding environment.
We expect to maintain capital investment major European and US retailers, sources large quantities of goods from at planned levels in spite of the economic outlook.
We anticipate some developing countries.
Primark sets contractual requirements with suppliers progress in operating profits over the coming year but little change in net for workplace standards and monitors their application.
It is, however, much earnings due to additional interest expense.
I am confident that the recent more difficult to ensure the required standards are consistently observed and planned capital investment positions the group well for the longer term.
where Primark is not the employer.
As a group, we are committed to high standards in the supply chain and will continue to work to achieve them.
Martin Adamson Chairman Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2008 5
