9 Smiths Group plc Annual report, year ended 31 July 2008 Chairmans statement As I indicated in last years report, the Board appointed Philip Bowman The past year has seen a number of changes to the composition of the as Chief Executive of the Group in December 2007.
On the executive side, the arrival of Philip Bowman in December energy to the Group and already some significant changes to the 2007 was preceded by the retirement of Keith Butler-Wheelhouse, as I operation of the Group have been announced following his initial review discussed last year.
In addition, David Lillycrop resigned from the Board at all levels.
All businesses benefit from fresh eyes and the Board has in June 2008, standing down from his role as General Counsel and been delighted by the way in which Philip has further energised the Company Secretary.
David had been a member of the Board since the management team.
merger with TI Group and I would like to thank him for his major contribution to Smiths Group and for the help he has given me.
Each of the Groups businesses brings technology based products and solutions to a range of highly sophisticated customers.
The Board has On the non-executive side, in April 2008 Peter Loescher resigned as a continued to ensure that these customers are to be found in areas of non-executive director at his own request so that he could concentrate significant and profitable growth opportunity including security, oil & gas, on his responsibilities as Chief Executive of Siemens AG.
The Board medical devices and wireless communications.
These opportunities have benefitted from his wisdom and wish him well in his executive role.
to be turned into value for our shareholders and to this end the Chief At the half year we explained that in light of the prevailing market Executive has instigated major changes that are aimed at substantially conditions and the scope for investment in organic growth and increasing value creation across the Groups portfolio of businesses.
acquisitions, the Board intends to grow dividends consistent with The programme of changes set out in the Chief Executives statement increasing cover to around 2.5 times in the medium term.
As a result the and the other narrative in this report explain these opportunities and interim dividend was unchanged year-on-year.
how they will be exploited.
The Board has encouraged the new approach The Board has considered the final dividend in the light of this policy and to ensure that operationally the Group develops its potential to the full.
has decided to propose a dividend of 23.5p, making a total of 34.0p for At the forefront of this structure is clear delegated accountability for the year, unchanged from last year.
achievement in each of our businesses with executive reward clearly linked to value creating performance.
The final dividend will be paid on 21 November to shareholders registered at the close of business on 24 October.
The ex-dividend date The smaller corporate centre of the Group guides the strategy and is 22 October.
leverages benefits of scale across the Group.
It retains the task, on behalf of the Board, of ensuring that the divisions comply with all of the systems This report is being published at a time of turmoil in financial markets and processes that protect shareholders interests.
Each division will and anxieties for world growth.
This is putting pressure on sales and now hold monthly Divisional Board Meetings: included on these boards margins for many businesses.
It is not by chance that Smiths Group is will be an Investor Director from one of the Chief Executives direct positioned in markets that the Board believes are better equipped to reports who will have a mandate that includes monitoring compliance resist the pressures of a global downturn.
Neither the Board nor with Group policies.
management are complacent and the businesses have embarked on an extensive programme of self-help that aims over the course of the The business leadership teams deliver the operational performance next 24 months not only to withstand any effects from the downturn but which translates into improved shareholder returns.
This clarity is also to deliver increased value to shareholders.
The Group remains important in developing a more performance-driven culture in Smiths.
therefore both strong and dynamic.
There is a corresponding increase in the demands made of all management to perform.
On 28 July, an Extraordinary General Meeting of shareholders adopted proposals that substantially change how the senior teams both at the centre and in each of the divisions are rewarded.
These changes place a premium on the creation of shareholder value.
They strengthen the link between pay and performance, they link remuneration to long-term value creation at divisional level and they provide exceptional reward only if there is exceptional performance.
In the past year there have been notable operational projects across the business as a whole addressing new customers and generating new products.
Examples from across the businesses of these are to be found in this report: but it would be wrong at this time, when everyone is focused on safety, not to mention the major breakthrough achieved by our Detection business with its new aTix system security machines Donald Brydon which are now being rolled out from Heathrow Airport in the UK to Chairman airports all around the world.
It is a relief not to have to take out laptops where these machines are installed!
I have said in past reports that the Board is mindful of its role as guardian of shareholders money.
As well as ensuring operating excellence the Board remains restless in its hunt for shareholder value and will continue to monitor each of our businesses to ensure that the Group is their most appropriate owner.
