 13 6 08 10:32 Page 18 Speedy Hire market report 2008: Meeting the challenge continued Catherine Stratton, Independent Analyst centres.
This move has also encouraged HSS to widen The AMEC acquisition, however, reinforces the enduring its portfolio of equipment.
Brandon has also begun impression of Speedy as a pro-active hire operation opening larger stores, offering both its tool hire and its intent on pushing back the boundaries of hire.
The specialist products from one site.
exclusive service agreement with AMEC Industrial Services and the preferred supplier status with AMECs Speedy has continued with its own model, developing other divisions take Speedy into new territories as its specialist activities as spin-offs from its tool hire AMECs recent series of disposals and acquisitions have operations.
It has sought to establish its reputation as a reshaped the Company into primarily an oil services specialist in the distinct fields in which it operates.
Undoubtedly the opening up of a potentially several instances, Speedy has established new large new customer base will present Speedy with operations and then enhanced their expertise and many challenges but it will also enable Speedy to capacity through acquisitions such as LCH and LGH in diversify further from its traditional construction market the cases of Power and Lifting respectively.
Speedys and thus to spread its risk.
continuing emphasis on specialist businesses is distinctive from the move to super stores outlined Since the middle of last year the economic background above.
Both approaches have their merits: the super both in the UK and internationally has altered store is, perhaps, the easier way for a Company to dramatically.
The longer term effects of the sub-prime display its full range of products and services but it may crisis and the subsequent credit crunch make it very be more difficult to maintain specialist expertise.
Speedy difficult to forecast beyond the current year for the hire has, however, always been alert to the potential for sector but there remain positive indicators.
The current cross-selling and the way it has extracted its specialist perception is that the financial difficulties have had only businesses has meant that each has had a core a limited impact on UK construction so far, with housebuilding being the clear casualty and likely to remain in customer base in place when the distinct operations were being established.
Furthermore, another factor in intensive care for a significant period.
Any hope that the favour of Speedys policy is that specialist hire house-builders could shake off the effects of the operations are able to command better rates, and stagnant overall housing market has been smothered hence achieve better return, than generalist businesses.
by a stream of reports that indicate poor trading, culminating late April with the revelation by Persimmon, The past decade has seen profound changes in the the UKs largest house-builder, that its sales over the customer base of hire: there has been a series of previous three weeks were down by over 33%, mergers between major construction companies the compared with the same period in 2007.
Fortunately c latest being Carillion and Alfred M Alpine and the giants for Speedy and many of its competitors, house-builders are not big hire customers.
of the sector are still keen to improve their regional coverage for example, Balfour Beattys recently announced acquisition of Dean & Dyball.
The Excluding the problems of house-building, most leading consolidation of the sector has been accompanied by a construction companies reported strong growth in 2007 streamlining of suppliers.
As a result a top priority for and healthy order books for the current year.
Among the hirers has been the securing of national and regional UKs largest builders, Balfour Beatty has indicated that it supply agreements with contractors.
Over the years, currently has a record order book and an exceptionally many of these agreements have been accompanied by strong pipeline of high quality new work approaching the sale of the construction Companys in-house plant contract, while in February Kier stated that its operations to the hirer.
Speedy has undertaken a Construction and Support Services have never been busier, [its] order books are strong and, importantly [its] significant number of these deals but the most recent one, that of AMEC Logistics and Support Services early enquiry levels remain high.
The prevalence of supply this year, was heralded by Chief Executive Steve agreements with the major contractors should help the Corcoran as possibly the Companys best ever deal: a fortunes of the major hirers: in particular, they should little surprising, perhaps, coming only six months after give some resilience to hire rates, which all too often are Hewden Tools, which was most certainly Speedys the first casualties of any hint of a downturn in biggest deal ever.
18 Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 15110 04 06 2008 Proof 5 15110  13 6 08 10:32 Page 19 Catherine Stratton Her interest in the hire sector began when The Plant Hire Investment Report 2007 8 Catherine Stratton has researched and she joined the research department of City will be published in the summer of 2008. analysed the Plant and Tool Hire Sector for stockbrokers Greene & Co. in 1969.
In 1975 many years and is the author of the annual she became a member of the Stock www.
co. uk survey The Plant Hire Investment Report.
Exchange and was a research partner at She writes regularly for Executive Hire News Greenes until the Company merged with and 'Plant Hire Executive'.
She was a director of Greig Middleton until 1992.
Since then she has worked as an independent researcher and consultant in the hire industry.
The recent results of the leading hire companies quoted All the current indications are that UK construction on the London Stock Exchange have continued to outside private house-building and office development show strong growth in both revenues and profits: last will maintain its activity levels for the rest of 2008 at year Aggreko saw revenues increase by 28% to 693m least.
It is, however, difficult to see any further ahead and pre-tax profits by 68% to 124.2m, while Lavendon but there are a number of factors which should give reported a rise in revenues of 49% to 186 million and a construction a degree of protection.
First of all, the next 178% growth in pre-tax profits to 21.4m.
Both were General Election is, at the most, just over two years able to report further progress at their respective Annual away.
The government will strive to maintain its General Meetings: Aggreko stated that revenues in the programmes for health, education and social housing, first quarter of 2008 were 20% ahead of the same although other areas of infrastructure spend such as period of 2007, while Lavendon said that it had seen a roads may again prove vulnerable.
There are still strong indications that hire workload revolving around the Olympics will become an demand will be sustained throughout 2008 and the increasingly important part of construction activity over outlook still looks sound for much of the construction the next four years.
One area of concern must be that, sector.
if the government finances do weaken substantially, resource for the Olympics will be ring-fenced and the In its most recent forecasts Winter 2007 2008, the regions outside London will suffer.
Construction Products Association concluded that the slowing housing and commercial property markets It is, however, very difficult to say when and how severely would inevitably affect construction demand and the impact of the credit crunch will hit the wider UK identified the Governments 2007 Comprehensive construction industry.
The current situation may, in fact, in Spending Review as the key to sustaining overall the short term help to create additional demand for hire, expansion of construction activity over the next three as contractors facing an uncertain future will be looking to years.
Public sector output was forecast to return to cut their capital expenditure and will use hire increasingly growth in 2008, rising by 3.7% p. a. over the three years to meet their equipment needs.
Clearly hirers need to be to 2010.
Government expenditure will focus on health, vigilant at this time: they need to monitor demand closely education and social housing.
A further growing and be prepared to cut their capital expenditure if stimulus will be the start of contracts for the Olympics.
necessary to quickly generate additional cash.
Any Civil engineering activity will increase with double-digit downturn will create opportunities for the strong players in growth for water industry related work anticipated in the sector and they will almost certainly not just retain but 2008 and 2009. enhance their positions in the marketplace.
Speedys continuing strategies of acquiring in house plant Water UK Capital Investment 19802010 20022003 prices operations with supply deals of several years duration and of continually looking to widen its customer base Investment outside its traditional construction business should Period bn enhance the Companys defensive qualities and enable it 19801985 8.7 to take advantage of further opportunities which tighter 19851990 10.7 market conditions may bring.
