Overview Chairmans statement During 2008, Spirent introduced new, innovative products and lowered its cost base, resulting in a stronger financial position overall.
Edward Bramson Chairman Spirents financial performance improved in each To ensure flexibility, further authority will be sought at the quarter throughout 2008 as a result of the programmes Annual General Meeting for share repurchases of up to put in place to increase manufacturing efficiency and to 15 per cent of issued share capital, depending on market deliver new innovative products.
In addition, the conditions and other factors.
Company benefited from favourable exchange rates and a reduced number of issued shares.
These factors, with Total order intake in January 2009 for the Group is level annualised cost reductions of a further 8.2 million with that for the same period in the prior year in constant implemented in the first quarter of 2009 and the strong currency terms, with Performance Analysis being down financial position of the Company, mean that Spirent is by 10 per cent.
In sterling total order intake in January well placed to face the challenges of an uncertain market 2009 increased 27 per cent year-on-year.
restructuring of the business over the past two years has resulted in a material reduction in the break-even point Group revenue increased by 20.9 million, some 9 per for sales.
At current exchange rates the Company will cent over that for 2007 and the resulting gross profit benefit both as an exporter of products and services increased by 18.8 million, with the gross profit margin from the UK and in the translation of the Groups increasing by 2.2 percentage points year-on-year.
These factors, combined with Adjusted earnings per share increased by 75 per cent to the reduction in the number of shares in issue, will result 6.24 pence from 3.57 pence in 2007.
This was after in a greater resilience to the impact of any reduction in charging 0.30 pence for share-based payment and sales levels on the earnings per share and the cash intangible amortisation, down from 0.38 pence in 2007. generation of the Group.
Cash generation was robust with free cash flow of 42.2 million in the year.
The Company paid its first dividend since the first half of 2002 and proposes a final dividend of 0.6 pence per share.
This will result in a total dividend for the year of 1.1 pence per share.
It is the Boards policy to maintain Edward Bramson a high dividend cover and to pursue a sustainable Chairman distribution policy consistent with the development of earnings over time.
The cash generation of the Group allowed the funding of share repurchases through on-market repurchase and by way of a tender offer.
67.0 million was used to repurchase and cancel 125.8 million shares, some 16 per cent of the shares in issue.
The total cash returned to shareholders since 1 January 2007 is 133.8 million.
Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2008 3
