spoRTs DiRecT iNTeRNATioNAl plc ANNuAl RepoRT 2008 09 cHAiRMANs sTATeMeNT The Group has not been alone in operating in an increasingly challenging UK retail environment during the past financial year the Year.
The Group has been impacted by 2007 having the wettest summer weather since records began.
In addition the failure of the home nations to qualify for Euro 2008 and difficult comparatives with strong sales generated from the 2006 FIFA World Cup in the previous financial year, together with an increasingly difficult consumer environment, have contributed towards making this the most difficult trading period in our history.
The Board took steps to mitigate the impact of these factors and Simon Bentley believes it has made considerable progress during the Year through Acting Non Executive Chairman the flexibility of the business model.
This includes the acquisition of Everlast, which has provided a significant platform for growth for the Groups business in the US, a strategic alliance in China, which is an exciting opportunity to develop the Groups presence in that market, and the continued development of our fully integrated group headquarters at Shirebrook.
We have also strengthened our relationships with our partner branded goods suppliers considerably and believe we have a unique UK and international retail offering, which combined with our brand power and relationships with our suppliers will assist us to achieve the international growth we are aiming for.
Board changes The Group announced the following Board changes during the Year.
I was appointed Acting Chairman of the Board on 31 May 2007 on the departure of David Richardson.
On 25 October 2007, Malcolm Dalgleish and Dave Singleton were appointed as independent non-executive directors.
Malcolm has significant retail real estate experience and Dave brings valuable experience of international sports brand operations.
On that date Chris Bulmer stepped down from her role as independent non-executive director.
We are continuing to seek opportunities to strengthen the Board with non-executive appointments.
Dividend The Board recommends a final dividend for the Year of 2.44 pence per share to shareholders on the register on 3 October 2008 to be paid on 31 October 2008.
The interim dividend was 2.06 pence per share making a total dividend in respect of the Year of 4.5 pence per share.
simon Bentley Acting Non-Executive Chairman 10 July 2008 10 Reebok Branded Area - Liverpool One Store
