Scottish and Southern Energy Annual Report 2008 3 13 14 9 11 12 10 9.
Gas Networks SSE owns and operates around 600MW SSEs total output from its hydro electric SSE holds 50% of the equity of Scotia Gas of onshore wind farm capacity in Scotland, stations excluding pumped storage during Networks plc, which owns and operates the Northern Ireland and the Republic of Ireland 2007 08 was 3,518GWh.
This compares Scotland and the Southern gas distribution and has consent to build another 400MW in with 3,767GWh in the previous year, which networks.
The networks comprise some various locations.
Its Hadyard Hill wind farm was the fourth highest on record.
The 74,000km of gas mains, delivering gas to in South Ayrshire was the first in the UK to construction of what will be SSEs second around 5.7 million industrial, commercial generate over 100MW of electricity.
largest conventional hydro electric station and domestic customers.
at Glendoe, near Loch Ness, is now entering 10.
Offshore Wind its final phase.
Generation Portfolio SSE has consent to build a 288 megawatt SSE owns around 10,500MW of electricity MW offshore wind farm in Germany and 12.
Gas Storage generation capacity, including its share is to construct a 504MW offshore wind farm SSE owns and operates the UKs largest of joint ventures and associates.
This makes at Greater Gabbard in the outer Thames onshore gas storage facility at Hornsea in it the second largest electricity generator Estuary.
On completion, it is expected to be East Yorkshire.
Nine salt caverns have been across the UK and Ireland.
The capacity the largest offshore wind farm in the world.
leached into a salt layer 1.8km below the comprises 4,500MW of gasand oil-fired surface, creating 325 million cubic metres capacity, 4,000MW of coal-fired capacity mcm of gas storage capacity.
with biomass co-firing capability, and over 2,000MW of renewable capacity.
Scottish and Southern Energy Annual Report 2008 01 Chairmans Statement 4 SSEs core purpose is to provide the energy people need in a reliable and sustainable way.
Sir Robert Smith Chairman Scottish and Southern Energy delivered would like.
Nevertheless, customers to whom has benefited greatly from his outstanding very good operational and financial results SSE supplies energy have the assurance of contribution to the work of the Board.
in 2007 08, a challenging year for the sector in our responsible pricing policy: we will which many key questions were asked about continue to seek to be the last, or one of the Dividend the sustainability, reliability and affordability last, of the major suppliers to put up prices We are also proud to be associated with of energy.
The maintenance of our policy of if we have to and the first, or one of the first, SSEs track record of dividend growth.
The responsible pricing helped us to gain 700,000 to bring them down if we can.
Board is recommending a final dividend of additional electricity and gas customers, 42.4p, making a full-year dividend of 60.5p, making us the UKs second largest energy Responsibility an increase of 10.0% on last year.
Our power stations performed well, Shareholders expect companies not simply of the SSE team, the extensive investment as did our electricity networks, enabling us to be profitable, but to be responsible in how opportunities added to by the acquisition to contribute significantly to the security those profits are made.
SSEs core activities of Airtricity and the ongoing scope for and reliability of the UKs energy supplies.
clearly have an environmental impact, but continuing improvement in operational it is one which we are working to reduce performance give us the means to maintain Investment significantly.
I am therefore pleased that our track record of dividend growth in the Securing future supplies and tackling we have set ourselves a new and more next decade.
Delivering that dividend growth, climate change are the twin goals of energy challenging target of reducing the carbon delivering our investment programme and policy in the UK, Ireland and throughout intensity of electricity generated at power delivering excellent service to customers are the European Union, and our expanding stations in which we have an ownership or our key priorities in 2008 09 and will remain programme of investment reflects this.
We will so in the years ahead.
It should enable us to create value for report on progress against this new target shareholders to complement the value in next years Annual Report.
Challenges enhancement which flows from continually The years ahead will be challenging, and improving our day-to-day operations.
We People ones in which energy companies will have will continue to focus on our energy and Responsible companies are the ones which to demonstrate that they have the right infrastructure related businesses in the prosper in the long-term, and SSE is a answers to the key questions about the UK and, following the recent acquisition company that is built to last.
It is staffed reliability and sustainability of energy of Airtricity, in Ireland.
That acquisition also by an exceptional team of people, who have supplies.
SSE long ago recognised that the provides us with the scope to build on our discernible pride in and passion for their production and consumption of energy would UK-leading position in renewable energy organisation.
This pride and passion strikes change, and has taken steps in anticipation to develop an international business me and the non-Executive Directors whenever of that.
It is, therefore, very well placed to in this increasingly critical area.
we meet anyone from the company and is meet the challenges of the next decade.
something with which we, in turn, are very Customers proud to be associated.
SSEs core purpose is to provide the energy people need in a reliable and sustainable way, One of those Directors, Sir Kevin Smith, and I am pleased that our energy distribution has decided to step down from the Board businesses and our energy supply business, after four years of service and so will not on which millions of households up and down be seeking re-election at the Annual General the country rely, performed well.
Sir Kevins long experience as global demand for energy soars, the price in industry has given him an excellent insight paid by customers is higher than anyone into the issues facing SSE and the company
