Overview of the year Chairmans statement 2008 was a year of significant change and progress for Tate & Lyle.
We successfully achieved a number of steps to reshape our business in line with our strategy to build a stronger value added business on a low-cost commodity base.
This reshaping process is largely complete and, taken together with some important changes in the management structure, the Group is now well positioned to benefit from the growth opportunities in our chosen markets.
Results of continuing operations Sales for the year ended 31 March 2008 were 3,424 million, 6% higher 10% in constant currency than the prior year.
Profit before tax, adjusted to exclude exceptional items and amortisation of acquired intangible assets, at 244 million was 11% lower 7% in constant currency than the prior year, and diluted earnings per share at 32.7p were 13% lower 8% in constant currency.
Net debt at 1,041 million increased by 141 million.
The Groups results of continuing operations were adversely affected by a very disappointing performance in international sugar trading and by the weak US dollar.
These two factors more than account for the lower profit before tax referred to above.
In international sugar trading, we have taken the necessary actions to restructure its activities and re-focus management priorities to ensure that this years loss of 9 million is not repeated.
The results of the rest of the Groups operations were encouraging, demonstrating considerable resilience in the face of both the unprecedented increase in global commodity prices and the impact of the EU sugar regime reform.
Food & Industrial Ingredients, Americas once again performed strongly, achieving a fourth consecutive year of record profits.
The 13% increase in profits from core value added food ingredients and the 6% increase in SPLENDA Sucralose sales, both in constant currency, were also pleasing and demonstrate the good progress we are making to grow our business in those areas of strategic focus and investment.
Dividend The Board proposes an increase of 1.1p 5% in the total dividend for the year to 22.6p.
This is covered 1.5 times by adjusted basic earnings before exceptional items and amortisation of acquired intangible assets from continuing operations, and 1.8 times from total operations.
The proposed final dividend of 16.1p 2007 15.3p will be due and payable on 31 July 2008 to all shareholders on the Register of Members at 4 July 2008.
4 Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2008 Return of capital During the year the Board carried out its annual evaluation We returned 159 million to shareholders through the of the effectiveness of the Board.
This year the Board repurchase of 33.6 million shares representing 69% of engaged Dr Tracy Long of Boardroom Review to act the approval given by shareholders at the Annual General as an independent facilitator for the review.
Dr Longs Meeting AGM in July 2007.
Given current worldwide report was presented to and discussed by the Board economic conditions, we have decided to suspend the and the recommendations made are being implemented.
remainder of the repurchase programme.
We will be asking shareholders to renew the Companys authority Outlook to buy back shares at the AGM on 23 July 2008.
Looking forward to the year to 31 March 2009: The Board We anticipate the Food & Industrial Ingredients On 2 May 2008, we announced that Stanley Musesengwa, businesses in the Americas and Europe, which together Chief Executive, International, and Stuart Strathdee, accounted for 72% of the Groups continuing operating Corporate Development Director, will retire from Tate & Lyles profit before central costs in the 2008 financial year, Board of Directors at the AGM on 23 July 2008. will make further progress benefiting in the Americas both from improved high fructose corn syrup pricing Stanley Musesengwa has worked for Tate & Lyle for achieved for the 2008 calendar year and from additional over 28 years and has been a Director since April 2003. value added capacity now on stream.
In Europe, the He has served Tate & Lyle with great distinction over the results will be significantly influenced by European years and we wish him every success for the future.
cereal prices following the 2008 harvest.
Stuart Strathdee has worked for Tate & Lyle for over The EU sugar regime reforms have proved successful 31 years and has been a Director since November 1994. in eliminating all but 6% of the quota production The Board is deeply appreciative of his loyal service and capacity targeted for reduction.
Surplus refined sugar is delighted that the Company will continue to benefit from stocks will need to be absorbed over at least the first his considerable knowledge and expertise for a further half of the year, during which time the market is likely year after he stands down from the Board.
to remain very difficult and challenging.
However, we look forward to market equilibrium being re-established Kai Nargolwala stood down as a Non-Executive Director during the second half of our financial year which, from 31 December 2007 due to his new commitments together with the actions we have taken on international with Credit Suisse.
He served on the Board for three sugar trading, should enable a progressive restoration years and in that time made a valuable contribution of margins in the Sugars business.
much appreciated by his colleagues.
The SPLENDA Sucralose business is now fully invested.
Governance While the incremental impact of a first full year of costs The pie chart below shows the time spent by the Board associated with the Singapore facility will restrict profit at its meetings in the 2008 financial year allocated between growth in the first half year, we expect continued sales various responsibilities.
As can be seen, just over 50% growth to offset these costs and to lead to improved of the Boards time was spent on strategy, reflecting the profits in the full year.
significant reshaping of the business referred to in this annual report.
For the Group, the 2009 financial year has started in line with plan and we continue to expect to make good progress in the year as a whole.
Board allocation of time Year ended 31 March 2008 Sir David Lees Governance 9% Chairman 21 May 2008 Operations 12% Strategy 51% Finance and risk 23% Capital expenditure and investments 5% Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2008 5 STATUTORY INFORMATION HOW WE RUN THE BUSINESS HOW WE PERFORMED WHAT WE DO OVERVIEW OF THE YEAR
