Directors Report Chairmans statement Dr Thomas Middelhoff Chairman www.
com DIRECTORS REPORT BUSINESS REVIEW The new Groups first full year since the merger can best be characterised as one in which we delivered strong financial performance and laid very rm foundations for the future.
Performance review Although the statutory financial period Executive team The new Groups first full year since the ended 30 September 008 is an eleven I, and my fellow Board members, would once merger can best be characterised as one month period, the Board has assessed the again like to express confidence in the Groups total dividend on the basis of the pro forma in which we delivered strong financial executive team, led by Manny Fontenla-Novoa.
twelve month period ended 30 September He has engaged some of the most talented performance and laid very rm foundations 008.
As a result, the Board is recommending people in the industry and, together, they have for the future.
We have completed the a final dividend of 6.5 pence per share continuously demonstrated their ability to lead merger and signicantly outperformed which, when combined with the interim the organisation in a challenging marketplace.
against synergy expectations: developed dividend of 3.
5 pence per share paid on They have exceeded expectations across a a credible strategy against which we have 5 September 008, makes a total dividend range of metrics, delivering industry-leading made real progress: and actively managed for the year of 9.75 pence per share.
This margins, making huge progress against our our business to generate industry-leading represents a pay-out of 41% of profit after strategic agenda, and further strengthening margins and create real shareholder value.
This is in line the Thomas Cook brand.
All of this has been achieved despite the with our policy, which remains to increase Employees worsening economic conditions that have dividends progressively, paying between We are also very proud of our people at all emerged since the beginning of the year.
40% and 50% of adjusted earnings by way levels within the Group.
They live our Company Our experienced management team, under of dividend.
values and continually strive to understand the leadership of Manny Fontenla-Novoa, Board changes the requirements of our customers and anticipated the potential impact on our Changes to the Board during the period deliver their travel and holiday dreams.
We businesses and has taken swift and effective included the appointment of Jrgen Bser believe their skills, diversity and experience action to ensure we sustain our operational as Chief Financial officer from 1 July 008. are key to our exible approach and to our and financial strength in the current financial This followed the decision of Ludger Heuberg continued success.
to step down from the Board for personal Outlook We will continue to maximise the advantages reasons and family commitments.
We The success Manny and the executive team we have created and developed.
These are pleased that he has remained with the have had in delivering a highly demanding include a strong financial position, a trusted Group in the role of Chief Financial officer programme during the past year gives brand portfolio and the proven ability, within for Continental Europe.
my fellow Board members and me every our exible model, to manage our businesses Angus Porter resigned from the Board as so that we meet the needs of our customers confidence that they will rise again to a Non-Executive Director on 5 April 008 in an ever changing environment.
the challenges of the year ahead.
following his appointment as Group Strategy Dividend Director, a position he took up on June 008.
The Boards dividend recommendation Nigel Northridge joined the Board as an reects Thomas Cooks financial achievement, Independent Non-Executive Director with the strength of our business model and our effect from 1 August 008.
He is a member commitment to delivering value to Dr Thomas Middelhoff of both the Management Development shareholders.
Chairman & Remuneration Committee and the 19 December 008 Nominations Committee.
With effect from December 008, Peter Diesch will be stepping down from the Board and will be replaced as an Arcandor AG nominated Non-Executive Director by Dr Karl-Gerhard Eick.
I would like to thank Peter for his contribution to the deliberations of the Board since the merger.
Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 008 3
