82987 TRAVIS PRE:Layout 1 1 4 09 09:57 Page 8 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2008 he events in financial markets, and their effects on the DIVI D EN D wider economy, continued to dominate as 2008 Tprogressed.
Against this background, the Groups focus In view of the continuing difficulties in our sector, the board is this year has been on the deployment of plans to deal with an recommending a suspension of the final dividend.
The interim increasingly severe market contraction.
dividend of 14.5 pence was paid to shareholders in November 2008.
We expect to resume dividend payments once the prospects for our markets have improved.
R ESULTS Whilst at the interim stage the Group BOAR D OF was able to report increases in sales, DI R ECT O RS operating profit and earnings per share, the deteriorating market Mike Dearden has been a non-execuconditions in the second half created tive director of the Group for 8 years, pressure on our overall financial including the last three years as our performance.
senior independent non-executive Group revenue for 2008 was just director.
Having been asked in 2006 below 2007, and adjusted profit to extend his appointment by a further before tax i. e. on an underlying basis 2 years, he retired from the board in declined by 22.5% and adjusted November 2008.
Mike made a very earnings per share was similarly down significant contribution to the board, by 17.9%.
bringing a wealth of experience of both As a result of actions taken to business and corporate governance deal with the reduction in construcmatters and we wish him well for the tion activity the Group has incurred future.
Activity is already underway to an exceptional charge of 56.2m.
identify a non-executive director to These actions include a restructuring replace Mike.
Chris Bunker has taken of some businesses and functions, over as senior independent director and a programme of headcount and the new non-executive director reduction across the Group.
The cash will be appointed in due course.
Tim Stevenson, Chairman element of re-organisation costs associated with these actions is EM PLO YEES 8.5m, with the remainder of the exceptional charge mainly representing increased provisions for future lease obligations Given the increased demands imposed on the Group from and related costs.
These increased provisions directly reflect market challenges in 2008, I am sure all shareholders will join the bleak outlook for construction and home improvement me in thanking all our people for their dedication and tenacity.
I markets as the country faces the most severe economic condiknow from my visits to branches, stores, distribution centres and tions for some years.
offices that the Group enjoys an extraordinary level of loyalty and The actions we have taken are aimed at reducing costs and commitment from the vast majority of its people.
To those who conserving cash.
Before the effect of exchange rates on that have regrettably had to leave us as we reduced our headcount, portion of our debt denominated in US dollars, against which the we have provided support and wish them well for the future.
To Group is any case fully hedged, we have reduced underlying net all the people who have worked in the Group, on behalf of sharedebt by 14.9m.
holders, I offer my thanks for their efforts in 2008.
Virtually all new commitments for acquisitions and brownfield sites were suspended from early 2008, and the opening of O U T L OOK new branches and stores almost dried up by the half-year.
As at the end of the year our network comprised 1,223 branches.
As We expected the well-documented problems emanating from we move in to 2009, we envisage restricting our new branch financial markets would adversely impact growth rates in our expansion plans to Tile Giant, where the cash payback from new markets progressively over the year.
However, the speed and branches continues to be very favourable, and, provided it meets scale of the impact of the turmoil emanating from the financial its performance conditions, we will continue to fund the expanmarkets has been greater than the expectations of most sion of ToolStation under the terms of our buyout agreement.
commentators and 2009 is likely to prove a very tough year for 8 82987 TRAVIS PRE:Layout 1 31 3 09 16:33 Page 9 C H A I R M A N S S T A T E M E N T all participants in the construction sector.
As we have commented previously, we see little prospect of a return to market growth this year, and limited prospects for a return to growth in 2010.
It is reassuring to report that our businesses continue to outperform competitors.
In 2008 our divisions grew market share on a like-for-like basis and continue to record leading operating margins in each segment of their markets both key components of our strategy.
Without underplaying the importaken decisive action, and stand ready to take further steps if tance of absolute returns, these relative aspects of our performnecessary.
Our actions are aimed at cutting costs and ance are particularly important to our prospects at this juncture.
conserving cash to mitigate the effects of the difficult market This positioning significantly enhances our resilience as we and to protect the Groups capital structure whilst safeguarding manage the Group through this downturn, since it means we the Groups core strengths.
We believe this stance will produce continue to enjoy the confidence of our customers and have a the best outcome for shareholders in this unusually challenging relative advantage in being able to withstand a given fall in economic environment.
A number of competitors have already closed branches and some have exited the sector altogether.
We expect further rationalisation to take place over the next year, improving our prospects for further like-for-like market share gains from our estate.
Tim Stevenson However, outperforming competitors and enjoying the Chairman benefits of sector rationalisation will not, in themselves, be 18 February 2009 sufficient to safeguard shareholder returns.
