Our Business Chairmans statement Once in a lifetime experiences... Board Peter Rothwell resigned as Deputy CEO in December 2007 and subsequently left the Board.
He was replaced on the Board by Johan Lundgren, Managing Director, Northern Region.
Three new independent Non-Executive Directors, Dr Erhard Schipporeit, Dr Albert Schunk and Harold Sher, also joined the Board in the year.
The majority of the Board is, therefore, composed of independent Non-Executive Directors.
Sustainable Development Dr Michael Frenzel I am delighted that TUI Travel remains a part of the FTSE4Good Non-Executive Chairman index.
As a FTSE100 company, we recognise that we have a responsibility to monitor and manage our impact on the environment and people.
I am delighted to report an excellent performance for the Groups first full year since the merger of First Choice Holidays PLC and Sustainable development is central to the way we run and the Tourism Division of TUI AG.
We have made outstanding manage our business.
We have sustainable development progress in the execution of our strategy and have delivered representatives across all levels of our business from the Board a strong set of results despite record high oil prices and the to representatives in each of our Sectors.
During the year, economic slowdown experienced in many of our source markets.
our businesses continued their work on many sustainable development projects ranging from a leadership programme The strong performance in this financial year highlights the with a local eco-tourism project in Costa Rica to developing strength of the business model and our resulting ability the worlds leading yacht charter facility using environmentally to mitigate the effects of uncontrollable macroeconomic friendly technologies in the British Virgin Islands.
Our success has been driven by disciplined capacity management, the breadth of our offering of differentiated Colleagues products across our market-leading positions, and strong There has been considerable change for all our colleagues consumer brands.
I believe that this strategy will continue to following the merger last year and I have been extremely create value for our shareholders.
impressed by the professionalism and enthusiasm that has been displayed as colleagues embraced the new culture within Results TUI Travel.
It is they who delivered the Groups many successes 1 The Group has achieved a 53% increase in underlying operating in 2008 and I thank them all on behalf of the Board.
Underlying basic earnings 2 per share increased by 42% to 20.4p.
As a result of significant restructuring costs the Group incurred a 2 statutory operating loss of 184.1m 2007 : profit 56.1m and Dr. Michael Frenzel 2 loss before taxation of 266.6m 2007 : profit 18.4m.
The basic Non-Executive Chairman 2 loss per share was 24.4p 2007 : basic earning per share 0.6p.
Dividends 1 The Board is recommending a final dividend of 6.9p per share Underlying operating profit excludes separately disclosed items, amortisation of 2007: 5.9p.
On 18 March 2008, the Board recommended an IFRS 3 intangibles, goodwill impairment and taxation of results of the Groups joint ventures and associates.
Underlying profit before tax also excludes an interim dividend of 2.8p per share, thereby resulting in a 16% acquisition related put option interest charge.
Underlying earnings per share increase in the full year dividend of 9.7p per share 2007: 8.4p.
excludes the same items as excluded from underlying profit before tax, net of The Group has a progressive dividend policy and will continue related taxation.
2 to maintain underlying dividend cover in excess of two times.
This comparative information is presented on an unaudited pro forma basis for 12 months to 30 September 2007.
As set out in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements, the statutory comparative period included in the financial statements is nine months to 30 September 2007 and includes the results of First Choice from 3 September 2007 only.
TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008 10 Business & Financial Review... we make them happen every day TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008 11
