qxp:Layout 1 27 3 09 21:58 Page 8 Group overview Chairmans statement An outstanding year 2008 was another year of record achievement for Tullow.
Exceptional exploration and appraisal results, strong production, profitable portfolio management and the recent successful fund-raising underpin our ability to continue to grow.
An outstanding year Exploration and impairment write-offs of 253 million The scale of Tullows business is being transformed again.
comprising impairment charges of 26 million, There has been a material increase in the Groups booked exploration write-off of 63 million and asset write-downs reserves and resources and two major world-class basins of 164 million: are being successfully fast-tracked towards development.
Best ever safety performance and US$1.8 million invested Highlights for 2008 include: in Working with Communities initiatives, up 100%: 100% exploration and appraisal success in Ghana and 46% increase in employees, as we continued to attract Uganda, which significantly fide-risks these projects and key people and skills to build depth and strength supports material follow-on campaigns: in technical, operational and financial capabilities Strong progress towards being a leading deepwater throughout Tullow: and operator with the preparation of the Jubilee Plan of Good discipline in capital allocation, supported by a Development and initiation of Phase 1: successful debt financing and equity placing in early 2009.
Major oil discoveries in Uganda, moving past the commercial volume threshold for the Lake Albert Rift Record health and safety performance A Lost Time Incident Frequency Rate LTIFR of 0.49 per Basin and into basin-wide phased development: million hours worked was achieved against the current Oil 66,600 boepd average working interest production, with & Gas Producers OGP most recent average of 0.66.
This strong results from key producing assets in Africa: is the Groups best Health and Safety H&S performance to date and these results reflect Tullows unwavering 285 million proceeds realised from asset sales including the sale of the Hewett-Bacton fields and terminal: commitment to ensure the safety of our staff, contractors, We are financially strong, entrepreneurial in spirit and well resourced with excellent technical and operational capability.
The future for Tullow is very bright.
Pat Plunkett, Chairman 8 Tullow Oil plc 2008 Annual Report and Accounts TU017 p8-9 vAW4.
qxp:Layout 1 27 3 09 21:58 Page 9 Group overview Directors report: Business review Directors report: Corporate governance Financial statements Total Shareholder Return TSR % 2% Tullow was the 9th best performer in the FTSE 100, in a difficult year for global stock markets.
Read more on page 69 06 07 08 Go online at: www.
com 08 partners and local communities and our determination to Comprehensive risk management continuously improve our performance in the area.
Tullow faces a wide range of risks in its day-to-day operations and, in addition, the Group has identified and is addressing material risks to strategic delivery.
Risk is of Board and management changes particular importance in todays environment and detailed In March 2008, Matt ODonoghue retired as General information on risk and how this is managed by the Group Manager Projects and from the Board.
Since joining Tullow is outlined in the risk management and risk factors section, in 1987, Matt had given great service in a 21-year career on pages 44 to 47 of this report.
spanning Tullows first project in Senegal to commencing the Jubilee field development in Ghana.
His dedication and Delivering shareholder value commitment played a major role in the success of Tullow.
In 2008, share prices across all sectors were affected by In April 2008, Tom Hickey announced his resignation, for the unprecedented turmoil in global financial markets personal reasons, from his position as Chief Financial and economies.
As a consequence, Tullow delivered Officer and from the Board.
Since joining Tullow in 2000, TSR of 2% for 2008.
However, the Group significantly Tom has made an outstanding contribution to the Group outperformed the FTSE 100 where TSR was minus 28%.
during a unique period in the growth and development of The Group achieved the 9th best share performance in the business.
To effect an orderly transition, Tom remained the Index for the year.
Over a five-year period since 2004, in his role until the end of September.
Tullow has consistently outperformed the market and has delivered TSR of more than 700%.
Ian Springett was appointed to the Board as Chief Financial Officer, from 1 September 2008.
Ian has a wealth of Dividend international oil and gas experience having worked for In light of the current economic uncertainty and the much of his career with BP and brings excellent financial, requirement for major capital investment in Ghana and commercial and planning skills to the Group.
Uganda, the Board feels that it is prudent to maintain the 2008 final dividend at the 2007 level.
Consequently, the In May 2008, Tullow announced the appointment of Board has proposed a final dividend of 4.0 pence per share Ann Grant as a non-executive Director.
Ann has had an 2007: 4.0 pence per share.
This brings the total payout in extensive diplomatic career with invaluable experience respect of 2008 to 6.0 pence per share 2007: 6.0 pence in Africa, which is of particular relevance to Tullow as per share.
The dividend will be paid on 21 May 2009 to we seek to expand our business there.
shareholders on the register on 17 April 2009.
Major investment in people Looking ahead We have continued to invest in the Tullow team and Given the current economic climate, these will be increase the capability of the organisation.
As the scale and challenging times for the oil and gas sector but Tullow complexity of our portfolio increases we are ensuring that is well positioned following an outstanding year in 2008. we are fully prepared for the next phase of growth.
One of We are clear on our key priorities Ghana and Uganda the big issues for most Exploration and Production E&P and have focused our resources, both human and capital, companies today is recruitment and retention.
However, on these significant challenges.
We are financially strong, because of the success we have enjoyed in recent years and entrepreneurial in spirit and well resourced with excellent the career opportunities and rewards this offers, we have technical and operational capability.
The future for Tullow been able to build and continue to build a very strong team.
At the start of 2008, we employed 370 people and now have a team of 540, up 46%.
On pages 48 and 49 of this report, we have a new Our people section which sets out in more detail our people strategy.
Pat Plunkett, Chairman Tullow Oil plc 2008 Annual Report and Accounts 9 49 66 2
