04 Chairmans Statement 2008 was again a successful year for UBM both financially and operationally.
The synchronised slowdown in the global economy is impacting all businesses including our customer constituencies and communities.
We are not immune to this slowdown, but are well positioned with a cohesive strategy, strong financial performance, decisive leadership and capable people, supported by sound finances.
Our cohesive strategy Our strategy is to build businesses which target the needs of specialist communities in B2B and business information distribution, monitoring and targeting.
We provide information, data, marketing services and distribution products.
We aim for each of our businesses to be at the heart of commercial and professional communities, providing a complete range of Our strategy is to build businesses which information, data, services and media products.
We provide the industry leading event, the must read online or print content, target the needs of specialist communities the business critical market analysis or information resource and in B2B and business information distribution, the most comprehensive distribution network and database.
We provide Our core expertise lies in providing continuous valued services information, data, marketing services and and transferring the know-how and expertise from one community to another, from one geography to another and distribution products.
We aim for each of our from one medium to another.
businesses to be at the heart of commercial UBM drives its profitable growth by strengthening and and professional communities, providing extending its existing brands and businesses into new product and a complete range of information, data, geographical markets.
We invest in new product development and in acquisitions, which complement our existing products and services and media products.
help our businesses develop their integrated media portfolios.
UBM is an increasingly international business, with more than 85% of profits now being earned outside of the UK.
Our focus on international expansion will continue as we seek out opportunities to export our successful brands to markets which are experiencing rapid economic growth, particularly China, India and Latin America where we are achieving excellent progress.
Strong financial performance 1 Adjusted continuing group operating profit increased by 4.5% to 2 173.5m 2007: 166.1m.
Diluted earnings per share adjusted increased by 6.7% to 55.8p 2007: 52.3p.
The Board has Seven-year dividend and EPS 20022008 announced a second interim dividend of 18.20p 2007: 16.76p, 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 bringing the total dividend for the year to 23.8p, an increase of 10% on 2007s 21.6p.
pence Diluted earnings per share 15.1 21.7 29.0 36.6 43.8 52.3 55.8 2 adjusted 3 Dividend per share 7.0 9.0 12.0 15.0 18.0 21.6 23.8 1 Before amortisation of intangible assets on acquisitions, exceptional items, share of taxation on profit from joint ventures and associates, and excluding operating profits of discontinued operations see note 10 on page 81.
2 Before amortisation of intangible assets on acquisitions, exceptional items, share of taxation on profit from joint ventures and associates, net financing costs other than interest and deferred tax on the amortisation of intangible assets.
EPS also excludes deferred tax on the amortisation of intangible assets.
Diluted EPS includes the impact of share options.
05 Decisive leadership Sound financial base During the year we have significantly reorganised our operations Our balance sheet remains strong with low gearing and very which are now grouped around the two core activities: B2B comfortable interest coverage.
During 2008, and early 2009, Communities and B2B Distribution, Monitoring and Targeting.
we increased the amount of available term financing by arranging Our historic B2B management structure was fide-layered two new committed facilities totalling 105m.
Additionally, resulting in a flatter organisation, which has removed redundant our existing 325m multi-currency revolving credit facility from divisional overheads.
We now have 15 highly motivated and our relationship banks and other committed facilities take our focused businesses whose Chief Executives are empowered to total committed funding to 502.8m.
At 31 December, UBM move those businesses forward with a lean centre, but, critically had net debt of 260.6m.
with an environment in place to share learning in product and As the credit crunch continues through 2009, there will be market development across our 70 plus communities.
Furthermore increasing opportunities for UBM to continue to acquire attractive the roll-out of our internal Wiki, which now has more than businesses building on our acquisition return record which 4,500 active users, is significantly enhancing our business process, has been well above our cost of capital.
Accordingly, we have improving communication and facilitating each business to tap suspended the process of capital return announced in 2007 into the knowledge store of the Group as a whole.
and will focus on delivering value from the market opportunities The appointment of Ninan Chacko to the role of CEO of ahead of us.
PR Newswire will enable us to expand into broadly related information markets.
Ninan succeeds Charles Gregson, who Perspective will retire in December 2009.
On behalf of the Board, I would UBM has a clear, well-established strategy and a proven like to thank Charles for his stewardship of PR Newswire over management team who are implementing this strategy effectively.
the past four years and his contribution to the Group over the UBM will continue the development of its business organically and last 35 years.
by acquisition, expanding its core businesses and entering new A key component of expanding UBMs approach is how we markets and new geographies.
UBM is well positioned to expand recruit, develop and retain our key staff, particularly our most and support our customer base around the world in 2009 and to talented managers.
Over the past three years, 56 senior staff respond effectively to the challenges of the deteriorating drawn from every one of our businesses have participated in our international business environment.
This investment in and development of high calibre staff is clearly evolving UBM into a more agile, entrepreneurial and innovative Company.
On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank all our employees for their continuing efforts during the year and for their excellent response to the reshaping of the Company.
During 2008, Adair Turner, Sandy Leitch and Chris Hyman retired at the AGM.
Their contribution to the Companys development and transition has been significant and deserves John Botts our collective appreciation.
One new non-executive director, Chairman Alan Gillespie, was appointed during 2008.
The process to recruit additional non-executive directors continues during 2009.
