Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Chairmans statement Your company has maintained its long-term focus on gaining strong market positions.
The Group is a specialist supplier of electronic systems, products and services in growing sectors within the defence, security, transport and energy sectors.
Dr Julian Blogh, Chairman independence of thought, thorough professionalism and a real Dear shareholder focus on supporting the development of the Group.
I wish him a I am pleased to report that 2008 has been another good year for long, happy and healthy retirement.
The Group, which is a specialist supplier of electronic systems, products and services, focuses on growing markets within David will be succeeded by Paul Dean who has a broad range of the defence, security, transport and energy sectors.
Ultra has experience in the quoted and private sectors and an excellent track continued to benefit from the successful execution of its strategy.
Paul joined Ultra at the start of the year Indeed, the Group strengthened its portfolio of niche offerings and and will succeed David on the Board as Group Finance Director at broadened its geographic reach during 2008. the AGM.
I welcome Paul to Ultra and am confident that he will prove to be an excellent successor to David.
The Group increased profit before tax by 18% and generated an operating cash flow of 79 million whilst investing more in new Andrew Walker has been a non-executive director of Ultra markets, technologies, products and capabilities.
As a result of since 1996 and has been the senior independent non-executive this performance we are proposing to increase the total dividend director since 1998.
We will miss Andrews incisive and per share by 23% to 26.0p.
This is in line with the Groups policy challenging review of the Groups strategies and tactics and we of maintaining dividend cover at about three times.
wish him well for the future.
Most importantly, the year has also seen us make good progress I am delighted to welcome Sir Robert Walmsley to the Board as a relating to the Boards main objective of delivering superior non-executive Director.
I am certain that Sir Roberts wealth of performance to shareholders, as measured through total shareholder experience will be a great asset to the Group.
Although 2008 was a year in which nearly all shares fell in With these changes, Chris Bailey becomes the Boards senior value, Ultra outperformed the FTSE 250 index as a whole again in independent non-executive director.
David Garbett-Edwards has the year, as it has done over the last five years.
He is a qualified accountant Ultra has a robust annual strategic review process.
Each year, a who has many years experience with the Group.
rolling five year plan is reviewed and refreshed.
At the core of Ultras excellent employees are central to the Groups success this process is the need to ensure we are maximising long-term and, on behalf of the Board, I thank them for their hard work value for shareholders while acting responsibly.
The Group has a and dedication.
With so much professionalism, commitment and robust strategy, effective financial and other controls and is enthusiasm in the Group I am confident that we can meet the organised to deliver its plan.
Ultra has empowered its challenges of the future, to ensure that we capitalise on the many management teams in the businesses so that they may operate opportunities before us to win new business and to continue the in a responsive, flexible and agile way.
By constantly pursuing development of Ultra.
product and process innovation, Ultras businesses are in a strong position to provide and deliver differentiated products, services Once again I am able to report that your company is in excellent and solutions to meet customer requirements.
condition and is on course to continue to deliver superior shareholder value.
The Group is positioned in market sectors The Board has an evaluation process by which the effectiveness of worldwide that continue to offer significant headroom for further the Board, its subcommittees and each individual Director are growth.
Many of Ultras niche markets are also relatively resilient assessed over a rolling two year period.
In 2008 the effectiveness in terms of maintaining growth despite current market conditions.
of the Board as a whole was reviewed with the assistance of an These factors, combined with Ultras proven ability to win new external consultant.
business and to deliver customer satisfaction through the effective The composition of the Board is changing.
Dr Frank Hope left the execution of contracts, give the Board confidence in the Group in June 2008 and was not replaced on the Board, which now continuing progress of the Group.
comprises four non-executive directors and three executive directors.
Dr Julian Blogh, Chairman It has previously been announced that David Jeffcoat will retire and Andrew Walker will step down at the Annual General Meeting in April 2009.
David has been Group Finance Director since 2000 and has been outstanding in that role.
He has consistently demonstrated an 02 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc see footnote on page 01
