10 11 Chairmans statement INVESTMENT IN RESEARCH AND AVEVAs success for many years has DEVELOPMENT INCREASED BY been built upon our world leading technologies developed specically 21% for the design of complex engineering projects, our excellent customer relationships and the quality PROFIT BEFORE TAX INCREASED BY of staff we employ.
NICK PREST, CHAIRMAN 83% DIVIDEND INCREASED BY 59% INCREASE IN CASH BY 100% a highly focused AVEVA Group plc Annual report 2008 Directors report 10 11 SUMMARY OF CHAIRMANS STATEMENT AVEVA has delivered another year of record levels of revenue and profit continued to grow our sales network full year dividend of 6.65p 2007 4.18p, an increase of 59% welcome as Non-Executive Directors Jonathan Brooks and Philip Dayer I am very pleased to announce that AVEVA has delivered projects.
We also continued to invest in new products On behalf of the Board I would like to thank all another year of record levels of revenue and profit aimed at our existing vertical markets which address those that have contributed to our success.
whilst increasing investment in our product suite, how our customers can manage their high value assets which provides our customers with world leading through the full life cycle of ownership from the Board changes engineering IT solutions in the Oil and Gas, planning and specication stages through to There were some changes to the Board in the course Power and Marine markets.
We are pleased to welcome as Non-Executive Directors Jonathan Brooks and Philip Dayer.
Jonathan Key nancials Cash continued to grow in line with trading and now has extensive experience of finance and operations Revenue grew by 34% to 127.6 million amounts to 82.8 million 2007 41.3 million, in quoted international technology companies and 2007 94.9 million reecting growth across reflecting the underlying strength of cash Philip has a background in international capital all our major geographic regions where we continue conversion in the business.
We look forward to see high levels of demand from all our key industries.
to their contribution going forward.
At the end of the The mix of licence revenue between initial fees Dividend financial year Colin Garrett retired from the Board and recurring revenue remained broadly in line The continued strength in trading has led the Board having served for many years as Non-Executive with prior years, with recurring revenue of to recommend an increased final dividend of 5.0p Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Together with the interim dividend We are very grateful to him for his contribution fees of 52.9 million 2007 34.2 million.
of 1.65p 2007 1.24p this gives a full year dividend to the development of AVEVA.
Adjusted profit before tax, amortisation, share-based Outlook payments and goodwill adjustment increased by Subject to approval at the Annual General Meeting Looking ahead the Board believes the outlook 70% to 47.9 million 2007 28.1 million and the final dividend will be paid on 1 August 2008 for the current year remains very positive for the adjusted earnings per share increased by 74% to shareholders on the register on 27 June 2008. business.
The industries we serve remain buoyant, to 55.22p 2007 31.71p.
Profit before tax driven by high commodity prices and strong underlying amounted to 45.0 million 2007 24.6 million.
The strength of our technology Our success for many years has been built upon the and market position combined with our focus on Investment over many years in both our direct sales quality of the staff we employ and the development serving the needs of the Oil and Gas, Power and channel and our product suite has been key to our and maintenance of our relationships with our Marine industries today and in the future augur current success.
This year has been no exception customers.
The efforts from all our staff worldwide well for the continued success of our business.
as we continued to grow our sales network, have been exceptional and this has allowed us to resulting in substantial increases in headcount capitalise on the strength of the markets in which we and ofce expansions.
operate and maintain our market leading position.
Our customers, who are currently experiencing Investment in Research and Development increased exceptionally high levels of demand, have continued Nick Prest by 21% to 21.3 million 2007 17.6 million.
to entrust us with developing solutions that will Chairman This year has seen major new releases of existing help keep their organisations at the forefront products addressing many of the issues our customers of this expansion by improving efficiency encounter in increasingly large and complex global and productivity.
and truly global organisation... AVEVA Group plc Annual report 2008 Directors report
