Report of the Directors Chairmans statement Our strategy, in an unpredictable 2008 was a difficult and turbulent year generally for business all around the world.
It was dominated by a banking crisis which economic environment, is to started in the US sub-prime property market and which quickly spread to other asset classes and countries.
These problems were maintain our growth momentum exacerbated by the volatile price of mineral oil and, for companies like Unilever, record rises in the cost of vegetable oils like palm, and deliver competitive levels soy and rapeseed.
Despite these unprecedented circumstances I am pleased to report that Unilever performed well in 2008 and emerged as a stronger, more competitive company.
It delivered good results on both top and bottom line and its strong cash flows allowed it to produce substantial returns to shareholders in the form of both share buy-backs and dividends.
Part of this was due to the inherent strength and stability of the company.
Partly it was the result of a robust strategy, effectively implemented.
But partly, too, it was due to the leadership of Patrick Cescau who retired from the business on 31 December see panel opposite.
As a Board team, one of our most important tasks in 2008 was to manage Patricks succession once he had signalled his intention to retire.
The process, initiated and led by our Nomination Committee, was wide-ranging and thorough.
It was as a result of this search that we were lucky enough to find Paul Polman.
We are delighted that Paul accepted our offer to become Chief Executive Officer.
He has immense experience of the markets in which we operate, having spent 26 years in our industry.
Paul brings with him a deep understanding of brands, consumers and customers.
He also has an enthusiasm for consumer goods which is palpable and will bring new energy and ideas to Unilever.
The other change in personnel since our 2008 AGMs has been the transition of Genevive Berger from Non-Executive Director to Chief R&D Officer on the Executive team.
In this capacity she will be able to bring her great knowledge of science and technology to the service of the business.
In an industry where innovation is such a critical success factor I believe that this is an important and far-sighted appointment.
At our 2008 AGMs Kees van der Graaf and Ralph Kugler stepped down from the Boards.
They are currently composed of 12 members of whom two are Executives.
David Simon will be retiring as a Non-Executive Director at the end of our 2009 AGMs after three terms of three years.
During that time he has served as our Vice Chairman, Senior Independent Director and Chairman of our Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
On behalf of our Boards, I take this opportunity to thank him for his contribution, wise counsel and service since 2000.
It is intended that David will be succeeded in those roles by Jeroen van der Veer, with effect from the 2009 AGMs.
As part of the time that the Boards spent with the business Patrick Cescau during the year, we visited our laboratories in Bangalore and On behalf of the Directors and everyone our customer innovation centre in New Jersey.
The Boards at Unilever, I want to express our appreciation to Patrick Cescau for reviewed the strategy at a two-day meeting in October.
his services to Unilever over the last 35 years.
By any standards, Patricks One of the striking things to emerge from our strategy session career has been a remarkable one, culminating with his appointment was the consistency of Unilevers approach.
While the strategy in 2005 as Unilevers first ever Chief has evolved to take account of the changing external environment, Executive Officer.
its essential elements remain unchanged.
The Group is still Since that time he has helped to committed to growing competitively and will do so by developing transform the company.
Significant its core assets of brands, technology, geographic spread and organisational change particularly marketing excellence.
Just as importantly its principles remain the implementation of One Unilever has been accompanied by a unchanged.
The Group will deliver its results in a sustainable consistent improvement in business fashion seeking to manage its social and environmental results and overall performance.
impacts in a manner which meets the needs of all its stakeholders.
Patrick leaves the business stronger than he found it, well placed to meet the challenges that lie ahead.
We are proposing to change to a simpler and more transparent dividend practice for the Unilever group from 2010 onwards.
Throughout his time in the business, Patrick also came to embody the These changes will result in more frequent dividend payments qualities and values that help to make through the payment of quarterly dividends to shareholders.
Unilever a special business: respect, They will also better align dividend payouts with the cash flow humanity, integrity.
It is for these reasons that he is liked and respected generation of the business.
Further details are included in the in equal measure, both inside the 2009 AGM Notices.
We all wish Patrick a long and Looking forward, I remain confident.
with a realistic assessment of the challenges which it would have to face.
Its plans were built on the assumption of a deep and prolonged global economic downturn.
We are determined to emerge from this in good shape.
Finally, on behalf of the Boards, I would like to extend my sincere thanks to all of Unilevers 174 000 employees.
They have had to cope with, and manage, a huge amount of change.
They have done this in an exemplary and responsible fashion.
Michael Treschow Chairman Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2008 5
