indd Proof: 06 Proof Read by: Operator: r o b Date: 13.06.2008 Server: studio 3 Set-up: r o b First Read Revisions chairMans stateMent 2008 was another excellent year for Vedanta.
A significant increase in volumes across all our metals combined with productivity gains and stable operating costs delivered industry-leading growth and returns for our shareholders.
2008 HigHligHtS At the time of our listing in 2003, we set Our 7.5 million tonne Konkola Deeps 2008 was another excellent year for out a four-pillar strategy to secure an expansion project and the 300,000 TPA Vedanta.
A significant increase in industry-leading growth profile.
We Nchanga smelter project are on course volumes across all our metals continued to make significant progress for completion on schedule, which will combined with productivity gains and in 2008 against this strategy.
significantly increase our total copper stable operating costs delivered capacity and will improve the industry-leading growth and returns The first pillar of our strategy is to operational and financial performance for our shareholders.
optimise the performance of our of our Zambian operations.
existing assets improving production We continue to offer a unique and reducing costs.
We made good We also recently announced expansion investment story by delivering progress this year with, for example, projects that will increase our total expansion projects ahead of schedule the substantial increase in our zincintegrated zinc-lead capacity to and within budget, in a challenging lead reserves and resources on the 1,065,000 TPA, making us the worlds environment.
We have significant near back of a strong exploration effort, the largest integrated zinc-lead producer.
term organic growth projects across completion of the debottlenecking This expansion is also expected to all of our businesses.
project in our Zinc business and the gradually increase our silver 17.0% increase in production in Sesa production from 2.8 million oz to over We achieved record revenues for the Goa.
The overall result of several 16.1 million oz per annum.
fifth consecutive year of $8.2 billion, up ongoing efficiency initiatives has 26.0% over last year.
EBITDA was in helped maintain stability in operating In our commercial energy business, the excess of $3.0 billion for the first time, costs and increase in productivity 2,400 MW independent power project at with free cash flow of $2.2 billion, up and volumes.
Jharsuguda remains on track for 47.0%.
We generated excellent returns progressive commissioning from for our shareholders, as evidenced by The second pillar of our strategy is to September 2009. a strong ROCE of 45.6% and a TSR pursue organic growth opportunities.
Since We are making excellent progress in Finally, we continue to evaluate our IPO, we have delivered a TSR our $8.8 billion investment programme additional organic growth opportunities.
to increase capacity in all our base The abundance of bauxite and coal in metals to 1.0 million tonnes per annum.
India, combined with our proven track 2008 Strategic acHievementS We are delivering projects at industryrecord in project delivery, presents an There were three significant strategic leading benchmark capital costs, within exciting growth opportunity.
In April 2007, budget and ahead of schedule.
we acquired a 51.0% stake in Sesa Goa, The third pillar of our strategy is the Indias largest producer-exporter of We commissioned our 1.4 mtpa Lanjigarh consolidation of minorities and the iron ore, a commodity with attractive alumina refinery in July 2007, the further rationalisation of the Group fundamentals.
In June 2007, our largest new refinery in India in over two structure.
In April 2008, we successfully Indian subsidiary, Sterlite Industries decades.
We successfully tapped the completed the acquisition of the completed its US ADR offering, first metal from Phase I of the 500 ktpa 28.4% stake in KCM, taking our total successfully raising $2.0 billion, Jharsuguda Aluminium project in shareholding in KCM to 79.4%.
In the largest ever IPO by an Indian May 2008, more than one year ahead respect of the acquisition of the Indian company in the US at that time.
of schedule, with Phase II on track.
Governments stakes in BALCO and In April 2008, we completed the Our 170 kt zinc smelter at Chanderiya HZL, significant progress was achieved purchase of an additional 28.4% was commissioned in December 2007, during the year and we anticipate a stake in KCM in line with our strategy three months ahead of schedule.
VEDANTA RESOURCES PLC 04 ANNUAL REPORT 2008 Job: 10808 VED 08 front AW.
indd Proof: 06 Proof Read by: Operator: r o b Date: 13.06.2008 Server: studio 3 Set-up: r o b First Read Revisions overview and support they provide our Our focus has also remained on The fourth pillar of our strategy is to leverage our established skills and seek management team.
achieving best practice in the management of the health and safety of additional investment opportunities.
In April 2007, we acquired a 51.0% SUStainaBle development our employees and contractors as well We see sustainable development as impact upon the environment.
I am controlling stake in Sesa Goa, Indias largest producer-exporter of iron ore, and CSR matters as central to the particularly pleased to note significant way that we conduct our business progress in various areas including marking our entry into a bulk commodity that has attractive longer-term and recognise that our obligations reductions in injury rates and to society include ensuring that improvements in specific water and fundamentals.
We have already delivered excellent growth and returns we manage our health, safety, energy consumption levels.
Effective environmental and social impacts, management of these areas is a with this business and aim to grow Sesa Goa into a 25 million tonne producer of risks and opportunities effectively.
management imperative and is the subject of regular and detailed scrutiny iron ore within the next few years.
Our approach and engagement with at all levels of management throughout communities within which we operate our Group.
people Driving our achievements and success is is holistic and robust.
Our work encompasses 383 villages across India I am pleased with our achievements in our dedicated and talented workforce of nearly 29,000 people.
I would like to and Zambia, positively enhancing the sustainable development in the last year.
quality of life of over 2.5 million people.
Going forward, we aim to be an industrythank them for their superior efforts this year.
We remain committed to continuing leading company in this area and to work We conceived the Integrated Village closely with all of our stakeholders.
to provide a challenging and rewarding work environment for all our employees.
Development Program as a benchmark to address the sustainable and inclusive oUtlook In April 2008, I announced that Kuldip growth goals of the communities Global demand for metals continues to where we operate.
This community be strong and we are well placed to Kaura will retire as Chief Executive on the completion of his term on 30 development model is aligned to the serve this growing demand.
The industry Millennium Goals to best provide for faces challenges in terms of cost September 2008.
He will be succeeded by MS Mehta, currently Chief Executive a longer-term socio-economic impact pressures and the ability to bring new and inclusive growth.
It has been capacities to production on time and of our Zinc business.
During the intervening period, MS Mehta will work successfully implemented in 32 within budget.
We believe that we have villages in Rajasthan and is now an unrivalled track record in this closely with Kuldip to ensure a smooth transfer of responsibilities.
being implemented in both Lanjigarh challenging environment in our ability to and Jharsuguda.
deliver projects at global benchmark I would like to thank Kuldip, who has costs and aggressive timelines.
The Public Private Partnership between been a tremendous support to me during this phase of multifold growth the State Government of Rajasthan, We will continue to build upon our 2008 Naandi Foundation and Hindustan Zinc achievements responsibly and I eagerly and has played an instrumental role in the transformation of Vedanta into a well to provide nutritious meals daily to look forward to reporting on our nearly 200,000 children in Chittorgarh, progress on various initiatives in 2009. admired and robust organisation, ready to take on opportunities of the future.
We are convinced that this tripartite social I would also like to thank all my investment is one of the main factors anil agarWal contributing to widening primary Chairman fellow Directors for their invaluable contribution to our decision making and education and intend to replicate this 15 May 2008 success story in Rajsamand district of the healthy and constructive direction Rajasthan, Chattisgarh and Orissa.
VEDANTA RESOURCES PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2008 05
