VT Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Chairmans Statement Michael Jeffries Chairman We continue to be encouraged by the performance of the Group, the dedication and capability of its employees and the strong culture of working together that prevails across the Group and with our key customers.
The Group continues to make excellent progress 008 performance with strong results shown by all our divisions.
This has been another successful year for the Group.
We have enhanced the long-term Outlook visibility of our business and expanded the Our strategy of focusing on developing range of our engineering support services into engineering support businesses has seen new high growth sectors.
us move into new sectors of high growth Turnover increased by 20 per cent to activity through nuclear services and 1,201 million 2007: 1,005m.
profit before taxation improved by 20 per We continue to grow the order book and we cent to 89.1 million 2007: 74.2m with the have achieved significant milestones in aviation corresponding adjusted earnings per share support with the signing of the Future Strategic improving by 15 per cent to 35.5p 2007: 30.9p.
Tanker Aircraft FSTA programme and UK Operating cash conversion during the period Military Flying Training System.
This performance has enabled the Board to recommend a final dividend of BVT Surface Fleet Limited, our Joint Venture 9.55 pence, giving a total dividend for the in shipbuilding and naval support with BAE year of 13.1p pence per share, an increase Systems, is ready to be implemented following of 11 per cent over last year.
the Governments recent confirmation of the placement of the manufacturing contract for the It is pleasing to note that of the 20 per cent Royal Navys new aircraft carriers CVF.
increase in turnover achieved across all our divisions, over half was attributable to We have a well planned strategy to grow organic growth.
our engineering support services activities and we are also in a good position to benefit We continue to be encouraged by the from excellent visibility of earnings, strong performance of the Group, the dedication operating cash flow and good order pipeline.
and capability of its employees and the strong The Board remains confident for the current culture of working together that prevails year and beyond.
across the Group and with our key customers.
These are important strengths as we become involved in larger programmes and engage with new customers.
VT Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 3 Our strategy will continue to concentrate upon commercial role which has become increasingly engineering-based support services which important to the Group as we become involved utilise our technical and project management in larger programmes.
Our focus on higher value services will In our management In May 2008 David Thorpe stepped down as a remain an important driver as we continue to non-executive director after fi five years serving teams, we have grow our existing business organically and VT Group.
David has been a valued member of identify further suitable acquisition targets.
the experience the board and we thank him for his important contribution to VTs progress.
All our divisions have made signifi cant progress and expertise over the past year and we have plans to increase In his place we welcome Balfour Beatty to pursue our our presence in areas such as nuclear services Chief Executive Offi cer Ian Tyler.
Ian joined corporate strategy and waste management.
Balfour Beatty as Finance Director in 1996.
He subsequently became Chief Operating and to drive the The Group has won important roles in some Offi cer and took over as CEO in 2005. of the largest defence Private Finance Initiative business forward.
Ians business knowledge and experience, PFI and support services programmes placed especially in Balfour Beattys development as a by the Ministry of Defence, namely the Future major services provider, will be of great benefi t Strategic Tanker Aircraft FSTA and UK Military as we continue to implement the Group strategy.
Peter McIntosh has rejoined VT after a two-year Our emphasis on engineering support services spell on secondment as Chief Executive of the will increase when we form the shipbuilding and Aircraft Carrier Alliance.
Peter has returned naval support Joint Venture with BAE Systems to the Board and is responsible both for our BVT Surface Fleet Limited following the signing shipbuilding business and for our new activities of the transaction documents for the joint in the nuclear and waste sectors.
venture, which we announced on 11 June.
The continuing success of our business The formation of BVT will create a world class can only be achieved through our people: company that will serve the interests of the UK their drive and enthusiasm is fundamental to market and will successfully address overseas our unique VT culture.
In our management markets, securing the future for the industry and teams, we have the experience and expertise benefi ting the UK.
VT and BAE Systems are to pursue our corporate strategy and to drive ready to implement the joint venture following the business forward.
the EGM of the Company which will take place on 30 June.
Prospects Our shipbuilding business continues to perform The progress of the Group and the growth well.
We will complete our contribution to the of our order book to 4.9 billion refl ect the Type 45 destroyer programme on time by the continuing successful implementation of our end of this year and the export orders for Oman corporate strategy.
We intend to concentrate and Trinidad and Tobago provide us with a on the organic development of new business in workload until 2011.
We also have encouraging engineering support services whilst maintaining further export prospects.
Our support services businesses have all The formation of BVT will provide us with a contributed to the progress of the Group with further opportunity to take the Group forward.
VT Communications maintaining good profi t Our continuing development into a broader margins: VT Education and Skills showing based support services group will capitalise marked improvement in underlying operating on the engineering-based heritage that has profi t and margins: VT Support Services been the foundation for VTs success.
We will strengthening its position in key markets: continue to apply this expertise to markets and in the US we grew margins by developing which are critical to the success of our higher value technical services.
customers, primarily in Government sectors.
This model has been evident in our two most Board and people recent acquisitions, VT Aepco in the United States and VT Nuclear Services.
In November last year, we were delighted to welcome Philip Harrison to the Board as The Future Strategic Tanker Aircraft FSTA Group Financial Director.
Phil took over the and the Military Flying Training System MFTS fi financial reins from Chris Cundy, who had been projects are good examples of our ability to temporarily fulfi lling the role of Finance and augment our organic business by securing Commercial Director.
His arrival means that long-term programmes which provide excellent Chris is now free to concentrate on his visibility of earnings.
As pressure mounts on Overview of the Year VT Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Chairmans Statement continued defence and other UK Government budgets, VT Education and Skills VTE&S has shown we believe that our position as a leading an improvement in profit.
The division has support services company will be enhanced expanded its work in providing education as HM Government looks increasingly to the services and has also exploited an opportunity The progress of private sector to provide efficient, cost-effective to strengthen its position in supplying the Group and support activities.
engineering training for the automotive industry.
Further potential exists to improve our market the growth of our In the immediate future, we are competing share in this sector.
VTE&S continues to for further programmes including Whole order book to address new Building Schools for the Future Fleet Management WFM, New Dimensions opportunities, concentrating on its role as a 4.9 billion reflect and Search and Rescue Helicopter where specialist provider of education services.
our capability means that we are well placed the continuing to provide the solution which the customer Education and skills remains a challenging successful is seeking.
market but we believe that VT is now recognised as a significant player in the sector and can implementation Customer requirements for more efficient, leverage this position to further develop the more affordable support also place us in of our corporate business.
The planned acquisition of the a good position to expand our role in new rest of Flagship Training, through the BVT JV strategy.
We intend markets, including nuclear services and agreement, will make VTE&S the UKs biggest waste management.
The 75 billion budget to concentrate education and training provider.
for decommissioning nuclear facilities that is on the organic projected until 2035 was an important factor in The acquisition of VT Aepco in the US has our acquisition of VT Nuclear Services, formerly strengthened our links with the US Army and development of British Nuclear Group Project Services, and the US Government.
We have already seen the this move has been further highlighted by the benefits of the acquisition through the continued new business Government identifying nuclear power as a improvement in margins of the US business in engineering fundamental part of future energy requirements and this strategy to increase returns from the in the UK.
activities of VT Services Inc. will continue.
support services Having achieved preferred bidder status in VT Support Services continues to make good whilst maintaining the competition to provide a Private Finance progress and the addition of FSTA and MFTS a well planned Initiative PFI waste management and recycling will provide further long-term organic growth.
facility in the Metropolitan Borough of Wakefield, With several major prospects, the division is acquisition policy.
Yorkshire, several other opportunities have now set to maintain its role as a leading provider of emerged as local authorities look to reduce their support services in the defence, emergency dependence on landfill schemes to meet EU services and commercial markets.
VT Shipbuilding continues to develop prospects Environmental services markets offer a for work overseas.
We are working closely with considerable opportunity as we move towards our Greek partners, Elefsis Shipbuilding, to becoming a broadly based engineering support secure a further order from the Hellenic Navy for services business.
fast attack craft and prospects in Saudi Arabia and Libya are progressing.
VT Communications will benefit from providing information, communications and technology services to both the FSTA and MFTS programmes and the business continues to strengthen its position in the provision of new media distribution and digital transmission.
It has also secured business in relation to the television switchover from analogue to digital signalling.
VTCs organic growth is expected to be strengthened by the extension of its Government contract.
