The Weir Group PLC Annual Report 2008 Chairmans Statement I am pleased to report a further year of significantly improved operational and financial performance.
In 2008, we benefited from our alignment to the oil and gas, mining and power markets and delivered strong growth in revenue and operating profit.
Financial highlights The Weir Group enjoyed another successful year delivering a substantial increase in sales, earnings and cash flow generation.
Our acquisition of Warman within the Minerals Division, improved operational performance from the Power & Industrial Division and full year addition of Weir SPM in the Oil & Gas Division, all contributed to this very strong result.
Group revenue from continuing operations increased 34% to 1.4bn 2007: 1.0bn driven by a partial year contribution from our most recent acquisitions, a full year contribution from Weir SPM, which was acquired in July 2007 and stronger performances across all divisions.
Operating profit from continuing operations before intangibles amortisation, at 185.0m was 58% above the 2007 level of 116.9m.
Operating margins, excluding intangibles amortisation and joint ventures, increased to 13.3% against 11.3% last year.
The Weir Group enjoyed another successful As a result of this strong performance, Group pre-tax profit from year delivering a substantial increase in sales, continuing operations before intangibles amortisation was up 53% to 176.2m 2007: 115.0m.
earnings and cash flow generation.
With an effective tax rate of 29.4% on attributable profit for continuing operations before intangibles amortisation, earnings per share on the same basis amounted to 59.3p 2007: 39.7p.
Trading profit, excluding intangibles amortisation, of 2.8m was realised in respect of our discontinued operations and an exceptional gain of 55.1m was recognised in relation to the disposal of Strachan & Henshaw during the year.
Operating cash flow from continuing operations improved significantly to 214.4m 2007: 143.5m as a result both of increased profitability and the success of management focus on improving working capital.
The year ended with net debt of 239.9m, compared with 171.3m in 2007, reflecting the combination of continued strong cash generation, the acquisitions of Warman, Mesa and Standard Oilfield Services SOS and a 63.5m adverse foreign currency translation impact.
We reduced further the Groups exposure to its pension fund obligations through the purchase of a second insurance policy in respect of certain deferred members of the main UK scheme.
The Board is recommending a final dividend of 13.85p per share making a total distribution for the year of 18.5p 2007: 16.5p, a 12% increase on 2007.
2 Chairmans Statement Strategy & structure announced the appointment of Richard Menell as a non-executive director.
Richard has spent his life working in the mining industry It is pleasing to report a further year of significantly improved in South Africa, Australia and the United States.
operational performance and financial returns by the Group.
The achievements include a realigned portfolio of businesses, Following an extensive period of service with the Group, Professor improved operational performance and the addition of several Ian Percy has confirmed his intention to retire from the Board ahead high quality businesses.
Our investments in Lean processes and of our annual general meeting in 2010.
In preparation for this most recent acquisitions were also significant contributors to change, Michael Dearden, who has been with the Group as a the Groups 2008 performance.
non-executive director since 2003, will be appointed senior independent director with effect from November 2009.
During the year, the Group was reorganised into three divisions: Minerals, Oil & Gas and Power & Industrial with the services businesses being integrated into each of these divisions.
We are Corporate governance convinced that sales efficiency, end-to-end offerings and geographic leverage from a sector focused organisation will be significant.
I remain confident that we have the culture and required processes within the Weir Group to protect effectively the interests of all of In March, we concluded the acquisition of Warman, a South our stakeholders.
Ethical conduct remains a vital part of the Weir African based company, for a cash consideration of US$231m.
Group culture and a non-negotiable expectation of every Weir This acquisition provides the Minerals Division with a platform employee.
It is supported by our code of conduct and clear in the strategically important sub-Saharan mining market.
In April, the Group announced the sale of Strachan & Henshaw, The Boards governance framework is underpinned by clearly its remaining defence activity, for a cash consideration of 63.7m.
defined strategies and strong vision and values which combine to We disposed of the non-core Canadian distribution business for create shareholder value through effective use of our resources.
a cash consideration of CAD$25m and concluded our disposal Internal audit complements our external and peer group audits activities with the sale of the UK Materials & Foundries operations and self-certification programmes.
In June, we acquired Mesa for a cash consideration of US$40m.
This Texas-based business has aligned markets with Weir SPM People and extends our products and service offerings in the upstream oil On behalf of the Board, I want to thank all our employees for their sector.
The integration programme has gone well and the business commitment, tireless energy and focus during 2008.
In 2009, our exceeded revenue and profit expectations during the period.
continued focus on developing our markets, improving productivity In July, the Group acquired 75% of SOS, a small oilfield services and forging new and stronger customer relationships will be critical company in Baku, for a cash consideration of US$16m, with the to the Groups ongoing success.
objective of extending the geographic reach of the Groups Oil & Gas operations.
The business is being integrated successfully and plans are in place to extend its reach to the wider Caspian region.
Prospects Managements key priority in 2009 is to steer the Group through The long cycle nature of our end markets helped to insulate the the unprecedented headwinds which the volatility in equity and Group from the economic turmoil which occurred in the broader constrained debt markets will inevitably have on the Groups end economy in the second half of 2008. markets.
The combination of necessary management actions to While we enter 2009 with a significantly stronger forward order address these issues and the continued progress in the execution book than at the same point last year, we are not immune from the of the Weir Production System across all operations underpins our broader economic environment and expect lower activity levels and plans to further improve working capital, grow our market share capital spending deferrals to feature in many of the Groups end and enhance customer relationships.
The Group has developed plans to respond to the impact The Group continues to invest both in organic development and of slowing market conditions and remains committed to delivering extending our presence in higher growth markets.
The current sector leading performance.
economic environment, however, requires increased diligence in Despite the Groups best ever performance in 2008, our share price the Groups corporate activities and shareholders can be assured has been adversely impacted by the global turmoil.
In the face of of a continued disciplined approach to future growth.
these volatile conditions, I remain confident the Group has the right strategy and depth of expertise to deliver sector leading returns to our shareholders.
The Board At last years annual general meeting, Christopher Clarke confirmed his intention to retire from the Board at the end of the year following Lord Smith of Kelvin nine years of valued service to the Group.
In preparation for this Chairman change, with effect from 1 June 2008, John Mogford was appointed 10 March 2009 a non-executive director.
John is a senior executive with BP and brings 30 years experience in the oil and gas sector.
