CHairmaNS STaTEmENT fOCUSEd ON SHarEHOLdEr VaLUE fOCUSEd ON SHarEHOLdEr VaLUE I am pleased to report another year of good progress across the Group.
We continued to concentrate on creating shareholder value by improving our profitability and customer offer.
During 2008, the Group continued to focus on profitability in both the Travel and High Street businesses, and on the optimal use of our assets: a particular priority was to complete the roll-out of our Post Office and motorway stores and integrating our new Travel acquisitions.
As a result, the Group delivered good profit performance.
Group profit before tax and exceptional items was 15 per cent ahead of last year at 76m.
A fine achievement, particularly in light of the tough trading environment.
Total sales for the Group were up four per cent at 1.35 billion, with like-for-like sales down two per cent.
This performance led the Board to recommend a final dividend of 9.7p.
In addition, during the year we returned 90m of cash to shareholders through a special dividend, combined with a share consolidation and an on-market share I am pleased to report another year buy back programme.
of good progress across the Group.
This completes another year of our turnaround plan, focused on rebuilding WHSmiths position as Britains We continued to concentrate on most popular stationer, bookseller and newsagent, creating shareholder value by improving retailing basics and cost control, driving gross margin, concentrating on our core categories and using improving our profitability and our space more effectively.
This plan has been executed rigorously and consistently, with significant growth in customer offer.
value for shareholders since January 2004.
Our Travel business continues to make good progress, rObErT WaLkEr, CHairmaN with significant expansion of the division in the hospital, air and motorway channels following the acquisition of UNS Group Limited and airport units from Alpha Retail UK Limited and a franchise agreement with RoadChef.
Travel achieved total sales growth of 22 per cent and increased like-for-like sales by one per cent excluding tobacco, like-for-like sales were up three per cent.
1 The divisions profit was up 14 per cent.
In High Street, we continue to focus on the delivery of our strategy to rebuild our authority in our core categories, optimise margins, keep a tight control of costs and deliver the retail basics.
During the year, we made further progress with the implementation of our plan, with margins up and costs well controlled.
This 1 approach enabled us to improve profitability by seven per cent, despite sales falling in a challenging market.
During the year, we completed the successful integration of Post Offices into 82 High Street stores and the roll-out of Bureau fide Change units to a further 50 High Street stores.
This forms part of our strategy to enhance our customer offer and use space in our stores more effectively.
WH Smith PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 My thanks go to our Travel and High Street staff whose There were two changes to the Board during the year.
hard work and loyalty has enabled us to achieve these Alan Stewart, Group Finance Director announced his results.
Over the past five years, as a result of their intention to leave the Company to pursue other business 2 efforts, WHSmiths Group profit has increased by interests and will be replaced by Robert Moorhead, 270 per cent, from 20m to 74m an achievement who was previously Finance Director of WHSmith Retail, that all our staff can be proud of.
On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank Alan for the significant contribution he Our staff are key to the success of our business and we has made to WHSmith, and also welcome Robert, have extensive training and development programmes who brings a wealth of experience both from within the to help staff develop their skills and their careers.
This Company and further afield.
Following the departure year, store managers with potential to move to larger of MT Rainey, announced last year, we are delighted to stores or to area management roles have been given welcome Drummond Hall as a non-executive director the opportunity to take part in development centres and from 1 September 2008.
Drummond is currently Nonworkshops, based on personal development plans.
We Executive Chairman of Mitchells and Butlers PLC and have also reviewed and improved the training materials a non-executive director of Taylor Nelson Sofres PLC.
for our sales assistants, especially those in Travel stores, to ensure that staff at all levels of the business Given the current economic climate, we expect the have the tools they need to broaden their knowledge 2008 Christmas season to be a difficult one.
we are fully prepared for these trading conditions and are confident that we can continue to improve our This year, we have built on our long-standing performance and deliver further shareholder value.
commitment to responsibly manage the environmental Thank you for your support.
and social impact of our business.
Environmental efficiency remains a priority and we have implemented robert Walker a wide-ranging programme of energy efficiency Chairman, WH Smith PLC measures and made further progress to reduce carrier 9 October 2008 bag waste.
Our bags are now made from at least 40 per cent recycled plastic.
We are also asking customers to Think Twice about using disposable bags as part of a trial to introduce a charge for single-use bags and to offer good quality re-usable bags as an alternative.
Promoting literacy and the love of reading continues to be at the heart of our community programmes and, this year, the Summer Read, in partnership with the National Literacy Trust and the WHSmith Group Charitable Trust reached over 3,000 children across the UK.
This completes another year of our plan, focused on rebuilding WHSmiths position as Britains most popular stationer, bookseller and newsagent.
We benchmark our performance annually against other leading UK companies through the Business in the Community Corporate Responsibility Index.
In 2008, we were delighted to improve our performance for the fifth successive year, achieving a Platinum ranking.
1 Profit from trading operations is defined as operating profit after directly attributable share-based payment and pension service charges and before allocation of central costs, exceptional items, interest and taxation.
2 Group operating profit before exceptional items.
Annual Report and Accounts 2008 WH Smith PLC
