Chairmans Statement Establishing a strong platform for growth Charles Scott Chairman William Hill achieved a robust trading Our retail business, which accounts for The Board believes William Hill Online performance in 2008, with Group gross 82% of the Groups gross win, delivered is well placed to capitalise on the win of 1,022.5m, net revenue of a strong trading performance in 2008 in significant growth projected to come 963.7m and operating profit of spite of the challenging economic from online betting and gaming over 278.6m.
Gross win and net revenue conditions.
On a 52-week basis, gross the next few years.
Full integration will were 3% higher than in 2007, a 53-week win grew by 7% and operating profit by take up to nine months to complete period, and 6% higher on a 52-week 7%.
We have achieved this growth by but the team has already made comparison with 2007.
Operating profit continuing to invest in the development good progress, including launching was 3% lower than the 53-week period of our LBO estate and by implementing new poker and casino websites using in 2007 and 1% lower on a 52-week various cost management measures Playtechs software.
Basic earnings that kept the underlying cost increase in we will be able to apply the skills of per share excluding exceptional the period to 3%.
This helped to offset the specialised online marketing items was 45.4p.
some of the additional costs from the and customer management teams introduction of Turf TV as a second we acquired to all customers in the supplier of television pictures from business and to cross-sell more racecourses into the LBOs and the effectively the full range of sports first full-year effect of extended betting and gaming products that we winter opening hours.
offer, including the new Sportsbook.
Shortly after Ralph Toppings The online channel is our preferred appointment as Chief Executive in approach for targeting betting and February 2008, we announced our gaming customers internationally as it intention to increase our focus on is the most cost-effective mechanism the growth opportunities in gaming for reaching large, geographically and online gambling, having seen diverse customer bases.
our leading position eroded over recent years.
We achieved positive Whilst land-based expansion remains a growth in our existing online business, longer term opportunity, we recognise delivering on a 52-week basis net that the current economic climate is revenue growth of 13%, operating making such capital-intensive, longprofit growth of 10% and an 18% term investments more challenging.
As increase in active accounts.
a result, we sold our Italian joint venture in July 2008.
In Spain, we are now More importantly, we established a trading in 74 locations in Madrid and strong platform for continued growth the Basque region and we are in by addressing our key deficiencies discussion with Codere S. A Codere, in technology and capabilities.
First, our joint venture partner in Spain, as we launched our new Sportsbook on to the future strategic direction of the the industry-leading Orbis software joint venture.
platform, which offers customers significant improvements, such as Refinancing richer site content and a full range As previously highlighted, we have of in-running betting opportunities.
been in dialogue with our banks Second, we established William Hill regarding our borrowing facilities, Online as one of Europes leading 1.2bn of which are due to mature online betting and gaming businesses in March 2010.
At the time of by combining our existing online sports publishing this Annual Report, we betting and gaming business with announced that William Hill has certain assets acquired from Playtech.
William Hill 04 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Business Review Governance Financial statements Company Information The Board remains confident about the long-term prospects for the business, both in the UK retail market and in the online market.
entered into new bank facilities that, earnings, with the intention of moving to focus our estate development under a forward-start mechanism, and towards 2.0 times dividend cover over programme on new LBO sites and together with our 250m existing bank time.
The Board expects to pay an re-sites where we expect to achieve facility, will provide aggregate funding interim and final dividend for 2009 the best rates of return.
In addition, in line with this dividend policy.
The the Board announced that it proposes dividend policy is aimed at ensuring Board of Directors to raise approximately 350m net that shareholders continue to benefit During the course of the year, there of expenses by way of a fully from the successful growth and strong were three changes to the Board underwritten 1 for 1 Rights Issue.
The Boards decision to issue equity Outlook In February 2008, Ralph Topping was has been driven by the dramatic The Board remains confident about appointed Chief Executive, having deterioration in credit markets since the prospects for the business, both in previously held various positions within August 2007, which has resulted in the UK retail market and in the online the Group, including Group Director, banks seeking to reduce their overall market.
While it is unclear how the Operations, with responsibility for the lending to borrowers.
current economic climate might Groups UK-based operations, Retail affect our business in the coming Operations Director and Internet Notwithstanding the Groups months, performance in 2008 as a Director.
He joined William Hill in continued trading resilience, strong whole, in the fourth quarter of the year 1973 and had been a member cash generation and recent actions and in 2009 to date has been resilient.
of the Board since April 2007. to reduce our funding requirements We believe that this resilience is from 1.45bn to approximately 1.2bn supported by the broader In November 2008, Ashley Highfield and the reduction in net debt of geographical base of the retail was appointed a non-executive 86m to 1,022m during 2008, the business across the UK, the expanding director.
He is currently Managing current credit market conditions have product range offered across our Director and Vice President of not made it possible for William Hill to channels, the widening customer Consumer and Online UK at Microsoft refinance the Groups existing bank base, and the fact that betting and has wide-ranging experience facilities in full in the bank market.
and gaming remain low-ticket, and knowledge of existing and entertainment-led activities.
Together, the refinanced bank facilities and the proceeds from the fully Given the current economic climate, In December 2008, Ian Spearing, underwritten rights issue will result in we are focused on maintaining tight Corporate Affairs Director, retired a significant decrease in the Groups cost control and capital management.
from the Board and the Group.
On net debt with an improved facility During 2009, we expect to see further behalf of the Board, I would like to maturity profile, and result in a benefits accruing to our retail business thank Ian for his dedicated service strengthened balance sheet and from the cost initiatives implemented in and contribution during his 18 years improved credit ratios.
The Board 2008, including the new staffing model.
believes that, with the new bank At the same time, we will continue to facilities and the Rights Issue, William invest in William Hill Online to achieve Finally, I would like to thank all our Hill will have a robust capital structure growth in revenue and overall colleagues for their hard work in and appropriate financial flexibility to customer numbers.
2008 and for delivering a strong enable the Group to continue to performance in challenging execute our growth strategy.
We reduced our capital expenditure circumstances.
significantly during 2008 and intend Dividend to maintain this lower level of Charles Scott William Hill will not be paying a final expenditure during 2009.
Following the Rights our capital expenditure approval Issue, the Board expects to adopt a process has become more stringent.
dividend policy based initially on a During the coming year, we intend dividend cover of 2.5 times underlying William Hill Annual Report and Accounts 2008 05 5 Business Review Launching our new Sportsbook In-running betting online In December 2008, we launched our new online Sportsbook, www.
com, which can offer customers a full-range of in-running betting.
The state-of-the-art site features increased levels of content, including form, news, reviews, live radio commentary and live streaming of many leading sports, and provides more betting opportunities on more events, more quickly than ever before.
Customers also benefit from six language options and more local currency betting.
William Hill 06 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Business Review William Hill Annual Report and Accounts 2008 07
