CHaiRMaNS StatEMENt David Malpas Chairman The Groups success is driven by the quality of 17.4 per cent.
This further double-digit Wincanton has delivered and enthusiasm of our people, to whom I percentage increase in pre-tax underlying another year of strong profit express my thanks and those of the Directors.
profit builds on growth in the two previous financial years of 10.2 per cent and 9.5 per growth.
Our operations Wincanton focuses on the skills of its people, cent.
Wincanton, through a combination of in the UK & Ireland made on operational excellence and on the highest continuing momentum in existing businesses standards of customer service.
Sustaining and a well-targeted and well-executed further excellent progress performance in these key areas creates, over programme of acquisitions, is delivering high time, a highly-skilled and motivated workforce, levels of growth in challenging markets.
and the management an industry-leading reputation for service teams and strategic plans quality and many long-standing partnerships Given these sustained levels of profit growth, with blue-chip customers.
It is these critical your Board is recommending a higher rate of are in place to deliver factors which underpin Wincantons current dividend increase than in previous years.
The profit progress in performance and provide an excellent proposed full year dividend this year, of 14.91p platform for continuing growth in the future.
per share, represents an increase of 10 per Mainland Europe.
cent on last years 13.55p per share.
As a The year to 31 March 2008 was another year consequence of the 15.7 per cent increase of strong profit growth for Wincanton.
The prebeing reported in underlying earnings this tax underlying profit of 41.8m being reported year, dividend cover improves from 1.5 times represents an increase on the previous year to 1.6 times, even with the substantial a year in review april may june july august september We launched a childcare We won contracts in the Electrolux awarded us a Christian Wurst joined In Ireland, we won A new intermodal voucher scheme for UK with M&S to support contract to manage their our German business further business with container terminal was employees with children its store remodelling distribution in Poland.
In as Managing Director of retailer Dunnes Stores opened in Mannheim up to 15.
Our consultancy programme and with the UK, we were appointed Finance and Business for textiles distribution, to add to our existing business, Consilium, Carlsberg for a 10-year by Screwfix to manage the Administration.
We held building on the existing capacity at the inland expanded into France.
warehouse servicing its our second Driver of the drapery contract.
Sametime We moved to online We supported Transaid home delivery operation.
Year competition in the launched our Learning e-meetings capability accident and incident in Ghana with the An e-recruitment service UK and Paul Fulwood, and Development was launched in the UK, reporting to improve secondment of a project featuring a job-board ConocoPhillips was Framework pilot for which is the first in the health & safety systems manager to create a was launched to cut successful for the second warehouse employees suite of collaborative and communications.
business plan for a administration and better year in a row.
Punch at six sites in the UK.
tools designed to improve womens co-operative.
publicise our employment renewed their contract efficiency and cut the opportunities.
for foodservice distribution need for business travel.
14 Wincanton plc Annual Report 2008 improvement in the rate of dividend growth The continuing strength of the Groups progress for the Group, confirming being recommended.
existing businesses and customer Wincantons position as a European leader relationships was again confirmed by in its sector.
As Wincanton continues to grow it is the fact that some 70 per cent of the new reassuring to see our core people, business won in the year in the UK & Ireland, On 9 May 2008 a statement was released performance and customer values remaining and over 65 per cent of the new business to The London Stock Exchange regarding both fundamental to our existing operations won by the Group overall, was awarded by a possible offer by Wincanton for TDG plc.
and being rapidly assimilated into all our existing customers.
The statement contained the following recent acquisitions.
We welcomed three new commitment: No offer will be made if due businesses to the Group this year, Swales Re-organisation of our management diligence does not confirm Wincantons Haulage and Hanbury Davies in the UK structures and the re-focusing of our strategic assumptions which indicate that a transaction & Ireland, and HeBo in Germany.
Swales priorities have also been features of the year would be substantially value-enhancing for helps us to build further on our leading in Mainland Europe.
Our operations in Wincanton shareholders.
As at the date of position in logistics services for the Germany are beginning to benefit from our preliminary results announcement, 5 June, construction industry.
Hanbury Davies the tactical and strategic initiatives of our due diligence was continuing.
A further represents a further expansion of our significantly strengthened management announcement will be made in due course.
Our activities in France and the Benelux growing area both in the market as a whole countries have been formed into a new I will be retiring from the Board at this years and for Wincanton.
HeBo strengthens our Western Europe business unit, and the senior Annual General Meeting and I am delighted leading position in logistics services to the team in this region has also been reinforced to announce my replacement by David high-tech industry in Germany.
Since the with highly-experienced recruits in key Edmonds, who is currently the Senior year end we have also announced the functions.
In Central & Eastern Europe, Independent Director and has served on acquisition of PSHL, a UK-based business our regional Managing Director has brought the Board since December 2004.
In addition with a strong presence in time-critical spare in new country heads in both Hungary and we welcome Neil England, a non-executive part and procurement services for the the Czech Republic.
director of ITE Group plc, The Eastern defence and aerospace industries.
These European Trust PLC and Silverstone are new industries for Wincanton which We have much still to do to deliver meaningful Holdings Limited, who joined the Board on we believe offer exciting growth potential.
profit progress in Mainland Europe, but good 3 June 2008 as a non-executive Director.
We welcome the employees of all these management teams are in place and are businesses to the Group.
implementing our profit improvement plans, Wincanton has grown consistently, and well, our increased investment in marketing is since its demerger and listing on the London Expansion into new sectors and new services, clearly delivering higher brand awareness Stock Exchange in May 2001.
It is a business both organically and through acquisition, is and the new business pipelines are beginning which has transformed itself from its position changing and renewing the Groups portfolio to offer grounds for encouragement.
as one of the smaller players in the UK of activities.
We are seeing continuing to become one of the leading European opportunities in our existing activities, but We have set ourselves stretching objectives operators of supply chain services.
It is also successfully supplementing these for the new financial year.
Good progress is a business with the potential to sustain, and opportunities through development in newer being made, particularly in the UK & Ireland, accelerate, this growth under the leadership industries and services, such as construction, towards the delivery of our challenging new of Graeme McFaull, with the support of David home delivery, records management, business targets.
In respect of Mainland Edmonds and their Board colleagues.
I know recycling, container management and Europe we believe that further progress will that this potential can and will be delivered foodservice.
These activities already be made and are encouraged, for example, and wish Graeme, David and colleagues represent some 20 per cent of the contract by the strong action being taken to improve continuing success in the years ahead.
contribution, before central overheads, of the performance of the German road network.
our business in the UK & Ireland.
A number of these businesses have been transferred We operate in highly competitive markets and to a new business unit, Emerging Solutions, the current economic outlook is uncertain, to ensure that these activities receive the but we continue to have confidence in appropriate level of operational and strategic Wincantons ability to build further on the focus and deliver their above-average growth achievements of recent years.
Our objective potential for the Group.
is for 2008 09 to be another period of november december february march october january Egbert Maagd joined the A further acquisition in In France, Poland We acquired Hanbury We won a prestigious Our High-Tech business business as Managing the building products and the UK & Ireland, Davies in the UK to contract with BP LPG in acquired HeBo to build Director, Western Europe.
sectors, Swales Haulage, we ran a Christmas card build on our container the UK for the distribution capabilities in western We received PGN was completed in the UK.
design competition for transportation and delivery of aerosols Germany.
Didier arbitration monies in In Hungary, we appointed our employees children.
Darfeuille was compensation for the early Peter Szabados as The first ever Forklift Alconbury inland In Germany, Alexander appointed as nontermination of the contract Managing Director.
Truck Driver of the container terminal won Bauz was appointed as executive Director in 2005.
Our SHELA We won a contract with Year competition was the Specialist Services Managing Director of Road to the newly-formed campaign won an industry Nestl Purina Petcare in launched in the UK to be award in the British Operations and Thomas advisory board in health and safety award the UK to operate the held alongside our Driver International Freight Westphal was appointed Western Europe.
We and we launched Specialist Packing Unit of the Year event in July.
as Managing Director of also won an award for videoconferencing in which features advanced Business Development.
our Big Truck Club Chippenham, Paris, robotic pickers and schools road safety Warsaw and Mannheim.
