Our business Performance review Governance Financial statements Other information WO40011 R&A 01-09 6 10 08 14:31 Page 03 Chairmans statement Trading conditions across the Group Whilst the principal elements of our Shareholders will also have noted that became increasingly challenging over the strategy remain in place, it has been Wolseley delisted from the New York year.
Our European markets weakened necessary to achieve the appropriate Stock Exchange and deregistered from in addition to the continuing deterioration balance between realising market the Securities and Exchange Commission of the US housing market, exacerbated by opportunities and the husbanding of SEC on 2 January 2008 with the global liquidity issues in the banking sector.
Acquisition spend was reduced to Company now having a Level I American As a consequence, the Group has seen 223 million, with no acquisitions since Depository Receipt ADR programme.
little revenue growth with substantial the interim results announcement in March The costs associated with SEC registration variation across the businesses as typified 2008.
Nevertheless, the Board was not and, in particular, compliance with the by Stock Building Supply, Stock whose aware of any major opportunities being Sarbanes-Oxley Act requirements became revenue in constant currency was down missed as a consequence of this reduction increasingly prohibitive for little benefit.
This was offset by stronger in expenditure.
We have also reduced Indeed, since delisting, we have retained performances in Europe, particularly in the rate of expenditure on our Business the key elements of our established the first six months of the financial year.
Change Programme and IT but we remain internal controls process and our US committed to business improvement shareholder base has almost trebled.
In order to ameliorate the impact of this and have implemented SAP in several particularly harsh market environment, pilot businesses in both Europe and In summary, it has been a particularly a variety of management actions have North America.
In May, we opened the demanding year for Wolseley.
The been taken to adjust the Groups cost Sustainable Building Center in the UK Board is acutely aware of the decline base.
In the US, there have been significant to showcase products and help develop in market capitalisation along with the headcount reductions at both Stock our future position in the high growth need for recovery.
While the short-term and Ferguson Enterprises, along with market in sustainable materials and in outlook for our markets continues to the closure of a number of branches.
be uncertain, our objective remains In Europe, headcount and overhead cost to ensure the appropriate sizing of our reductions have been announced, and Inevitably your Board has focused its cost base in line with the expected in part implemented: further rationalisation attention on cost reduction, cash generation environment.
The Board remains and restructuring of businesses will and restructuring the businesses.
We have committed to ensuring that Wolseley be undertaken.
rigorously reviewed our ability to comply emerges from this economic cycle a with our banking covenants, in the event stronger business ready to meet the Additional focus has also been given that markets continue to deteriorate, challenges and growth opportunities to cash generation, with considerable to ensure that adequate headroom exists that will undoubtedly be presented.
Targets for working capital have for the future.
A contribution to this is the been met and, across both continents, recommendation that there will be no final The management team, led by Chip actions have been taken to reduce capital dividend paid in 2008, resulting in a cash Hornsby, has demonstrated enormous spend and dispose of non-core assets saving of 150 million.
The dividend for the energy and commitment to ensuring your and businesses.
year will therefore be 11.25 pence per share.
Company is robust in the short run whilst positioning it as a platform for growth Within this environment, revenues were in the future.
Further, our staff have up 2 per cent at 16,549 million, earnings demonstrated dedication and initiative per share before exceptional items and in difficult conditions over the past year.
the amortisation and impairment of acquired My thanks go to all employees and intangibles down 35.6 per cent to 56.58 associates across the Group.
pence and free cash flow at 571 million.
John W Whybrow Chairman Chairmans statement 03 Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 WO40011 R&A 01-09 3 10 08 14:42 Page 04 Chip Hornsby Group Chief Executive We are resolute in our determination to take the appropriate action to position the business to respond to current market conditions.
