06 Introduction Chairmans Statement We have made further good progress this year.
Our markets remain strong, and, as we continue to improve our services, we are confident that the Group will achieve further good progress in the year ahead.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2008 Introduction Reviews Governance Financial Statements Investor Information Introduction 07 Results Share buyback Board of Directors I am pleased to report another successful During the year the Board reviewed the I am delighted to welcome Dr Krishnamurthy year for the Group, with revenue up 11% strength of the Groups balance sheet and, Raj Rajagopal who joins the Board and normalised diluted earnings per share mindful of the benefit of maintaining an as a non-executive director.
We have made further good efficient balance sheet, commenced a share international experience to the Board progress demonstrated by the substantial buyback programme in November 2007 having previously been chief executive increase in operating margins before with the intention of returning up to 100m of BOC Edwards until November 2006. exceptional costs from 5.7% to 6.6%.
As at 31 March 2008 We believe that improvements in margin 3.2m shares had been purchased at a total Dividend will continue.
A further 0.7m shares The Board is recommending a final dividend were purchased at a cost of 7.6m between of 16.5p, making the total dividend for Once again there was substantial growth year-end and the commencement of the the year 24.0p 2007: 20.0p, an increase in the Middle East and there were good Companys close period on 25 April 2008. of 20%.
performances from our Design and Engineering Solutions and Highways and People Outlook Transportation segments in the UK.
Our staff numbers in continuing operations We start the new year in a good position Faithful Gould also performed well and rose by over 1,400 in the year to nearly with work in hand representing 55% of margins improved substantially within our 17,300 but, given the strong markets our budgeted revenue 2007: 58% and Rail segment, as anticipated.
The Groups in which we operate, our staff turnover are continuing to increase headcount.
cash generation remains very strong increased from 13.8% to 15.4%.
This While there is of course uncertainty about the and we ended the year with net funds increase was not unexpected but we future direction of some of the economies of 168.4m.
continue to make substantial investments in which we operate, we have not seen in enhancing our training and development any sign of reduction in activity.
Climate As previously reported, the Groups results programmes and total reward to ensure change is becoming a significant issue for also benefited from a 20m profit on the that our employees can continue to many of our clients.
We are working actively sale of Lambert Smith Hampton and the develop their careers within the Group.
to raise awareness, develop tools and 17m accelerated release of Metronet I would like to take this opportunity to engage with clients to help them respond deferred income.
These are included within thank all of our employees throughout to the complex requirements of a carbon discontinued operations.
the Group for their efforts in the year.
Our markets remain strong and as the Group continues to improve its services we are confident that the Group will achieve further good progress in the year ahead.
Notwithstanding the share buyback programme, we continue to review further opportunities to add to the depth and range of our technical skills and invest in the sustainable growth of the Group.
Ed Wallis Chairman 25 June 2008 WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2008
