annual report and accounts 2008 Chairmans statement Committed to our success Our business model is even more relevant in these difficult times.
We drive change and are confident 2.5p that we can continue to grow the business in the year ahead.
Dividend per share Nigel Rich 2007: 2.0p per share chairman Our performance in 2008 days of Xchanging and then led the in the commercial area at Xchanging 2008 was Xchangings first full year as a Company through the successful initial after leaving her employment with the listed company.
I am delighted to report public offering IPO.
John Bramley and Xchanging Group.
the Groups revenues increased 19% to David Hodgson as Non-Executive Directors Pat ODriscoll joined the Board on 557.8 million compared to 2007 and NEDs were also crucial to the Companys 3 November as a NED, bringing broad adjusted operating profit attributable to early success.
All three retired at the commercial experience in different Xchanging XEBIT increased 29.0% to AGM and we are most grateful for market sectors.
This is an outstanding their contribution.
appointed Senior Independent Director achievement in such a turbulent year for Adele Browne resigned as an Executive in January 2009. the global economy.
It is proposed to Director at the end of December, and will increase the dividend by 25% to 2.5 pence Acquisition of be leaving as an employee in March 2009, per share.
Cambridge Solutions Limited after being with the Company almost from In October, we agreed to acquire a Board changes the outset.
Adele has played a significant controlling interest in Cambridge Solutions I took over as Chairman in May from part in the growth of the business.
We are Limited Cambridge, an international BPO John Robins who played a key role in delighted that Adele will continue to and IT services provider, listed on stock supporting David Andrews in the early provide us with consultancy and advice 18 Xchanging plc 5 XCH ar08 front section a. indd 2 31 03 2009 09:46:51 Chairmans statement annual report and accounts 2008 2.5p Dividend per share 2007: 2.0p per share exchanges in India.
This acquisition will Our people We believe Xchangings business model extend Xchangings footprint to Australia It has been a year of considerable change becomes even more relevant in these and the USA, and greatly strengthen at Board level, and the acquisition of difficult times.
Companies are under our presence in India.
In January 2009, Cambridge will add a new dimension pressure to focus on reducing costs and we assumed operational control and to the Company.
However, Xchangings capital expenditure: these are areas where David Andrews and Richard Houghton success is fuelled by a highly-motivated Xchanging can help.
We are therefore joined the Board of Cambridge as management team and the commitment confident that we can continue to grow Chairman and CEO, and Executive Director, of all our employees to provide the service the business in the year ahead.
The integration plan is our customers expect.
We are very grateful underway in Australia, the USA and India.
Although we are expecting the acquisition Prospects to complete on 2 April 2009, we believe The prospect for the global economy Nigel Rich that the acquisition will greatly enhance is very gloomy with recovery dependant chairman Xchangings growth prospects in the upon a multitude of factors including 2 March 2009 medium term.
