Babcock International Group PLC 06 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Chairmans statement The year ending 31 March 2008 built The acquisitions of Devonport I have been with Babcock now for eight on the excellent progress of recent Management Limited DML and years, initially as Chairman and Chief years with underlying profit before tax International Nuclear Solutions INS Executive and latterly as Chairman.
increasing by 53% year-on-year to were completed in the year and A successful company can be judged 95.5 million.
This followed increases of added 408 million to the Groups not only by its financial performance 40% and 25% in the previous two years.
revenue and 38.8 million of and return to shareholders, but also by The Directors are recommending a final operating profit before amortisation its ability to provide orderly and timely dividend of 8.20p per share giving a of acquired intangibles.
With this in mind, I have total dividend for the year of 11.50p decided to stand down as Chairman later Both acquisitions added to our competence per share an increase of 43% on the this year, and we have been fortunate in the core areas of defence and the civil previous year.
This increase reects the to persuade Mike Turner to succeed me nuclear market.
In April 2008, we further growth in earnings per share of 40% as Non-Executive Chairman.
Mike was increased our presence in these core on the previous year and confidence formerly a Non-Executive Director of areas by the acquisition of Strachan in Babcocks future prospects.
Babcock, but spent much of his career & Henshaw at a cost of 65 million.
with BAE Systems, and for the last six The share price continued to improve All other areas showed organic growth years as its Chief Executive.
His wealth during the year and reached 571p with the exception of Rail which was of experience at BAE Systems and his at the end of March 2008.
At the static, but, after a challenging first half, knowledge of Babcock make him ideal close of business on 12 May 2008 the operating profit in Rail recovered for this role and I wish him well.
This gave a market during the second half as a result capitalisation of the Company of Clearly, it is with some regret that of focused management attention.
1.4 billion a substantial and consistent I stand down after an exciting and, improvement from the low point of Our strategy remains to expand our I believe, successful eight years, in which 87 million following 11 September position in the technically based support we have transformed Babcock from 2001.
This represents a massive return services market, where we continue to an unfocused engineering company for investors.
100 invested in Babcock see above average growth potential.
into a dynamic support services on 31 March 2003 would have been provider.
I look forward to watching Despite the bulk of the acquisitions worth 721 on 31 March 2008 it build on todays foundations.
being nanced by borrowings 19 million assuming dividends were reinvested new shares were issued to help fund the The Board is confident of Babcocks in further shares, a return of 621%.
DML acquisition, our overall position prospects and is convinced the Group 100 invested on 31 March 2003 remains comfortable, with closing debt is well placed to continue to develop in the FTSE All-Share Index excluding at 322 million and our coverage ratios and grow.
investment trusts and assuming well within our internal and external Gordon Campbell reinvestment of dividends in the Index benchmarks.
Our consistently high rate Chairman would have had a notional worth of conversion of operating profit to on 31 March 2008 of 198, a return cash leaves the Board confident that of 98%.
This out-performance has this debt will be further reduced over been achieved by virtue of a consistent the coming year.
strategy yielding organic growth and including judicious acquisitions.
We have matched the rate of growth in recent years by the development of our management expertise.
We have invested heavily in both developing existing management and integrating the management of new acquisitions.
We are aware of the need to continue this focus and I have confidence that the management team is fully up to the challenges of the future.
Our strategy remains to expand our position in the technically based support services market, where we continue to see above average growth potential.
