Overview Xstrata recorded a very strong financial performance in 2008, second only in the Companys history to the record year of 2007.
Xstratas businesses achieved production records in a number Chairmans of its key commodities, successfully integrated and optimised acquired operations, created a meaningful new platinum business, commissioned new, lower-cost operations and achieved a seventh consecutive year of real cost savings.
Yet the Groups overall strong Statement performance for the year masks a period of extreme turbulence in financial and commodity markets.
The unprecedented speed and severity of the financial crisis in the second half of the year dealt a severe blow to global economic growth and led to sharp and sudden declines in the price of most of Xstratas commodities.
Strategy The Board remains committed to Xstratas long-term strategy of growth and diversication in pursuit of value.
However, the financial crisis that has gripped the worlds major economies and most industry sectors has led Xstratas Board and management to direct attention to ensuring the Group remains robust through the period of uncertainty that lies ahead of us.
This short-term imperative led, in the first instance, to our decision not to proceed with a full offer for Lonmin plc in early October, in view of the risks associated with the requirement to renance a significant portion of the acquisition debt facililties within 12 months.
At the same time, the Group took the opportunity to arrange a new, three-year bank facility to renance existing short-term debt, removing any significant renancing obligations for three years a truly valuable attribute in current markets.
Willy Strothotte Chairman Between August and early October, Xstrata acquired a substantial stake of 24.9% of Lonmin.
While, with the benefit of hindsight, the subsequent decline in Lonmins share price would have afforded Xstrata an opportunity to purchase its stake at a lower Key points: average price at a later stage, your Board remains confident that Xstratas significant stake in one of the worlds leading platinum Strong financial performance in 2008 producers represents a valuable long-term investment and adds Swift response by Xstrata to the challenges to Xstratas strategic optionality.
of the global economic downturn My fellow Board members and I have remarked on the scale and Substantial rights issue launched speed of actions being implemented across Xstratas businesses over the past few months to secure the Groups financial position Well positioned to benefit from encouraging and preserve cash, amidst challenging conditions.
From initiatives mediumto longer-term prospects for demand to secure an appropriate capital structure, to innovative approaches to signicantly reduce capital and production costs to maintain for commodities profitability even at current low commodity prices, it is clear that decisive action is being taken at every level of the organisation, as outlined further in the reports that follow.
Of course, some of these actions result in difficult decisions to suspend or close higher cost operations.
Where compulsory redundancies have been unavoidable, every effort is being made to mitigate the impacts on employees, their families and communities, including through the provision of appropriate employee assistance programmes and other support.
The successful development of Xstratas strategy over the past seven years has positioned the Group to capture the benefit of recent historically strong commodity markets.
It has also provided Xstrata with an excellent pipeline of prospective internal and external growth options.
While current conditions mean that To see a webcast of our results presentation, capital expenditure at a number of Xstratas projects is being visit www.
com deferred or curtailed, Xstratas management teams have been careful to preserve our valuable acquisition and organic growth 8 Xstrata plc Annual Report 2008 options, which can be exercised as and when the conditions are right.
Outlook and prospects We look forward to resuming Xstratas longer-term growth strategy Economic prospects in 2009 remain uncertain.
However, the in earnest at the appropriate time.
directors believe that some support for commodities is likely to be provided by the significant stimulus packages announced by many Xstrata managements capacity and willingness to act quickly and major countries, which prioritise commodity-intensive infrastructure decisively has been underlined by the recent announcement of a investment.
Another positive development is the mining industrys substantial rights issue.
The proceeds from the rights issue will provide action to curtail uneconomic supply and limit the build-up of excess a significant capital injection, allowing the repayment of debt and inventories, which has occurred more rapidly and to a greater extent providing a rm footing for future growth.
Further details about the than in previous downturns.
rights issue and acquisition of the Prodeco coal operations have been provided in a comprehensive circular and prospectus, sent to each Notwithstanding the global economic downturn, the economic eligible registered shareholder and available from Xstratas website.
development and urbanisation of emerging economies remains a significant trend that is set to positively inuence the fortunes of All of the resolutions relating to the proposed Prodeco acquisition the mining sector over an extended timeframe.
With this in mind, and rights issue were approved by shareholders at an Extraordinary Xstratas management and employees remain focused on taking the General Meeting on 2 March 2009. appropriate action to ensure the Group remains well positioned to weather current challenging conditions and benefit from encouraging Governance mediumto longer-term prospects for demand for commodities.
Xstrata benets from a robust Board of some six independent nonexecutives, three executive directors and two non-executive directors In view of Xstratas rights issue to repay debt, approved by Xstratas nominated by Glencore International.
An external evaluation of the shareholders at the EGM on 2 March, the Board has decided not to Boards effectiveness and performance was conducted in 2007 and pay a final dividend for 2008.
We will, of course, review the potential in 2008 the Board conducted an internal assessment, led by Senior to resume dividends at the earliest opportunity, taking into account Independent Director David Rough.
We are now implementing the the Groups financial position and prospects.
recommendations arising from these assessments, in particular to There is no doubt that 2009 will represent a challenging operating address medium-term succession planning.
During 2008, the Board environment for Xstrata and the mining sector as a whole.
Your agreed that an external evaluation exercise will be regularly Board has every confidence that Xstrata has the requisite skills, undertaken every three years.
management structure and financial exibility to mitigate the risks Robert MacDonnell has indicated that he intends to retire as an and seize the opportunities created by current economic conditions, independent non-executive director at the next Annual General with the overarching objective of continuing to create value for its Meeting AGM in May 2009.
Robert has served as a director of shareholders over the long term.
Xstrata plc since its initial public offering and before that, was a non-executive director of the former Swiss company, Xstrata AG.
During his tenure, he has overseen the significant growth of the Company into a global mining major and I thank him on behalf of the Company and Board for his guidance and the contribution he has made to Xstratas development over the past several years.
I am delighted to announce that Peter Hooley has agreed to stand as an Willy Strothotte independent, non-executive director for election by shareholders at the Chairman AGM on 5 May 2009.
Peter held the position of Group Finance Director of Smith & Nephew plc until 2006 and is currently a non-executive director and Chairman of the Audit Committee of Cobham plc and a director and Chairman of BSN Medical.
I am confident that Peters appointment to the Board will add significant value to Xstrata.
Peter brings with him extensive financial markets and corporate transactions experience and a strong track record of creating shareholder value.
Peter has agreed to act as an independent external consultant to the Board with effect from 3 March 2009 until the AGM.
Sustainable development Xstratas commitment to the principles of sustainable development remains at the centre of our strategy and is increasingly integrated into the Groups day-to-day management practices and strategic decisionmaking.
The most important of our many targets and objectives is our aim that no fatalities or serious injuries are sustained by the men and women who work at Xstrata.
We did not achieve this objective in 2008 and I am deeply saddened to report that six workers lost their lives at Xstratas operations or projects last year.
Safety is a particular challenge during times of uncertainty and this is an area to which we will continue to dedicate significant resources and management attention.
Xstrata plc Annual Report 2008 9 10 Xstrata plc Annual Report 2008 2 Strategy 12 Chief Executives Report 17 Strategy 21 Sustainable Development 25 Principal Risks and Uncertainties Nickel at the Nikkelverk renery in Norway, where record nickel production was achieved in 2008 Xstrata plc Annual Report 2008 11
