Introduction Welcome to the Yell Group plc Annual operating cash flow to between 85% Chairmans Report for the financial year ended and 90% in the current year.
Such cash 31 March 2008. generation should ensure we can meet statement our scheduled debt payments out of our Yells operational and financial free cash flow.
performance has been robust against an increasingly difficult economic Nevertheless, we wish to ensure we have environment.
We have grown revenue greater financial flexibility in this current in each of our markets and, although uncertain economic environment and overall revenue has been slightly lower the Board believes it is prudent to halve than we guided for the year, we have the final dividend.
The Board is therefore delivered EBITDA in line with, and cash recommending a final dividend of in excess of, the guidance given in May 5.7 pence per share, bringing the total last year.
We grew revenue by 6.9% to dividend for the year to 12 pence per 2,218.7 million and adjusted EBITDA share, a decrease of 30% compared by 9.1% to 738.9 million.
We increased with last year.
The Board also currently operating cash flow by 15.6% to 626.2 intends to halve the interim dividend million and adjusted diluted earnings for the 2009 financial year.
per share EPS by 5.6% to 37.5 pence per share.
At constant exchange rates the The Board remains confident that the underlying EPS growth rate was 10.5%.
Group has the capability to weather these difficult times.
We have an Operationally, we have achieved some experienced management team, strong considerable success, particularly in brands, leading market positions and growing our internet products.
Our customers of all our online products has increased trust us to offer them the high returns on significantly as we have driven both the their advertising spend that our products quality and quantity of content and provide in good times and bad.
extended the reach of our customers By ensuring our business is properly advertising.
This growth in usage is invested to support the areas of growth, fundamental to our future revenue we believe we will emerge stronger from growth as we charge customers for this challenging period.
the business leads they achieve through our products.
The Board has continued to meet Yells executive team on a regular basis and Despite these results, our share believes it understands the impact of price performance has been very market conditions on the business.
The decline was triggered therefore confident that Yell is taking the by the changes in the competitive right steps to maintain its position as a environment in the US leading to lower market leader and to strengthen its revenue growth and has since been financial position.
exacerbated by the changing attitudes to debt arising during the credit crunch, Our Annual General Meeting will be held compounded by the growing economic on 25 July 2008 at 11 am.
At the end of uncertainty we are facing in all of our this report you will find the Notice of markets.
AGM which gives full details of the meeting and the resolutions on which Looking ahead, we see no let up in the I ask you to vote.
economic pressures during the current year.
However we will continue to invest I look forward to the opportunity to meet in all our products focusing particularly you at the AGM.
on the internet to reinforce foundations for further growth.
We are managing our costs aggressively to enable us to make this investment.
In spite of this heavy investment, we believe we can hold EBITDA broadly stable in constant currency terms in this financial year.
Further, we believe we can increase the Bob Scott rate at which we convert EBITDA to Chairman 03 Yell Group plc Annual Report 2008 search: Simplicity, focus, discipline
