05 CLS Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts CHAIRMANS STATEMENT In 2008 we have seen unprecedented turmoil in financial One consequence of the global recession is that borrowing markets and the global economy as a whole.
Governments rates on existing floating rate debt have fallen.
We have have reacted with attempts to stabilise conditions and we wait 42 per cent of debt on floating rates and therefore if levels to see whether these reforms and initiatives are successful.
remain at current rates this will increase our underlying profitability during 2009 and beyond as the interest burden The real estate market has been badly affected by is lessened substantially.
unavailability of funding and its consequent effects in terms of substantially lower transactional volumes and valuations.
Companies that are successful over the medium to long-term anticipate changing market conditions and react accordingly.
Valuations of properties are intended to indicate the price During the second half of 2006, CLS embarked on a strategy in an open market, and with low transactional volumes our of disposing of property assets, both to crystallise capital valuers have indicated that greater subjectivity is required gains made during the preceding years of good market in arriving at the open market valuation.
My personal view conditions, and also to free up cash reserves that we felt is that open market values generally are proving very difficult would be crucial as the downturn began to take effect.
to establish with a reasonable level of accuracy.
This strategic decision has meant that over 700 million The IPD UK index indicates that commercial property capital of property has been disposed of in the last 3 years, the values have fallen by 27 per cent over the year, and whilst a 2008 disposals at a weighted average price nearly 5 per number of companies in the UK listed real estate sector have cent above 2007 year end valuations and significantly reported full year falls across their portfolios in excess of 20 boosted our bank balances.
We have returned 72 million per cent, the CLS portfolio has performed comparatively well in cash to shareholders in the last 12 months.
This was by dropping in value by only 13.4 per cent on average.
Our way of tender-offer buy-backs totalling 59 million in the portfolio in France has performed particularly well relative latter part of the year and early 2009, and by buying back to the local market, and the UK business has reported falls shares in the market for 13 million, whilst still maintaining of below 16 per cent.
strong cash reserves to see us through the current tightening Our well-let portfolio offers protection against falling markets, of credit lines.
and our strategic mix of low-vacancy, non-prime location We are in discussions with our bankers and loan providers buildings, with a high proportion of long-term leases to regarding loan-to-value clauses in loan agreements on government tenants is now providing significant defensive several of our properties in London.
We thank them for their benefits.
I believe we have a resilient portfolio, with a relatively continued support and willingness to negotiate on key terms low risk of tenant default given our high proportion of during these difficult times.
We have always maintained good government tenancies 39.8 per cent by rental income.
relationships with our banks, and will work in partnership CLSs strategy of holding property for the medium to longwith them going forwards to ensure mutually acceptable term and deriving value from active management means terms for continued financing.
that valuation movements are of less significance to us than In France and Germany it is much more difficult for the lender the fundamentals of secure rental income and effective to enforce a loan-to-value breach if interest, amortisation and treasury management.
agreed interest cover is in place.
This is why in the UK many CLS has always been a well-managed and defensively unnecessary repossessions are taking place, and a number of structured group, evidenced by our tight cash management, our peers based in the UK are genuinely concerned about this the spreading of risk across European markets and situation.
It is hoped that the UK Government will seek to currencies, and our hands-on, active management influence banks not to enforce loan-to-value breaches when of the portfolio.
all other covenants are being honoured.
Our well-let portfolio offers protection against falling markets, and our strategic mix of low-vacancy, non-prime location buildings, with a high proportion of long-term leases to government tenants is now providing significant defensive benefits.
06 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT continued This strategic decision has meant that over 700 million of property has been disposed of in the last 3 years.
We have returned 72 million in cash to shareholders in the last 12 months.
We also believe that property yields are now moving towards In May 2008 I welcomed Henry Klotz as CEO, and in November a level where the gap between yields and returns on cash 2008 Joe Crawley and Chris Jarvis joined the Group as nondeposits are sufficiently wide that property will once again executive directors to the Board.
I look forward to working become a desirable investment alternative.
with them and I am sure that their knowledge, coupled with the Boards experience of previous downturns will steer CLS In common with many businesses, and as a result of the sale successfully through these turbulent times.
of around one third of the portfolio, the directors have been focussing on reducing the operating cost base and staffing Finally, I would like to thank our lenders, customers, staff levels.
A cost-cutting programme has been implemented and suppliers for their continued support, enthusiasm and and this is expected to show a further 2 million of annualised dedication to the business.
cost savings in 2009 and beyond, compared with 2008.
The results for 2008 show non-recurring costs in relation to this re-structuring.
There have been a number of changes to the Board of directors during 2008.
I would like to thank James Dean, Per Sjberg and Steven Board for their advice, hard work and contribution to the Group over many years.
Sten Mortstedt Executive Chairman 14 April 2009
