Group overview Barratt Developments, in its expanded format with David Wilson Homes, is an outstanding business with the breadth of skills and products to meet the needs of the UK housing market.
Chairmans statement The reasons have been widely reported and analysed.
The main cause is the sharp reduction in the availability of mortgage This is my first report to you as Chairman and finance as major lenders have looked to repair their own balance sheets by limiting whilst these are extremely testing times for the lending.
The number of mortgage products whole sector, it is already clear to me that this available to the market has fallen from 15,599 at 30 June 2007 to 3,405 at is a well run business with skilled employees 30 June 2008, a fall of 78%.
This has delivering homes of the highest standard.
particularly affected the plight of first time buyers who now face greater difficulty getting mortgages and are having to raise substantially higher deposits.
The position The year under review began with promise conditions softened, it became clear that is vividly illustrated by the fact that whilst a clear plan to complete the integration it was essential to change our priorities private sales in our second half fell by of Wilson Bowden and to satisfy the and reconfigure the business in response 42.9%, visitors to our sites, looking to buy, burgeoning demand for our homes.
Aligned to the sharp deterioration in the market.
only fell by 14.8% compared to the same to these objectives was the opportunity period last year.
to apply the best from both organisations The market to increase efficiency, improve the use of After a sustained period of growth in terms We believe it is likely that this situation IT across the Group and enhance sales, of volume and price, the residential property will continue for the foreseeable future.
particularly in the new area of web market has now entered a period of rapid Whilst the initial package of measures based marketing.
This is being reflected in terms of the to support home buyers is welcome, number of transactions, the period of time if the Government wishes to stabilise The Executive Team made substantial taken to sell a property and the prices that are the market further action will be required progress in meeting these objectives, being achieved.
UK mortgage approvals for to ensure buyers can secure finance delivering synergies and improving house purchases have fallen by 68% during for the homes they wish to purchase.
However, as the year with the rate of decline intensifying the year progressed and trading through the final quarter.
1 Exceptional costs comprise 208.4m of inventory write-downs, 24.5m of goodwill impairment, intangible assets impairment of 6.2m and restructuring costs Barratt Developments 02 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 of 15.9m.
Group overview | Chairmans statement Three month LIBOR versus Bank of England Base Rate Board % The current Board has a great breadth of experience and a rounded approach to 7.0 16,000 issues.
I take no credit for this Charles Toner 14,000 chaired the Company for six years and 6.5 created the current Board.
He retired at the 12,000 end of the financial year and whilst he leaves 10,000 the industry during a period of significant 6.0 challenges, his legacy is an effective Board 8,000 that will take the right decisions.
We wish him 5.5 6,000 a long, healthy and fulfilling retirement.
4,000 5.0 On 1 May 2008, Mark Rolfe joined the Board 2,000 and in August took over the Chairmanship of the Audit Committee from Michael Pescod.
4.5 0 1 7 07 1 9 07 1 11 07 1 1 08 1 3 08 1 5 08 1 7 08 1 9 08 Mark brings a tremendous breadth of financial Mortgage product availability total number of products experience to the Board and I know that Three month LIBOR % Bank of England Base Rate % Source: Moneyfacts the Audit Committee will continue to be in good hands.
Dividend Given the steep decline in market conditions, which was not foreseen at the half year, the Board has decided that the requirement The reasons have been widely reported Initial observations to conserve cash is paramount.
We have Performance and analysed.
The main cause is the sharp I joined the Company on 1 June 2008 and therefore reluctantly decided not to pay Against the backdrop of these market reduction in the availability of mortgage have spent as much of my time as possible a final dividend so the dividend for the year conditions, our performance has been finance as major lenders have looked to visiting divisions and our operating sites.
Going forward, satisfactory with profit from operations before 1 repair their own balance sheets by limiting I have been impressed with the quality the Board will take due consideration exceptional costs of 550.2m representing 2 lending.
The number of mortgage products of our finished product and the process of market conditions, the Groups trading a like-for-like decline of 21.5% on the previous 3 2 available to the market has fallen from to create it.
This combined with our performance and cash resources in year restated.
Falling like-for-like sales 15,599 at 30 June 2007 to 3,405 at exceptional sales and presentational skills determining future dividend policy.
Our revenues have been partially offset by a good 30 June 2008, a fall of 78%.
This has enable us to serve the market in a sector objective is to pay a dividend at the earliest performance on reducing costs.
particularly affected the plight of first time leading manner.
Where planning conditions appropriate opportunity.
buyers who now face greater difficulty allow, the Group has the skills and As conditions became progressively more getting mortgages and are having to raise experience to design, build and sell homes Priorities difficult, we felt it prudent to create sufficient substantially higher deposits.
The position by creating an environment in which people We have a strong Executive Team and I am additional headroom to enable the Group to is vividly illustrated by the fact that whilst want to live.
The Group has the capability confident that they have set the right priorities trade through the declining market.
We therefore private sales in our second half fell by in depth to tackle successfully all forms and are executing them with energy and started discussions with our lenders about 42.9%, visitors to our sites, looking to buy, of residential construction, from complex precision.
Barratt Developments, in its rescheduling debt and amending covenants.
only fell by 14.8% compared to the same urban brownfield sites to greenfield expanded format with David Wilson Homes, It is a great tribute to the management of the period last year.
developments in every region of the is an outstanding business with the breadth Group that they were able to complete these country, from luxury homes to first time of skills and products to meet the needs of complex and difficult negotiations at a time of We believe it is likely that this situation buyer products.
I believe that upon very significant distress in the financial markets.
will continue for the foreseeable future.
the markets recovery, your Company will Whilst the initial package of measures I have great confidence in our people to be the market leader and recognised for The strengthening of our funding position has to support home buyers is welcome, manage through these challenging conditions excellence in product and financial returns.
enabled the organisation to focus on a clear if the Government wishes to stabilise and ensure that we are positioned as the In the meantime there will continue to be a set of priorities pursuing sales as effectively the market further action will be required leader as conditions improve.
In tough times, it ruthless focus on operational performance.
as possible, reducing our costs with renewed to ensure buyers can secure finance is not only shareholders that suffer but also the vigour and managing our working capital for the homes they wish to purchase.
I wish to record the Boards appreciation Bob Lawson aggressively.
At the same time we must do and thanks for their professionalism, Chairman everything we can to protect the fundamental commitment and all-pervasive enthusiasm.
9 September 2008 infrastructure of the business.
1 2 Exceptional costs comprise 208.4m of inventory Like-for-like basis assumes that the acquisition of Wilson Bowden was completed on the first day of the comparative period.
write-downs, 24.5m of goodwill impairment, intangible Wilson Bowden achieved 6,052 completions, revenue of 1,422.1m, operating profit of 219.2m, and a profit before tax of 191.7m assets impairment of 6.2m and restructuring costs in the twelve months ended 30 June 2007.
Prior to acquisition, Wilson Bowden achieved 4,401 completions, revenue of 1,042.5m, Barratt Developments of 15.9m.
operating profit of 165.3m including 22.7m of exceptional costs and profit before tax of 141.2m.
Annual Report and Accounts 2008 03 3 The results for the year ended 30 June 2007 have been restated as explained in note 1 to the financial statements.
