Chairmans Statement The following table provides an analysis of the movement in the NAV per share for the year including the effect of gearing : Pence Published NAV per share as at 31 December 2007 129.2 Unrealised decrease in valuation of direct property portfolio 34.4 Unrealised decrease in valuation of Indirect Holdings 3.2 Realised loss on sale of direct property 0.6 Realised loss on sale of Indirect Holdings 4.7 Share buy backs 0.6 Movement in revenue reserve 1.1 NAV per share as at 31 December 2008 85.8 PropertyPortfolio DirectProperties The valuation of the direct property portfolio fell from 978 million to 654 million during the year, Peter Niven Chairman representing an ungeared capital decrease of 27.4 per cent and a total return of 23.2 per cent.
This compares with a total return from the IPD All Quarterly and Monthly funds comprising directly held properties only, and is the Companys 2008 was the most difficult year in memory for the performance fee benchmark of -22.3 per cent.
The UK commercial property market, as capital values portfolio underperformed largely due to its continued to fall from the peak reached in June overweight exposure to Central London offices.
With increasing concerns over the health of The Company sold one property during the year: the banking sector and the deterioration in Lion Walk Shopping Centre, Colchester, its only economic conditions, investor sentiment was poor directly held shopping centre.
The sale price, gross throughout the year.
In addition, the continuing lack of selling costs and rental guarantees, was of bank financing led to a significant slowdown in 69.0 million and compared favourably with a transaction activity.
Property values fell in each of valuation of 68.7 million as at 31 March 2008.
The the calendar quarters, with the fall in the last quarter transaction was in accordance with the Boards being particularly severe.
strategy to reduce the Companys exposure to the retail sector.
There were no property purchases Against this backdrop, your Companys net asset during the year.
value NAV total return was 28.8 per cent.
This compares with a market total return of 22.3 per PropertyPortfolio IndirectHoldings cent as measured by the Investment Property The Companys investments in two indirectly held Databank IPD UK Quarterly Index.
property funds, the Industrial Property Investment Fund IPIF and The Mall Fund the Indirect The poor sentiment towards property was also Holdings, represented 0.8 per cent of the property reflected in the performance of the share price, portfolio as at 31 December 2008 compared with which recorded a total return of 26.5 per cent for 9.8 per cent as at 31 December 2007.
The share price at the end of the year was year, the Company realised 39.0 million through 62.0p per share, representing a discount of 27.7 per disposals of units in IPIF and 4.8 million through cent to the NAV per share of 85.8p per share, and disposals of units in The Mall Fund.
provided a dividend yield of 9.7 per cent.
The Board, in its announcement of the Companys results for the year ended 31 December 2007, signalled a departure from calculating the NAV in accordance with International Financial Reporting 4 F&C Commercial Property Trust Limited Standards IFRS, when it did not use the externally 0.5p per share will be paid on 24 April 2009 to provided NAVs of the Indirect Holdings in arriving at shareholders on the register on 3 April 2009. the Companys published NAV per share.
The Board This will bring the total dividend for the year to 6.0p did not consider these to be appropriate valuations per share, which level has been maintained since in the prevailing market conditions at that time.
Accordingly the Board discounted the NAVs of the Although the Companys rental income flows Indirect Holdings by 10 per cent to reflect its view of remained healthy during the year, it should be noted their likely realisable value should the Company wish that current economic conditions, and the to dispose of them in an orderly fashion over time.
Companys significant cash balances which are However, solely to meet the technical requirements earning very little income, are likely to have an of IFRS and following extensive consultation with the adverse impact on the income position for the Companys auditor, the Balance Sheet as at current year.
However, on the positive side, the 31 December 2007 included the values of the rebasing of the investment management fee in 2008, Indirect Holdings at their full, externally provided, as explained in more detail below, combined with NAVs.
This resulted in a higher NAV per share in the asset management initiatives taken since the those accounts compared with the published NAV Companys launch in 2005 have strengthened the per share.
To overcome this anomaly, during the income position.
Furthermore, the quality of the year the Board appointed an independent valuer to Companys tenants remains high.
place a market valuation on the units held in the The Board is very conscious of the importance Indirect Holdings for the Directors to consider on a shareholders place on a sustainable and transparent quarterly basis.
Accordingly, the Companys NAV as dividend and that the monthly dividend is a valuable at 31 December 2008 of 85.8p per share income stream.
The Directors intend to keep the incorporates the Indirect Holdings at the Directors level of dividend under review in the light of valuation, which reflects these independently economic conditions, the level of rental income produced values.
The Companys auditor is satisfied received by the Company and progress in investing that this treatment meets the requirements of IFRS.
Accordingly, there is now no divergence between the Boards valuation of the Indirect Holdings and the valuations required by IFRS.
The basis of  valuation of the Indirect Holdings will, however, Shareholders will be aware of the Boards stated continue to be reviewed regularly by the Board, with policy to use the share buy back authority to independent advice as appropriate, and amended, purchase shares subject to income and cash flow as required, to reflect changes in market conditions requirements if the share price is more than five per and practice.
cent below the published NAV per share for a continuous period of 20 dealing days or more.
Dividends In line with this statement, the Company bought First and second interim dividends each of 1.5p per back 52.0 million shares during the year, equivalent share were paid on 25 July and 24 October 2008 to 7.1 per cent of the issued share capital as at respectively.
In November the Board announced a 31 December 2007.
The shares were bought back move to monthly, rather than quarterly, dividends.
at an average discount of 32.3 per cent to the This move significantly increases the headroom in published NAV per share adjusted for any respect of the bond covenants relating to dividends dividends for which the share price had gone exand improves the Companys ability to pay an dividend and provided an enhancement of 0.6p to attractive level of dividend whilst also giving it the NAV per share.
41.5 million of these shares flexibility to use its cash reserves to take advantage were bought back to be held in treasury, for of any emerging opportunities in current market subsequent re-issue at a premium to the published conditions.
NAV per share, and the balance of 10.5 million Accordingly, a third interim dividend of 1.0p per shares were bought back for cancellation.
Of the share was paid on 31 December 2008 and fourth total shares bought back, 26.9 million were and fifth interim dividends, each of 0.5p per share acquired in three on-market transactions from a life were paid on 30 January and 27 February 2009 assurance subsidiary of the Companys majority respectively.
A sixth interim dividend of 0.5p per shareholder, the Friends Provident plc group.
In share was paid on 27 March 2009 and a seventh, carrying out the share buy backs the Board gave and last, interim dividend in respect of the year of careful consideration to income and cashflow Annual Report and Accounts 2008 5 Chairmans Statement continued requirements and bond covenant constraints, as the Company should not be required to hold well as amounts committed to future investment another continuation vote unless the discount to the opportunities.
published NAV per share is more than five per cent for a continuous period of 90 dealing days or more It is the Boards intention that it will continue to following the second anniversary of the Second consider share buy backs while the discount to the Continuation EGM.
This will extend by one year the published NAV per share is in excess of five per period for considering a further continuation cent adjusted for any dividends for which the share resolution should the shares continue to trade at a price has gone ex-dividend.
In addition to taking discount of more than five per cent.
into account income and cash flow requirements, Friends Provident plcs life insurance subsidiaries the Directors will seek to ensure that any share buy directly and indirectly hold 50.3 per cent of the backs are undertaken at prices which are in the best Companys issued share capital and have indicated interests of all shareholders.
that they currently intend to vote in favour of the resolutions to be proposed at the Second ContinuationVote Continuation EGM.
They have also confirmed that it It was stated in the launch prospectus in 2005 that, is their current intention to support the Proposals in the event of the discount to the published NAV when they are published.
per share being more than five per cent for 90 dealing days or more, the Directors would Borrowings convene an Extraordinary General Meeting EGM The Company has borrowings in the form of to consider an ordinary resolution for the 230 million Secured Bonds due 2017 which have continuation of the Company.
The first such EGM been assigned an Aaa rating by Moodys Investor the First Continuation EGM was held on Services.
The bonds carry interest at a fixed rate of 28 September 2007 and it was stated in the circular 5.23 per cent per annum.
that the Directors did not intend to convene another As at 31 December 2008, as a reflection of the EGM to consider the Companys continuation unless Boards cautious view of markets, the Company the shares traded at a discount of over five per cent held cash balances of 162.3 million.
Consequently, to the published NAV per share for 90 dealing days the level of gearing, net of cash, at the year end was or more following the first anniversary of the First 10.3 per cent, compared with 11.7 per cent as at Continuation EGM.
The Board considers this to be On 5 February 2009 the Directors announced that a prudent level of gearing in current market the Companys shares had traded at a discount of conditions, and it also provides a degree of flexibility more than five per cent to the published NAV for to take advantage of any attractive investment 90 dealing days following the first anniversary of the opportunities.
First Continuation EGM and accordingly that the The covenants relating to the bonds are described Directors would convene an EGM the Second in note 13 to the accounts.
Continuation EGM to consider a further continuation resolution.
 A circular for the Second Continuation EGM which During the year the Board announced that it had will be held on 1 May 2009 is enclosed with the agreed terms with the Managers for a reduction in Annual Report.
The purpose of the document is to the base management fee payable and the convene the EGM to consider an ordinary resolution introduction of a performance fee.
The Board to approve the continuation of the Company.
The believes that the amendments better align the document also explains why the Directors believe interests of the Managers with the interests of that the continuation of the Company is in the best shareholders through a challenging relative interests of shareholders as a whole.
In the event performance based fee.
The Board has ensured that that the resolution is passed the Directors intend to the total fees payable to the Managers will be bring forward Proposals the Proposals to provide capped at a reasonable level.
additional flexibility to the Company, including a The previous management fees payable by the wider investment policy.
Accordingly the document Company were 0.75 per cent per annum of its gross also sets out the details of these Proposals.
Under the new arrangements, a base The Directors also believe that it is in the best management fee is payable of 0.60 per cent per interests of shareholders that, if the resolution to annum of the Companys invested assets including approve the continuation of the Company is passed, indirect property holdings and 0.25 per cent per 6 F&C Commercial Property Trust Limited annum of its net current assets.
The revised base  fee took retrospective effect from 19 March 2008.
During the year F&C Asset Management plc F&C announced changes to the structure of its property The Company has also agreed to pay the Managers management team and the combination of that a performance fee equal to 20 per cent of the business with REIT Asset Management to form F&C amount by which the total return whether positive or REIT Asset Management LLP.
negative on the directly held properties exceeds 110 per cent of the total return 90 per cent if the As previously announced, the Board will continue to total return is negative on the benchmark and monitor closely the impact of the new structure on multiplied by the Companys average total assets the investment management of the Companys excluding any indirect property holdings.
The assets to ensure this remains in line with the benchmark for measuring the comparative Companys stated strategy and performance performance of directly held properties is the total objectives.
return from the IPD All Quarterly and Monthly funds, which identifies the total return on direct UK RetailSavingsSchemes commercial property held by all quarterly and With the aim of attracting new shareholders, the monthly measured funds in the IPD universe.
The Board decided during the year that the Company performance fee therefore excludes the performance should join the investment trust retail savings of any indirect property holdings and the impact of schemes operated by F&C Asset Management plc.
The schemes provide the ability to buy shares in the The performance fee payable in each financial year Company through a regular savings Investment Plan, is capped at an amount which, when taken with the an ISA, a Childrens Investment Plan and a Child aggregate base management fee payable in each Trust Fund.
Further details are set out on page 46. financial year, equals 1.0 per cent of the gross assets of the Company.
Performance fees in excess Outlook of this capped return can be carried forward for up Economic conditions will remain challenging to two subsequent financial years subject to the throughout 2009, with significant uncertainty as to annual 1.0 per cent cap.
what effect recent Government action will have and The performance fee is measured over a rolling when conditions might improve.
With bank financing three year period and the performance fee payable continuing to be limited, this creates a challenging in respect of any one financial year is equal to the backdrop for the commercial property market and total performance fee earned over that three year the expectation is for another year of negative period less any performance fees already paid in the returns.
In the event that the amount Nonetheless, the Board believes that your Company, already paid in the previous two years is in excess of with a diversity of tenants, low void rate and average the amount earned over the rolling three year period, unexpired lease length of 7.9 years, is relatively well such excess shall be repaid to the Company by the placed.
The Board also believes that the Companys Managers.
high level of cash and low levels of net borrowings The first performance fee was calculated for the are appropriate in the current environment.
It is period from 31 March 2008 to 31 December 2008. optimistic that these factors, along with continuing However, for that period, although the total return added value through asset management initiatives, from the directly held properties exceeded the total will deliver positive total returns in the longer term.
return from the benchmark index, it did not exceed the additional hurdle rate, such that no performance fee is payable in respect of the period.
The inflation linked administration fee payable to the Managers, which is currently 107,000 per annum, remains unchanged.
Since the year end the Board has agreed terms with the Managers such that the investment management PeterNiven agreement may now be terminated by either party Chairman by giving not less than 6 months notice.
Previously 31March2009 12 months notice had been required.
