6 Grainger plc annual review 2008 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Despite the turmoil in the financial markets over the last 12 months and its inevitable overspill into the wider economy, I can report that our core business has continued to perform.
In particular, sales of residential property, the heart of our activities, have shown a year-on-year increase in proceeds received of 15%.
However, Grainger is not, of course, immune from the general economic problems and this is reflected in decreased trading margins, increased funding costs and falls in net asset value from asset writedowns.
Current main objectives In our interim management statement in August we set out our three main objectives for the anticipated difficult period ahead.
These are: to maximise sales revenue: to reduce purchases of replacement stock: and to cut our overhead base.
Gross property assets m Progress on these to date sales of residential property amounted to 168m compared to 146m in 2007: 08 2,260 07 2,322in the period April to September 2008 we acquired just 27m of UK property assets compared to 96m in the first half of the year and to 403m in the whole of 2007: and 06 1,901 our overhead costs are 10% lower than 2007.
05 1,597 In addition, we will maintain an overriding focus on the protection and enhancement of our revenue, cash maximisation, financial stability and compliance with our banking covenants until market conditions improve.
Gross NAV per share pence Results 08 535 As with all real estate companies our results for the year have been significantly affected 07 828 by valuation movements.
We have therefore analysed our income statement into trading 06 677 activities and valuation and other mark-to-market adjustments in note 3 to the accounts.
05 563 This analysis enables us to present more meaningful comparisons of our core operations year-on-year.
Profit before tax has decreased by 190m from a profit of 78m to a loss of 112m, of which 177m comes from valuation deficits, goodwill impairment and mark-to-market Dividends per share pence adjustments.
Adjusting for these, our result for the year would be a profit before tax 08 6.18 of 12m compared to 25m on the same basis last year, the fall resulting largely from 07 6.18 increased funding costs.
06 5.62 Operating profit has increased by 19.1% from 89m to 106m before valuation writeoffs 05 5.11 and goodwill impairment reflecting increases in net rents from our enlarged UK and German portfolios and in management fees from our fund management activities.
Despite the market conditions our trading profits are relatively unchanged.
Chairmans statement 7 Gross net asset value per share Gross NAV has decreased by 35% to 535p from 828p and this fall is also reflected in our other NAV measures: triple net asset value NNNAV down 37% to 385p from 613p and base case Grainger NAV down 29% to 520p from 732p.
The major factors behind the decrease have been the fall in vacant possession value of our properties and an increase in the discount applied to those values to calculate market values which are then used for NAV purposes.
Details of the calculation of the NAV measures are provided in the financial review.
We are maintaining our full year dividend for shareholders in Grainger plc at the same level as last year.
Thus the board is recommending a final dividend of 3.91p which together with the interim dividend of 2.27p per share paid on 4 July 2008 will produce a total dividend for the year of 6.18p per share.
If approved the final dividend will be paid on 16 February 2009 to shareholders on the register on 9 January 2009.
Strategy In the short to medium term, managements entire focus is on managing the business in a prudent way, ensuring that we steer the business through this cycle by maximising cash flow and remaining covenant compliant.
In the long term, the groups strategic objective is to maintain and consolidate its position as the UKs leading quoted residential company.
Underpinning this objective are these key features: the group has a unique, diversified portfolio built up over many years: supporting this portfolio is our core property management services division.
This not only delivers a personal and caring service to our tenants but also enables us to expand and diversify the residential activities we are able to supply: in turn, in addition to our market leadership in the ownership of properties subject to regulated tenancies we are leaders in the fields of home reversions and residential fund management: we now have additional income streams not reliant on the direct ownership of property and at low incremental cost.
We have widened our risk and return exposure by entering the German residential market and curtailing our involvement in residential development: and when the market bottoms out, we believe attractive new opportunities will present themselves, and our objective is to be in a position to take advantage of these.
Our core portfolio is unique and diverse in nature.
We are not exposed to new build properties particularly city centre flats which have been most adversely affected by recent price falls and our relatively low average value, un-refurbished properties tend to maintain their demand and value better than many other sectors.
This is reflected in our year end valuation which showed a 12-month fall of 7.6%, compared to national indices from the Halifax and Nationwide showing a fall of 12.4%.
We also have the ability in many of our portfolios to make investment sales i. e. sales with a tenant in possession and this is invaluable in increasing liquidity and generating cash.
Robin Broadhurst Chairman 8 Grainger plc annual review 2008 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Board changes In July, we welcomed Baroness Margaret Ford of Cunninghame as a non-executive director.
Currently a managing director in the Royal Bank of Canadas Capital Markets Group, her extensive experience as Chairman of English Partnerships, the Governments Regeneration Agency, and her wide ranging knowledge of housing and regeneration in both the public and private sectors will be of great assistance to the board.
I must also take this opportunity to pay tribute to Stephen Dickinson who will step down from the board at the companys Annual General Meeting on 10 February 2009.
Stephen joined Grainger in 1974 and was chief executive until October 2002.
During that time he was unquestionably the face of Grainger and presided over an exciting period of growth and consolidation which included flotation of the group in 1983 when it had assets of just 18m.
Stephen laid the foundations that enabled the business to progress and develop and his experience of the residential market, as well as his unique style, will be greatly missed.
On behalf of the board I thank him for his long service and contribution.
Outlook It is difficult to recall a period of such economic uncertainty.
The impact on the housing market in the UK has been well documented and it is inevitable that funding constraints and forecasted lack of economic growth will further depress the market over the coming 12 months.
However, the last year has demonstrated the continuing resilience of Graingers portfolio and it is worth repeating that our sales proceeds were up 15% on last year, showing its inherent liquidity and ability to generate cash.
The coming year will present many challenges and in response we will continue to operate as we have through the latter part of 2008 maximising sales revenue, reducing property spend and cutting back on overhead.
We are under no illusions as to how difficult these tasks will be but are confident that the irreplaceable and diverse nature of our core portfolio, the range of activity and expertise within the business and our experience of managing the business through previous downturns will stand us in good stead.
I would like to take this opportunity to thank everyone at Grainger for the drive and commitment they have shown in extremely testing times.
Robin Broadhurst Chairman 16 December 2008 Chairmans statement 9 DIVERSE operational platform In the UK we own: 7,300 regulated properties 6,200 retirement properties interests, including home reversions 142m of development assets including joint ventures 117m co-investment shares in residential funds investments In continental Europe we own: 6,900 residential units in Germany
