Directors Report Chairmans Statement BBA Aviation delivered another solid set of results in challenging market conditions.
Our performance in 2008 demonstrates the underlying strength of our businesses and the benefits of ongoing management action.
We remain confident in the long-term growth prospects for our markets.
BBA Aviation Annual Report 2008 Results Outlook I am pleased to report that, despite the impact of the global economic crisis, We enter 2009 with suffi cient fi financial fl exibility and the vast majority of our BBA Aviation delivered another solid set of results in challenging market bank debt is committed until 2012.
However, markets remain volatile with conditions.
Although our earnings have benefi ted from the relative strength limited visibility and we anticipate a diffi cult year.
We have already taken of the US dollar, especially in the last quarter, our performance in 2008 actions in early 2009 to reduce our annual cost base by a further 10 million demonstrates the underlying strength of our businesses and the benefi ts and we will continue to fl ex operating costs as necessary.
Our primary focus of ongoing management action.
remains strong cash generation and debt reduction.
Due to our confi dence Revenue increased by 18% to 1,156 million and at constant exchange in achieving this, the excellent long-term prospects for BBA Aviation and our rates by 11%.
Excluding the impact of increased jet fuel prices and the ability to perform robustly in these diffi cult markets, we will be maintaining contribution from acquisitions net of disposals we achieved organic growth the full year dividend and will be positioned to benefi t from the recovery of 1%.
Underlying operating profi t of 109.7 million 2007: 105.7 million was when it comes.
4% higher than the prior year and 4% lower at constant exchange rates with a particularly strong performance by our Aftermarket businesses partially mitigating reduced earnings in Flight Support which was most aff ected by the downturn in the market.
Underlying profi t before tax rose by 3% to 89.2 million and adjusted earnings per share increased by 5% to 16.1p.
Profi t before tax of 84.2 million 2007: 110.8 million was lower than the prior year principally due to the inclusion in the prior period of the profi t on the sale of our businesses at Michael Harper Oxford airport.
Chairman We continue to focus on cash generation and we achieved a signifi cant improvement in free cash fl ow which increased to 77.2 million 2007: 44.3 million.
We invested 76.4 million on acquisitions, principally to extend the Signature network, and 21.9 million on new licences for Ontic our Legacy Support business.
The translated value of our net debt rose signifi cantly due to the strengthening of the US dollar against sterling and at the end of the year was 554.4 million 2007: 368.6 million with 159.8 million of the increase caused by the movements in exchange rates.
However we remained well within our banking covenant limits with net debt to EBITDA of 2.9 times covenant 3.5 times.
Dividend The Board is recommending a fi final dividend of 5.30p 2007: 5.35p leaving the total dividend for the year unchanged at 7.6p.
We have maintained the full year dividend as we remain confi dent in the long-term growth prospects for our markets and our ability to continue to generate strong cash fl ows.
Board and Employees In January 2009 Peter Ratcliff e joined the Board as a non-executive director and Bruce Van Allen stepped down from the Board, taking up a new role as Group Marketing Director.
We welcome Peter and look forward to benefi ting from the valuable additional insights he will bring from his extensive international customer-focused experience, particularly in the USA.
I also wish to thank Bruce for his contribution to the Board over the past six years.
We appreciate, especially in these challenging times, the hard work and commitment of our dedicated employees who build long-term sustainable value for all our stakeholders and I am grateful to all our employees for their contribution to the achievements of BBA Aviation in 2008.
Corporate Social Responsibility Our Corporate Social Responsibility Vision is to manage our impact on, and contribute positively to, society and the environment through the operation of our companies and the conduct of our personnel.
We value the talent that each individual employee brings to BBA Aviation and believe that our people are a scarce resource and key business diff erentiator.
We recognise our responsibility, as a good neighbour, to contribute to those locations where we are resident and are mindful that together we form part of the broader global community.
BBA Aviation strives to meet the ever-increasing expectations of our stakeholders and we will continue to maintain our focus on the core areas of Corporate Social Responsibility.
Indeed we have made valuable progress towards improving the safety performance of our companies this year and in embedding a proactive safety culture throughout our businesses but we know that there is still much to do to attain our goal of an industry leadership role in safety practices and performance.
