Quintain Estates Annual Report 24 and Development PLC and Accounts 2008 Quintains focus on generating long-term value for Chairmans statement shareholders has this year been demonstrated by the significant increase in the potential of its unique urban regeneration schemes and the robust growth of fund management.
Results With a business model that has During the year, the Company consolidated its strong operational and financial position in order to manage excellent defensive characteristics the impact of challenging market conditions.
As a result it achieved a total return for the year, as measured by the and improved liquidity, we have Investment Property Databank, of 3.9%, substantially outperforming the March Universe of 8.5%.
During the reporting period the total return, measured by the movement in net assets per share and adding back the dividend, declined by 9.7% or 13.5% net of Retail Price Index RPI inflation.
However, the average annualised nominal total return for the 12 years since the Companys flotation remains high at 17.9%.
Inevitably, the book values of our major schemes in London were affected by the adverse market conditions.
Wembley declined 11% against the value reported at 31 March 2007, but we recorded a small valuation increase at Greenwich of 2.5%.
The Group successfully refinanced its debt with 31 March 2008 IPD Universe 620m of bank facilities in March to extend the maturity %% of its borrowings, adding a further 95m after the year Capital return 6.3 12.5 end, with only a relatively small increase in interest cost.
QED IPD return 3.9 8.5 In current circumstances this is a tribute to Quintains Total return 9.7 standing in the credit markets.
Total shareholder return 48.9 Our confidence in the Companys positioning and ability to deliver strong medium term performance supports our dividend.
The Board is recommending an increase in the final dividend of 0.25p to 8.5p, giving John Plender a total dividend for the year of 12.25p 2007: 11.75p, Chairman representing an increase of 4.3%.
The final dividend will be paid on 8 September 2008. Business Delivery A key highlight of the year was the strong growth and resilience of Quintain Fund Management, where fee income rose by 105% and funds under management grew from 711m to 1bn.
Wembley City and Greenwich Peninsula also saw good progress, with six detailed planning applications receiving approval.
Particularly pleasing was the animation of Greenwich Peninsula created by the immediate success of The O2 where, as landlords, we receive a turnover rent, and confirmation of the Peninsulas attractiveness as a new commercial centre with the 136,000 sq ft pre-let to Transport for London.
Quintain Estates Annual Report and Development PLC and Accounts 2008 25 Outlook Market conditions remain challenging.
Investors and bankers are conspicuously risk averse and in the current macro-economic climate this is unlikely to change in the near future.
However, with a business model that has excellent defensive characteristics and improved liquidity, People we have positioned the business well.
In a notably tougher climate, Quintains management While we will not be immune from a further team has continued to deliver opportunities for long-term deteriorating property market, our exposure to less cyclical value creation and to retain a sharp focus on risk sectors, such as healthcare and student accommodation, management.
As the business has grown, important will continue to stand us in good stead.
They have shown additions have been made to augment the Companys greater resilience to the property market downturn and expertise and resources at all levels.
Growth has been enjoy returns linked to the RPI index, which is a huge achieved without any perceptible loss of the advantage in a period when the cost of living is rising entrepreneurial energy or innovative flair that make rapidly.
With regard to our major schemes, the timing of this Company unique.
I would like to thank all our staff the build-out is under our control and can be managed for their impressive performance.
opportunistically to suit our balance sheet and prevailing We have recently added a further non-executive market conditions.
director to the Board through an independent external With many rich opportunities before us and search process.
Simon Laffin is an adviser to a leading significant flexibility, the team at Quintain is nailing its private equity firm and was formerly finance director of colours firmly to the mast of a prudent but entrepreneurial a major food retailer.
His financial background and wide approach to long-term value creation.
Our enthusiasm for commercial experience will be particularly valuable as the task remains very much intact and we look to the the scale and scope of the Groups operations continue future with confidence.
Sustainability The environmental leadership shown by Quintain in seeking to create sustainable communities is a growing source of pride.
Our understanding of how to deploy the experience gained in our zero carbon schemes has grown significantly and we play an increasingly influential John Plender role in this area through the Sustainable Environment Chairman Foundation, a charity launched by Quintain in 2007.
5 June 2008 Leading and being seen to lead our peer group in sustainable urban development is a key component of our business strategy and a goal to which we are all personally committed.
Corporate Governance Quintain takes its corporate governance responsibilities very seriously and is compliant with the Combined Code, except in relation to bonus arrangements where, under exceptional circumstances, there is no upper limit in the aggregate for share awards.
The Boards explanation for this is given in the Corporate Governance Report on p. 76.
This year for the first time we sought external advice on board appraisal.
Further details are included in the Corporate Governance Report.
