bUSINeSS reVIew chAIrMANS StAteMeNt 02 chAIrMANS StAteMeNt A StrONG POSItION IN chAlleNGING MArketS These results and the position of strength of the development cycle by selling forward restructured so that it can be made primarily with which Berkeley ended its financial and matching supply to demand.
This strategy through a series of dividends but also through year are testament to the experience is ideally suited to a cyclical market as it gives opportunistic share buy-backs, with the 2010 B of its executive management team, the the flexibility to adapt to prevailing market share being cancelled.
This will give Berkeley strategy they have put in place and the conditions with the balance sheet strength flexibility to create added value in the business talented teams they have built within to take advantage of opportunities in uncertain by taking full advantage of the current the Group.
At present, the UK housing and challenging market conditions.
market conditions and so maximise value market, which was in any event returning for our shareholders.
Any shares acquired to normality following a sustained period The Scheme of Arrangement aligned will initially be used to satisfy awards made of favourable conditions, is overshadowed Berkeleys corporate strategy with this under employee share schemes.
Whilst this operational strategy, committing to return period of uncertainty prevails, I do believe 12 per share to shareholders by the end of It is proposed that changes are made to that there can be few developers as well January 2011.
On 4 January 2008 Berkeley align Directors remuneration to this revised placed as Berkeley to meet the challenges, redeemed the 2008 B shares of 2 per share, strategy and amend the performance or better able to take advantage of the twelve months ahead of schedule, at a cost of criteria of the 2004 b LTIP.
Under the opportunities, presented by this market.
This brought the total value of revised proposals, which will be subject to I am, therefore, delighted that, following B shares redeemed to date to 1,088 million shareholder approval at this years Annual consultation with our major shareholders, 9 per share in a little over three years and General Meeting, as 9 12 of the value of the we have developed a proposal to refine the Berkeley is on track to deliver the final 3 Scheme of Arrangement payments has been Scheme of Arrangement to do exactly this per share.
This has been achieved without made to shareholders, the Directors will and capitalise on these opportunities to compromising the strength of the Groups become entitled to 9 12 of the 2004 b LTIP maximise shareholder value.
balance sheet which, at the year-end, had shares.
This is approximately 16 million shares gearing below 1%.
and it is proposed that these vest in four equal StrAteGy ANd ScheMe Of ArrANGeMeNt instalments at six-monthly intervals, beginning With the Scheme of Arrangement in 2004, In short, the Scheme of Arrangement has in September 2008 after the AGM.
Berkeley put in place a strategy that allowed been a tremendous success with absolute its entrepreneurial management team shareholder return of 70% over the period As the Directors are required to pay tax and to concentrate on maximising returns significantly outperforming our peers, national insurance on the awards when the to shareholders through its focus on whose shareholder returns over the same shares vest unconditionally, they will need optimising Berkeleys land holdings and period have been negative.
to sell 41% assuming current rates of tax of cash generation, as opposed to focusing on the shares to meet this obligation.
The Board traditional Income Statement measures.
Notwithstanding this, it is right to review has the flexibility, at its absolute discretion, This strategy is founded on the Boards belief the strategy for completing the Scheme to issue the after tax amount of the award that the business has a natural size, and is of Arrangement in the context of the current in shares and to settle the amount of the not scaleable in the traditional sense due to market conditions to ensure that Berkeley fully award represented by tax in cash.
This is the complexities of developing and delivering capitalises on the opportunities created.
This a neutral position for the Directors but would sustainable mixed-use urban regeneration is a view shared by our major shareholders result in fewer shares being issued and is in schemes.
This requires vision, passion and and, in consultation with them, we have accordance with the approval obtained at last an attention to detail that cannot be achieved developed an innovative proposal to revise years Annual General Meeting.
Any decision under a formulaic operating model.
the Scheme of Arrangement to achieve this.
will be taken at the time of vesting and take account of a number of factors, including the As a result Berkeley has positioned itself The proposal is to refine the Scheme of financial position of the Group, the Companys as a specialist urban regenerator in London Arrangement, extending it for three years share price and prevailing market conditions.
and the South East, as opposed to a volume with the final 3 to be paid no later than house-builder.
Beginning with selective and January 2014.
This will allow Berkeley to In addition, under the proposals, the holding innovative land buying, this strategy creates take advantage of the market conditions period will be extended such that, of the the environment in which Berkeley can use using its expertise to acquire new sites from shares vesting, the Directors can sell only its expertise to add value throughout the all sectors of the land market and to which 10% of their net entitlement per annum until development process and so optimise its land it can then add value through the planning the final 3 is returned.
This will ensure that holdings.
This is followed by a disciplined and development process.
Furthermore, the interests of the Directors remain aligned approach to delivery that takes the risk out it is proposed that this final 3 payment is with shareholders throughout the extended 03 ScheMe Of ArrANGeMeNt PrOPOSed reVISION The Scheme of Arrangement has been a tremendous success.
Notwithstanding this, it is right to review the strategy for completing the Scheme of Arrangement in the context of the current market conditions to ensure that Berkeley fully capitalises on the opportunities created.
retUrN Of cAPItAl tO ShArehOlderS Scheme of Arrangement period.
At this point, the remaining 3 12 of the 2004 b LTIP shares 2004 b ShAre 5 Single cash payment paid on 3 December 2004 would vest, assuming this occurs prior to the end of January 2014, with no remaining holding restrictions.
For the avoidance of doubt, the introduction of the 2007 LTIP will be delayed until after the end of the extended Scheme of Arrangement.
2006 b ShAre 2 Single cash payment paid on 8 January 2007 The timetable for this proposal is that further discussions and consultation with key shareholders will be carried out in July in advance of the necessary resolutions to 2008 b ShAre 2 Single cash payment paid on 4 January 2008 amend the performance conditions of the 2004 b LTIP being tabled at the Companys Annual General Meeting on 28 August 2008.
2010 b ShAre 3 Single cash payment to be paid by 31 January 2011 reSUltS Berkeley is delighted to announce a pre-tax INNOVAtIVe PrOPOSAl tO tAke AdVANtAGe profit of 194.3 million for the year ended Of cUrreNt MArket cONdItIONS thrOUGh INcreASed lANd INVeStMeNt 30 April 2008: 6.2 million more than the 188.1 million reported last year, an increase 3 to be returned Value to be returned by 31 January 2014 of 3.2%.
through a series throughout the period Basic earnings per share are 114.2 pence, an of dividends and increase of 1.4% on the 112.6 pence reported by opportunistic share for the same period last year.
The 1.4% buy-backs with 2010 increase is lower than the 3.2% increase in B Share cancelled profit before tax due to the inclusion of the post tax share of joint venture results in profit before tax.
tOtAl retUrN 12 Over the year, total equity has reduced by 100.2 million to 681.4 million April 2007 781.6 million and net asset value per share by 85 pence 13.1% from 649 pence to 564 pence.
The 85 pence per share reduction is due to the 2 per share 2008 B share payment on 4 January 2008, offset by the 114.2 pence earnings per share for the year and other movements of 0.8 pence per share.
If the cost of the 2008 B share payment is added back, net asset value per share would have increased by 115.0 pence or 17.7% to 764 pence per share.
At 30 April 2008, Berkeley had net debt of 4.5 million April 2007 net cash of 81.0 million after generating 156.1 million of cash flow in the year before the 241.6 million 2008 B share payment in January 2008: a net reduction of 85.5 million.
bUSINeSS reVIew bUSINeSS reVIew chAIrMANS StAteMeNt 04 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT CONTINUED and were one of the factors that resulted in executive Director and we would like to thank eNVIrONMeNt Berkeley achieving first place ranking in the Mike for his contribution over this time.
ShArehOlderS NextGeneration Housing Benchmark and Accordingly, the Main Board of Berkeley winning the Sustainable House-builder of the now comprises a Non-executive Chairman, PeOPle Year at the Sustainability Awards.
four Executive Directors and three Nonexecutive Directors.
Whilst extremely gratifying to be recognised SUStAINAble in this manner, sustainability is an ongoing OUr PeOPle UrbAN challenge and we are continuously evolving Delivering such strong results in these difficult reGeNerAtION our business model to ensure long-term market conditions is a real credit to the success.
In particular, we are mindful of the qualities of Berkeleys people.
By empowering wider industrys ability to deliver on the myriad experienced, autonomous management PArtNerS of sustainability targets set by national and teams, and setting a strategy that affords them local Government and other stakeholders the time and confidence to make the right without due regard for the economic cost.
operational decisions, Berkeley has created an environment in which our talented people bOArd chANGeS can reach their full potential.
Once again, The year saw the retirement of two Directors they have more than risen to the challenge Return on Capital Employed for the year was from the Board.
Firstly, in July, Roger Lewis demonstrating resilience and determination 29.3%, increased from 28.1% last time.
retired after 16 years with the Group, the which, when added to the passion and pride last eight as Chairman.
Then, at the AGM in to deliver sustainable communities of the SUStAINAbIlIty September, Tony Palmer, a Non-executive high quality that are its hallmark, make Sustainability remains at the heart of Berkeley Director for nine years and, at the point of his Berkeley the powerful force that it is in all and an integral part of the business strategy.
retirement, the Senior Independent Director, market conditions.
It is a fundamental part of the everyday retired.
The Board would like to reiterate management of our business and the its thanks to both Roger and Tony for their On behalf of the Board and shareholders, developments we build from the acquisition outstanding contributions to Berkeley over we would again like to express our continued and recycling of brown-field land, through the the years.
thanks and appreciation to all those at careful planning and efficient use of that land, Berkeley for their outstanding contributions the use of modern environmental materials Victoria Mitchell, already a Non-executive to the success of the business.
and construction methodologies to the Director of Berkeley, replaced Roger Lewis creation of homes and communities that allow as Chairman on 1 August and David Howell, our customers to live the sustainable lives to a Non-executive Director since February which they now aspire.
2004, succeeded Tony Palmer as the Senior Independent Director.
As a consequence, Berkeley was honoured to VIctOrIA MItchell be awarded a Queens Award for Enterprise On 1 October 2007 the Board was delighted to Chairman in the Sustainable Development category.
welcome John Armitt as a new Non-executive The Awards, now in their 43rd year, are the Director.
John is currently Chairman of the UKs most prestigious award for business Olympic Delivery Authority and Chairman performance, recognising and rewarding of the Engineering and Physical Science outstanding achievement in trade, innovation Research Council.
From 2001 to 2007 he and sustainable development.
was Chief Executive of Network Rail and its predecessor, Railtrack.
A civil engineer The Award followed Berkeley launching its by training, he was previously Chief Executive seven key commitments earlier in the year of Costain and Union Railways and has which included stretching targets for the a wealth of experience and expertise which will reduction of carbon, water usage and landfill be of significant benefit to Berkeley.
These were the first commitments from a major house-builder to exceed Since the year-end Mike Tanner has resigned 1 current Government sustainability targets from the Board after 2 2 years as a Non- 05 bAtterSeA reAch, lONdON A dIStINctIVe ANd exhIlArAtING PlAce tO lIVe, wOrk ANd PlAy B attersea Reach is a 13 acre mixed-use development positioned on the south side of the River Thames F ormerly a contaminated brownfield site the land lay dormant for 10 years until St George acquired it with a view to creating a vibrant new sustainable community T he development comprises 1,084 one, two and three bedroom apartments and penthouses, including a number of affordable homes for key workers and those on low incomes O nce completed Battersea Reach will incorporate 2 a mix of 390,000 ft of commercial space bUSINeSS reVIew
