3i Infrastructure Limited Annual report and accounts 2008 01 Chairmans statement This good performance was achieved despite a marked downturn in credit markets, which has resulted in a deterioration in both the quantum and terms of debt available for the financing of transactions.
It is worth noting that, despite these market conditions, the Company was able to access the debt markets throughout the period, not only to finance and refinance its investments, but also to raise its own 225 million credit facility, signed at the end of March, at terms that are attractive in the current environment.
The relationship of our Investment Adviser with the consortium of lending banks was important in arranging the facility.
In addition, the Company intends to raise 115 million through a placing and open offer of new shares to international investors.
With a good return in the first year, the assets in our portfolio performing well, a strong The Companys corporate governance model continues to work well.
The Board acts as investment committee, pipeline of investment opportunities and monitors the performance of the portfolio through liquidity to invest, the Board feels confident that detailed reviews received from the Investment Adviser 3i Infrastructure is well positioned to continue and has approved the valuation of each investment.
to build on the strong performance since IPO.
All operating controls and procedures set out by the Board were implemented successfully throughout the 3i Infrastructure Limited performed strongly in the period period and in August the Company held its first Annual from incorporation on 16 January 2007 to 31 March General Meeting.
The Company achieved a total return, on a Consolidated IFRS basis, of 89 million, representing a In September, following the AGM, the Board was delighted 12.9% return on opening shareholders equity.
On an to welcome Steven Wilderspin as a non-executive Director Investment basis, which the Board uses as the primary and a member of the Audit Committee.
Thanks to his basis to monitor performance, the Company achieved a extensive experience, Steven has proven to be a valuable total return of 91 million 13.1%, more than its 12% addition to the Board.
return objective and ahead of the target set out at IPO.
The market environment for infrastructure investment I am also pleased to report that the Directors are remains attractive for the Company.
The challenging proposing a final dividend of 3.0p per share, making a capital markets backdrop has reduced the competitive total dividend for the period of 5.0p per share, or 5.1% of pressure for available assets, which should eventually net IPO proceeds, which also meets our annual result in more attractive entry prices.
The dislocation in distribution yield objective earlier than targeted.
the credit markets, moreover, is creating interesting investment opportunities, which the Company has already The Company invested 442 million over the period, taken advantage of through the commitment to acquire or 64% of the net proceeds raised at IPO, in a portfolio three junior debt tranches in Viridian, Thames Water and of assets which are performing in line with the Boards National Grid Wireless.
Including undrawn commitments at 31 March 2008, 3i Infrastructure had invested The outlook for the Company remains positive.
With new 613 million, or 88% of net IPO proceeds.
equity capital and a debt facility in place, 3i Infrastructure The investment portfolio has diversified significantly has ample liquidity to continue to invest.
With a good since our flotation, also benefiting from the breadth return in the first year, the assets in our portfolio and depth of the Investment Advisers international performing well, a strong pipeline of investment network of financial and industrial partners.
opportunities and liquidity to invest, the Board feels confident that 3i Infrastructure is well positioned to build New investments in the period included the acquisition of on its strong performance since IPO.
a 45% interest in three subsidiaries of Oiltanking GmbH, based in the Netherlands, Malta and Singapore and the Peter Sedgwick commitment to the 3i India Infrastructure Fund the Chairman Fund, whose final closing, at US$1.2 billion, was 11 June 2008 announced by 3i Group in April.
The commitment to the Fund is of significant strategic importance for the Company, as it allows exposure to a diversified portfolio of infrastructure assets in India at no additional cost in terms of fees payable to the Funds investment manager.
