Chairmans statement 2008 marked Aberdeens twenty-fifth year as an independent asset management group: it has also been a year of unprecedented uncertainty in financial markets and volatility in the asset classes that we manage.
Nonetheless, I am pleased to report that the Group has shown considerable resilience.
It has continued to achieve success both organically, through new business flows, and strategically, through several acquisitions, thus diversifying and strengthening the Groups distribution as well as its investment capabilities.
The Group continued to attract healthy levels in the year to 30 September 2008.
Additionally, of new business, particularly from Continental we are now implementing further annualised Europe, with gross inflows running at similar cost savings of approximately 20 million, levels to last year.
However, to a large which we expect to be fully implemented by extent these wins have been offset by higher September 2009. redemptions because of increased risk aversion.
Overall, the Groups operating profit is slightly Nevertheless, gross new business for 2008 ahead of last year at 100.0 million, although of 21.8 billion, with a further 1.9 billion of the operating margin is somewhat lower this year mandates awarded but not funded at the year at 23.2%.
We will continue to manage the cost end, are testament to our product strength.
base to ensure that the Group is positioned to After deducting redemptions of 20.8 billion, net benefit from an eventual improvement in market new business for the year totalled 1.0 billion, conditions.
a respectable balance in the circumstances.
Margins overall however remain under pressure The balance sheet remains healthy, with Charles Irby Chairman in volatile conditions and our previously reported approximately 137 million of net debt cost reduction programme continues in light of supported by 743 million of equity.
Whilst we the difficult market environment.
chose to finance two of the three acquisitions completed during the year from borrowings, new equity was issued to fund the acquisition of Financials Goodman Property Investors, thus maintaining Revenue has increased by 24% to 430.1 the Groups gearing at a comfortable level million.
This increase has been spread over of 18%.
the investment management and property divisions, with the benefit of new revenues from Results and dividend acquisitions outweighing the adverse effects of The Groups underlying profit, which we define the generally lower market levels.
as profit before taxation, exceptional items and Operating costs have increased by 32%, largely amortisation of intangible assets, was 95.1 as a result of businesses acquired during the year.
million compared to 94.3 million in 2007.
This However, as reported in the Interim Management represents underlying earnings per share, on a Statement in July 2008, we have implemented a diluted basis, of 9.0p, a decrease of 19% on last programme to reduce annual operating costs by year.
After accounting for exceptional items and approximately 57 million which, after factoring amortisation, we report a pre-tax profit of 60.5 in the consequent income reduction, will deliver million, compared to 23.7 million in 2007. a net annualised benefit of approximately 40 The board is recommending a final dividend of million.
Some 3 million of this net benefit is 3.0p per share, making a total payment for the reflected in the second half of the reported year, year of 5.8p per share, an increase of 5.5% on the with the balance of the savings to come through total payment for 2007. in 2008 09.
Restructuring costs of 10.3 million associated with these savings have been incurred 4 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Corporate activity The operating environment After the year end, the Group announced a Without doubt, we are now operating in an business and capital alliance with Mitsubishi uFJ environment that is challenging all asset Trust and Banking Corporation MuTB, under management firms in a number of ways.
At the which MuTB will promote selected Aberdeen most fundamental level, fee income is under products to the Japanese institutional market.
pressure, as assets fall and margin pressures MuTB has also purchased approximately 10% increase.
The management team has addressed of Aberdeens issued share capital, with the right this through a cost reduction programme I have to purchase further shares in the market up to a described above.
We have seen extraordinary declines in In October 2007, we purchased a uS fund asset prices over the past twelve months.
management business from Nationwide Financial unfortunately, whatever action is undertaken Services adding approximately uS$7 billion 3.5 by governments and central banks, markets are billion of assets under management AuM, likely to remain difficult in the shorter term principally in sub-advisory mandates.
This even if a measure of confidence does return.
acquisition not only broadened and strengthened Traditional managers with transparent processes our uS equity capability but will increase and business models at least can offer products Aberdeens distribution resources and presence in that can be understood: as independent asset the uS mutual fund market.
We intend to build managers we can provide these services without our uS mutual fund activities from this platform.
conflicts of interest or balance sheet risk.
Two further acquisitions have added to our Our investment philosophy is to identify property division: DEGI, the German-based fundamentals that will drive asset prices over property asset manager, and Goodman Property the long term.
Our global equities team have Investors GPI, which brings a uK capability to continued to deliver performance well ahead complement our European operations.
As well as of benchmark over both the short and long broadening Aberdeens client base, bringing 5.8 term.
Our fixed income teams have experienced billion of additional AuM, the DEGI transaction unprecedented market conditions because of also further strengthened our distribution base the global credit crunch.
Whilst the credit teams and profile in Germany.
In May 2008, the GPI managed to avoid the perils of the CDO market, deal added further AuM of 7.0 billion.
Our the magnitude of deleveraging and illiquidity in property division is now the second largest many areas of the market have led to even high property fund manager in the uK and a top ten quality securities moving to extreme valuations.
global property manager, with AuM of 25.4 The impact of this has hurt our uS credit billion at the year end.
performance, and to a lesser extent our other credit teams globally.
Property as an asset class Overall, these transactions added 16.3 billion to has also suffered during this turbulent period.
AuM and total AuM at the year end increased by We are fortunate that most clients by value are 17% to 111.1 billion 2007: 95.3 billion.
institutional investors that have long-term time horizons and have invested in funds with lengthy lock-in periods.
OuR stRAtEGy The Group has a balanced business with We will add new offices where it will enhance principal investment centres in the three our services to clients and prospects or deepen main time zones.
Our expertise is the management of client We also build our assets and skills through portfolios from a fundamental perspective.
acquisitions where we see a fit to our This forms the basis of our core investment existing business.
To manage costs, we outsource or We intend to develop our investment capability centralise non-core functions.
We prefer and distribution platforms in order to enter to own investment competence, product new markets and segments where we have a development and client relations ourselves.
Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 5 Chairmans statement continued New business The Group continued to attract new business client base in other domiciles worldwide, with from a broad range of investment disciplines new asset flows of note from the Middle East, and the office network afforded by our property Canada and Korea.
Gross inflows were sourced division is now also helping to contribute across from Continental Europe 33%, the uK 18%, a number of key European countries outside the the united States and Canada 20%, Asia Pacific uK.
Whilst our operations in the Netherlands, 14% and the Middle East and Africa 15%.
The Germany and the Nordic regions have again been composition of new business flows is summarised successful in gaining new local clients, we are in the following table.
further encouraged by the breadth of our newer New business flows Funded yet to fund total m m m Fixed income: Gross inflows 8,515 629 9,144 Outflows 9,955 9,955 Net flow 1,440 629 811 Equities: Gross inflows 9,459 507 9,966 Outflows 8,399 8,399 Net flow 1,060 507 1,567 Property: Gross inflows 3,293 724 4,017 Outflows 1,648 1,648 Net flow 1,645 724 2,369 Multi-asset: Gross inflows 487 50 537 Outflows 765 765 Net flow 278 50 228 Group total: Gross inflows 21,754 1,910 23,664 Outflows 20,767 20,767 Net flow 987 1,910 2,897 Outlook The first two months of our new financial year I will be retiring from the board at the have seen the turmoil in global markets deepen.
forthcoming AGM after nine years as chairman However, we enter it with a stable balance and I am delighted that Roger Cornick, who sheet, a strong range of core products and a well joined the board in 2004, has agreed to succeed diversified global client base.
Our priorities are me as chairman.
These last nine years have been to make sustainable cost reductions, achieve an exhilarating period of growth for Aberdeen synergies from new business and identify avenues and, although we are currently experiencing to further profitable growth, such as our recent unprecedented economic conditions, I firmly partnership with Mitsubishi.
The turmoil in our believe that we have the platform in place to industry and world financial markets will create grow the business in the years ahead and become numerous opportunities for growth as well as an even more significant player in the global asset obstacles and we remain alert to both.
None of this would have we are aware of the importance of our people, been possible without the continual hard work and the board recognises the commitment and and commitment of all of our staff, for which I professionalism of our staff in what have been, am deeply grateful and I would also like to thank and remain, extremely challenging times.
my colleagues on the board for their contribution and support during my term as chairman.
Charles Irby Chairman 6 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008
