Chairmans Statement Review of 2008 Performance Last year I reflected on how difficult 2007 had been for small company share prices.
The year to 31 December 2008 has proved even more challenging with the obvious stresses in the financial system generating a sharp slow down in the global economy.
Global equity markets have fallen significantly.
Reflecting this, Aberforth Smaller Companies Trust plc ASCoT produced a negative total return of 39.6%, compared with a negative total return of 40.8% for the Hoare Govett Smaller Companies Index Excluding Investment Companies, your Companys investment benchmark.
Larger companies, as represented by the FTSE All-Share Index, registered a negative total return of 29.9%.
Your Managers Report provides greater insight into ASCoTs performance, including that of small and large companies.
Gearing In my Half Yearly Report I commented on the significant and rapid adjustment to valuations that had taken place between the stock market peak around May 2007 for small companies and the middle of 2008.
At that time your Managers had begun to employ a modest level of borrowing to gear the portfolio, ever conscious that timing the bottom of the market with accuracy is near impossible.
Although valuations have continued to decline since the decision was made, your Board and Managers believe that the introduction of gearing will be beneficial in the longer term.
At the year end the level of gearing was 109.5%.
Your Board and Managers review the level of gearing regularly and, whilst subject to many factors, it is likely that gearing will increase slowly from its current level.
Dividends Your Board is pleased to declare a second interim dividend, in effect a final dividend, of 13.0 pence per share, which produces total dividends for the year of 19.0 pence per share representing an increase of 25.0% on the total for the previous year.
The increase year-on-year reflects good underlying growth in dividends from ASCoTs portfolio particularly in the first half of the year: the beneficial impact of gearing on the revenue account: and the non-recurring recovery of VAT and associated interest.
It is very unlikely that dividend growth from the portfolio in 2009 will be as good as it has been in the past year.
The near term outlook for corporate dividends is increasingly challenging.
Indeed, many financial commentators are of the view that, in aggregate, UK dividends will fall in 2009.
In this context, the Board does have a degree of flexibility given the level of the Companys revenue reserves which, after adjusting for payment of the second interim dividend, amount to 26.9 pence per share.
The second interim dividend of 13.0 pence per share will be paid on 27 February 2009 to Shareholders on the register at the close of business on 6 February 2009.
The last date for submission of Forms of Election for those Shareholders wishing to participate in ASCoTs Dividend Reinvestment Plan DRiP is 6 February 2009.
Details of the DRiP are available from Aberforth Partners LLP on request or from their website, www.
Value Added Tax VAT Shareholders will recall from previous reports that VAT is no longer imposed on management fees and that your Board had reached agreement with your Managers for recovery of all VAT paid by ASCoT since 2001 plus any sums recovered by your Managers from HMRC in relation to earlier periods.
As reported in the Half Yearly Report, a total of 6.4 million has been received in the last two years, comprising 5.4 million of VAT plus associated interest of 1.0 million.
This represents a very satisfactory outcome to date for Shareholders.
Any further recovery is subject to various legal cases, the outcome and timing of which remain uncertain at this stage.
Whilst ASCoT is not directly involved in these cases, your Managers continue to monitor developments in this regard.
4 Chairmans Statement Continuation Vote At the Annual General Meeting held on 4 March 2008, Shareholders passed all the resolutions.
Of particular note was the resolution, proposed every three years, that ASCoT should continue as an investment trust.
Share Buy Back Authority and Treasury Shares At the same Annual General Meeting, the authority to buy-in up to 14.99% of ASCoTs Ordinary Shares was renewed.
Under that authority 1,909,788 shares have been bought in to the end of December at a total cost of 11.1 million.
All shares bought in have been cancelled rather than held in treasury.
Shares bought in to date have enhanced ASCoTs net asset value by approximately 2.2 million by virtue of the weighted average discount on purchases being 16.2%.
Your Board will be seeking a renewal of this authority at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 4 March 2009.
Your Board keeps under careful review the circumstances under which the buy-in authority is used in the context of its overall objective of seeking to sustain a low discount.
It is your Boards policy to cancel, rather than hold in treasury, any such shares.
Summary and Outlook 2008 has been a very difficult year for UK smaller companies with a steep decline in the level of their share prices.
If ever a reminder was needed that equity investment requires a long term perspective it has been given to us in this last year.
Whilst it would be folly to suggest that there is no further pain to come, your Managers are of the view that UK small company equities currently represent attractive value.
Your Board remains confident that the Managers experience and consistency of approach will benefit the Company in these difficult times.
David R Shaw Chairman 27 January 2009 5 Aberforth Partners LLP Information Aberforth Partners LLP the firm act as Managers and Secretaries to the Company.
The predecessor business, Aberforth Partners, was established in 1990 to provide institutional and wholesale investors with a high level of resources focused exclusively on small UK quoted companies.
Since then funds under management have grown to 1.0 billion as at 31 December 2008.
The firm is wholly owned by seven partners six investment managers including four founding partners, and Alan Waite, who is responsible for the firms administration.
David Warnock, a founding partner, retired on 31 December 2008.
The six investment managers work as a team managing the Companys portfolio on a collegiate basis.
The founding partners have been managing the portfolio since the Companys inception in December 1990.
The partners each have a personal investment in the Company.
The biographical details of the investment managers are as follows: Andrew P Bamford 42 BCom Hons, CA Andy joined Aberforth Partners in April 2001, became a partner in May 2004, and is responsible for investment research and stock selection in the following areas Technology Hardware & Equipment: Travel & Leisure: Industrial Transportation: and a proportion of Support Services.
Previously he was with Edinburgh Fund Managers for 7 years, latterly as Deputy Head of UK Small Companies, with specific responsibility for institutional clients.
Prior to joining Edinburgh Fund Managers he was a senior investment analyst with General Accident for 2 years supporting the head of UK Smaller Companies.
Before joining General Accident, he was a Chartered Accountant with Price Waterhouse.
John M Evans 51 MA Hons John was a founding partner in May 1990 and is responsible for investment research and stock selection in the following areas Automobiles & Parts: Chemicals: Construction & Materials: Industrial Metals & Mining: Household Goods & Home Construction: Leisure Goods: Personal Goods: Fixed Line Telecom: Electricity: Gas, Water & Multiutilities: and Mining.
Previously he was with Ivory & Sime for 11 years where he was latterly responsible for the management of portfolios whose objectives were income and capital growth from UK equities.
Euan R Macdonald 38 BA Hons Euan joined Aberforth Partners in May 2001, became a partner in May 2004, and is responsible for investment research and stock selection in the following areas Industrial Engineering: Software & Computer Services: and a proportion of Support Services.
Previously he was with Baillie Gifford for 10 years where he managed portfolios invested in small companies both in Continental Europe and in the UK.
Richard M J Newbery 49 BA Hons Richard was a founding partner in May 1990 and is responsible for investment research and stock selection in the following areas Alternative Energy: Electronic & Electrical Equipment: Beverages: Food & Drug Retailers: Food Producers: Forestry & Paper: General Industrials: and General Retailers.
Previously he was with Ivory & Sime for 9 years where he managed international portfolios for a range of clients including those with a small company specialisation.
David T M Ross 59 FCCA David was a founding partner in May 1990 and is responsible for investment research and stock selection in the following areas Nonlife Insurance: Life Assurance: Real Estate: and Financial Services.
Previously he was with Ivory & Sime for 22 years, the last two of which were as Managing Director.
He was a Director of US Smaller Companies Investment Trust plc and served as a member of the Executive Committee of the Association of Investment Companies.
Alistair J Whyte 45 Alistair was a founding partner in May 1990 and is responsible for investment research and stock selection in the following areas Aerospace & Defence: Health Care Equipment & Services: Media: Oil & Gas Producers: Oil Equipment & Services: and Pharmaceuticals & Biotechnology.
Previously he was with Ivory & Sime for 11 years where latterly he managed portfolios in Asia.
Prior to that he managed portfolios with the objective of capital growth from smaller companies in the UK and internationally.
Further information on Aberforth Partners LLP and its clients is available on its website www.
