8 c h A I R M A n s s tAt E M E n t Admiral has Chairman's statement been able to Amid all the market turbulence it is pleasing to be able to report another year of sustained growth in turnover, create 32 profits, and dividend.
Also that in the gloom of widespread job losses Admiral has been able to create 326 new jobs in Wales over the past 12 new jobs in months, not to mention 290 posts outside the UK.
2008, therefore, marked another year of successfully Wales over advancing our strategy, being to grow our share of the UK private motor market and exploit the knowledge, skills and resources attaching to the past our core business to promote our expansion overseas and our position in price comparison.
We estimate that we now account for some 6% of the UK private motor Alastair Lyons, CBE market covering 1.6 million vehicles, 15% up on December 2007 and placing us third in terms of premium in this market.
Since the business floated in September 2004 our vehicle count has grown by over 12% p. a. compound, testament to the relevance of our customer proposition: the effectiveness with which the business has seized the opportunities presented by the internet and the rise of aggregators: and continuing innovation such as Admiral MultiCar.
This growth in our book in 2008 was accompanied by a 17% increase in profit derived from ancillary products and services.
The upward trend in pricing that started to emerge a year ago has been sustained during 2008.
As Henry Engelhardt discusses more fully in his CEOs report, we increased our rates by around 4%, generally in line with the market as a whole, whilst claims frequency continued to fall.
Our established reserving methodology under which we make a prudent assessment of claims in their early stages engendered further significant releases as these prior year claims aged.
In my statement last year I underlined the rapid growth of competition in car insurance price comparison.
Chairmans 4 4- -5 5 6-7 8-9 10-15 16-33 34-47 48-53 54-104 Admiral Admiral Gr Group oup 2008 Financial Chief Executives Business review Governance & Board of Directors Financial statement in in 2008 2008 highlights statement Remuneration & Directors report statements A D M I R A L G R O U P p l c With another enormous increase in With a very prudent investment been placed for 9 consecutive years marketing expenditure in this sector, philosophy, only employing cash amongst the Sunday Times Top 100 it was inevitable that the market share deposits or money market funds, it was Companies to Work For in the UK.
Our held historically by Confused would inevitable that the sharp fall in general remuneration philosophy combines reduce, albeit that the overall market interest rates should have had an base salary and performance-related has continued to expand rapidly, equivalent impact on our investment shares across our entire business and growing by an estimated 60% in 2008. income.
100% of our, and our we are delighted that achievement In determining how much to commit policyholders, money was, however, in full of the objectives set for 2008 ourselves we sought to balance our secure.
meant that eligible employees again margin of profitability and defence realised the maximum award of 3,000 of our leadership position.
Across The result for the year was a pre-tax free shares under our Approved 2008 as a whole Confuseds turnover profit of 202.5 million, an 11% increase Scheme.
The second 3-year period for held broadly steady, being down 4% on 2007 off a 13% growth in total the Discretionary Free Share Scheme on the year, but at a significantly written premiums.
significantly exceeded the performance higher marketing cost such that conditions, qualifying the scheme to Confused profits fell from 37 million As a principle we return all available vest the maximum share entitlement to 26 million.
Price comparison now surpluses to shareholders after taking under the individual awards.
accounts for 38% of the private motor into account our required solvency, market, up from 24% in 2007, and our overseas expansion plans, and Admiral is now one of the largest shows no sign of stopping its growth a prudent margin currently 25m private employers in Wales and, as which is good news both for Confused against contingencies.
We, therefore, such, is a significant part of the local and for the Admiral brands, for which commit to pay a standard normal community.
The contribution that it represents the principal source of dividend that has grown in line with the company has made to Wales was new business.
We would, however, our growth in profits based on a recognised by the award of an honorary anticipate that this sector will remain 45% pay-out ratio, and pay whatever CBE to Henry Engelhardt in April 2008, highly competitive whilst some players remains as available surplus as a on which may I once again extend to continue to be prepared to incur losses special dividend which will, therefore, him our hearty congratulations.
We to attempt to build share.
fluctuate from year to year.
encourage our staff to work with local projects and we provided financial Having launched Balumba.
es in Spain This year our normal dividend support during the year to such in 2006 and AdmiralDirekt.
fide in amounted to 24.7p per share, and our disparate events as the Admiral Cardiff Germany in 2007, 2008 was the turn special to 27.8p per share, bringing to Big Weekend offering 3 days of quality of ConTe.
it in Italy at the end of May.
220m the total we have declared as live music, and the South Wales Echo It has always been the Admiral way special dividends since flotation in Community Champion Awards.
to learn by doing, taking relatively September 2004, this being in addition small and inexpensive steps to test to 215m normal dividends over the I would like to take this opportunity different approaches and identify same period.
Total dividends for the to extend the thanks of the Board the best way forward.
Our expansion year, therefore, amounted to 52.5p to everyone who has contributed to overseas is central to our long-term per share, a 20% increase on last year, another successful year our staff strategy of growth of our direct representing a yield of 6.1% based at home and overseas: our Board, private motor franchise, and this will on the closing share price on 27 executive and non-executive: our require sustained investment until February 2009. suppliers: and above all our 1.7 million we achieve the scale to support customers, whose satisfaction the infrastructure necessary in each Our success reflects both excellent through great products and great country, and have selected the best strategic leadership and first-class service will provide the basis of our model to write profitable business.
execution by our staff across all continuing success.
In this context we congratulate our aspects of our operations.
Our staff Spanish team on bringing their loss have been shareholders in Admiral ratio at month 12 down from 137% for for the last 9 years, initially under the 2007 underwriting year to 102% for private equity ownership and now 2008 whilst growing their book 18% to through the Free Share Schemes 55,000 customers by the year-end.
Our put in place at flotation.
We see teams in Germany and Italy are both at this alignment of the interests of Alastair Lyons an early stage of determining how best our staff and our shareholders as Chairman to penetrate their respective markets, fundamental to our success, and we and we now also have a team working are strongly of the view that there is in Richmond, Virginia towards a launch a direct link between our staff being in the US.
owners of the business and our having
