qxp:Layout 1 16 3 09 22:18 Page 6 6 Directors Report Business Review Chairmans statement that of oil.
These price changes were accompanied by an increase in the value of the US Dollar which dominates the revenues and costs of BG Groups business relative to the pound Sterling, the currency in which BG Group reports its earnings.
Amidst such upheaval and uncertainty, it is sometimes difficult for investors to keep a clear line of sight on the underlying value and future growth potential of the companies they own.
In BG Groups view, it has become more important than ever to examine market fundamentals, the robustness of corporate strategy and the profitability of underlying assets in todays price environment.
No company should ever be complacent at a time of such extraordinary uncertainties: however, we believe that BG Group is better positioned than most.
Global energy markets Sir Robert Wilson Whatever the future may hold, two factors Chairman seem certain.
First, there is ample evidence that global energy needs will continue to grow perhaps not in the short-term, but I am pleased to report another certainly over time, particularly in the developing world.
Second, as a consequence excellent year for BG Group.
of growing public concern about climate change, an increasing proportion of those energy needs will have to be met from sources that produce significantly lower carbon emissions than coal.
Natural gas is the cleanest of the hydrocarbon Despite a sharp downturn in the global summer of 2008 has quickly tipped the wider fuels.
Gas resources remain relatively economy in the latter months of 2008, I am global economy into serious recession.
Many abundant and thanks to constant advances pleased to report that BG Group achieved businesses have retrenched in response to in technology can often be found within another excellent performance over the severely impaired access to credit and capital: economically attractive distances from key year as a whole.
The Group reported a and many consumers have begun to reduce markets.
As such, the environmental and 65% increase in total operating profit to discretionary spending in response to industrial benefits of strategies to displace 5 355 million and a 74% increase in earnings concerns that the global recession may be coal in favour of gas are well understood.
The full year deep-rooted and enduring.
In many nations, increased gas utilisation dividend payment has been increased by The inability of certain businesses, large and 20% to 11.23 pence per share.
BG Groups forms an important part of broader small, to meet their financing commitments, commitments to improve air quality and exploration success continued, materially and the dramatic collapse in the value of enhancing the opportunities for continued addresses the challenges of climate change.
securities in even the greatest of financial There is therefore every prospect that natural growth in future years.
Offshore Brazil was institutions, have radically reshaped global once again a particular highlight, with gas a core area of focus in BG Groups equity markets.
Energy shares may have business will continue to grow in major successes in the Santos Basin.
fared better than some other sectors, but importance as a global fuel of choice.
In late 2008, the Group acquired control have certainly not been immune to market of Queensland Gas Company Limited QGC turbulence.
As economic activity slows in the Strategy for growth in Australia, adding to the portfolio a material developed world and in emerging nations, BG Groups strategy is straightforward, proven new business with significant upstream particularly China and India, near-term and effective: to grow value for shareholders resources, well-positioned to supply Asia commodity prices have fallen sharply.
by connecting competitively priced resources Pacific markets.
That However, medium-term oil prices have fallen underlying strategy has served shareholders A challenging environment less.
Gas prices, which are more important well for more than a decade now.
We are all now experiencing a level of to BG Groups earnings, were also materially volatility in global markets that has no less affected.
The UK actually saw gas prices That is not to say that the Groups approach precedent in modern times.
The banking increase: and in other markets, such as the to the development of its portfolio is static.
crisis which gathered pace in the late USA, gas price decline was less severe than There have been a number of important For a reconciliation between Business Performance and Total Results, see note 2, page 75. www.
com DIRECTORS REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT SHAREHOLDER BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INFORMATION BG078 p06-10 vAW2.
qxp:Layout 1 16 3 09 22:18 Page 7 7 developments in the portfolio over the last merely a consequence of the Groups desire who have not specifically requested a hard year.
The net effect is a stronger resource to act with integrity in its dealings with copy.
However, printed copies are available base and enhanced options for investment stakeholders.
The commitment is shaped free of charge upon request.
to drive the Groups long-term growth.
In by a clear understanding that acting I would also like to alert shareholders to parallel, we have reassessed risks and responsibly is an essential component a change of venue for the Groups Annual opportunities across all of BG Groups of shareholder value over the long-term.
This years AGM activities to confirm that the portfolio Companies which fall short of their will be held at the Royal Berkshire Conference remains robust and value-enhancing against obligations towards their employees, host Centre in Reading, instead of the ICC in a very broad range of market conditions.
communities and the environment, risk Birmingham.
Full details are set out in the The Group continues to benefit from the undermining the sustainability of their Notice of AGM on page 127. longevity of its core assets and a cost core business.
structure amongst the most competitive The Board BG Group reports annually on its progress in its industry.
There were a number of changes to the Board in this area.
This years publication, the in 2008.
Sir John Coles stepped down from Where it makes sense for the Group to BG Group Sustainability Report, is published the Board in September 2008 and Paul Collins move quickly to secure high-quality assets today at the same time as the Annual stepped down at the end of the year.
They with excellent prospects, it will do so.
I would encourage depart with our thanks and appreciation of example, the acquisition of QGC followed shareholders to read the two Reports in their important contribution during the last the Groups decision to allow its previous parallel.
Taken together, they are intended decade.
We also welcomed Sir David Manning bid for Origin Energy to lapse, and was to give as full a picture as possible of to the Board in July 2008, followed by Martin achieved within weeks by means of an BG Groups performance in pursuit of Houston, who was appointed to the Board on-market recommended takeover bid.
as an Executive Director in February 2009.
Another example is the close collaboration Unfortunately, I must report a serious breach In conclusion, I would like to offer my thanks with the Groups Brazilian partner, Petrobras, of BG Group's Business Principles during to the Groups management and employees.
to accelerate the development of the Santos the period under review.
In December 2008, 2008 was a year of challenges overcome and Basin pre-salt discoveries.
Equally, the Group a disciplinary process found that the Groups opportunities delivered.
The achievements will not hesitate to reschedule plans or alter Executive Vice President and Managing outlined in this Report provide clear evidence the mix of assets within a business segment Director, Africa, Middle East and Asia had of the energy, dedication and commitment if doing so offers the prospect of greater committed serious errors of judgment in of the people of BG Group.
The decisive action relation to his personal dealings in third-party to phase over a longer period the further shares.
The Group concluded that his position development of the Karachaganak field is a in the company was no longer tenable and demonstration of the Groups commitment he therefore left BG Group by mutual to discipline in its use of capital.
consent, with immediate effect, in late Given that BG Group has ambitious plans December 2008.
Information was passed to for further growth, it is perhaps inevitable the relevant regulatory authorities, whose Sir Robert Wilson that shareholders should ask whether these investigation continues.
Chairman investments can be financed in the current Shareholder communications environment.
Shareholders should feel I am pleased to report that an increasing reassured that BG Group has a highly number of shareholders are choosing to cash-generative business, a low level of access details of BG Groups performance gearing and committed lines of credit.
online via the Groups website We believe that the Groups investment www.
com investors rather programme can be sustained without than by receipt of a printed copy of the sacrifice to dividends, and will not lead Annual Report and Accounts.
I would like to undue reliance on debt.
to thank shareholders who have elected Sustainability to receive online communications alone.
BG Group recognises that stakeholders do The environmental and cost benefits are not simply scrutinise business performance obvious and, given the size of the Groups in terms of numbers and volumes.
The Group shareholder register, not insignificant.
is also expected to maintain the highest This year the Group will no longer be standards of corporate responsibility.
We producing Summary Financial Statements, believe that how the Group behaves matters and shareholders who have specifically as much as the achievement of its goals.
requested this will be sent a copy of the BG Group is committed to ensuring all aspects Annual Report and Accounts instead.
As of its operations worldwide are conducted in last year, communication of the Annual Report line with its published Business Principles, set and Accounts via the Groups website will out in The way we work on page 35.
This is not remain the default option for shareholders BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2008
