42472 Accounts:42472 Accounts 21 4 08 18:21 Page 2 2 | Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts Chairmans statement Investor Forum in Brighton 2007.
Lesley Knox This has not been an easy review to compose.
We are looking back at a year of market turbulence and forward to one which seems likely to be just as difficult.
In its last financial year your Company did not escape those pressures.
An encouraging rise in net asset value in the second half of 2007 was followed by a sharp fall in markets in January 2008.
Nevertheless we are as determined as ever to deliver real growth over the medium to long term and elsewhere in this report we explain the actions we are taking to achieve this.
Meanwhile we are pleased to be able to increase our annual dividend for the 41st consecutive year.
We have declared a fourth interim dividend of 2.2p per share, making a total for the year of 7.9p per share, an increase of 0.32p per share.
Since our new Chief Investment Officer, Katherine Garrett-Cox, joined us in May 2007 we have made a number of improvements to our investment process, with the intention of enhancing returns both within our core equity portfolio and by increased diversification across a wider range of asset classes.
All of these changes, which are discussed in more detail in her report on pages 10 to 13, are intended to improve our ability to generate returns for shareholders at all stages of the economic cycle.
Given the uncertain outlook for the current year, our focus will be on investing in those assets best placed to weather the storm, and taking advantage of any opportunities presented by equity weakness.
In response to the recent review by the Financial Services This has not been an easy review to Authority of the listing rules applicable to investment companies such as the Alliance Trust, we have expanded our statement of compose.
We are looking back at a investment policy which now gives more information on the year of market turbulence and parameters within which we invest.
You will find the new forward to one which seems likely statement on page 8 of this report.
We have continued to invest in our investment team and process where appropriate and as a result our costs have increased.
Despite the increase in the Total Expense Ratio TER this year, partly reflecting the decline in assets as a result of market movements, we remain in the bottom quartile of the Global Growth and Global Growth & Income investment trusts with regard to TER.
During the year some shareholders proposed that we should use our share buyback powers.
This is a subject which has been, and will continue to be, regularly discussed by the Board, but having considered the arguments we have chosen not to do so.
Instead we have continued to invest in the development of our financial services subsidiaries in the belief that, in the longer term, this will prove to be a greater and more enduring source of value for all shareholders.
Information for Overview Business Review Governance Directors Remuneration Financial Statements Shareholders 42472 Accounts:42472 Accounts 21 4 08 18:21 Page 3 Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts | 3 Hugh Bolland and John Hylands.
Following the year end your Company entered the FTSE 100. management experience both in the UK and the Asia-Pacific Being part of the FTSE 100 has the benefit of bringing the region with Schroder Investment Management.
More recently, Company to the notice of a wider range of investors but it does John Hylands joined the Board as a Non-Executive Director in not affect the way in which the company or its assets February 2008, following a career with Standard Life where he are managed.
held a variety of actuarial, financial and marketing roles, before becoming Finance Director from 2001 to 2005 and subsequently leading its demutualisation project.
I am delighted to welcome two such able and experienced directors who will add greatly to We are as determined as ever to the debate around the Board table as we shape our strategy for the future.
deliver real growth over the Gordon McQueen resigned from the Board in March this year, medium to long term.
having given much wise counsel during his time as a NonExecutive Director for which we are grateful.
Janet Pope also left the Board in March this year having played an important As evidence of managements commitment to delivery of a real role in our financial services business for the past 16 months as return for shareholders, we introduced a new long term Chief Executive of Alliance Trust Savings.
We wish them both incentive plan last year, following shareholder approval.
incorporates a performance hurdle which is intended to ensure that only where shareholders see the benefit of a return on their Annual General Meeting investment which significantly outstrips inflation will Once again we will be holding our AGM in Dundee at the Hilton management start to benefit from the plan, and full awards Hotel, overlooking the Tay.
In addition to the usual business of under the plan will only be made for genuinely outstanding the meeting we will be proposing changes to our Articles of returns.
The sharp fall in markets in the final weeks of the Association to reflect the impact of the new Companies Act, as financial year serves to underline the challenge represented by a explained more fully in the notice of meeting.
Over and above performance hurdle based on real return over a three year the formal business, the AGM is an excellent way of finding out period, since the challenge now becomes that much greater in more about the progress of your Company and I would the remaining two years.
While senior management incentives are based on significant real returns, at investment manager level the onus is still on each manager to maximise the returns available within their own asset class or region utilising the capital allocated to them through our asset allocation process, benchmarking against the most relevant index for their own portfolio.
Our financial services subsidiary, Alliance Trust Savings continued to invest during the year.
Growth in client numbers is strong and we remain convinced of the potential for this business to create long-term value for shareholders as it delivers innovative products and services to meet the aspirations of clients to make provision for their financial security.
Board changes There were a number of changes to the Board in the period under review.
As previously announced in January 2007, we were delighted to welcome Katherine Garrett-Cox as Chief Investment Officer in May.
Hugh Bolland joined the Board as a Non-Executive Director in July 2007, bringing with him 30 years of investment
