section 1 Chairmans Review our strategy is to ensure we have a suite of long-life, low-cost assets, diversified by geography and commodity, that can be expanded and are largely export oriented.
this has proven to be successful in delivering consistent results for all our stakeholders.
shareholder value Don Argus, Chairman 4 - BHP Billiton PlC ConCise AnnuAl rePort 2008 this year, we reported another record profit of us$15.4 billion, it is in this global context that the Board endorsed a proposal the seventh consecutive full-year profit increase.
this represents to combine BHP Billiton and rio tinto, two leading resources a 602 per cent increase in attributable profit since 2001. over companies that together could help meet the developing the same period, total shareholder returns, the movement in economies demand for resources better and faster than our share price plus dividends, have increased by 863 per cent, the two companies do apart.
A combined company would have reflecting progressive dividend increases and the market value a greater ability to develop the next generation of large-scale of the Company.
We also rebased our dividend for the second projects to provide greater volumes of product for the benefit successive year.
this represents a 150 per cent increase over of its customers, the communities in which it operates and the past three years.
unfortunately, mining stocks have seen a significant fide-rating in making the pre-conditional offer for rio tinto, the Board since May this year on the back of short-term uncertainty.
remains absolutely focused on value for shareholders.
We are this is disappointing for the management and shareholders confident that both sets of shareholders would share the value of BHP Billiton.
While we expect commodity markets to remain volatile on behalf of the Board, i want to thank our senior management in the short term, we are confident that longer-term market team for their efforts this year.
they have performed magnificently fundamentals should support growth in commodity demand and, under the new leadership of Marius Kloppers, the Company and, therefore, our revenues.
has stepped up efforts to meet a new realm of global challenges and opportunities.
Margins and cash flow will be impacted by cost inflation.
But our strategy to ensure we have a suite of long-life, low-cost assets, BoaRd Renewal diversified by geography and commodity, that can be expanded Building an exceptional board is a cornerstone of an effective and are largely export oriented, is proving successful at corporate governance system and planning for board renewal delivering consistent results for all our stakeholders.
to fully appreciate the role BHP Billiton and the resources the process of putting together the best board for the business industry generally is playing today, it is essential to look at has to start with the business strategy and an assessment what is happening to the worlds economies.
of the strengths and weaknesses of current members.
new non-executive Directors must fill an essential role Central to the worlds economic growth is the development of the in line with the strategic intent of the business and bring new economies China in particular, russia, india and, to a lesser to the Company the skills determined by the Board.
Counteracting these forces is the relative shrinkage of the united states economy and the lessening influence of Attracting exceptional people will not of itself create exceptional the united Kingdom and europe.
Asia is becoming increasingly directors: the candidates have to fit together as a team.
dominant, today accounting for nearly 30 per cent of global BHP Billiton has an exceptional group of high-performing, Gross Domestic Product GDP.
skilful, professional people, diverse in knowledge, gender these economic shifts are having many consequences.
and geography, who have overseen incredible growth in For BHP Billiton, rapid and continuing Asian growth has put the business over the last seven years.
pressure on demand for our products, which are essential for the tone at the top and within the Board has fostered the building and production of city infrastructure and personal an environment in which we are committed to high ethical goods that characterise Asias urbanisation and industrialisation.
standards, fairness, full compliance with legal requirements i have no doubt that economic growth in the Asian region and resistance to market pressures for short-term results.
will slow at some point but, if i look at China specifically, During the year, we engaged external search firms to assist the slow down is concentrated in regions oriented to with Board renewal, which resulted in the appointment of the light export sector.
the sectors of the economy oriented David Morgan, Keith rumble and Alan Boeckmann.
these more towards domestic consumption are still performing non-executive Directors have the required functional expertise: well despite increasing input costs, particularly for energy.
they are independent of thought and satisfy the independence We expect Asian demand for our products to continue.
our response test of the various jurisdictional codes of corporate governance.
has been to streamline our business to enable us to produce We also completed a review of the Board Committees, including as much product as fast as possible within the non-negotiable an examination of the respective Committee charters, and a framework of the highest safety and environmental standards.
performance review of each Director, including the Chairman, in operating our business at full capacity and continually seeking to ensure that our Board criteria is maintained.
these reviews opportunities to increase the volumes of product available to were facilitated by external advisers.
our customers, it is the Boards duty to ensure we are creating in conclusion, it has been a stellar year for the Company and its real and tangible value for shareholders.
We are proud to report stakeholders and i compliment my Board colleagues and senior that during the year we continued to deliver new projects to management team for their commitment and dedication to the boost product volumes and we achieved strong profit margins delivery of our strategy.
it is not only demand for our products that is being impacted by global economic shifts.
As the worlds largest diversified resources company, we are watching the creation of competitor companies that are spearheading the economic emergence of countries like Don Argus russia, Brazil and China.
Chairman BHP Billiton PlC ConCise AnnuAl rePort 2008 - 5
