Chairmans Statement A review of the Groups financial and operational highlights demonstrate a year of excellent progress.
A review of the Groups financial and company experience and has made an Profit before tax m operational highlights demonstrate a immediate contribution to the Board and year of excellent progress.
The profit its governance processes.
Additionally 49% before tax was 196.2 million against we were pleased that Jonathan Asquith 131.4 million for the previous year, joined our Board on 1 September 2008 08 196.2 an increase of 49%.
These results are as an independent non-executive highly satisfactory, particularly as they director.
Jonathan has a wealth of have been achieved against a experience in our industry having been 07 131.4 background of extreme volatility in the Vice Chairman and Chief Financial global financial markets.
Officer at Schroders plc and has also held a number of senior positions in the The Groups core capabilities of investment banking sector.
I have no Earnings per share basic pence product innovation, asset raising, doubt that he will be a considerable delivering good investment performance asset to our Board.
The Group expects and excellent client service have again 53% to further strengthen the Board by the continued to be demonstrated.
During appointment of additional non-executive 08 this period we have worked extensively 21.0 directors and continues to be actively on building a stronger infrastructure engaged in this process.
Jon Moulton, platform for the further development of who has served on our Board since 07 13.7 the business going forward.
In addition, 1999, will retire and not seek re-election in line with our strategy, we are at the AGM and on behalf of the Board beginning to develop a local asset I would like to express our gratitude for management presence on the ground in his service and counsel over this period.
a number of the key emerging markets in which we participate to enable the To build a first class asset manager Group to benefit from the development requires a team of the highest calibre of these markets.
All of these areas will committed to delivering consistently be expanded upon further in the Chief good investment performance and client Executive Officers Statement and service.
This years results confirm my Business Review that follows.
belief that Ashmore has such a team.
In addition, the Groups strategic Recognising the continued strong position, focusing exclusively on progress and our confidence in the emerging markets combined with the Groups prospects, the directors are teams long history of managing these The Groups core capabilities of recommending a final dividend of 8.34p assets through many periods of product innovation, asset raising, for the year ended 30 June 2008 and, extreme market volatility, represents a delivering good investment subject to shareholder approval, this will significant opportunity.
Whilst the performance and excellent client be paid on 5 December 2008 to all markets may present further challenges service have again continued to be shareholders who are on the register on I am confident that the Group is ready demonstrated.
This makes a total to meet them and to deliver on its dividend of 12.0p for the year 2007: strategy.
9.0p an increase on last year of 33%.
We were delighted to welcome Graeme Dell to the Board in December as Michael Benson Group Finance Director.
Graeme has brought with him significant listed Chairman 4 ASHMORE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2008
