Chairmans Statement I am delightedto presentthe third annual reportfor the Company which covers the periodfrom 1 January2008 to 31December 2008.
Theongoing turbulencein financialmarkets continued to test the investment strategy of the Companywhich again  return  relativeto that experiencedin the generalmarket.
TheCompanysaim is to offershareholdersthe opportunity to participatein publicinfrastructure investments around the worldon the basisthat investment in such assets offer long term sustainable andattractive cashflows that willtranslate into long term sustainableand attractive distributions for investors which have low correlation to market volatility.
Thefirst halfof 2008 saw aperiodof significant investment bythe Company.
In April, the Companyraised84 million via aC ShareOffering, the proceedsof which  into five new assets.
At31December2008, approximately 58 million of the 100 million  the acquisition of .
Thenew investments madeduringthe periodbringthe Companys total number of assets to 50, with aNet Asset Valueof 432million andsupport the Companyspolicyof diversification within major economies andin varyingasset classesthus  risk across the portfolio.
Theportfolio now consists of hospitals, schools, courthouses, road, railandtransport assets in the UK, Australia, EuropeandCanada.
TheBoardhas also spent avery significant amount of time consideringthe implications andformulating contingency plansto ensurethat your Company was not  events affectingBabcock&Brown B&B.
Unfortunately, despite our bestefforts, the shares have tradedat adiscount to NAVnotwithstanding the fact that the income stream anddividend declarationshave beenstable.
Babcock&Brown announced on 6February2009 that, following agreementwith its lendingbanks, it is now undertakinga management controlled programto selldown assets owned to reducethe levelof bankdebt.
TheagreedB&Bprogramallows for an orderlyasset saleprocessover a2 3 yeartime horizon, so as to avoid an  assets in the current market environment andyour Boardhas  ensuring that your  this process.
Substantial progresshas  Boardspreviously publishedwish to ensurethat weretaincontinuity of managementandstaff within your Company andI am pleasedto announce that: AmberInfrastructure GroupLimited Amber, anew, independentcompany, has enteredinto aconditional agreementwith Babcock&Brown Limited and certainother membersof the Babcock& Brown group to acquireBBPPFund Management Limited to bere namedAmberFund ManagementLimited which willitself acquirethe rights to provideadviceand managementservicesto the Company that werepreviously suppliedbyBabcock& Brown Investment ManagementLimited andcertainother membersof the Babcock& Brown group.
Theserights includethe provision of servicesunderthe current Investment Advisory Agreementbetweenthe Company andthe Investment Advisor, as wellas the right to provideservices underthe  the Babcock& Brown PublicPartnerships  various Asset  the Companys assets.
&Brown Limitedis conditional upon, among other things, the approvalof the Company to the transfers andthe Ambergroupacquiring .
Amberconsists of amanagement team andstaff of 41, ledbyGilesFrost who is also adirectorof the Company, Hugh Blaney andMichaelGregory.
Allmembersof the Ambermanagement team areexisting membersof the Investment Advisorsteam currently responsiblefor the provision of servicesto the Company.
Aspartof these arrangements, the Company also proposes to changeits name from Babcock&Brown PublicPartnerships Limitedto International PublicPartnerships Limited Thecontract transfers aresubjectto the requirementsof the relatedpartyrules of the UKListing RulesbecauseAmberis, for these purposes, treatedas arelatedpartyof the Company.
Accordingly, for this reason andalso to approvethe changeof name, the Company willbeseekingthe approvalof shareholdersat aGeneralMeetingto beconvened in duecourse.
Further detailsof the new management structure, along with notice of the GeneralMeetingof the Companyto considerthe , willbecontained in acircularexpectedto bedistributedto shareholdersin the coming weeks.
COMMITMENT OF STAFF OF THE INVESTMENT ADVISOR On behalfof the BoardI would liketo expressour sincerethanks andappreciationto the BBPPdedicatedstaff of the Investment Advisor.
SinceJune2008, the situation regardingB&Bhas beenvery difficultfor allstaff.
Despitethe uncertainties, including significant financialuncertainty the staff have remainedloyal to the Company andtherehas beencontinuity of personnel throughout the period.
TheBoardtook the opportunity to visit severalCompany assets during2008, which highlightedthe significant benefitthat the Companyderivesfrom the qualityandcommitment of our dedicatedstaff.
Without their dedication, loyalty andcommitment the Companysposition would likelybeless stableandour abilityto maintain value would likelyhave beenmore difficultifnot impossible.
PERFORMANCE IN 2008 Thetotal shareholderreturn for those investors who heldthrough the entireperiod distribution andsharepricegrowth was negative24.3%, primarilyas aresult of the market discount resulting from the generalequitymarket conditions andBabcock& Brown relatedissues.
Whilethis comparesfavourably with the return on both the FTSE 250 andthe FTSE AllShareindicesof negative40.3%andnegative32.8%respectively, the performancewas belowthe  total return of the UK15 yearGiltplus 2.5%.
Asaresult, no performancefeewas payableto the Investment Advisor in the secondhalfof 2008.
4 Chairmans Statement continued Asmentioned above, the Boardbelievesthat resolving the uncertainty that has  relationship with Babcock&Brown should enhancestakeholder confidencein the Company.
FURTHER ACQUISITIONS I am pleasedto reportthat the Company  during2008 which have further diversifiedthe Companys portfolio.
Acquisition of a24% ownership interest in BresciaHospital in Italy.
Acquisition of a100% ownership interest in OrangeHospital in Australia.
Acquisition of an additional27.5%interest in DiaboloRailin Belgium.
This bringsBBPPstotal ownership interest in the projectto 65%.
Acquisition of aUKportfolio of LIFT assets with ownership interests varyingbetween27.6%to 49.8%.
Acquisition of a50% interest in asecond LIFT portfolio in East London, UK.
Acquisition of a100% interest in Royal ChildrensHospital in Australia.
Acquisition of a5% interest in AngelTrains in the UK.
Acquisition of a75% interest in the AlbertaSchools projectin Canada.
Total investment duringthe periodwas approximately134 million andtakes the total numberof assets within the Companys portfolio to 50.
Therateof investment in new projects slowed in the last quarterof 2008, dueto increasedvolatility in globalequityanddebt markets.
Againstthis backdrop, the Directors decidedit was prudentto pausenew investment activity until thereis evidenceof , enablingthe Company to make more  investment decisions.
Wecontinue to believethat further acquisition of assets willbeaccretiveto  mitigate investment risk across  sectors.
However, normal investment activity willnot resumeuntil the restructure mentioned abovehas beencompletedandthe Boardconsiders that attractive  review.
INTEREST RATE PROTECTION AND GEARING TheCompanyhas very limitedexposure to risks relatingto the availabilityandterms of debtfacilities.
Typically, eachof the assets in the Companys portfolio benefitsfrom committed debtthat is fixedfor the lifeof the asset without the needfor refinancing, andthe interest raterisk associatedwith that debtis fully hedged.
At the corporatelevelthe Companyhas a 100 million 3    hold debton alonger term basis.
Asat 31 December2008, approximately58 million of the debtfacilitywas drawn.
Asaresult the gearinglevelof the Company, calculatedas the proportion of recoursedebtto portfolio valuation, was 13.4%.
DISTRIBUTIONS In December2008, the Directors announced their intention to increasethe distribution payment to 5.55 pencepersharefor 2009.
TheDirectors also  for the period1 July2008 to 31 December2008 of  willbepaidon 13May2009 to shareholderson the registeras at 27 March2009.
It is the Companysintention to maintain the initialyieldin realterms in accordancewith statements contained in the Companys prospectus.
Following the introduction of TheCompanies Guernsey Law, 2008, the Groupis only ableto payadividendifthe Boardof Directorsis satisfiedthat the Company will, immediatelyafterthe payment, satisfy the solvency test andany other requirement in its Memorandum andArticles.
TheBoardis satisfiedthat, in respectof the  dividendpaidin respect of the period1 July2008 to 31 December2008 that the solvency test was satisfied.
MARKET FOR PUBLIC INFRASTRUCTURE Wecontinue to believethat good opportunities exist both in the UKandoverseas.
Therecontinues to exist asituation of historic underinvestment in infrastructure bygovernments in most developedcountries.
 these countries have introduced, or planto introduce, PPP typeprocurement initiatives to contribute to meetingthis needandthis is at the forefront of both UKandUScurrent government policy.
Indeed, the Company is best placedamongst its peersto realise opportunities internationally andhas the abilityto  ratherthan beingrelianton the secondary market.
Accordingly, the Company is confident that it willbeableto accessattractive investment opportunities goingforward once the current volatility in equityanddebtmarkets has stabilised.
BABCOCK & BROWN PUBLIC PARTNERSHIPS LIMITED 5 Chairmans Statement continued CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Guernseydoesnot have its own corporate governancecodeand, as , the Companyis not requiredto complywith the CombinedCodeon CorporateGovernance.
However, it is the Companyspolicyto complywith best practiceon goodcorporate governancethat is applicableto investment companies.
Duringthe period, the Boardthereforeput in placeanumberof proceduresto ensure the appropriatelevelof compliance.
TheBoardhas consideredthe principlesand recommendations of the AICsCodeof  statement on  on pages20 to 22.
OUTLOOK I believethat the outlook remains extremelypositive.
TheBoard, in focusing on resolving the relationship with Babcock&Brown, has researchedandas noted above, is in the processof establishingan enhancedstructure for the Companygoingforward.
In the longerterm, the Boardbelievesthat the Companys portfolio andpipelineof publicinfrastructure investments willcontinue to provideattractive income andcapitalgrowth characteristicswith the additionalbenefitof non .
The Companysapproachto acquisitions andasset management also has the potential to addadditionalvalueto shareholdersover the long term.
Weremainoptimistic about the prospects for  andlook forwardto providingvibrant  for  in aCompany which providessustainable, uncorrelatedlong term potential.
