The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Report & Financial Statements 2008 3 Chairmans Statement Richard Brewster This past year has proved to be one of the most difficult and frustrating in living memory for equity investors.
The speed with which the economy and banking system contracted has been breathtaking and has led to almost all investment asset classes becoming unpopular.
While our own performance has been better than that of the FTSE All-Share Index, a decline of 36.8%, the absolute fall in Net Asset Value over the twelve month period of 31.9% is substantial and is only offset in a small way by the Companys annual dividend being increased by 8%.
Notwithstanding the likely reduction in dividend income for the Trust over the coming months, the strong revenue reserves we have built up in recent years give us the confidence to forecast further dividend growth for Bankers shareholders of 3% for 2009.
Performance facing redemptions, future commitments notably private equity The fragile confidence in markets that I mentioned in last years or simply to raise cash balances.
report was brutally shattered by the near complete collapse of the The huge volatility in markets and the tight correlation of sector Western banking system in the Autumn.
The write down of performance has not been an easy combination for our portfolio problem loans and a lack of commercial funding resulted in managers.
Notable performance was achieved in both the emergency action from governments which had little alternative European and Japanese portfolios: the latter fell only 5.4% over but to guarantee deposits and provide equity and debt funding the year, 13% better than its index.
In the US portfolio it was directly to banks.
The aftermath of these actions is now being felt principally the oil and energy holdings that held back in terms of restricted credit.
How the various factors play out will performance, despite a low exposure to US financials.
The sharp determine whether we experience a slowdown in economic fall in share prices during the last month of our year was activity similar to that of the early 1990s or what now seems unfortunate, and resulted in both the US and Far East Asian more likely the worst recession in post war history.
portfolios underperforming their local indices.
Our asset allocation Economies have taken some time to react to the growing problems decisions have largely added value relative to our composite index in capital markets.
Corporate profits were still rising in June and through the year, namely reducing UK from 52% to 45% of net assets, increasing the US portfolio, maintaining Japan at 12% and demand was strong in the Far East and China.
The oil price hit $147 a barrel and the European Central Bank even put interest raising cash.
rates up in July to counter inflationary pressures across their The US economy faces huge challenges, which make the recent markets.
rapid appreciation of the US dollar and the appetite for US The Company has avoided some of the bubbles that built up over government debt somewhat perverse.
A significant factor is the the first half of the year: we reduced our mining exposure to a low repatriation of US investors assets from overseas markets, as the level and reduced investments in oil stocks.
We cut back further the US dollar is viewed as a safe haven in troubled times.
The Federal bank investments, retreated from emerging markets back to Reserve and US government have followed the policy that most economists cite to avoid a deflationary depression by injecting developed economies and reduced exposure to sterling assets.
As a result of these actions, the Companys balance sheet changed from money directly into the economy, as well as by slashing interest being 2% geared at the beginning of the financial year to having rates.
These actions have yet to show much impact, but perhaps net cash of 3% at the end and equity investments represented only the economy would have been in a worse state without them.
A 93% of net assets at the year end, down from 102% twelve new President and the Federal Reserves zero interest rate policy make the US economy an interesting proposition for 2009. months earlier.
It was hoped that these actions would have led to greater protection of shareholder funds but the pronounced In terms of their economic cycles, Europe and the UK appear to be reduction in share prices across all sectors and countries showed six months to a year behind the US.
Interest rates were late in that there were few safe havens for investors.
being cut and strong currencies have been limiting economic It has proved difficult to make much sense of individual share growth for the past few years.
The dependence on housing and price falls, but the fact that the dispersion of both sector and consumers level of debt varies enormously throughout the country performance is so narrow points to the fall being European region and those countries with the most overvalued influenced by forced selling of shares.
To some extent the equity property markets have suffered the most.
Sterlings recent weakness should help the UK economy in due course, but the high market has suffered because of one of its most attractive attributes, namely its liquidity.
While property and bond markets levels of consumer debt and heavy reliance on the financial services have stagnated because of almost non-existent trading, equities sector may lead to a sharp slowdown that could take some time to have clearly been used as a source of cash for fearful investors recover.
Savings rates need to rise and levels of debt to fall, which 4 The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Report & Financial Statements 2008 will not be easy to establish when unemployment is rising sharply.
position going into this slowdown.
At this stage, we are Our portfolio has been focussed on companies with low debt and forecasting a rise in the Companys total dividend per share of a defensive profits.
This has led to better performance in mainland further 3% in 2009.
Europe than the UK, where the market has been overly reliant on Board Changes mining shares, which has distorted market returns.
However, as this We are pleased to announce that Matthew Thorne has been has unwound, our relative performance in the UK has improved.
appointed to the Board as a non-executive director and in Japan remains an enigma.
For a market that does not have credit addition joins the audit committee.
Matthew is a qualified issues or banks that have required government bailouts, the stock Chartered Accountant and has significant experience as a finance market performance has been disappointing.
A political vacuum, director, predominantly in the property sector.
His appointment combined with a soaring currency has restricted growth and hurt broadens the skills and experience of the Board and I am sure he exporters in the automotive and electronic sectors.
The Japanese will make a significant contribution over the coming years.
stock market is now trading at a price to book value of less than Annual General Meeting one, a level it has never traded at before.
The ageing population The Annual General Meeting this year will be held at the new and spread of wealth in the economy will restrict the potential for offices of Henderson Global Investors, 201 Bishopsgate, London economic growth but there are still some fine companies in on Thursday 26 February 2009 at 12 noon.
Hendersons new Japan, now trading at inexpensive prices.
premises can now accommodate a meeting of our size.
The notice The Asian markets have been held up as being able to withstand of the meeting and a map showing the new location appear on the global slowdown, through internally generated consumer pages 61 to 63.
As usual our manager, Alex Crooke, and his team demand and high levels of currency reserves.
While this looked will be making a presentation with regard to investment and all likely for a time, investors did not hang around to find out and shareholders are most welcome to attend.
the resulting selling pressure on currencies will soak up reserves as Outlook governments try to stabilise capital outflows.
The region remains It is clear that many economies are now in recession and that attractive over the medium term but in the short term will suffer overall global economic growth will exhibit a marked slowdown.
from the downturn in demand for manufactured goods from This recession will be unlike any since the 1940s because it has developed countries.
We have been active in the region, reducing been accompanied by a primary banking crisis and a withdrawal of Chinese exposure early in the year and have recently been credit.
However, we must remember that we are in the second year rebuilding holdings, after that market has fallen 60% since the of this credit crisis and that there has been a firm commitment by end of December 2007. governments to support banks and restart lending.
As cash has been realised during the year and with interest rates Offsetting the bad news, central banks have cut interest rates and falling, we have built a modest holding of UK corporate bonds.
banks have been recapitalised more quickly than happened in the These bonds look attractive both from a high running yield and US in the 1930s or in Japan in the early 1990s.
These actions will also the potential capital appreciation when the yield premium take some time to show results and it is likely that there will be over gilts falls.
This premium has widened to levels not seen since further corporate casualties in the coming year.
Share prices have the great depression in the 1930s and reflects the relative not risen in line with corporate earnings over the last five years illiquidity and forced selling by leveraged funds rather than and following the big fall in share prices, valuation ratings today realistic expectations of default rates.
The realisation of the are at a level not seen by investors for a generation.
In our view apparent value may well be slow, but with double digit running this reflects both a gloomy outlook and the high level of yields we are being paid to wait, and the coupons will make a redemptions from traditional and hedge fund investors.
useful contribution to our income account.
Confidence levels are equally depressed and just as it was hard to Revenue and Dividends find a bearish analyst two years ago, it is hard to find an For the 42nd consecutive year we have been able to increase optimistic one today.
We are recommending a final Bear markets are characterised by their volatility and there will be dividend of 2.93p, making a total of 11.06p, an increase of 8% sharp moves both up and down this year.
We expect to be for the year.
For a fifth consecutive year the Companys revenue redeploying our cash balances in 2009 but are wary about return per ordinary share has grown, helped by contributions making our move too early.
Stock markets have traditionally from the bonds and translation benefits of overseas income bottomed some time between when the pace of profit back into sterling.
These two factors will help underpin income downgrades eases and before they move into positive territory.
In into 2009 but there are an increasing number of companies the meantime we feel it is right to keep dividends moving reducing their payouts and dividends will probably be lower in upwards for our shareholders by using revenue reserves to 2009 than in the year just ended.
We are attempting to reduce compensate for corporate dividend cuts.
Equities should the impact on our income account by avoiding those companies outperform other asset classes over time and your Companys under most pressure to cut dividends but the opportunities for global mandate gives the manager considerable flexibility in other companies to grow distributions will be limited in the seeking the best investments to maintain its long term growth shorter term.
In fact, over the past ten years your Companys NAV total Our revenue reserves have been built up over recent years in return has grown by 53.6% as compared to the FTSE All-Share order to help sustain our distributions in the difficult years.
anticipate dipping into these reserves in the next couple of years before underlying corporate profits recover and distributions begin to grow once more.
With revenue reserves equivalent to Richard Brewster, Chairman two and a half times our total annual dividend, we are in a strong 22 January 2009
