C14170 Barclays B 001-014. qxp:B File 01 6 3 09 01:24 Page 10 Group Chairmans statement 2008 was an extraordinarily difficult year for the financial services industry As a Board, we very much regret what has happened to the with the second half in particular seeing a period of exceptional instability.
banking sector in general and to Barclays share price in particular.
It was a year that saw the rescue of a number of banks around the world We fully recognise that banks must review their internal governance and significant action being taken by governments globally to rebuild systems and remuneration structures to ensure there can be no repeat confidence in the sector including, in the UK, the government taking large of the turmoil that has impacted the industry, and the wider economy, shareholdings in two major banks.
The Board HR and Remuneration Committee Barclays was impacted by the difficult environment we undertook is reviewing compensation policy and structures across the Group to two significant capital raisings during the year and incurred gross losses ensure maximum alignment both with the interests of our shareholders from credit market write-downs of approximately 8bn.
However, a profit and with best practice.
The Board is also committed to ensuring that before tax for the year of just over 6bn, whilst benefiting from a number Barclays plays its full part in contributing to the restoration of the health of gains on acquisitions and disposals, remains a resilient performance in of the global economy and, with that, the reputation of the industry.
such a difficult environment and reflects a continuing focus by all our In particular, the capital position and ongoing profitability of the Group people on servicing the needs of our customers and clients.
We were able is enabling us to support our customers in the difficult economic to absorb the level of credit market write-downs through the strong environment.
For example, our lending to UK consumers and UK income performance of the Group.
As a result of raising over 13bn in commercial clients increased by 16% and 14% respectively in 2008. equity and Tier 1 capital in 2008, our capital base has been substantially strengthened and we have over 37bn of equity capital and reserves.
This Market Environment scale of loss absorption capacity, combined with the underlying profitability The announcement that Lehman Brothers would file for bankruptcy in of the Group, gives us confidence that our capital resources are sufficient, September was the start of a period of extreme instability in global stock even in these difficult markets.
Our liquidity position remains strong.
markets and a crisis of confidence in the banking system.
Credit market The share price performance during the year was acutely disappointing.
conditions became very difficult and a number of banks around the world Share prices in the sector as a whole were badly hit during the year by a required government assistance.
In October, the UK authorities decided to number of factors, including concerns over the profit outlook given the take action to stabilise the UK financial services industry.
The capital plans macroeconomic environment and uncertainty over banks capital strength.
and balance sheets of all the UK banks were subject to severe stress tests It is of little consolation that in terms of total shareholder return we outand additional capital was required to be raised to ensure that their ratios performed the majority of our UK peers and a number of our global would remain prudent even in the severest downturn.
The Board is committed to creating the conditions to allow the significant change in the capital framework across the UK banking industry share price to recover and to resume dividend payments in the second half and obliged Barclays to raise capital well beyond the level we had previously of 2009, following the decision not to pay a final dividend for 2008. agreed with our regulators.
The difficult market conditions for bank shares has continued in 2009.
In my speech at the General Meeting to approve the capital raising in We welcomed the announcements made by HM Treasury and the FSA in November which is available atwww.
com, we also recognised January designed to help the UK economy through a number of initiatives that some of our shareholders were unhappy about some aspects of the in the areas of capital ratios, funding and asset protection.
Despite these, November capital raising.
This unhappiness is a matter of great regret to us.
market confidence remains extremely fragile.
I set out in my introduction to the Corporate Governance Report on page The Board is committed to creating the conditions to allow the share price to recover and to resume dividend payments in the second half of 2009.
| 10 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 Find out more at www.
com annualreport08 Business review C14170 Barclays B 001-014. qxp:B File 01 6 3 09 01:24 Page 11 1 157 some further information on the background to the November Maintaining our commitment to sustainability capital raising, the governance processes surrounding the decisions that At no other time in our history have the values of sustainability mattered were taken and the Boards appreciation of the support received from more to our company and to our stakeholders.
shareholders in very difficult circumstances.
I would like to give my personal We focus our commitment in this important area on our ability to assurance that the Board considered the capital raising very carefully support our customers well in good times and bad: on our role as an equal there were 12 meetings of the Board in October and November to discuss opportunity company employing all races, creed, colour and orientation: the matter, ensuring appropriate corporate governance as we sought to on our commitment to play our part in managing the impact of climate react to the circumstances prevailing at the time.
The Board regrets, change: and on our role as a responsible global citizen.
however, that the capital raising denied Barclays existing shareholders their We report on our progress on all these areas within the report pages full rights of pre-emption and that our private shareholders were not able to 66 to 68 and in our Sustainability Review 2008, which will be published in participate in the raising.
Key achievements for 2008 included maintaining responsible lending Board Changes to individuals and businesses, a steady growth in the number of lowAs I stated in my report last year, Sir Michael Rake and Patience Wheatcroft income bank accounts in many of our markets including the UK, joined the Board on 1st January 2008 and Dr Danie Cronj retired from the developing diversity strategies and action plans tailored to local markets Board at the Annual General Meeting.
We announced in January 2009 that across our businesses and maintaining progress towards our goal that the Sir Nigel Rudd had advised us that he did not intend seeking re-election at global banking operations of Barclays be carbon neutral by the end of 2009. the forthcoming AGM.
Sir Nigel has served as a Director for nearly 13 years There is a universal benefit to be obtained from a return to confidence and Barclays has benefited enormously from his commercial experience in the banking system and from the restoration of the reputation of the and wise counsel.
He will be greatly missed.
I would also like to pay tribute banking industry in general.
I give you my assurance that we at Barclays to Professor Dame Sandra Dawson, who will also be retiring as a Director will do our utmost to play our part in procuring this vital objective.
Sandra has served with distinction as both a Director and member of the Board Audit Committee.
Stephen Russell will also retire from the Board in October after nine years excellent service, particularly as Chairman of the Board Audit Committee.
We have also announced the appointment of Simon Fraser as a new non-executive Director.
Simon held a number of positions during his career at Fidelity International, including President of Fidelitys European and UK institutional business and Global Chief Investment Officer.
He will bring valuable fund management and institutional shareholder experience Marcus Agius to the Board.
Group Chairman Barclays PLC Our shareofnewmortgage  Global Retail and Weve entered new was36%comparedto8% Commercial Banking markets in Pakistan, in2007, withaconservative expansion continues Indonesia and Russia.
outside the UK with over 800 new distribution points, a 34% increase year on year.
