Baring Emerging Europe PLC CHAIRMANS STATEMENT COMPANY PERFORMANCE The year to 30 September 2008 proved to be extremely disappointing for investors in Emerging European equities and equity markets generally.
Stock markets began to fall during the summer of 2008 and plummeted during September and October as the financial system teetered on the brink of disaster and governments were forced to rescue banks on both sides of the Atlantic.
During the year ended 30 September 2008 the NAV of Baring Emerging Europe plc declined by 22.8% to 711.41p per share compared to a decline in the benchmark of 24.8%.
At 1 December 2008 the NAV per share including undistributed income was 439.69p.
On a more positive note, the dividend income from the investment portfolio almost doubled compared to 2007 whilst expenditure, including the investment management fee, increased only slightly.
As a result the net revenue available for distribution increased from 0.51p per share for the year to 30 September 2007 to 10.28p per share for the current year on a weighted average basis of the number of shares outstanding during the year out of which the Directors are recommending a dividend of 9.00p per share.
This level of dividend is obviously significantly much higher than last year and arose from a combination of growth and other oneoff factors and should not be taken as an indication of the level of dividend in future years.
DISCOUNT MANAGEMENT The Board believes that shareholders interests are best served by containing the volatility of the discount and the Board has been willing to repurchase shares when the discount persistently exceeds the target set by the Board.
At the year end the discount was 11.4% and for the year as a whole it averaged 8.1%.
During the year ended 30 September 2008 2,061,202 shares were repurchased at a cost of 18.5 million.
Subsequent to the year end a further 972,978 shares have been repurchased for cancellation.
The Board prefers to have the flexibility to hold any shares repurchased in Treasury so that they can be reissued at a later date.
The Board understands the concerns about a dilution of NAV by issuing shares at a discount.
Therefore at the AGM the Board will again be putting forward resolutions to repurchase shares for cancellation or to be held in Treasury but to be reissued only at NAV or above.
The Board recommends that shareholders support these resolutions.
INVESTMENT POLICY The United Kingdom Listing Authority UKLA requires investment companies to publish a detailed investment policy containing information about the policies relating to asset allocation, risk diversification and gearing.
The Companys investment policy was contained in the prospectus issued for the launch of the Company in 2002 and we have not sought to change this policy.
The Companys detailed investment policy can be found in the Report of the Directors.
VAT In 2007 the European Court of Justice ruled that VAT should not be levied on the management and performance fees of investment trust companies.
With effect from 1 October 2007, VAT is no longer payable on these fees and the Company also has the right to reclaim VAT it has paid on these fees since its launch in December 2002.
The Board is in discussion with the Investment Manager about the recovery of this VAT and although progress has been made a number of procedural matters have still to be resolved.
Therefore no amount is, as yet, being recognised in the net asset value.
Further information can be found in note 20 of the financial statements.
5 Baring Emerging Europe PLC CHAIRMANS STATEMENT continued ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING The next Annual General Meeting will be held on Tuesday, 13 January 2009 at 155 Bishopsgate, London EC2M 3XY commencing at 2:30pm.
The formal business will be preceded by a presentation from the Investment Manager, after which there will be an opportunity for shareholders to raise any specific issues with the Investment Manager or with any member of the Board.
BOARD On 23 July 2008 we appointed Jonathan Woollett as a Director of the Company.
Jonathan was previously a director with the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development in London and has considerable experience within the region.
His CV can be found in the Report of Directors on page 20.
We are pleased to welcome him to the Board.
INVESTMENT MANAGER On 1 December 2008 the Board was advised by Baring Asset Management Barings that Martin Majdaniuk, the Companys portfolio manager, would be leaving Barings and would be replaced by Mathias Siller.
I would like to thank Martin for his contribution to the running of the Company.
Mr Siller joined Barings in October 2006 and is an investment manager within their Emerging European Equities team.
He has eleven years of investment experience specialising in Central Europe and Turkey.
The Board looks forward to working with him.
OUTLOOK The investment environment in Emerging Europe remains extremely challenging.
There are early signs that the co-ordinated global package to rescue the financial system has helped, but confidence remains fragile, and the effects of the credit crunch on the real economy are only now starting to be felt.
The global recessionary environment is not helpful for the investment case for Emerging Europe.
However we believe that the long-term drivers for the region remain intact, underpinned by high levels of infrastructure investment and demand for resources from the worlds developing countries once global recession has worked its way through.
