Chairmans statement 2008 has presented a number of challenges to the group both in our underwriting and investment returns.
Notwithstanding these challenges, we achieved a profit before tax of 87.2m.
Jonathan Agnew Chairman Overall Market conditions The board announces a profit before tax of 87.2m Overall, rates on our renewal business fell by 6% in 2007: 138.5m.
This includes a foreign exchange 2008, with reductions in the first nine months being gain on non-monetary items of 46.2m 2007: 8.2m.
slightly offset by a stronger performance in the last The year proved a test for both underwriting and quarter.
We initially saw erce competition and rate investment returns.
Core underwriting activity remained reductions across all classes of business in both Lloyds robust in both our Lloyds and US operations despite and the US.
However, the credit crisis and to a lesser the losses sustained during the US hurricane season.
extent the impact of the 2008 US hurricane season Investment returns fell as a consequence of the ongoing have changed our marketplace and we are already credit crisis and turbulence in investment markets.
seeing rate increases together with new business opportunities in many parts of our portfolio.
We believe that the scale of recent underwriting and investment losses and corporate distress incurred by The financial events of 2008 have refocused the major insurers has led to a significant fall in global attention of insurance buyers on the financial strength underwriting capacity.
This reduction has been of their carriers as well as on the need to diversify their compounded by the withdrawal of capital owing to sources of insurance and reinsurance protection.
As the liquidity constraints within the wider financial services rating and reputation of Lloyds and the rating of our industry.
It is likely these factors will lead to improved US admitted carrier remain strong, we stand to benefit pricing levels, terms and conditions.
In order to scale up our activities and make the most The Gulf of Mexico hurricanes in 2008 served as a of the changes in underwriting conditions the group is reminder to our clients of the importance of insurance proposing to raise 150m net of expenses through and reinsurance, with the loss estimates recorded as a rights issue and placing.
As well as expanding our a result of hurricane Ike making it the fourth largest existing underwriting platforms, we will use part of insured catastrophe in history.
Latest estimates put this the proceeds to fund the acquisition of First State loss alone at $20bn.
Our energy, US commercial Management Group Inc First State, a subsidiary of property and reinsurance accounts are all experiencing Hartford Financial Services Group Inc, for cash rate increases as a result, with renewals delivering consideration of $35.4m payable upon completion.
increases of around 10%, 8% and 8% respectively.
The group also intends to change its corporate structure US operations by establishing a new parent company, incorporated in We continued to make good progress in developing our Jersey and tax resident in the Republic of Ireland.
The US platform in 2008 with premium growth in the year tax residence move to Ireland will provide a favourable of 54% to $269.1m.
As Andrew Horton explains in the base from which to develop the groups business.
business review, the development of our US operations remains a key strategic objective for the group, enabling us to access more business in the largest non-life 6 www.
com insurance market in the world.
The focus of these the third quarter of 2008 added 4% to the claims operations is to win business that would not traditionally ratio, reducing net profits by 25.2m.
We did however, have come through Lloyds.
continue to see positive development in our other lines, especially in the specialty lines account which The US operations were established in 2005, and we generated reserve releases of 28.0m in 2008 have seen sustained growth since we started.
is written through our wholly owned managing general agent, based in Farmington, Connecticut.
Surplus lines Our expense ratio has reduced as a result of increased net premiums ow to our Lloyds syndicates while admitted earned premiums, reduced variable incentive costs in line business is underwritten by our US insurance company with the reduced profit, and a change in business mix Beazley Insurance Company Inc. BICI, which is reducing combined brokerage.
licensed to write insurance business in all 50 states.
The combined ratio, that comprises the claims ratio and BICI is separately capitalised to $111.0m.
In November, the expense ratio, has been calculated excluding the AM Best afrmed the financial strength rating for BICI as foreign exchange impact on non-monetary items as we A Excellent.
During 2008 our US operations generated believe this is a more transparent representation of surplus lines premiums of $98.8m 2007: $64.3m for operating performance.
The 2006 and 2007 ratios have our Lloyds syndicates, with the admitted business also been re-calculated on this basis.
underwritten by BICI higher at $170.3m 2007: $110.9m.
Investment performance 2008 was a tumultuous year for investments as We saw growth across the full range of specialty lines almost all asset classes, with the notable exception and property business that we underwrite locally in the of government bonds, declined in value.
The steady US market in 2008, and were especially pleased to see deterioration in the investment environment in the first the progress made in our professional liability architects half of the year accelerated dramatically in the third and engineers account, where we increased premiums quarter as Lehman Brothers was forced to le for written by 66% to $94.6m, and in our technology and bankruptcy and AIG, among others, was bailed out media professional liability business, where we expanded by the US government.
our premiums written by 62% to $47.5m.
As has been well documented, these events proved We expect our US operations to continue to grow in 2009 to be game changers in the financial system: the with premiums target of $450m, of which First State is wholesale funding markets froze, triggering a rolling expected to contribute $150m after the acquisition.
collapse among financial institutions, with the system Combined ratio only held together by ever larger mergers and the provision of government support.
Against the backdrop The groups combined ratio held steady at 90% in 2008 of this crisis, we have been working with our managers 2007: 90%.
Within this we saw our claims ratio further to reduce risk in our portfolio, including reducing increase to 56% from 51% in 2007, and our expense our equity exposure.
Despite these efforts, our ratio fall to 34% from 39%.
Hurricanes Gustav and Ike in Beazley Annual Report 2008 7 Chairmans statement continued investment portfolio returned a loss of 25.8m -1.5% companies or managing general agents which strategically during 2008, compared with a positive return of 64.9m t with our business.
In the financial review, we describe 4.9% in 2007. how these are nanced a mixture of shareholders funds, long-term debt and short-term banking facilities.
We are currently in the process of increasing our investment management resources with an objective of The group has an active capital management policy, enhancing investment returns and minimising investment maximising the available capital within the group risk.
We are investing in the setup of an associated during periods when capital can be deployed to support investment management rm Falcon Money Management profitable underwriting and returning surplus capital to Falcon.
Falcon will be regulated by the FSA and will shareholders when underwriting conditions are provide investment management and advisory services, considered less favourable.
initially solely to Beazley, and at a later stage to third Consistent with this strategy, during the early part of party institutional clients.
2008, the group repaid 24.9m surplus capital to Momentum Underwriting Management shareholders through a share buyback programme and Renamed Beazley Underwriting Services Limited paid a special dividend of 14.0m.
At the end of 2008 In November we completed the acquisition of Momentum the group had a surplus over required capital of 58.7m.
Underwriting Management Ltd, a leading specialist Now that trading conditions have improved, and we personal accident and life underwriting management have identied opportunity to exploit these conditions, agency based in London with an ofce in Australia.
the group proposes to raise a further 150m net of To support this acquisition, we established two new expenses through a rights issue and placing.
Syndicate 3623 focuses on personal use the proceeds to: accident including insuring sports business.
Syndicate t GVOE UIF BDRVJTJUJPO PG 'JSTU 4UBUF B 64 CBTFE 3622 is a dedicated life syndicate.
We expect to underwriting manager specialising in commercial underwrite approximately $100m in gross premiums property insurance.
First State provides access to one through these two new syndicates in 2009. of the most experienced property teams in the US Our approach to acquisition opportunities remains market with an extensive distribution network.
We look for teams with a strong team have built a strong track record of consistent underwriting track record who will t with our culture.
profitability and are well-known to the group: and Our focus is on businesses that specialise in lines that t QSPWJEF BEEJUJPOBM DBQJUBM UP TVQQPSU UIF FYQBOTJPO PG we know well, and where we have an appetite to expand the groups existing underwriting activities driven by our presence.
current and anticipated rating improvements and the effects of recent foreign exchange rate movements.
Capital The group requires capital for a number of reasons: Dividend to support our underwriting at Lloyds, to support our The board proposes a final dividend of 4.4p per share.
US operations, and to fund acquisitions of insurance This brings the full year dividend, including the interim 8 www.
com dividend, to 6.6p per share.
In 2007, the group centralised approach to all our operations became proposed ordinary dividends of 6.0p, together with more apparent.
David, who was formerly with McKinsey a special dividend of 4.0p.
The final dividend will be and Co, has been with the company for three years paid on 30 April 2009 to shareholders registered on leading our claims team in specialty lines.
Marty Becker, a non-executive director, resigned from Management update the company in October 2008.
Marty joined the board in During the year we announced a number of changes to May 2006 and the board would like to thank him for his the senior executive team.
Andrew Horton, formerly the valuable contribution during this period.
groups finance director, replaced Andrew Beazley as In addition to these changes we recently appointed chief executive officer.
Andrew Horton has been with the a new finance director, Martin Bride.
Martin joins us group for over five years, and has extensive financial from Zurich Financial Services Zurich where he was services experience.
I believe he is exceptionally well CFO of the UK Life business.
Prior to joining Zurich, placed to lead the group through these testing times.
he was CFO of Aviva France and his career includes a At the same time I was delighted that Andrew Beazley, number of senior level finance and general management who co-founded and has led the group since its creation roles in insurance.
in 1986, took up a new executive role as deputy Chairman providing support and insight to the new Conclusion management team and the groups underwriters.
Despite challenging market conditions, we have achieved a creditable profit.
Johnny Rowell, who managed the specialty lines team Our underwriting performance, both at Lloyds and in and chaired the groups underwriting committee, left the the US, remains solid and we are starting to see price company in June 2008.
Johnny has been succeeded by increases in most markets.
Adrian Cox, who joined the group in 2001, and has been in charge of the majority of the team since 2007.
We are actively reviewing our investment portfolio to determine an approach that enables us to focus on Neil Maidment who has run the reinsurance business underwriting for profit while achieving the best returns since 1996 now chairs the underwriting committee and for a restricted risk appetite.
also manages the political risks and contingency group and the accident and life team.
I am confident that the initiatives described above will further enhance the group and enable us to take full Jonathan Gray who manages the property business advantage of the more attractive rating environment now chairs a new US management team focusing on and the growth opportunities now in prospect.
the development of the groups US business whether underwritten at Lloyds or locally in the US market.
Jonathan Agnew We also appointed David Marock to a new role of Chairman chief operating officer.
As the group has expanded and become more complex, the need for a strategic, 13 February 2009 Beazley Annual Report 2008 9
