Chairmans Statement revenue on an annual basis subject to maintaining prudent Performance reserves.
The dividend is payable on 30 April 2009 to 2008 was a year of two very distinct halves.
In the first, the shareholders on the Companys register on 20 February 2009. mining sector performed well and was resilient amid the turbulence in global equity markets.
The second half of your Discount to net asset value Companys trading year was dominated by the global The Board recognises the importance to investors of ensuring economic downturn, with the lack of liquidity in credit that any discount of the Companys share price to its underlying markets impacting very negatively on global growth NAV is actively monitored and managed and endeavours to expectations in general and the mining sector in particular.
work with the Investment Manager in order to restrain this.
After seven consecutive years of growth, the Company Unfortunately, during the year, investment trust discounts, experienced a strong decline in its net asset value NAV.
including the Companys, had generally widened reflecting The NAV fell by 58.5% and the share price by 61.1% both the extremely difficult market conditions.
In addition, percentages calculated in sterling terms with income and heightened price volatility caused uncertainty over intraday warrant proceeds reinvested.
By comparison, your discount levels and the Board believed that the use of share Companys benchmark index decreased by 42.1%.
Since the buy backs could prove to be ineffective whilst market year end, the Companys NAV has increased by 3.6% and the turbulence persisted.
share price has increased by 13.4% both with income and warrant proceeds reinvested.
The Board is mindful of the During the year, and to the date of this report, 806,800 shares Companys objectives and, having reviewed the strategy, were bought back.
It is very important that the Company looks forward to the resumption of outperformance as retains the ability to repurchase shares and, accordingly, a financial markets regain their composure.
resolution to renew the authority to buy back shares will be put to shareholders at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Performance to 31 December 2008 One year Five years New Articles of Association Net asset value per share: At the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, the Directors capital only -58.8% 38.6% will be proposing that the Company should adopt New 1 with income and 5 warrant reinvested -58.5% 46.6% Articles of Association in substitution for the existing Articles Ordinary share price: capital only -61.5% 16.6% of Association in order to reflect the changes in UK company 1 with income and 5 warrant reinvested -61.1% 25.2% law which have been brought into force by the Companies Act HSBC Global Mining Index : 2006 the 2006 Act.
The 2006 Act is being introduced in capital only -43.3% 62.9% with income reinvested -42.1% 80.2% stages and is expected to be fully in force by 1 October 2009.
Adjusted for exchange rates relative to sterling.
Further details of the proposed changes to the Articles of 1 warrant for every 5 ordinary shares.
Association are set out in the Directors Report on page 22 Sources: BlackRock, Datastream.
and the Appendix to Notice of Annual General Meeting on pages 65 to 67.
Earnings and dividends The undiluted earnings per share for the year amounted to Outlook 5.64p compared to 8.25p for the previous year, a decrease of The effects of the stimulus being provided to markets by 31.6%.
The Directors are proposing a final dividend of 5.50p monetary authorities across the world have yet to make per share, which is equivalent to the dividend paid last year.
Until banks begin to lend more freely it The 2007 dividends comprised an ordinary dividend of 2.50p is impossible to make predictions with any confidence, and per share and a special dividend of 3.00p per share.
The market volatility looks set to continue at high levels.
Once a decision not to declare any of the current year distribution as recovery has been detected we would anticipate a significant a special dividend reflects the changing mixture of the response within the mining sector and a resumption of revenues being received by the Company, with special outperformance from the portfolio.
distributions no longer being a significant feature of the A W Lea income received.
The Company does not maintain a 11 February 2009 progressive dividend policy but seeks to distribute available 4 BlackRock World Mining Trust plc
