07 BlueBay Asset Management plc has had a We will be proposing a final dividend Financial institutions need robust controls and good year, given the extremely challenging of 4.8 pence per share payable to all solid business risk management to succeed at environment in the debt markets in which it shareholders on the register at 24 October the best of times.
These become even more operates.
No meaningful comments can be 2008.
Following the interim dividend of important in times of market turmoil.
I am made about BlueBays performance during 3.2 pence, this will bring the total dividend pleased to note that BlueBay has continued this financial year without reference to the for the year to 8.0 pence per share.
to make progress in developing its risk external market environment.
The start of management culture during the course of the financial year coincided with the start A salient feature of the credit crunch has the year.
In addition to the continual risk of the market turmoil engendered by the been the disappearance of market liquidity management process undertaken at BlueBay, credit crunch.
The signs of excess in financial for many debt instruments, including some a comprehensive annual review of the markets had been there to see for some time: that had previously received the highest credit principal risks inherent in the business has abundant liquidity, a competitive spiral of rating from the rating agencies.
This created become a cornerstone of its risk management declining lending standards and the use of challenges for all market participants who are framework.
The Companys internal control financial engineering to generate attractive required to value their portfolios using fair environment was reviewed and reported on returns in a low yield environment.
A considerable amount of by  LLP under the a house of cards that was waiting to collapse.
work has been done at BlueBay to adapt framework of the Audit and Assurance However, the speed at which the crisis and refine the valuation policies applied Facultys standard 01 06 AAF, which eventually spread from the sub-prime sector to the funds managed, in response to this has control objectives specifically applicable of the US housing market to the rest of dramatically different market environment.
the financial markets took most market Market illiquidity became particularly acute participants by surprise.
It is hard to for the BlueBay Value Recovery Fund, which During the course of the year, we were underestimate the severity of the ensuing is generally reliant on corporate finance delighted to welcome Alan Gibbins to the crisis.
During my career in the financial transactions to realise the value of its core Board of Directors of BlueBay and as the new markets, I cannot remember any episode investments.
This will now require a longer chairman of its Audit Committee.
The Board quite as challenging as the current one.
time horizon than in the benign markets also welcomed James Brace who was of recent years, so BlueBay secured the appointed as Company Secretary in July In this environment, BlueBay attracted net agreement of most of this funds investors 2007.
No other changes were made to the inflows of over $7 billion to reach total Assets to extend the liquidity terms of their Board or to the Company Secretary and none under Management AuM of $21.0 billion shareholdings in exchange for a temporary are planned for the coming year.
I am pleased at the end of the financial year, a truly fee discount.
A difficult but crucial decision to note that the Board has evolved well since remarkable achievement.
Investment to ensure that the value built up in the the listing and has provided BlueBay with performance was particularly strong in longportfolio was preserved for all investors.
constructive support through this challenging only European corporate debt products.
the investment grade and the high yield longonly flagship funds continue to perform at All asset managers are essentially people the top of the competitive universe in their businesses.
Over the years, BlueBay has respective sub-asset classes.
The environment managed to attract and retain an exceptionally proved more difficult for BlueBays long short talented group of professionals in the funds resulting in modest negative investment investment management, sales and marketing performance across the platform for the year.
The results that This led to lower performance fee revenues BlueBay achieved during this challenging than in the previous year and profits before year would not have been possible without tax of 49.7 million, slightly lower than the the dedication and hard work of all its 51.6 million made in the previous financial employees.
I would like to thank them for year to 30 June 2007. their continuing commitment to BlueBay.
I would also like to thank our shareholders for their ongoing confidence in the Company.
Hans-Jrg Rudloff A good year, given Chairmans Statement the challenging market environment.
