BlueCrest AllBlue Fund Limited the Company CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Dear Shareholder, The 2008 financial year saw significant progress by the Company in its second full year of trading.
Investment performance in exceptionally challenging markets was in line with expectations notwithstanding very difficult trading conditions, particularly in the fourth quarter of the year.
In June 2008 the Company completed the migration of its listing from the AIM Market of the London Stock Exchange to the Official List and changed its name to BlueCrest AllBlue Fund Limited.
In July 2008, the Company raised 92.7 million following a successful placing and offer for subscription of C shares.
This was achieved despite the challenging capital markets environment during the year.
Investment and Share Price Performance During 2008, the published Sterling Share NAV rose from 111.84p to 124.89, a return of 11.66% for the year, which is within the targeted range of 10% to 15%.
Within the underlying AllBlue fund into which the Company invests, five of the six major strategies delivered positive returns for the year.
This represents a very strong performance relative to alternative asset management indices and to broader asset classes in general: 2008 HFRI Fund Weighted Composite Index 19.0% MSCI World Index Gross Total Return USD 40.3% BarclaysCap Global Bond index 6.8% Notwithstanding the appreciation in NAV, the market price of a Sterling Share fell from 117p to 103.75p over the year.
A combination of the global financial crisis and weaker performance from a number of companies in our sector has precipitated a decline in share prices across the sector which is now characterised by trading levels at significant discounts to NAV.
The average discounts over the year for each of the Sterling, Euro and US Dollar Share classes were 2.5%, 3.4% and 2.8%, respectively.
Taking advantage of the prevailing discount, the Company repurchased 450,000 of its Sterling Shares during the year at a weighted average cost of 107.14 pence, which represented a weighted average discount to the then-prevailing NAV of 13.4%.
9 BlueCrest AllBlue Fund Limited the Company CHAIRMANS STATEMENT continued Despite excellent underlying investment performance, the Company has triggered its rolling 12 month discount floor provision for both the Euro class and US Dollar class of shares, by reference to the final NAV as at 27 February 2009 and 31 March 2009, respectively.
This requires, in accordance with the Company's articles of incorporation, a continuation vote to be proposed for these classes of shares by way of ordinary resolutions.
In the Board's opinion, it is likely that the Company's rolling 12 month discount floor provision will also be triggered for the Sterling class of shares by reference to the final NAV as at 30 April 2009.
On the assumption that the Sterling class triggers the requirement for a continuation vote within the anticipated time-frame, as referred to above, it is proposed that the continuation votes for all three share classes will be held at the same time.
Accordingly, the Board intends to post a circular to Shareholders once all three share classes have triggered a requirement for a continuation vote.
The circular will convene separate class meetings to be held at which the requisite continuation resolutions will be proposed.
Impact of Changed Financial Environment The significantly changed environment during the fourth quarter had relatively little impact on the investment objectives, allocations, leverage and risk management of AllBlue and the Underlying Funds.
Although AllBlue received approximately 30% net redemptions during the fourth quarter, in line with the hedge fund industry as a whole, it was able to reduce its investments in the Underlying Funds accordingly without any impact on the desired allocations to underlying strategies.
Where adjustments to capital allocations did occur, the driver was typically to reduce exposure to areas considered most at risk e. g. emerging markets whilst increasing allocations to areas deemed most likely to deliver stronger returns e. g. trend following systematic trading.
The report by Bluecrest as the manager of AllBlue on page 12 contains a more detailed review of the returns for the year from the different underlying strategies.
10 BlueCrest AllBlue Fund Limited the Company CHAIRMANS STATEMENT continued Risk and Leverage BlueCrest has advised the Company that its established risk management practices and policies continued to be applied during the period and proved robust despite the volatile environment.
This helped to restrict the maximum drawdown on a weekly observed basis during the period to approximately 1.5%.
Your Board is informed that the Underlying Funds to which AllBlue allocates capital do not, in general, rely on explicit leverage to fund investment positions, and as such were largely unaffected by the global deleveraging of the fourth quarter and the associated decline in availability of leverage during the year.
BlueCrests measure of implicit leverage in the Underlying Funds it manages, the levels of unencumbered cash within those funds, remained within targeted ranges and on a weighted basis across the Underlying Funds, ended the year at approximately 56% of assets under management.
In the context of the financial difficulties facing the financial sector, BlueCrest has advised the Company that it has taken a number of steps to control counterparty exposure in the Underlying Funds.
These exposures are well-diversified, and tiered according to BlueCrests perception of associated counterparty risk.
BlueCrest has also taken steps to ensure that counterparty balances are, where and to the extent possible contained in segregated accounts in order to minimise credit exposure.
The Board During the year, the Board appointed Jonathan Hooley and Andrew Dodd as non-executive directors.
Mr Hooley was also appointed as Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Outlook The Company has enjoyed a positive start to 2009, and has been advised by BlueCrest that the investment environment for trading-based strategies remains attractive.
I look forward to reporting to you again in the Interim Report and Accounts for the period ended 30 June 2009.
