Chairmans Statement institutions, initially in the US, and then in the UK and Europe, faced collapse.
Government intervention has been required to recapitalise the banking sector and avoid further collapses, and significant amounts of additional liquidity have been provided by central banks in an attempt to restore confidence to the sector.
Notwithstanding these actions there are significant concerns over the wider economic implications and it now seems clear that the worlds major economies are entering a period of slower growth or, more probably, recession.
Unsurprisingly, these events have had a profound impact on stockmarkets around the world, with shares of banks being among the most affected.
The FTSE All-Share Index fell by more than 13 per cent in September and, since the end of the financial year, has fallen by a further 16 per cent.
The table below provides a breakdown of the estimated contributions to the Companys William Thomson Chairman underperformance against its benchmark for the year, most of which is attributable to the effect of Against a backdrop of significant financial market the level of gearing during the period.
As explained turbulence, the Companys net asset value total later in my statement, the majority of the Companys return for the year ended 30 September 2008 was borrowings are represented by long term Bonds, 26.8 per cent.
This compares with a total return of although a new borrowing facility was taken out 20.3 per cent from the composite benchmark of during the year to provide the Company with greater 75 per cent FTSE All-Share Index and 25 per cent flexibility than it has had in the past.
The Companys FTSE World ex UK Index.
The share price total Bonds are less flexible and, by their nature, are return for the year was 24.8 per cent, in part due intended to enhance returns over the longer term.
In to the narrowing of the debt-adjusted discount to times of falling markets, therefore, gearing will have 8.0 per cent at the end of the year, compared to an adverse effect on the Companys performance.
10.3 per cent as at 30 September 2007 source: The Board and Managers review the level of gearing Fundamental Data.
very carefully at each Board Meeting, and between meetings where necessary.
The Board has taken the Following a year of continued good dividend growth, view that, at current market levels, it would not be in the Board is pleased to be able to continue with its the interests of shareholders to materially reduce the progressive dividend policy and to recommend an level of gearing.
increase of 4.0 per cent in the rate of dividend for the year.
Stock selection in all areas also had an adverse effect on the Companys performance relative to the Throughout the year, there were growing concerns benchmark.
The UK portfolio, which outperformed in about the effects of a slow down in growth of the the first half of the year, underperformed the FTSE worlds major economies, as rising oil and All-Share Index for the year as a whole, principally commodity prices led to higher inflation, and as a result of its exposure to certain financial stocks concerns intensified over the implications of the which have in the past been an important continuing global credit crisis.
The concerns contributor to the Revenue Account.
escalated towards the end of the financial year and it became clear that a global banking crisis was Encouragingly the North American portfolio which, developing as a number of major financial as previously reported, changed to being managed Annual Report and Accounts 2008 3 Chairmans Statement continued using quantitative stock selection techniques during income arising from the corporate bond portfolio is the year, outperformed the regional benchmark for also an important contributor to the Revenue the period from 1 April 2008 when the change was Account.
The Board is therefore pleased to made.
Since the year end, the Board has agreed recommend a final dividend of 1.734p per Ordinary with the Managers that the overseas portfolios will Share in respect of the year, payable on 9 January be consolidated into two portfolios: a global 2009 to shareholders on the register at close of developed markets portfolio which will be managed business on 12 December 2008.
This brings the using quantitative stock selection techniques, and an total dividend in respect of the year to 5.934p per actively managed global emerging markets portfolio.
Ordinary Share, an increase of 4.0 per cent from the This change will mean moving away from regional previous year.
portfolios based on geographic domicile.
The reason The Board considers the Companys dividend yield, for the change is to provide greater focus on the which was 5.9 per cent as at 30 September 2008, best individual investment opportunities overseas.
to be one of its key attractions.
Whilst the outlook During the year, the corporate bond portfolio for dividend receipts next year is clearly challenging, outperformed its composite benchmark, as well as the Board has considered carefully the revenue continuing to be an important contributor to the forecast for the forthcoming year and the size of the Revenue Account.
Companys revenue reserve, and expects to continue with the stated aim of maintaining a progressive dividend policy.
Attribution of Return Market benchmark return 20.3% Gearing At the end of the year the Companys gearing, net Stock selection of cash, was 20.5 per cent, represented by equity UK equities 1.3 gearing of 11.6 per cent and 8.9 per cent in Overseas equities 1.1 corporate bonds.
Regional asset allocation 0.3 The Companys borrowings are represented by Corporate bonds 0.9 60 million 6.25 per cent Bonds which are due for Gearing 5.0 redemption in 2031 and a five year 60 million multiCash other 0.7 currency revolving advance facility with The Royal Bank of Scotland plc the Revolving Advance Share buy backs 0.3 Facility.
As stated at the interim stage, this facility Expenses 0.7 was put in place on 31 March 2008 to coincide with the date on which the Companys 60 million 6.625 British Assets Trust net asset value per cent Bonds the 2008 Bonds were redeemed.
total return 26.8% Amounts borrowed under the Revolving Advance Facility may be drawn down in varying amounts and Earnings and Dividends currencies, thus providing the Company with a The Companys revenue earnings per share for the degree of flexibility which was not available with the year were 6.2p 2007: 5.7p.
First, second and third 2008 Bonds.
As at 30 September 2008 the amount interim dividends, each of 1.4p per Ordinary Share, drawn down under the facility was 30 million, in a were paid on 11 April, 11 July and 10 October 2008 variety of currencies relating to the geographical respectively.
During the year, the Company benefited from good levels of dividend growth from its investee Share Buy Backs companies, particularly in the UK where most of its During the year the Company purchased 8,400,000 shares for cancellation, equivalent to 2.8 per cent of investment income is generated.
The investment 4 British Assets Trust plc the shares in issue as at 30 September 2007, for an As previously announced, I will retire at the Annual aggregate consideration of 10.6 million.
These buy General Meeting in 2009.
Plans are in hand as backs enhanced the net asset value by 0.5p per regards my succession.
Annual General Meeting The Company will seek to renew its share buy back The Annual General Meeting will be held at 12 noon authority at the Annual General Meeting.
on Thursday 18 December 2008, at the offices of F&C Asset Management plc, 80 George Street, VAT on Management Fees Edinburgh, and will be followed by a presentation Following the European Court of Justice ruling in from the Companys lead fund manager, Julie Dent.
June 2007 that investment trusts should be This is a good opportunity for shareholders to meet regarded as special investment funds, management the Directors and Managers and we therefore fees paid by the Company are no longer subject to encourage you to attend.
General Meeting can be found on pages 54 to 56.
During the year, the Managers have been liaising Shareholders will find a proxy form enclosed with closely with HM Revenue and Customs HMRC to the Annual Report, and a form of direction is recover on the Companys behalf VAT paid in the enclosed for those who hold shares through the past on investment management fees.
Shareholders who are unable for the year include a provision for the recovery of to attend the Annual General Meeting are VAT of 1.49 million in respect of the period from encouraged to complete and return their forms to 1 January 2001.
This has been allocated between the Companys registrars to ensure that their votes revenue and capital and provides an enhancement are represented at the Meeting.
of 0.5p per share to the net asset value and 0.1p to the revenue earnings per share.
The Company Outlook expects to be able to make further provisions for The effect on the global economy of recent events in recoveries for earlier years once the amounts financial markets will be long lasting, and as further involved can be estimated with sufficient accuracy.
signs of an economic slowdown emerge in the months ahead there are likely to be further interest The Company is also expecting to receive interest rate cuts by central banks in an attempt to limit the on amounts of VAT recovered.
stage, the amounts involved and timings of the payments are uncertain and no provision has At current levels, stockmarkets are assuming a therefore been made in the accounts.
global recession in developed countries and a slow down in developing countries.
In due course, fiscal Board Composition stimulus and interest rate cuts should help As stated at the interim stage, Mr Ian Russell was confidence to return to markets, but until this appointed as a non-executive Director of the happens there is unlikely to be a meaningful Company on 1 June 2008.
Mr Russell is a former recovery in share prices.
During this difficult time the chief executive and finance director of Scottish Managers continue to focus on companies with Power plc.
He is currently a non-executive director good dividend prospects which they believe will of Johnston Press plc and The Mercantile provide a strong basis for both long term capital Investment Trust plc, Chairman of Remploy Limited performance and dividend growth.
and an adviser to the 3i Group.
The current composition of the Board is in line with the Combined Code of Corporate Governance, W R E Thomson which encourages boards to have at least half of Chairman their number, excluding the chairman, with service 14 November 2008 of less than nine years.
