39172 Best Report 1-21:BEST p1-23 P2 15 11 08 07:08 Page 4 British Empire Securities and General Trust plc Chairmans Statement In my first Annual Report to you as Chairman I am disappointed to have to say that the past year has been one of the most challenging in your Companys recent history.
By the half year the Net Asset Value had fallen by 6.2% and we did not feel there was any hurry to deploy the significant level of liquidity then held 15.9%.
Liquidity had at the year end increased to 17.1% as credit conditions and stock markets worldwide continue to get more difficult.
Conditions in September, the last month of our financial year proved to be exceptionally volatile.
The Net Asset Value has decreased during our financial year by 21.1% compared to 19.1% in our benchmark Datastream Global Investment Trust Growth Index, and 22.3% in the FTSE All Share index, all on a total return basis.
Over 3 years your Companys Net Asset Value total return per share has been 6.0%, Strone Macpherson against 5.9% for the benchmark, over 5 years 90.2% 36.8% ahead of the benchmark Chairman and over 10 years 271.0% with a benchmark return of 72.2%.
Since the year end, stock market and credit conditions have deteriorated significantly, prompting substantial capital injections by governments and their agencies into the Portfolio banking system worldwide.
This concerted action on a global basis is unprecedented but does appear to have calmed worries about a collapse of the banking system.
reasonably However, increased concerns about the global economy have led to further deterioration in equity markets and the Companys Net Asset Value was down a further well positioned 14.2% in October.
for these As the following detailed Managers Report shows, with such difficult market conditions also come opportunities.
By sticking to our knitting, that is investing in highly volatile cash generative companies with little or no gearing standing at a substantial discount to their asset value, we have been able to add at recent very depressed levels to our core markets longer-term investments, many of which are standing at the largest discounts we have seen in many years.
Consequently, overall, the Companys investments stood at the year-end at an average discount of approximately 30% to their underlying net asset value.
This is its highest level for many years and should represent a good store of value for the future.
The Companys shares have traded over the past year within a relatively narrow range around its Net Asset Value between 6.10% premium and 11.80% discount.
The Board monitors the level of discount or premium, and will, if necessary, take steps to limit discount volatility through measured buy-backs of shares.
Accordingly, the Board is again seeking to renew its powers to buy back the Companys shares.
Despite the recent volatility in the value of the portfolio, income streams have shown strong growth, again reflecting good long term progress in dividends from our portfolio companies and increased income from our liquid holdings.
Earnings per share are up by nearly 50%, benefitting partly from a VAT reclaim referred to below.
We are recommending the payment of a final dividend of 4.00p 2007: 3.60p, which together with the interim dividend of 1.75p 2007: 1.40p brings the ordinary dividends for the year to 5.75p, an increase of 15% over last years ordinary dividends of 5.00p.
In addition, and partly due to the VAT reclaim which I comment on later, we are also recommending a special dividend of 1.50p, compared to 0.50p last year.
Overall, total dividends will be 7.25p, a 32% increase on last year.
While the credit crisis and sharply slowing world economy have made it impossible, despite significant levels of liquidity, to make any positive absolute returns, John Pennink and his team at AVI have continued to find investment opportunities with real 39172 Best Report 1-21:BEST p1-23 P2 15 11 08 07:08 Page 5 Annual Report & Accounts 2008 value and excellent prospects for good medium to long term capital appreciation.
We are confident that the portfolio is reasonably positioned for these highly volatile and unpredictable market conditions and should perform well when monetary and economic conditions improve.
There is also adequate liquidity available to be deployed when further opportunities and anomalies thrown up by the current turbulence arise.
There have been a number of changes to the Board since last years report.
Iain Robertson stepped down after 12 years on the Board, for 5 of which he was Chairman.
We thank him for his huge contribution to our Companys deliberations and given his banking background, and characteristic Scottish caution which I share, for the help he provided in preparing us for the difficulties of the past year.
Peter Allen, who has so ably chaired your Audit Committee since 2003, has also expressed his wish to step down after 6 years on the Board with effect from the end of March 2009.
After an extensive search we have appointed Andrew Robson to the Board.
He has wide experience of the investment trust world and elsewhere in financial services and it is planned that he should succeed Peter as chairman of the Audit Committee.
Rosamund Blomfield-Smith has reached the end of her second term and also comes up for re-election and I am delighted to support the election of Andrew and the re-election of both Peter and Rosamund.
I am pleased to report that, following the European Court of Justices decision that fund management services supplied to investment trusts are exempt from VAT, HMRC has agreed a refund of a little over 2 million in respect of the period 2004 2007.
This represents 1.29p per share, of which 0.47p is attributable to income.
We are taking appropriate steps to reclaim VAT relating to previous years, to the extent this is possible, but because the amounts of any further recoveries are not yet certain they have not been recognised as assets in these accounts.
As a result of an independent assessment by the Companys advisors, after consultation with major shareholders the Board has decided on some changes to the management and performance fees payable to AVI, which are effective from 1 October 2008.
Fuller details of the changes can be found in the Report of the Directors.
Henceforth the benchmark will be the Fundamental Data Global Growth Investment Trust Index, as its calculation methodology is considered to be more robust: the basic management fee will be paid at a rate of 0.6%.
of net assets, with no reduction for underperformance: a performance fee will be paid at a rate of 6% previously 4% of any outperformance in the net asset value on a total return basis over the benchmark at the year end.
Importantly the cap on aggregate fees remains at 1% of net assets at the preceding year end.
The Companys Articles of Association have not needed review since 1998 and our advisors have recommended that they be amended to reflect those provisions of the Companies Act 2006 already in force.
Details of the principal changes proposed can also be found in the Report of the Directors.
Outlook Since the year end, the Companys Net Asset Value has fallen by 14.1% the Data Stream Global Growth Investment Trust Index by 13.48% and the MSCI World Index 10.57%.
Over the same period the Fundamental Data Global Growth Investment Trust Index fell by 13.7%.
October has been the most difficult month so far in this savage bear market, despite the global effort by monetary authorities to strengthen the banking system and capital ratios and depositors confidence following the Lehman collapse.
The extent of the credit crisis and the increasing evidence of the sharpness of the economic slowdown in most parts of the world, together with widespread deleveraging, does not currently bode well for early strong and sustainable recovery in equity markets.
However, despite all these difficulties, your board sees a good deal of value in many investment situations now and looks forward to the returns that should be made from our investments and from putting our cash resources to work carefully, over time.
