02 Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2008 Directors report Share price total return outperformance against Chairmans the FTSE All-Share Total Return over five years statement 155% Increase in the proposed final dividend to 22.6p per share 4.6% Results Dividend In a difficult year for markets, it is not surprising to report that our We are pleased to propose a 4.6% increase of 1.0 pence in the final fifth year as an investment trust has resulted in a decline of 4.6% in dividend to 22.6 pence per share payable on 14 August 2008.
This will our net asset value per share, although this should be taken in the bring the total dividend for the year to 32.5 pence, representing an context of an 10.9% decline in the FTSE All-Share index.
Given that increase of 4.5% over the previous year and costing 18.7m.
We shall the share prices of our second and fourth largest holdings, being have increased our annual dividend to shareholders for forty-one Close Brothers and Quintain Estates, fell by 39% and 50% respectively, consecutive years.
this outperformance reflects the sound quality of our overall portfolio.
It also reinforces the validity of our long standing investment Portfolio and liquidity approach, which is to take significant stakes for the longer term The Chief Executive reviews the detailed changes to our portfolio in promising quoted and unquoted companies with management in his report.
In overall terms we have adopted a more cautious teams whom we have got to know and trust.
This is similarly approach to the market over the past year with investments made in reflected in our continued longer term outperformance against five new situations totalling 48m compared with 14 new situations our benchmark FTSE All-Share Total Return index over five and in the previous year costing 128m.
Follow-on investments totalled ten years of 155% and 187% respectively.
Together investments made exceeded realisations during the year by 89m, which, Share price and discount adjusted for movements in working capital, reduced our net liquidity Our share price fell by 0.8% over the year from 2066 pence to from 109m to 24m.
Whilst we remain cautious about markets, 2050 pence and, against the 5% decline in net asset value per share we would wish to be in a position to take advantage of the potentially already mentioned, this reflected a narrowing of the share price interesting opportunities which are likely to arise from these difficult discount from 8.5% to 4.9%.
Our share price total return over one times and we are looking at arranging appropriate borrowing facilities.
year, which assumes reinvestment of dividends, was positive at 0.8%.
Directors report Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2008 03 Continuing outperformance against our benchmark again validates our investment approach.
Peter Buckley Chairman Economic and political background Staff I have customarily made reference to the economic and political We are fortunate to have a close knit and dedicated team at background and the impact it has on our business and for some years Caledonia and it has been a busy year for them.
Regulations, which I have been strongly critical of the present Government.
In the past often emanate from an unaccountable bureaucracy in Brussels or are year many of their chickens have come home to roost and what a imposed on industry in a manner which the UK Government opts out shabby lot they look.
Shorn of integrity and economic competence, of for its own account as in the public sector pensions arena, continue Rooster Brown has even less feathers than Rooster Blair and lacks to grow alarmingly and impose an unwelcome additional burden on the latters knack of preening himself.
It is heartening that the recent the workload of our team and, worse, for the competitiveness of our local elections, exemplified by the change of the Mayor in London economy in global markets.
I would like to thank the Caledonia team and the Crewe by-election, would both suggest that the electorate on behalf of shareholders for their unstinting and diligent efforts.
Outlook Fuelled by the greed of the US investment banks, the principal The financial markets have suffered unprecedented difficulties and culprits in the sub-prime crisis, many other banks had lowered their the impact of all this is only now filtering through to the wider standards to an alarming degree which the Government, through economy.
This undoubtedly has further to go and inflation is likely its Brown-imposed three way regulatory framework of Treasury, to be the next issue to consider.
So there is no easy road ahead Bank of England and Financial Services Authority, utterly failed to but opportunities are bound to present themselves which we spot.
Over the past period of relative plenty, Brown has consistently shall address with our traditional approach ever mindful of the and stealthily raised taxes and public expenditure in a way which has difficult environment.
failed to deliver proper value.
He blusters about prudent economic management when Britain is now at the lower end of a number of European economic league tables.
Blair and Brown both promised a referendum on the new constitutional reforms in Europe and then reneged.
What is particularly distressing in all this, is a growing politicisation of the civil service and the lack of example being set by those at the top in both politics and banking, with self interest dominating the willingness to take responsibility, which is hardly the Peter Buckley right ethic to instil in future generations.
All of this impinges on the Chairman prospects for growth in our economy.
Last year some of these factors led us to ask our shareholders for the authority to make contributions of up to 60,000 to the Conservative Party so that it can be equipped better to form an alternative government.
I am pleased to report that we had a ringing endorsement in favour of this from the overwhelming majority of our shareholders.
The year just past has strengthened our belief in this initiative although the Conservatives will have to be careful and consistent with their policy pronouncements.
We shall ask our shareholders for permission to donate again to the Conservative Party with an increase in the contribution to 75,000 in case the next twelve months turns out to be an election year.
The focus of giving will remain on building resource in the marginal seats where the past years contributions were also targeted.
