Overview Business review Financial statements and notes Chairmans statement continued Our current position We were developing operations in Asia and The unprecedented global economic in Eastern Europe but we do not currently developments which occurred during have the capacity to finance investments the latter part of 2008 have weakened in these regions.
The teams concerned are Candovers financial position.
This is due to investigating the possibility of raising capital both an anticipated delay in realisations and so that they can become effectively selfthe more immediate impact of the decrease financing.
If they do not succeed in raising in net asset valuations on the covenants funds, these operations will have to cease.
attached to the US private placement bonds that we issued in 2007.
While we are Dividend not in breach of these covenants, we will be It is clearly not appropriate to pay a final engaging in discussions with our lenders in dividend and consequently the dividend for order to re-establish our financial flexibility the year is 22.0p per share 2007: 60.0p.
Dividends will be resumed when warranted by the financial position of the Company.
The Boards focus in the current climate is to preserve the value of our existing Outlook investments.
We have an outstanding The economic outlook has not improved commitment of 90.4 million to the since the year end.
The recession will Candover 2005 Fund which may be drawn affect trading in our portfolio companies over the next two years to fund follow-on and we expect that it will continue to make investments or to strengthen the capital realisations challenging for some time.
We position of the portfolio companies.
The are committed to working with our portfolio Boards main priority is therefore to ensure companies to ensure that they are well that the Company has the capital required positioned to minimise the negative impacts to fund this commitment and to maintain of the downturn, as well as being well headroom in the bond covenants.
Our equipped to build value for the future.
Some present gearing level is 29% and we are capital structures will come under pressure working to reduce this so that we do because of the depth of the present not exceed 20% of net assets over the economic crisis and we are working with the investment cycle.
management of the companies concerned to take corrective action where necessary.
Our reduced capital strength means that we are not currently in a position to make any The prospects for the private equity industry further commitment to invest alongside the have altered considerably over the last six Candover 2008 Fund beyond our existing months, and it is unclear what our industry investment in Expro International.
We are will look like in the future.
Our priority now therefore in discussions with the Limited is to reinforce the financial position of the Partners of the Candover 2008 Fund firm, so that the value which we believe is regarding a restructuring of the Fund, which inherent in our investments can be realised is likely to include a temporary suspension for shareholders.
We will also be examining of the investment period until such time as the various strategic options potentially these matters have been resolved.
We remain convinced that there is significant longer term value in our Our cost base has to be reduced to reflect funds and in Candovers share of the carried the current financial position and, very sadly, interest in those funds.
we have had to make redundant a number of our staff.
It is a matter of huge regret that Gerry Grimstone we have had to take such a step.
Chairman 20th March, 2009 Candover 02 Report and accounts 2008
