EXECUTIVE CHAIRMANS STATEMENT INTRODUCTION AND OVERVIEW OF EVENTS THE IMPAIRMENT REVIEW DURING 2009 In February 2009, as soon as it became clear that there was I am obviously very disappointed to have to report our 2008 an issue with the Groups impairment provision, the Audit audited loss before tax of 745.2 million 2007 restated: loss Committee commissioned Deloitte LLP Deloitte to conduct before tax 96.5 million which gives a loss per share of 156.38p an independent review of the Groups impairment policies and 2007 restated: loss per share 23.56p.
their application in the Companys accounts the Impairment Review.
Deloitte were instructed to assist the Audit Committee On 20 February 2009, we announced a delay in the release of in order to establish the quantum of the impairment provision.
This announcement Deloittes principal nding was that, as a result of a breakdown marked the beginning of a process, including an Impairment in internal controls, our impairment policies had been incorrectly Review and a Forensic Review, which led us to the discovery of applied.
This resulted in impairment provisions being materially a very significant shortfall in the Groups impairment provisions.
understated and profit materially overstated.
Further details of As a result of the circumstances surrounding this very material the financial impact of Deloittes findings are set out in the shortfall in the level of impairment provisions, on 30 June 2009 Business and Financial Review.
we dismissed a number of Cattles plc Cattles executive directors and other Welcome Financial Services Limited WFS THE FORENSIC REVIEW senior executives.
At the same time, the Chairman and Chief In addition to the Impairment Review, the Audit Committee Executive resigned.
It was at this point that I became Executive commissioned an independent forensic review the Forensic Chairman of a restructured Board.
Review which was carried out by Freshelds Bruckhaus The events which unfolded after 20 February led us to the Deringer LLP Freshelds with the assistance of Deloitte.
The conclusion that we were in breach of covenants under our predominant reason for the Forensic Review was to enable the borrowing arrangements.
Our financial creditors therefore had Audit Committee to assess and take legal advice on liability and the right to demand immediate repayment of their loans.
The Audit Committee also thought the Forensic We decided not to continue lending to our Welcome Finance Review was important for a number of other reasons: Welcome customers other than on a minimal renewal basis to enable the Company to understand what happened and to during 2009.
Instead, we had to devote a great deal of our time take steps to ensure it could not happen again: and energy to stabilising the Group so that we could negotiate and obtain a standstill agreement with our key financial to enable the Company to identify any individuals who either creditors.
posed a risk to the Company or who were otherwise culpable in what had happened, and to determine what action should As part of the process of obtaining our creditors agreement to be taken against individual employees: and the standstill, we were required to put out an announcement of our 2008 results on 25 November 2009.
These numbers, which to be able to give an independent account of the matter to the were unaudited and described as being subject to material Financial Services Authority FSA and any other interested change, showed a very substantial loss for the year ended regulatory bodies.
This announcement represented the Boards best estimate of the likely result at that time and reected the RESULTS OF THE FORENSIC REVIEW impact of the Impairment Review, which is described in more The Forensic Review demonstrated that certain of the former detail below.
executive directors of Cattles and certain of the former senior executives of WFS, over a period of time, had provided During the second half of 2009, we undertook a thorough incomplete and misleading information and documents and or analysis of the Groups businesses.
This analysis led us to failed to escalate matters of concern relating to impairment to recommend that there should be no further lending in Welcome the full Board and Audit Committee.
The provision of such and that instead the book should be collected out.
This incomplete and misleading information and documents to the conclusion was announced to shareholders on 16 December full Board and Audit Committee, in conjunction with the 2009. withholding of certain other information and documents, In the same period, given the accounting issues faced by the combined to mask the true state of Welcomes loan book and, Group, the Board also considered the issue of whether it was in particular, the correct level of arrears within that book.
appropriate for  LLP PwC to audit the Notwithstanding the Groups reported strong record of growth Companys and subsidiaries 2008 financial statements.
In with stable credit quality and strong earnings performance, the November 2009, the Board concluded that it was not non-executive directors had regularly challenged certain appropriate and therefore asked PwC to resign as auditor.
executives about key matters such as the level of cash being Shortly afterwards, Grant Thornton UK LLP Grant Thornton was generated by the business, the quality of the rapidly expanding appointed as the Groups statutory auditor.
Grant Thornton loan book and the adequacy of the loan loss provision.
started work on the audit of the 2008 financial statements in In response to these challenges, certain executives had provided December 2009.
Following completion of Grant Thorntons a range of presentations, documents and verbal reassurances to audit, we were nally able to announce audited results.
the non-executive directors that everything was entirely as it These results are different from the unaudited results previously should have been and that there was no reason for concern.
The discussions we have had with addition to this robust and consistent reassurance from such our new auditor have resulted in a further increase in impairment executives, the Audit Committee regularly sought and received provisions, and in the need to make certain other provisions as reassurances on a number of matters, including specic at 31 December 2008 and in respect of prior years.
assurance about the adequacy of the loan provision, from the external auditors to the Companys accounts at that time.
Annual Report and 1 Financial Statements 2008 Cattles plc EXECUTIVE CHAIRMANS STATEMENT continued half of 2009 on the instruction of the Executive Team.
The ACTION TAKEN IMMEDIATELY FOLLOWING THE committees have carefully monitored the Executive Teams CONCLUSION OF THE FORENSIC REVIEW progress in dealing with the issues raised by this review and this As a result of the Forensic Review, as we announced on 1 July has created a good framework for the timely resolution of many 2009, the employment of each of the six senior executives who of these issues.
The Board has met even more frequently than had been suspended pending the final outcome of the review these committees and has also reviewed a full management was terminated with immediate effect and the Group Treasury information pack at these meetings.
The non-executive directors & Risk director left the Company, also with immediate effect.
continue to provide a very valuable insight and challenge on the None of the departing executives received any compensation for many difficult issues we have had to address during this period.
We also made the following changes to the operating structure BUSINESS UNIT PERFORMANCE of the Group and to the composition of both the Board and the WFS board of WFS: WFS is Cattles principal operating subsidiary.
During 2008, WFS I was appointed Executive Chairman of Cattles with comprised Welcome and Shopacheck, the Groups non-standard immediate effect, supported in this role by Robert East our consumer lending businesses, and Welcome Car Finance, our car Chief Restructuring officer, who leads our discussions with our retail operation.
Pre-tax loss was 746.4 million 2007 restated: key financial creditors and James Drummond Smith, who had pre-tax loss 95.0 million.
Total net receivables were 2.3 billion become our Finance Director in April 2009: 2007 restated: 2.3 billion.
the board of WFS was also restructured, with the appointment Welcome of Laura Barlow as Executive Chairman in an interim capacity As noted above, the key feature of the 2008 results is the and Paul Mackin as Managing Director.
The Risk and significant increase in loan loss provisions, which has been Compliance function was strengthened with a number of the main cause of the large loss reported.
The loan loss charge external senior appointments.
Laura Barlow left the business increased to 737.3 million 2007 restated: 368.0 million.
at the end of January 2010 at which time I also became Total net receivables were 2.2 billion 2007 restated: Executive Chairman of WFS and David Lovett joined that board 2.2 billion.
Our current estimate of the fair value of Welcomes on 25 February 2010: and loans and receivables is 1.4 billion at 31 December 2008, which is calculated by discounting expected future cash ows from the we focused on a programme of action to stabilise the Groups loans and receivables.
Loans and receivables have continued to financial position including a controlled process of debt impair post year end as the business is in run-off.
recovery and cash collection and the simplication of the Groups operating model to reduce costs.
Shopacheck Financial Services Shopacheck Shopacheck, our home collected credit business, reduced its OTHER BOARD CHANGES WHICH TOOK PLACE ON net receivables to 79.8 million 2007: 101.3 million.
As part 30 JUNE 2009 of the review of impairment provisions noted above and There were two other changes in the composition of the Board subsequent review work, we also increased the loan loss charge on 30 June 2009 to enable the new Board structure described in Shopacheck by an additional 9.2 million to 54.5 million above to be put in place.
Norman Broadhurst stepped down as 2007: 45.3 million.
Chairman and as a director of Cattles the Board having Welcome Car Finance previously announced that Norman Broadhurst would not seek Income from Welcome Car Finance grew by 3.9% to re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting of the 110.2 million 2007: 106.1 million as it increased unit sales Company, either as Chairman or as a director of Cattles.
Welcome Car Finance Postings stepped down as Chief Executive and as a director of was closed in April 2009 as a result of funding constraints.
Cattles and left the Group with immediate effect.
The Lewis Group MANAGEMENT OF THE GROUP AND ITS OPERATIONS The Lewis Group reported a pre-tax loss in 2008 of 5.2 million SINCE 1 JULY 2009 2007: pre-tax profit 10.2 million.
This reected a reduction in Following the changes to the Board described above, we have cash collections as well as a more cautious view on the outlook taken a number of steps to ensure that the Executive Board for the UK economy and the housing market in particular, members have an appropriate level of information and control which led to a devaluation of the debt portfolios owned by over the activities and operations of the business and to ensure The Lewis Group of 14.1 million 2007: upwards revaluation that the whole Board has sufficient visibility of these matters.
Debt purchases during the year totalled The Boards Executive Directors, together with the Group Risk 75.5 million 2007: 74.3 million.
The Lewis Group will refocus and Compliance Director and the Managing Director of WFS its strategy on contingent debt collection and by the end of together referred to as the Executive Team, have a formal 2010 its commitments to acquire further debt will have been weekly meeting to review management and operational completed.
information, and to discuss and approve all significant operating Cattles Invoice Finance and other decisions.
This meeting also receives and reviews a Income grew 11.3% to 23.7 million 2007: 21.3 million, and report on risk and compliance issues that may have arisen in the client numbers remained steady at 727 2007: 725.
The same group meets monthly to consider risk profit reduced by 8.0% to 2.3 million 2007: 2.5 million and compliance issues and internal control issues and to review largely as a result of further provisions on three specic progress in the resolution of these issues.
The full Board receives accounts noted in 2007.
The loan loss charge was 2.5 million copies of the minutes of all these meetings.
On 14 September 2009, the Group sold this The Audit Committee and the Group Risk Committee have met business for a cash consideration of 70.4 million.
A particular area of focus for both More detailed information on the performance of our of these committees has been the results of a thorough review businesses can be found in the Business and Financial Review.
of key controls which was carried out by Deloitte in the second 2 Annual Report and Cattles plc Financial Statements 2008 DIVIDENDS SHAREHOLDERS During 2008 an interim dividend of 6.51p per share 2007: 6.20p As I said in my introduction to this statement, I am very per share was paid.
As a result of the losses for the year, no final disappointed to have to report audited losses for 2008, dividend will be declared 2007: 13.10p per share.
particularly on the scale shown in this annual report and financial statements.
RESTRUCTURING I know that some of our shareholders had a substantial On 25 November 2009, we announced that Cattles had agreed proportion of their savings invested in Cattles shares.
Many of a Standstill and Equalisation Agreement SEA with its key you have lost money that you have told me you could ill afford financial creditors, and that this should improve the likelihood to lose.
These facts make it all the more painful for me to of us achieving our restructuring objectives, namely: present this annual report.
to stabilise the financial position of the Company and its I share your anger about what has happened.
Like you, I feel subsidiaries: and very let down by certain former executives.
I also share your against this background, to continue discussions with the frustration about the time that it is taking to establish Companys key financial creditors with a view to agreeing a responsibility for the problems which we have experienced.
consensual restructuring of the Group.
However, these matters are extremely complex and cannot be resolved quickly.
I can only assure you that the current Board On 16 December 2009 at the General Meeting called to consider continues to co-operate as fully as possible with all interested Cattles serious loss of capital and the actions taken by the regulators and to consider with our legal advisers all possible Board, I confirmed that, since the SEA announcement, we had avenues for potential claims against third parties in relation to met with representatives of our financial creditors to update the impairment problems which nally came to light in February them on the Groups recent financial performance and to review 2009. with them a range of strategic options.
These meetings followed extensive strategic, operational and financial analysis of the PEOPLE Groups businesses.
Based on this analysis and against the The events that unfolded during 2009 have been extremely background of the significant losses incurred to date by difficult for the Group and its employees.
As part of our Welcome, the directors were unable to recommend a business programme to simplify the Groups operations we have had to plan to financial creditors which would allow Welcome to lend release a significant number of people during 2009 and again in to existing or new customers.
Furthermore, at the end of 2009 we The Board therefore recommended a plan which would focus on had to inform the Welcome employees that we intend to pursue collecting out Welcomes customer loans.
It is envisaged that the a strategy of collecting out the customer loans over the next collection of the Welcome loan book could take two to three two to three years, as a result of which they are unlikely to have years and, during this period, the Groups cost base will contract a long-term future with the business.
I have been impressed to reect the reducing size of the book.
with the professionalism and dedication of our employees in very difficult circumstances and, on behalf of the Board, I wish The Groups smaller businesses, Shopacheck and The Lewis to thank them for their continuing contribution to the business.
Group, will carry on trading as normal.
We continue to explore the scope to develop these businesses further.
We are engaged in ongoing discussions with representatives of our key financial creditors in order to progress proposals for a consensual restructuring.
Those discussions have been constructive and demonstrate continuing progress towards a consensual restructuring.
On this basis, we have concluded Margaret Young that there is a reasonable expectation that the Company will continue to be able to pay its operational debts as they fall due Executive Chairman for the foreseeable future and that we have a reasonable 11 May 2010 prospect of achieving a consensual restructuring.
We therefore continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
We intend to announce our results for 2009 in the near future.
Shareholders should be aware that again we will be reporting a significant loss for the year ended 31 December 2009 and a negative value for shareholders funds.
As we stated on 16 December 2009, the shares are likely to have little or no value.
The cash collection performance of Welcomes loan book has been as forecast for the first quarter of 2010.
Shopacheck and The Lewis Group have made satisfactory starts to 2010.
LISTING The ling of the 2008 Annual Report and Financial Statements with Companies House does not affect the current suspension of the listing of the Companys securities, which was imposed at the Companys request in April 2009.
Any lifting of the suspension would require the approval of the UK Listing Authority and could not, in any event, take place before the publication of the 2009 Annual Report and Financial Statements.
Annual Report and 3 Financial Statements 2008 Cattles plc
