The City of London Investment Trust plc Report & Accounts 2008 3 Chairmans Statement For the year ended 30 June 2008, City of Londons revenue return per share increased by 16.7%, the dividend increased by 12.6% and the net asset value total return declined by 18.3%.
Simon fide Zoete Performance for the year to 30 June 2008 last five years from 8.07p to 11.60p per share and revenue Earnings and dividends reserves have increased from 5.2p to 12.5p per share.
Revenue return per share was 13.53p, an increase of 16.7%.
A Net asset value total return fourth interim dividend of 2.96p was paid on 29 August 2008, Shareholders net asset value total return has increased by 67.9% making a total for the year of 11.60p, an increase of 12.6% over over the last five years, which compares with 62.1% for the the previous year.
This is the forty-second consecutive year that City average of the UK Income & Growth investment trust sector, of London has increased its dividend, the longest record of any 77.2% for the FTSE All-Share 4% Capped Index and 71.0% for investment trust.
4.7 million was added to the revenue reserve.
The minimum quarterly dividend for the year ahead will be 3.08p, Expenses a further minimum increase of 6.2% on an annual basis.
The The total expense ratio TER, which is the investment quarterly rate will next be considered when the third interim management fee and other non interest expenses as a percentage dividend is declared in March 2009, by which time the Board of shareholders funds, was 0.37%.
The TER has been reduced will be able to assess better the trend in income performance of from 0.42% announced last year by not having to pay VAT on the the portfolio.
investment management fee as a result of a decision in the Net asset value total return European Court of Justice.
The Board is concerned about the delay Market conditions have created a difficult environment for active by HMRC in paying the reclaims submitted by our Managers, and fund managers who have an income requirement in their is pressing for payments to be made in the near future.
Our Managers could have been better positioned for Outlook the credit crunch that I mentioned in last years report.
Whilst we We are faced with a market where one can argue that much of were underweight in bank shares, we did suffer from their poor the bad news is anticipated and discounted.
Even though most share price performance.
The stellar share price performance of banks have raised new capital there is still likely to be a mining and commodity related shares only partially offset losses continuing shortage of bank finance available and the effect of in other areas, because our Managers felt that prices were too the banks problems will create continuing problems for high and yields were unacceptably low.
There is bound to be volatility and Against this background, I have to report a negative net asset sector performance disparity and we do face a more uncertain value total return of 18.3%.
This is behind our benchmark but I year on the revenue front.
On the other hand, markets are lower, am pleased to say that we have done better than most of our commodity prices have started to come off and alternative competitor companies.
investment assets, such as bonds, make equities look relatively cheap on a longer term basis.
In addition, our portfolio Our gearing has been low during this credit crunch sell off, but companies earn more than half of their profits outside the UK naturally any gearing in a falling market has negatively affected and with sterling weakening against the dollar this is a definite asset value performance.
Our shares are on a prospective yield of 4.9% at the end of City of Londons net asset value total return was a negative August and are backed by revenue reserves of 25.9 million.
18.3% which compares with a positive 21.0% in the previous Investment opportunities will arise and there are reasons to be year.
The FTSE All-Share 4% Capped Index produced a negative more positive in a market that is bound to surprise.
total return of 14.0% and therefore City of London underperformed its benchmark by 4.3%.
The average Annual General Meeting performance of the UK Growth & Income investment trust sector At the Annual General Meeting on Thursday 16 October 2008, was a negative total return of 20.8% and therefore City of one of the items of special business to be put to the shareholders London outperformed the average of its competitors by 2.5%.
is a special resolution to adopt new articles of association to reflect the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Further details City of Londons share price discount to net asset value with debt on this and other items of special business are contained in the at market value slightly increased from 10.9% to 11.5% over the Report of the Directors and an explanation of the main changes year.
However, this was an improvement from the discount of between the proposed and the existing articles of association is 13.5% at 31 December 2007.
At the end of August, the discount set out in the Appendix to the Notice of Annual General Meeting had narrowed to 7.2%.
Performance for the five years to 30 June 2008 Simon fide Zoete Earnings and dividends Chairman The Companys annual dividend has grown by 43.7% over the 8 September 2008
