4 Overview Chairman and Chief Executives Statement Exceptional items in 2008 were 10.0 million of costs, half The group has delivered a resilient of which related to advisers fees incurred during the offer performance in a year which has period and half of which related to the implementation of cost saving initiatives across the group.
In 2007 been as eventful and challenging as exceptional items were 21.1 million of income relating to any in the history of Close Brothers.
investment gains and performance fees derived from one private equity transaction which was exceptional by its size as well as its nature.
This was part of the 43 million Operating profit before exceptional unusually high investment gains and performance fees we items, goodwill impairment and tax benefited from last year.
The result this year is not impacted by goodwill impairment 2007: 3.7 million.
adjusted operating profit was Operating profit before tax was 127.5 million 2007: 137.5 million 2007: 172.8 million, 190.2 million and basic earnings per share was 61.5p down 20% on last years record 2007: 90.4p.
Adjusted earnings The board is recommending a final dividend of 25.5p per share 2007: 25p, payable in cash, making a total ordinary per share was down 19% from dividend for the year of 39p per share 2007: 37p, up 5% 82.8p to 67.3p.
This reflects our commitment to progressive dividend growth.
The dividend will be payable on 14 November 2008 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 10 October 2008.
Trading Overview Against the background of an unusually challenging trading, credit and market environment, our high quality businesses, with their experienced management, have delivered a resilient performance.
Our capital base remains strong and comfortably above regulatory requirements.
The Tier 1 capital ratio for the group at 31 July 2008 was 14.4%.
Our balance sheet is a source of strength in current turbulent markets.
We remain soundly and conservatively funded from a diverse range of sources.
During the year we have extended our range of long term committed facilities and our deposit base has grown by 15% to 2.6 billion.
Adjusted operating profit for the divisions was as follows: 2008 2007 million % million % Asset Management 32.6 21 56.6 29 Banking 74.5 48 71.7 36 Corporate Finance 10.0 6 22.5 12 Securities 38.7 25 44.1 23 155.8 100 194.9 100 Group 18.3 22.1 Strone Macpherson Chairman Adjusted operating profit 137.5 172.8 Close Brothers Annual Report 2008 5 Our high quality businesses, with their experienced management, have delivered a resilient performance.
Market factors have affected performance in our Asset acquisition of the remaining management held minority Management division where Funds under Management interest in our French business, we have recently acquired FuM were down 10% to 8.2 billion, adjusted operating the 55% management interest of our Spanish associate, profit was down 42% to 32.6 million and adjusted Atlas Capital.
operating margin at 24% was down from 32% last year.
This Performance in our Securities division was also adversely performance reflects weak financial markets in 2008 and affected by market conditions and adjusted operating compares to a particularly strong private equity profit at 38.7 million was down 12% on last year.
In Securities our priority is to retain Winterfloods position Our core business is wealth and investment management as the leading retail service provider in the UK.
For the first for private clients, from mass affluent to high net worth, time, we are also starting to use the strength of our retail both onshore and offshore, supported by a multi-asset platform and liquidity to move into some of the higher investment approach and distribution through several growth areas of the market.
We also have a specialist property team and will offering direct market access to institutions, developing expand our hedge fund and multi-manager capabilities our algorithmic trading offering and executing corporate where we see both institutional and retail growth and share schemes on a market-making basis for a number of benefits from greater scale.
As anticipated, our Banking division has performed well In a weak trading environment in Germany, our marketover the last twelve months.
Our loan book grew by 14% making business, Seydler, has focused on keeping costs to 2.2 billion and adjusted operating profit was up 4% to under control and on retaining our leading position in the 74.5 million.
Net interest margin declined slightly to 8.6% area of designated sponsorships where we have some 160 and the bad debt ratio was up at 1.3% 2007: 1.1%.
corporate relationships with small and mid-sized German For the first time in a number of years we see real listed companies.
We have also established a new team in opportunities for both organic and acquired growth in our London specialising in marketing small and mid-cap Banking division.
With our strong capital position, we are German securities to London based institutional investors.
well equipped to take advantage of any such opportunity.
When the German market returns to a more normal level This is illustrated by the steadily increasing demand for our of activity we will be well placed to service our clients.
banking services and the fact that in the last six months we Our new associate Mako, a market-maker in exchange have added over 200 million to our loan book by traded derivatives, performed well delivering an acquiring assets at what we believe to be attractive prices.
annualised return on our initial investment of over 15%.
We will continue to manage risk and liquidity carefully and Unsolicited Takeover Approach keep costs under close review.
Our strategic focus remains In November 2007 we received an unsolicited takeover clear and consistent: to push for growth and to be the approach for the group.
This led to us receiving a number specialist, secured lender of choice in our chosen sectors of other approaches and holding detailed discussions with of the Small and Medium sized Enterprise SME, several parties.
In the event none of the parties was able professional and consumer markets.
to deliver a firm, fully funded offer for the group and all Adjusted operating profit in our Corporate Finance discussions ended in March 2008.
These events, coupled with the unfolding credit crunch and worsening markets division was down 56% to 10.0 million reflecting weaker market conditions in the UK.
In Corporate Finance we generally has meant this has been a difficult year for our employees.
We would like to take this opportunity to continue to maintain our position as a high quality midmarket house with particular expertise in corporate thank them all for their continuing hard work, dedication and support.
We will continue to consolidate our European position and, following the 6 Overview Chairman and Chief Executives Statement Acquisitions Across the group we seek to maximise our return on We made a number of acquisitions during the year.
capital and we will be looking to reallocate capital to higher margin growth areas with a focus, in the short term, In August 2007 we announced the purchase of a 49.9% on the Banking division.
We retain a disciplined focus on shareholding in Mako, a market-maker in exchange traded costs at all levels whilst investing for future growth and we derivatives.
This transaction completed in October 2007. continue to look for ways to improve operational and financial efficiency across all our divisions.
Reflecting the In March 2008 we announced the acquisition of two niche current trading environment we have made headcount lending businesses: Commercial Acceptances Group, a reductions in each of our divisions and the associated one specialist short term bridging lender, with a loan book off 5.0 million cost has been shown as an exceptional on acquisition of 80 million and Amber Credit, a specialist item.
insurance premium finance business with a loan book on acquisition of 65 million.
Board Changes As separately announced, Colin Keogh, who has been with Shortly after the financial year end we purchased Close Brothers Group plc for 23 years and Chief Executive Kaupthing Singer & Friedlander Premium Finance, another for the last six, will be stepping down once a suitable specialist insurance premium finance business, with a loan successor has been found.
Colin Keogh has played an book on acquisition of approximately 80 million.
important part in the growth and success of Close Brothers We continue to actively manage the groups portfolio over many years and will continue to lead the group until of businesses and to evaluate opportunities to deliver the search process is concluded.
The events of the past six There have been a number of other board changes at both months have sharpened our appreciation of where opportunities for growth lie and we see development non-executive and executive level during the year, all of which have been previously announced.
We would like to potential in a number of areas.
express our thanks to all our departing directors for their contribution to the group over many years.
Peter Winkworth, joint managing director responsible for finance and David Pusinelli, corporate development director, both stepped down as executive directors during the year.
Jonathan Howell joined the board in February 2008 as finance director, having previously held the same role at the London Stock Exchange Group plc.
Michael Hines, chief executive of Winterflood, retired at the end of this financial year.
Peter Buckley, Michael McLintock and James Williams each retired as non-executive directors during the year.
Jamie Cayzer-Colvin, a director of Caledonia Investments plc, our largest shareholder, replaced Peter Buckley on 1 January 2008.
A search for two new independent non-executive directors is under way to provide balance to the board and to assist Bruce Carnegie-Brown and Douglas Paterson with their non-executive duties.
In June 2008 Rod Kent stepped down as chairman because of an unexpected and significant increase in his responsibilities elsewhere.
He was succeeded by Strone Macpherson who was previously deputy chairman and senior independent director.
Colin Keogh Chief Executive Close Brothers Annual Report 2008 7 Our strong market and robust financial positions mean that we are well placed to take advantage of better conditions when financial markets recover.
Outlook We expect difficult market conditions to continue to affect the groups performance in the current financial year.
In Asset Management, we expect performance to continue to be affected by volatile market conditions and weak market sentiment, although our recent cost reduction initiatives will provide some offsetting benefit.
We believe many of our businesses offer good platforms for long-term growth, and will be looking over time to increase our focus on those areas where we see benefits from scale and operational gearing.
In the Banking division, we believe there are good opportunities for further growth in the loan book both organically and through acquisition, although we may see a further increase in bad debts in the short term.
Performance of our Corporate Finance division is being affected by overall levels of mid-market M&A activity.
We believe our move towards a more unified European franchise will create a solid platform for medium-term growth in this area.
Performance in our Securities businesses will continue to reflect the overall direction, volume and volatility of the financial markets.
Winterflood made a satisfactory start to the new financial year.
We expect performance at Seydler to remain muted until we see a renewed pickup in German retail market activity.
Looking further out, our strong market and robust financial positions mean that we are well placed to take advantage of better conditions when financial markets recover.
