DEXION ABSOLUTE LIMITED 2008 REPOR T & ACCOUNTS CHAIRMANS STATEMENT who sought liquidity through daily traded funds, led to I am pleased to present widening discount levels to NAV towards the end of the year.
Shareholders with the Annual However, since the beginning of 2009 there has been a settling of market volatility and the NAV has begun to Report and Accounts of Dexion improve whilst average discounts have begun to narrow.
Absolute Limited for the year ended 31 December 2008.
Throughout a difficult year the Board has remained focused on acting in the best interests of investors with a The Company experienced a hugely challenging year as the comprehensive programme of corporate actions aimed at volatility in global financial markets had a negative impact on actively managing the discount.
In addition the Company has both the Companys net asset value NAV and its share responded to investor concerns with an increased level of price, the discount to NAV widening as equity markets fell communication including an investor conference, regular steeply with investors chasing liquidity.
In view of these audio conference calls with the Investment Adviser, a new circumstances, the Company instigated a range of actions extensive monthly report providing a significant increase in designed both to reduce the discount and also to address the level of transparency and several written pieces the liquidity of the stock, including share buybacks and a providing explanations regarding details of the corporate reverse auction redemption offer.
These actions also included several ad-hoc continuation votes for each Share class were triggered and meetings the Board has held with investors upon request.
However these measures referred to and further Share buybacks have led to the In November 2008, following significant appreciation in the discount narrowing significantly in 2009, to 17.84% for the value of the US Dollar against Sterling in particular, the Board sterling share class as at 22 April 2009, from 30.84% at announced that foreign exchange losses arising from the 31 December 2008.
Companys currency hedging arrangements, implemented to reduce the impact of fluctuations in currency exchange Over 2008 the NAV of the Companys shares fell by rates on the Companys Sterling, Euro and Australian Dollar -22.31%.
The annualised NAV return on the Shares from ordinary shares, had resulted in significant utilisation of its inception to 31 December 2008 has been 4.03% with credit facility.
This led the Board to determine that it was annualised volatility of 7.61%.
The Board understands that in appropriate to suspend temporarily the operation of its the extremely turbulent conditions of 2008 including several currency hedging arrangements.
The move was taken to highly publicised corporate failures, the Investment Adviser minimise the risk that the Company exceeded its credit limits has remained robust and consistent to its investment style, should there be a further significant appreciation in the value identifying managers with sustainable edge, ability and of the US Dollar.
In January 2009 the Board determined that experience to continue to deliver performance through the Company had sufficient available liquidity to reinstate its challenging market conditions.
currency hedging arrangements in full through the use of monthly rolling forward foreign exchange contracts.
The market price of the Companys shares fell by -48.81% over the year as negative net asset performance, together In addition, the Company announced in December 2008 its with significant stock market volatility and sales by investors intention to provide investors who wished to realise a 3 DEXION ABSOLUTE LIMITED 2008 REPOR T & ACCOUNTS proportion of their investment with the opportunity to do so Shareholder, being by far the largest class of shares in the by way of a reverse auction redemption offer to redeem Company.
Redemption proposals are expected to be Ordinary Shares up to a maximum of 150 million in despatched to holders of the US$, and A$ Shares in aggregate equivalent, in sterling terms, to approximately accordance with the Companys Articles within the next 12.9% of the prevailing net assets of the Company.
The principal objectives of the Board in proposing the On 17 April 2009 at the Extraordinary General Meeting of the redemption offer were threefold: namely to provide an Company, Shareholders voted in favour of a new authority for opportunity to return capital to those investors seeking an the Company to make market purchases of up to 14.99% of exit from the Company, in whole or in part subject to the issued Ordinary Shares of each currency class in issue redemption requests from other Investors : to preserve and excluding Ordinary Shares of that class held in treasury as enhance the interests of the continuing Investors: and to at the date of the Extraordinary General Meeting.
bring the demand from buyers and sellers of shares closer to equilibrium.
Despite anticipating 2009 being another challenging year for the financial markets, the Board remains confident in the Following the closing of the redemption offer the Board Investment Advisers combination of rigorous investment determined that the discount to NAV be applied across each process, focus on risk control and an experienced share class in determining the redemption price would be investment team with the expertise to maximise the 11.25%.
Those investors who validly offered for redemption performance opportunities of the portfolio.
shares at a discount level wider than this had all such shares redeemed in full under the redemption offer.
Those investors Finally, I would like to take this opportunity to thank my fellow who validly offered for redemption shares at the discount directors for their time and unstinting endeavours over the were scaled back pro rata in proportion to other shares past months as the Board has sought to be proactive in what offered for redemption at the discount.
Those investors who it considers to be in the best interests of Investors as a offered for redemption Shares at a discount level narrower whole.
Hopefully, the measures taken will prove to be fruitful than this did not have their Shares redeemed in the over the coming months.
I look forward to welcoming Investors to the Annual General When in January 2009, the Companys rolling 12 month Meeting of the Company at 9:30 am on 24 June 2009, discount floor provision was triggered for each class of the which will be held at the Companys registered office at Companys shares, it required, in accordance with the 1 Le Truchot, St Peter Port, Guernsey.
Companys Articles of Association, separate continuation votes to be proposed for each class of shares by way of ordinary resolution.
Separate class meetings for the purpose of considering continuation votes for each class of share were held on 8 April 2009 and whilst the resolutions of the Peter P Walsh US$, and A$ Share classes were not passed, the Board is Chairman pleased to note the overwhelming support shown by the 24 April 2009 4
