Chairmans Statement Background In what were extremely difficult conditions for global financial markets, I am pleased to report that the Company performed well in the year ended 31 August 2008.
The net asset value rose by 1.5% on a total return basis, compared with a fall of 8.8% in the benchmark, the MSCI All Country Asia ex Japan Index.
It is also pleasing to note that our Managers belief - that valuations in Asian markets and Tony Cassidy certain sectors were becoming overstretched - has paid off, Chairman and that rotation into the more defensive counters this year has resulted in significant outperformance by the Companys Highlights portfolio.
Net Asset Value Total Return 1.5% compared to a benchmark return of -8.8% During the year under review, the share price rose by 1.2% to Share Price Total Return 1.9% 146p, reflecting a marginal narrowing of the discount from 11.1% to 10.7%.
Overview For the past year, heightened concerns over a prolonged credit crunch, deteriorating economic prospects and rising inflation have continued to unnerve many investors.
In August, September and October last year, Asian markets had ignored events unfolding in the US credit markets.
Reality soon set in, however, and from November onwards they tracked the downward path of their Western counterparts.
Questions early this year centred on whether Asian economies and markets had decoupled from the developed world.
The performance of equity markets suggested this was not the case.
On the other hand, economic growth in Asia throughout the year remained robust, notwithstanding weaker export demand.
While the importance of US and European exports has certainly declined in recent years, it is clear intra-Asian trade has to some degree compensated.
At a portfolio level, however, Asia is still very dependent on foreign capital, as evidenced by the strong outflows across markets.
That movement, however, appeared more a response to policy failure internationally, since, despite a string of aggressive interest-rate reductions, tax cuts, special liquidity schemes and bank bailouts by the US authorities, any relief rallies quickly fizzled out.
Inflationary fears have also surfaced, driven by booming commodity prices, and presented a dilemma for many Asian central banks.
Most chose to let events take their course, hoping that some modest monetary tightening would suffice to cool prices without damaging growth.
That calculation appears increasingly to have paid off, with prices of both hard and soft commodities now weakening, providing some relief for Asian central banks and governments alike.
For the most part, economic growth in the region held up well.
While exports softened, domestic consumption, facilitated by relatively low levels of indebtedness, supported Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc 5 Chairmans Statement continued expansion.
Recent downgrades to growth forecasts, notably Early in 2008, however, the Board became concerned about from the trade-dependent economies such as Singapore and the outlook for this practice.
In order to preserve the South Korea, suggest, however, that the economic downturn interests of the shareholders of the Trust, it was decided to has indeed spread.
That decision has been fully vindicated by subsequent events in the stockmarkets.
Overall, South Korea and the Philippines were the main market laggards.
China, however, which had previously been Annual General Meeting the regions best performer, saw one of the most dramatic In accordance with the corporate governance procedures falls from its peak.
That decline has been driven in part by endorsed by the Board, all directors who have attained more the global sell-off, and partly by fears that the Chinese than nine years service or are aged over 70 years will retire governments desire to crack down on an overheating from the Board and submit themselves for re-election on an economy could crimp growth.
Messrs Cassidy, Frame, Gairns, Tyrie and Watt will retire and be proposed for re-election at the annual While the gyrations in equity markets have led to a global regeneral meeting.
Following an appraisal of each director, pricing of risks, the fall in share prices this year has brought including the Chairman, the Board is satisfied that each valuations back to more realistic levels.
Cyclical sectors that directors performance continues to be effective, that the were beneficiaries of rising commodity prices have also been Board has the requisite range of expertise and experience and sold off.
Given the exceptional period preceding the turmoil that it is compliant with the AIC guidelines on independence.
up to October last year, stocks had had an almost The Board recommends that shareholders vote in favour of uninterrupted five-year rally the pullback was long overdue.
the re-election of the directors at the annual general With more irrational and indiscriminate selling now underway, meeting.
opportunities to pick up quality investments at reasonable prices may become more prevalent.
Outlook At the time of writing, equity and credit markets were in Discount critical condition indicating rapidly deteriorating confidence.
The Board monitors closely the discount level of the Companys shares and has in place a buyback mechanism Fears of a devastating collapse in demand and output whereby the Manager is authorised to buy back shares within resulting from the stalled credit markets were continuing to certain limits.
The Company bought back 6,122,500 shares play havoc with emerging markets, particularly those that for cancellation, at a cost of 9.5 million, enhancing the NAV rely heavily on exports to developed nations.
A resolution to renew the authority to buy back shares for cancellation will be The immediate prospects for Asian equities therefore remain proposed at the annual general meeting.
With demand slowing and still high input costs depressing margins, earnings are expected to remain under Gearing pressure.
In this challenging environment, Dragons portfolio As noted in the last interim report, cash levels have is well diversified with quality stocks, and we remain continued to be increased to ensure that there will be optimistic that the companies we hold can strengthen their sufficient cash available to repay the $80 million Loan Notes competitive positions as weaker firms struggle.
On the by their redemption date at the end of 2008.
Cash held political front, however, leaders in Thailand, Malaysia and including cash equivalents was 42.5 million at 31 August South Korea have to varying extent lost their grip in the face 2008.
The Board intends to continue with a gearing facility in of popular opposition, which could undermine sentiment place and, on 30 September 2008, a 40 million multifurther.
currency loan facility with The Royal Bank of Scotland was put in place.
To date, there have been no drawdowns on this With the current market turbulence, our Manager is looking facility.
to top-up preferred holdings and buy into those well run companies that were previously deemed too expensive.
This Revenue Account should help Dragons portfolio, comprising companies with The revenue return per share was 2.35p, compared to 1.84p responsible management and healthy balance sheets, to be in the previous year.
The Board recommends the payment of positioned well for the long term.
a final dividend of 1.6p per ordinary share which, if approved by shareholders at the annual general meeting, will be paid For Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc on 19 December 2008.
Tony Cassidy Chairman Stocklending 16 October 2008 As shareholders are aware, in order to supplement its income, the Trust has for some time lent stock from its portfolio.
