Chairmans Statement THE UK EQUITY MARKET portfolio change was one-off, and dividend growth The UK equity market has been highly volatile in the generally was expected to slow.
Both trends have been 12 months to 31 March 2008 as it reacted to the national apparent in the year under review.
Shareholders have and international effects of the credit crunch.
Over the received three interim dividends each of 4.75p per share: year as a whole, the FTSE All-Share Index the Index a final dividend of 5.65p per share is recommended.
fell by 10.8%, with particular weakness in banking, Total dividends, 19.9p per share, are therefore 5.6% building and consumer stocks as investor concerns higher than in the previous year: this increase is greater spread from financial sectors to the broader economy.
than the increase in RPI in the equivalent period and On the other hand, the mining and oil exploration the Companys second objective to grow dividends sectors continued to perform well in response to the per share by more than UK inflation has therefore continued strong growth in commodity prices.
CAPITAL AND SHARE PRICE PERFORMANCE Subject to shareholder approval at the 2008 Annual This was a difficult year for income funds and the General Meeting the proposed final dividend of 5.65 Companys net asset value NAV fell by 14.8% debt pence per share will be paid on 22 July 2008 to at par or 15.5% debt at market, significantly more than shareholders on the Companys register on 6 June the 10.8% fall in the benchmark Index.
The Companys 2008 ex-dividend date 4 June 2008. portfolio was overweight banks which underperformed strongly but pay substantial dividends, and underweight PORTFOLIO STRUCTURE mining groups which yield little.
Full details of the The portfolio can be geared by investing all or part of portfolio performance are contained in the Business the two long term debenture stocks, of 200m book Review later in this report.
It is noteworthy that although value, in equities.
I reported at the interim stage that failing to meet its first objective that NAV growth about 60% of the debenture stocks were invested in should exceed that of the Index the Companys NAV the equity market equivalent to an actual gearing performance has been no worse than average rank 7th ratio of 9.7%.
Having reduced gearing earlier in the in the peer group of 12 trusts in the AIC UK Growth financial year, it was increased in January when it was and Income sector.
Source Fund Data 12 months to felt that market fundamentals had improved.
At the 31 March 2008 year end, the actual gearing ratio was 12.9%, this compared with 14.3% at 31 March 2007.
The The Companys share price declined by 16.2% this fall performance attribution shown on page 14 was greater than the benchmark Index and more than demonstrates that gearing in a falling market was the fall in NAV, reflecting an increase over the year in the detrimental to the years capital performance.
The relative fall in share price over the year was disappointing, particularly given the Companys I described in my statement last year that the Companys strong price performance in the previous two years.
funds are allocated by Fidelity to two portfolio managers Despite the recent setback, shareholder returns over the one biased to holdings expected to increase dividends past three years have been good.
Total return the sum by more than the market average and the other with of growth in share price and dividends received in the a stronger current income orientation.
The first has three years is 38.8% of the base price at 1 April 2005. continued to perform well and has offset some of the This compares to 31.3% for the benchmark Index, and is weakness in the funds allocated to the higher income greater than any of the 11 other trusts in the peer group portfolio.
The latter, even allowing for the difficult market already defined.
conditions, already described, has not met expectations and the Board and Fidelity are working to improve the During the year, the Company bought back 17.2m capital performance of this part of the portfolio whilst shares, enhancing the NAV for remaining holders.
continuing to meet the Companys income objective.
The Board believes it to be essential to have power to continue the programme in appropriate circumstances, VAT ON MANAGEMENT FEES and will seek authority from shareholders at the Annual I reported at the Interim stage the ruling by the General Meeting.
European Court of Justice that Her Majestys Revenue and Customs had been wrong in levying VAT on INCOME PERFORMANCE management fees borne by investment trusts.
Initially Shareholders will recall that dividends increased by a it was believed that recovery could be made of some total of 43% over the two years ending 31 March 2007. at least of the tax paid since 2001.
A subsequent legal The increase was due both to increasing payouts by decision means that this potential repayment will be underlying investments and to a change in portfolio extended to a period of about five years from 1990.
The emphasis towards higher yielding securities.
In my Company is no longer paying VAT on management fees statement last year, I counselled that holders could and is currently negotiating recovery of VAT paid since expect a much lower rate of growth in future, since the 2002 to its Manager, Fidelity Investments International, Page 4 The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2008 Chairmans Statement and to Aberdeen Asset Managers, successors to its previous manager, Edinburgh Fund Managers.
It is not yet possible to estimate the scale of funds to be rebated and no provision for their receipt has been made in these financial statements.
Shareholders should be aware that any funds received will be allocated to income and capital in the proportions in which the original charges were applied.
OUTLOOK The liquidity crisis which first became apparent in the US sub-prime loans business about nine months ago continued to erode confidence in financial markets.
There are now strong signs of increasing inflation, a reduction in the rate of growth of the global economy, and reduced expectations of growth in corporate earnings.
Against this background, fixed interest securities, particularly corporate bonds, have fallen sharply in value, whilst equity markets, although volatile, have reacted to a much lesser extent.
The resilience of equity markets can be justified, in good part, by ratings which are undemanding relative to historic norms, or to alternative asset classes.
Your Board believes that whilst there is some risk of decline in equity values, there is good potential for upward movement when the market sees a return to confidence.
The current cautious approach is to remain only partly geared.
A reduction in market earnings is likely to be followed by caution in dividend payments by the corporate sector, and your Board foresees a fall in the rate of growth in the dividends paid on the Companys own investments.
We are nevertheless at this stage confident that the Company can next year increase its own dividends by at least the rate of inflation and hence continue to meet its income objective.
Scott Dobbie Chairman 29 May 2008 The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2008 Page 5
