02 03 Malcolm Harris Chairmans statement With unprecedented market conditions developing, the year has been one of positive action, ensuring the Group is well placed to prosper going forwards Malcolm Harris Chairmans statement 2008 was a challenging year for the housebuilding industry.
Net debt before issue costs was 108 million at the year end, The poor economic conditions encountered, including the lack and year end gearing was a modest 17%, with net borrowing of mortgage availability, had a negative impact on volumes utilisation less than half of the Groups committed loan facility.
with first time purchasers in particular being adversely affected Dividend by an increased requirement for deposits.
This culminated in During 2008, the Group paid the 2007 final dividend of 17.5p total mortgage lending for new home purchase falling by 70% per share, and the 2008 interim dividend of 5.0p per share.
towards the end of the year.
Given the challenging trading conditions and the importance of conserving cash the Group is not recommending payment of Faced with this deteriorating economic background, a final dividend for 2008.
Bovis Homes acted decisively in substantially reducing its overhead, controlling work in progress and negotiating new The Board banking arrangements.
The Group has reviewed the carrying Whilst the Group has seen major changes during the year, value of its assets and liabilities and has taken a provision changes also related to the Boardroom, where I became against carrying values of inventory as well as fully writing non-executive Chairman in July 2008 following my retirement off goodwill arising on acquisition.
as Chief Executive, to be replaced by Mr David Ritchie, who was previously Group Managing Director, this role not Whilst the Groups net assets have fallen during 2008, gearing being retained.
The business is now well positioned to manage its balance sheet in an effective manner and to be The Board would like to thank Mr Tim Melville-Ross, my able to take advantage of future investment opportunities.
immediate predecessor, for his significant contribution to the Groups development since 1997, first as a non-executive Results director and then as Chairman of the Group.
The Board would For the year ended 31 December 2008, the Group achieved a also like to welcome Mr Alastair Lyons who joined the Group pre-exceptional pre-tax profit of 14.4 million, as against as Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Director in 123.6 million in 2007.
Pre-exceptional basic earnings per October 2008. share was 9.2p in 2008 as compared to 72.4p per share in 2007.
After taking into account 93.1 million of exceptional Employees charges, the Group made a pre-tax loss of 78.7 million and 2008 has been a difficult year for the employees, suppliers and basic loss per share of 49.1p in 2008. sub-contractors of the Group.
The Group has seen two restructuring events leading to more than half its employees Total revenue generated was 282.3 million 2007: 555.7 leaving the business during the year.
The Board took these million, and the Group legally completed 1,817 homes 2007: necessary and essential decisions after consideration of 2,930 homes.
alternative courses of action, and recognises the significant On a pre-exceptional basis, the Groups operating margin impact its decisions have had on many individuals, which reduced to 7.5% 2007: 22.4%.
This reduction reflected a is regrettable.
The Board would also like to recognise the fall in private home sales prices, a shift in the selling mix commitments and contribution of those colleagues who have towards social homes and away from private homes and been made redundant during the year and would like to wish the fide-leveraging impact on cost recovery from the sharp fall them every success in their future employment.
Whilst distressing for those individuals leaving, it is often also Group net assets reduced by 91.4 million, from 723.7 difficult for those employees remaining, who may have to take million to 632.3 million, equivalent to 5.23 per share at the on additional tasks in a more uncertain environment.
This reduction in net assets was driven primarily by reducing production activity and seeking savings throughout the Groups retained loss in the year, inclusive of exceptional the business, the Group also recognises that this has been very items, and an adverse movement in value of the pension challenging for the many suppliers and sub-contractors who scheme of 7.8 million.
provide services to the business.
04 05 continued Malcolm Harris | Chairman The Board would like to thank its employees, suppliers and Looking ahead, the Group expects that transaction volumes will sub-contractors for their continued hard work and begin to improve as lower house prices and lower mortgage commitment during a year that has been very challenging interest rates feed through into the marketplace.
This pick up in for a great many individuals connected to the Group in activity does, however, depend on the credit market being many respects.
capable of funding increased transactional growth.
The Board would also like to thank Mr Geoff Coleman, the With improved volume, market pricing will begin to stabilise.
regional Managing Director of South East region, who retired However, visibility on the timing of these likely market during the year after more than 20 years service.
developments is not good and for the present, the Group is positioning itself assuming a continuation in 2009 of current Market conditions and prospects market conditions.
As has been well reported, the current market for housebuilders is exceedingly weak, and accordingly, the With low levels of debt and a largely strategically sourced and Groups priorities are to manage through the current downturn long consented land bank the Group anticipates being well in an orderly way.
The Group commenced 2009 with a healthy placed in terms of balance sheet capability for this eventuality.
number of unsold finished stock homes which it can sell to generate a strong cash margin, preserving the value in the balance sheet whilst continuing to maintain a relatively low Malcolm Harris level of indebtedness.
Through its efforts to date, as at Chairman 6 March 2009, the Group has secured 772 net reservations for legal completion in 2009, as compared to 1,262 net reservations at the same point in 2008.
Whilst this represents a decrease year over year of 39%, the 330 private net reservations achieved in the first nine weeks of the year represents a 22% increase on the prior years comparative of 271 net reservations.
