Chairmans Statement Results lower asset levels and consequently reduced revenue streams.
Given the certainty of lower revenue short-term and For the year 2008, the Company recorded an underlying market uncertainties longer term, our management quite profit after tax attributable to shareholders of 38.3 million.
rightly cut back, first on planned expenditure and This compares to underlying profit after tax of 50.2 million in subsequently on absolute levels of costs.
Underlying earnings per share were 7.8 pence versus the 10.4 pence reported in 2007.
The movement in underlying The second factor has been the corporate uncertainty profit primarily reflects the impact that lower market levels surrounding our ownership structure.
In January 2008, our have had on the Groups revenues, the effect of which has majority shareholder Friends Provident FP completed its been partially offset by the benefits of a series of cost strategic review and concluded that wealth management was reduction initiatives.
Reported earnings by contrast show a no longer core to its business.
FP has been and remains loss.
As a result of severe market declines, we have taken an supportive.
However, in exploring alternatives, F&C found impairment charge of 48.3 million on the value of itself technically in an offer period which lasted more than management contracts acquired by the Company in 2002 12 months.
The question marks surrounding the shareholding and 2004, in addition to an amortisation charge of inevitably had some adverse impact on our asset gathering 48.9 million for the year.
These are non-cash items which, efforts, and therefore new revenue generation.
FP has together with a number of other exceptional charges taken at reconfirmed its intention to distribute its shareholding in F&C year end, result in an after tax loss on a reported basis of to the FP shareholder base.
The result will be a broader 50.5 million.
More details are of course given in the shareholder base and a truly independent listed F&C.
Market Outlook Strategy and Corporate Developments There has never been a credit crunch without an economic In 2008, the Company was to have focused on year two of downturn.
There has never been an economic downturn its previously detailed three-year plan.
Although the plan without rising unemployment, higher default rates, and stock objectives remain valid, the original timetable for their market declines.
The credit bubble which has now burst achievement does not.
Two major events have impacted represented one of the larger in history.
Bubbles are not new, the trajectory.
but this particular excess was distinguished by unprecedented levels of leverage.
We are now well into the The first event was the continuous dislocation within the great unwind.
Since we do not know how much leverage global financial market.
Stock market declines and liquidity there was in the system to begin with, no one can know for constraints have lowered client portfolio values and sapped sure when the fide-leveraging process will end.
At times like investor confidence.
The result for the industry generally is 4 Annual Report & Financial Statements 2008 these it is important to remember there have always been directors and shareholder representatives and look forward times like these.
Markets can go up as well to a continued close relationship in their capacity as client.
With ownership issues likely to be resolved shortly and the offer period at an end, I have decided to take the opportunity Dividend to retire as Chairman of the Company at the end of the AGM The Board is recommending an unchanged final dividend of in May.
Nick MacAndrew, Independent non-Executive 4.0 pence, payable on 28 May 2009 to shareholders on the director since May 2007 has been chosen by the Board to register at 17 April 2009. succeed me as Chairman.
He is an outstanding choice.
As you will note from his biography in the Annual Report, Nick is Board Developments both an experienced Chairman and an experienced financier.
Jim Smart, formerly Chief Financial Officer of FP, stepped There will be no change to the Chairs of either Audit or down from the Board in August 2008 upon leaving the Board Remuneration Committee, nor to the Senior Independent of FP.
We thank Jim for his contribution during his tenure and Director thereby ensuring continuity and a smooth transition.
Trevor Matthews, Chief Executive Officer of FP, replaced Jim Smart on the Board of F&C in August 2008.
I would like to thank my colleagues, our clients and the many He joined as a non-Executive, non-Independent Director.
other supporters in the industry for the kindness, help and guidance they have extended to me and this great institution Dick fide Beus, an Independent non-Executive Director, has over the years.
indicated his intention to retire from the Board on conclusion of the Annual General Meeting in May 2009.
Dick has served on the Board since the merger in 2004 and his experience, particularly relating to our business interests in The Netherlands, has been invaluable.
Dick will be missed and we wish him well.
Robert Jenkins I have commented earlier on FPs continued intention to Chairman divest its 52 per cent.
interest in the Companys shares.
As 10 March 2009 and when that divestment takes effect, Sir Adrian Montague and Trevor Matthews, FPs nominated shareholder representatives on the Board, will retire from the Board.
We thank both for their guidance and support in their capacity as 5
