Chairmans Statement Secondly and more importantly share selection, particularly in the banking and telecommunication sectors, was well executed.
This was particularly encouraging since Sudipto Banerji took over the management of the portfolio from Tim McCarron during the year.
I wish Tim well in his future career with Fidelity and thank him for his excellent contribution.
I also hope and believe that Sudiptos good start augurs well for the long term future of your Company.
A detailed review of the performance of the portfolio Robert Walther is provided in the Managers Review on pages 6 and 7.
Chairman DISCOUNT MANAGEMENT The Board will be active in issuing shares at a premium and buying back shares at a discount: a continuation of practice since launch.
The purpose of this is to reduce I have pleasure in presenting the annual report of share price volatility and results in an enhancement to Fidelity European Values PLC for the year ended the NAV.
Over the last six months share buybacks have 31 December 2008. been made, further details of which may be found in the Directors Report on pages 19 and 20.
PERFORMANCE 2008 was a very challenging year for both the European At the close of business on 31 December 2008 economy and European stockmarkets.
It is, therefore, the Companys share price fell to 990.00p per share, disappointing but not surprising to have to report a significantly below the trading price during that day.
fall in the Companys net asset value.
In 2008 the net This was due entirely to a small trade badly executed asset value per share declined 17.5% but significantly ten minutes before the market closed there is a outperformed its benchmark the FTSE World Europe lesson for us all in the timing and execution of such a ex UK Index which fell 24.6%.
This resulted in a discount level of 16.4%, are quoted on a total return basis and in sterling.
This much higher than normally exists or the Board intends.
relative performance is encouraging, given the very The discount narrowed in the New Year and at the time difficult economic and stockmarket background, and of writing the share price is 800.50p per share and can be attributed to two factors.
Firstly the Board decided to reduce the net gearing to DIVIDENDS zero towards the end of 2007 and this clearly helped I wish to reiterate that the Board will not influence the performance given the fall in share prices through 2008.
Manager in any way to determine the level of income We continually review our gearing with our Manager of your Companys portfolio: it will remain the Boards and have retained the capacity to reinstate it, but feel policy to pay out earnings in full.
The Board has decided the immediate outlook too uncertain.
Following the to recommend a final dividend of 23.26 pence per share repayment of a fixed term loan of 35m in November for the year ended 31 December 2008 2007: 13.75 2008, the Company has fixed term loans of 105m in pence.
This dividend will be payable on 29 May 2009 aggregate with a further 25m available by way of a to shareholders on the register at close of business on revolving credit facility.
Performance over one year, five years and since launch to 31 December 2008 on a total return basis NAV Share price FTSE World Europe ex UK Index One year -17.5% -25.9% -24.6% Five years 86.9% 71.8% 44.9% Since launch 1991 1,197.6% 980.4% 359.1% Source: Fidelity, Datastream and Morningstar as at 31 December 2008 Basis: bid-bid with net income reinvested Past performance is not a guide to future returns Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2008 Page 3 Chairmans Statement In addition this year, it has been decided that the continue as Chairman.
In particular the Board believes 7.4m VAT on investment management fees plus interest that my finalisation of the agreement on the repayment reclaimed following the decision of the European Court of VAT illustrated my independence well.
As previously of Justice will be returned to shareholders by way of a announced, I plan to retire following the 2010 Annual special dividend of 13.24p per share.
The dividend General Meeting having retained my role to ensure payment, record and ex-dividend dates will be the a smooth transition to the new Portfolio Manager.
same as for the proposed final dividend.
All other Directors are totally independent and this DIRECTORATE provides an appropriate balance.
The Board recognises As explained in my Chairmans Statement last year, the importance of continuity on the Board as well as the David Simpson will retire from the Board after the need for refreshment from time to time.
The Board has Annual General Meeting.
He has served as a Director considered the proposal for the re-election of the since 1998 and I would like to thank David for his Directors and recommends to shareholders that contribution to the Company and personally for the they vote in favour of the proposals.
quality and independence of advice that he has given me over the years.
His investment experience and Due to Mr Simpsons retirement this year and my work as Senior Independent Director and Chairman proposed retirement in 2010, the Board is currently of the Audit Committee have been extremely valuable.
considering the appointment of an additional Director.
I am delighted to confirm that Mr van der Klugt will be External consultants will lead the initial search.
appointed Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee with effect from Mr Simpsons CONTINUATION VOTE retirement.
I look forward to working with Mr van der In accordance with the Articles of Association of the Klugt in this role.
He has already contributed greatly to Company, an ordinary resolution that the Company Board discussions, including very detailed work on the continue as an investment trust for a further two years VAT reclaim.
was passed at the 2007 Annual General Meeting.
A further continuation vote will take place at this years This year two Directors will retire and, being eligible, Annual General Meeting.
The Companys performance offer themselves for re-election.
As detailed in the record has been excellent since launch with a NAV biographies on pages 14 and 15 the Directors have increase of 1,197.6% compared to an increase in the a wide range of appropriate skills and experience to benchmark Index of 359.1%.
During the past 12 months make up a balanced Board for your Company.
the Company has outperformed the Index by 7.1% -17.5% compared to an Index fall of 24.6%.
Therefore I am subject to annual re-election due to my tenure on your Board recommends that shareholders vote in the Board exceeding nine years and Mr Fraser is subject favour of the continuation vote.
A further continuation to annual re-election under the Listing Rules due to his vote will take place at the Annual General Meeting recent employment relationship with the Manager and in 2011. his directorship of another investment trust managed by Fidelity, namely Fidelity Japanese Values PLC.
Mr Fraser ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING retired from Fidelity at the end of 2008, but remains a The Annual General Meeting of the Company is due Senior Advisor.
Both I and the Board are pleased that he to take place on 19 May 2009 at midday at Fidelitys has agreed to continue his directorship of this Company.
Full details of the meeting In my case, my fellow Directors met in my absence and are given on pages 53 to 55 and I look forward to considered my eligibility for re-election.
They considered meeting you then.
that my experience, my independence of mind and the manner in which I have filled the role of Chairman over the last seven years have been beneficial to the Company and they confirmed that they wish me to Page 4 Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2008 Chairmans Statement OUTLOOK The outlook for the European economy looks challenging.
Across the developed world economic growth is forecast to be negative in 2009 which is not a good sign for European companies whose revenues depend upon international trade.
This means that company profits in the region will be under severe pressure moving into 2009.
There are other headwinds that weigh upon European companies such as the overhang from a strong euro as well as tightening credit conditions as a result of the global credit crunch.
The European Central Bank ECB has reduced interest rates in an effort to support economies, but some would argue they have not gone far enough.
That said, a lot of the bad news has already been absorbed by the markets.
Company valuations in Europe are looking extremely attractive on a historical basis and relative to other regions.
For longer term investors there are now some good stock picking opportunities to be found where company shares have been indiscriminately sold without considering longer term fundamentals.
In the coming year, we will be seeking to take advantage of a weak environment to invest in attractive companies for the longer term.
Robert Walther Chairman 2 March 2009 Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2008 Page 5
