Chairmans Statement So far, 2009 is proving to be just as difficult and volatile as 2008.
The Companys share price as at 28 February 2009 stood at 194.5 pence.
I fear that uncertainty will continue for some time yet, but I am convinced that opportunities will start to appear in due course and that our long-term investment approach will ultimately add value for shareholders, as it has in the past.
Over the last ten years to 31 December 2008, shareholders have had a total return of 45.8%, compared with the total return of our benchmark of 18.6% and the weighted average of our close peer group of 31.4%.
Shareholders have also seen good performance from an investment over 20 years as evidenced in the table below: 1,000 invested 20 years ago total return basis Mark Loveday Chairman Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust 5,856 share price Close peer group share price 5,647 weighted average FTSE All-Share index 4,935 2008 was the single worst year for investors and for Bank building society deposit account 2,478 your Company since 1974.
The fact that investors Source: Fundamental Data and the AIC around the world and in most asset classes had a similar experience is of little consolation.
Sticking to Performance and Attribution our long-term policy of being fully invested in global I need hardly remind you why share prices performed equities was painful, and having borrowings in a falling so badly in the year.
A succession of major shocks, market also resulted in underperformance relative starting in the US mortgage market, spreading globally to our benchmark, although we did outperform the to credit markets and undermining most major banks, weighted average of our close peer group.
unfolded in the first half of the year.
In the second half The net asset value total return was -26.7%, worse the financial problems worsened with the collapse of than the -22.2% for our benchmark, but better Lehman Brothers, followed by a global liquidity crisis than the -27.4% for the weighted average of our and the nationalisation or rescue of many banks and close peer group.
More damage was then caused The total dividend for the year is 6.45 pence per by the collapse in oil and other commodity prices, share, 10.3% higher than in 2007, with a final and the realisation that there would be a very sharp recommended dividend of 3.45 pence per share.
downturn in the global economy in 2009.
The speed We are forecasting an at least maintained total and scale of these events was difficult for anyone to dividend in 2009. absorb, let alone anticipate.
The share price fell by 28.3% to 228.5 pence, with In such volatile and difficult markets there were the discount to net asset value ending the year at many influences on our performance, good and bad, 10.9% against 11.1% last year.
We repurchased which are explained in detail in the Fund Managers only 0.9% of our shares in 2008, much less than in Review, but there were three key factors that had the previous years.
2 Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC as the contribution to performance had been so FCITs share price total return vs Benchmark, good in 2007.
Since the year end our Fund Manager Close Peers and Retail Prices Index has taken direct responsibility for the North America over 10 years portfolio to strengthen the relationships with the local 200 managers we use.
This has led to the removal of the external adviser and a current concentration on two large company managers.
150 The most significant portfolio shifts we made in the year were to sell UK and Emerging Markets equities, in order to fund private equity investments and 100 purchases of US equities.
Overall, asset allocation again added value as it has for many years.
Source: Fundamental Data Our Manager, F&C, did not earn a performance 50 Dec 99 00 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 Dec fee against the benchmark this year, but did earn 98 08 a performance fee of 0.6m for outperforming the Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust total return average total return of our close peer group.
We have Composite Benchmark 40% FTSE All-Share 60% FTSE WI World ex UK now received all our VAT repayments and interest in Close Peer Group total return weighted average respect of the periods 1990-1996 and 2001-2007 Retail Prices Index amounting to 8.9 million.
We recognised 5 million as recoverable in our 2007 accounts and the balance The biggest mistake we made in the year was of 3.9 million is included in our 2008 accounts.
Our to have any borrowings at all in falling markets.
We total expense ratio was 0.58% of average total assets started the year with an effective gearing level of 7.0% including the Managers performance fee, and 0.56% and ended at 12.2%, valuing our debt at par.
The excluding this fee, compared with 0.71% and 0.48% ability to borrow to enhance returns and to move our respectively in 2007. borrowings between currencies is a great strength, which we have used to add value over many years.
In Private Equity 2008 gearing was a major negative, although this was We have been investing in private and unlisted mitigated by moving all of our short-term borrowings companies for over sixty years and have extensive into Sterling between February and September.
Since experience of the higher risks and higher rewards the year end we have repaid all our short-term Sterling such investing produces.
We started investing in borrowings with the proceeds of the sale of some of private equity funds of funds managed by HarbourVest our US investments, so the effective gearing level is and Pantheon in early 2003 after two very difficult now 7%.
Since then private equity has Secondly, despite a fall of approximately onebeen one of our best performing assets.
Our portfolio third in the valuation of our private equity funds, all is now made up of sixteen funds of funds including of which are denominated in US Dollars or Euros, global, regional, buyout, venture capital, mezzanine, the value of the private equity portfolio actually rose direct and secondary funds.
The portfolio is therefore by 26.7m to 288m, when translated into Sterling highly diversified by fund manager, geography, vintage at year end.
This was entirely due to the severe year, strategy and industry with over ten thousand weakness in Sterling in the second half of the year.
explain this in more detail below.
Our two fund of funds managers estimated Thirdly, stock selection overall was slightly unaudited valuations of all our holdings as at negative, although it was good in the UK and in line 31 December 2008 represented a substantial in Emerging Markets, while being below par in Europe reduction in values versus the prior year end in terms ex UK, in Developed Asia and in Japan.
The most of the US Dollar and Euro currencies in which the disappointing of all was in North America, particularly holdings are denominated.
However, the resulting Report and Accounts 2008 3 C Ch ha aiirrm ma an ns S s Stta atte em me en nt t c co on nttiin nu ue ed d reduction of 59.4m over the year was more than portfolio.
In these circumstances, the Board intends offset by the severe weakness of Sterling, which to accommodate any short term fluctuations in the added 86.1m to the overall value of the portfolio: a value of the private equity portfolio in excess of the net increase of 26.7m.
Our private equity portfolio Companys stated 20% investment policy limit.
was valued at 288m at the year end, accounting Our private equity portfolio outperformed for 14.4% of the total portfolio compared with 7.4% our listed portfolio in 2008, but we expect it at the end of 2007.
This was above our 10% target to underperform in 2009.
However, we remain which we set in 2006. optimistic about the long-term prospects for private Your Board had already taken steps to take equity, and think there will be attractive investment into account the speed at which public markets opportunities in 2009 and 2010. had been falling relative to the frequency at which FCITs annual dividend per share vs AIC Global private equity funds calculate and report values Growth sector dividend per share weighted based on historic information these valuations are average and Retail Prices Index over 10 years produced on a quarterly basis.
In late November 2008, the Board revalued the private equity portfolio 230 220 by an adjustment equivalent to the movement in 210 the FTSE World Sterling adjusted, total return 200 Index by reference to the latest valuations available 190 180 for each fund.
A mark to market process was 170 applied thereafter on a daily basis.
Since 1 January 160 150 2009, the process has continued to be applied to 140 the private equity managers estimated unaudited 130 120 valuations as at 31 December 2008 to reflect 110 Source: Fundamental Data movements in the listed markets.
Our intention is 100 Dec 99 00 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 Dec that our adjusted mark to market values should 98 08 not be greater than the most up-to-date valuations Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust produced by our two managers.
annual dividend per share AIC Global Growth Sector ex FCIT At 28 February 2009 the mark to market dividend per share weighted average process had led to a further fall of 49m in the Retail Prices Index valuation of the portfolio, resulting in a value of 240m and representing 15.1% of the total portfolio.
So far in 2009, we have invested a further 9m, we Dividends have not received any cash distributions and the A year ago I forecast that the total dividend for pound has strengthened against the Euro.
2008 would be 6.45 pence per share, an increase We have outstanding US Dollar and Euro of 10.3% over 2007.
The interim dividend of 3.00 commitments to our existing holdings, which were pence was paid in September 2008, and the Board equivalent to a Sterling value of 333m at the year is recommending a final dividend of 3.45 pence per end.
This number fluctuates with drawdowns and share to be paid in May 2009. exchange rate movements and at 28 February Revenue return per share rose 7.8%, because 2009 was 318m.
We expect these commitments we received more refunds and interest from past to be drawn down over at least the next five years, VAT payments than we had expected, and because and to be financed from the listed portfolio and the pounds fall increased the Sterling value of our distributions from existing fund investments.
As a result, our revenue reserve additional annual investment in respect of calls on increased again and this now covers the cost of our our existing commitments, together with any further annual dividend more than two and a half times.
weakness in Sterling, is likely to cause exposure to The outlook for dividends in 2009 and beyond private equity to increase as a proportion of the total is very uncertain.
We expect many companies to 4 Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC reduce or eliminate dividends but, if Sterling remains outcome to ensure the continued successful weak against the US Dollar and the Euro, we management of your investments.
will receive a further windfall gain from overseas dividends.
The Board has decided that our own Shareholders, Savings Plans and Buybacks dividend will be at least maintained at 6.45 pence Last year we increased our efforts to attract new per share in 2009, even if this means using part of shareholders and three key measures showed our revenue reserve.
As the year progresses we our success.
The total number of shareholders should have more certainty about the outlook for increased to 108,000, the various savings plans dividends, and I expect to give more detail in the had their best year since 2003 with a net inflow of interim results.
11.8m, and the rate of share buybacks was the lowest since 2003 with less than 1% of our shares Directors being repurchased.
We will continue to expand our We have refreshed the Board over the last year with marketing efforts in 2009. the appointment of three new Directors, Roger Bone, Stephen Burley and David Clementi, who bring a The Future wide range of experience and skills to the Board.
The immediate outlook for the global economy is Five Directors are standing for election or re-election bleak and it seems almost certain that 2009 will be at the Annual General Meeting.
David Clementi is the worst year for economic growth since 1945. standing for election, Ronald Gould and Christopher So many previously unthinkable events occurred Keljik retire by rotation and are standing for re-election, in 2008 that it is very difficult to predict what might and Michael Bunbury and Max Ward are standing happen this year.
for annual re-election as they have both served on Governments and central banks around the world the Board for more than nine years.
Following the have continued to try to stop the collapse of the annual performance appraisal process, the Board is banking and monetary system and to prevent an recommending that all of these Directors should be economic depression, by providing support to the elected or re-elected.
banks, by reducing interest rates towards zero During the year Stephen Burley joined the Audit and by implementing fiscal measures.
We do not Committee and more recently Michael Bunbury and believe that stability or optimism can begin to return David Clementi have joined the Nomination Committee.
to global economies or markets until the financial position of the banks is stabilised, credit starts to Management become more available and US house prices stop After its annual comprehensive review of the falling.
Until then, deflation will be more of a worry for Managers overall performance and service in a investors than inflation, but we need to be alert to the difficult year, your Board has decided that F&C possibility that this could change rapidly at any time.
should continue as Manager and believes that World trade, which has been so positive a factor in their re-appointment on the terms agreed is in the global economic growth, will shrink if each country interests of shareholders as a whole.
seeks to protect itself from global problems.
This During the year an amendment to the contract could be accompanied by even greater exchange with F&C was approved by your Board to clarify rate volatility than we have seen in 2008.
Corporate responsibilities in respect of the F&C savings plans.
profits and dividends will fall in 2009, there will be Friends Provident PLC has stated that it intends more examples of fraud and poor accounting, many to distribute its 52% shareholding in F&C Asset businesses will collapse and unemployment will rise.
Management plc FCAM to Friends Provident Share prices fell sharply in 2008 in anticipation shareholders by mid 2009.
FCAM itself is continuing of these problems and have continued to fall in to explore opportunities which might or might not 2009 as the economic news has deteriorated.
We lead to an offer for FCAM.
Your Board is monitoring do not yet know if they have fallen enough or too this situation closely and is hoping for a satisfactory much, but we do know that equities are cheaper Report and Accounts 2008 5 Chairmans Statement continued than they have been for many years on almost every F&C Savings Plans proportional voting valuation measure.
Many share prices, including In 2008, F&C modified its arrangements under which our own, are back to levels first reached 10 years investors in its savings plans vote at shareholder ago.
Another striking comparison is between UK meetings.
Under these arrangements, the nominee base rate, currently 0.5%, and Foreign & Colonials company, which holds 37.4% of the Companys dividend yield, which is over 3%.
share capital on behalf of these investors, votes Many private equity-backed companies will have a the shares held on behalf of plan holders who have very challenging time in 2009, and we expect there not returned their voting directions in proportion to be further falls in the value of our private equity to those who have.
This arrangement will apply at portfolio during the year, which will have a negative the Annual General Meeting, subject to a minimum impact on our overall results.
threshold of 5% of the shares held in the savings Our strategy is to remain highly diversified, to plans being voted.
A maximum limit of 630,000 concentrate on companies with strong financial shares that any one individual investor can vote, positions that can pay dividends and to maintain being approximately 5% of the minimum threshold, as much financial flexibility as possible.
Any shares voted by an investor in Colonials size and spread makes it better placed excess of the maximum limit will remain valid, but than most funds to cope with the current market will not form part of the proportional voting basis.
conditions, giving us some protection from individual Any investor wishing to exclude his shares from the company or sector problems, while maintaining our proportional voting basis may do so.
exposure to some interesting opportunities.
We will continue to press and strive for good and Annual General Meeting consistent relative outperformance over the longI do hope you will be able to attend the Annual term, and look to add value for shareholders through General Meeting at Merchant Taylors Hall in the City a virtuous circle of net asset value and share price of London at 12 noon on Friday 1 May 2009.
Our total return, discount control management, dividend Fund Manager will make a presentation, and you will growth, a low and competitive total expense ratio be able to meet and question the Directors at the and effective marketing.
meeting and afterwards over refreshments.
Electronic Communications Last year we introduced arrangements for investors holding their shares directly on the Companys shareholder register to access the Annual Report and Accounts via the Companys website.
Investors holding their shares in this way were also given the opportunity Mark Loveday to lodge their proxy votes online.
Similar arrangements Chairman have been put in place this year for investors holding 5 March 2009 their shares in the F&C savings plans.
6 Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC
