29223 NEW Txt p1-74:29223 NEW Txt p1-74 2 4 09 15:54 Page 4 REVIEW OF THE YEAR FINANCIAL SUMMARY I MISSION AND VISION CHAIRMANS STATEMENT CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW I LEADERSHIP TEAM CHAIRMANS STATEMENT WE ARE REASSURINGLY STRONG AND STABLE 4 Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2008 29223 NEW Txt p1-74:29223 NEW Txt p1-74 2 4 09 15:54 Page 5 STRATEGY I KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS I PEOPLE AND PROCESSES I CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY I BUSINESS REVIEW I KEY RISKS I FINANCIAL REVIEW Ensuring the ongoing financial strength of the Group has necessarily been the overriding priority of 2008.
With the global recession dominating the news for so our unit-linked funds, carrying a strong investment grade many months, it hardly seems necessary to say that the credit rating.
Asset-backed securities, excluding those economic backdrop for 2008 and on into 2009 has been within unit-linked funds, were 1.2 billion, of which 98% the bleakest in living memory, but that is the reality.
One were at investment grade.
notable feature, however, is how the UK life assurance Ensuring the ongoing financial strength of the Group industry has proved to be much better equipped to has necessarily been the overriding priority of 2008, weather this financial storm compared with the banking and we are pleased to have reassured the markets and sector, reflecting their very different business models.
Life companies further benefit from a combination of conservative investment strategies, effective risk controls REFOCUSING THE BUSINESS and advanced systems for balancing assets with Despite the additional challenges of the prevailing liabilities, underpinned by a very prudent solvency economic conditions, we have made significant progress regulatory framework.
in implementing the new strategy we announced in January 2008, and underpinning it with more streamlined FINANCIAL STRENGTH processes for Board-level decision-making, and a much Friends Provident continues to demonstrate a reassuring strengthened governance framework.
This new strategy level of financial strength and stability.
On the Insurance will enable Friends Provident to become self-funding, and Groups Directive IGD basis the most commonly the current economic downturn has further reinforced the accepted measure of financial strength our surplus appropriateness of this strategic aim.
capital at the end of 2008 was estimated to be 0.85 billion, in addition to 0.6 billion of surplus assets At the start of 2008, we announced our intention to held within long-term funds.
Allowing for subsequent review our ongoing ownership of Lombard International, investment market movements, our IGD surplus capital F&C Asset Management and the advisor firm Pantheon at the end of February this year was still estimated at a Financial.
Our overriding objective was to create value for healthy 0.8 billion.
our shareholders without disrupting these three good businesses.
We subsequently announced our decisions We held no equities in our shareholder funds at the to retain ownership of Lombard and Pantheon Financial, start of 2008, shielding us from the sharp falls in share and to begin a demerger process with F&C, providing our prices during the year.
We also reduced progressively shareholders with the opportunity to hold F&C shares.
our exposure to equities throughout 2008 in our main We are pleased to have ended the uncertainty over the With Profits Fund.
future of these businesses and look forward to continuing Despite the economic turmoil, our corporate debt to build the Friends Provident Group in a manner that will portfolio remains highly rated, with over 98% of our deliver value to all of our stakeholders.
6.1 billion of corporate bonds, excluding bonds in Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2008 5 29223 NEW Txt p1-74:29223 NEW Txt p1-74 2 4 09 15:54 Page 6 REVIEW OF THE YEAR FINANCIAL SUMMARY I MISSION AND VISION CHAIRMANS STATEMENT CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW I LEADERSHIP TEAM We have made significant progress in implementing the new strategy we announced in January 2008.
The F&C demerger process is progressing well and is Having considered these factors, the directors believe that expected to complete at the end of June 2009.
Shareholder the establishment of a new holding company for the Group and court approval is required for the distribution of is the most suitable and effective way to provide greater our stake in F&C to be made to our shareholders.
flexibility in the capital structure of the Group, effect the The necessary documentation is being made available to demerger of F&C and provide sufficient distributable our shareholders, and the required General Meeting and reserves to enable payment of a final dividend for 2008. court meeting will be held on 21 May 2009, the same The final dividend will be paid as soon as practicable after day as our Annual General Meeting.
establishment of the new holding company, which is likely to represent a delay of a few weeks.
A brief summary of the business review and financial performance of F&C is provided in the Financial Review.
The cost of the total 2008 dividend of 3.9 pence per As F&C will not form part of the continuing operations of share is in line with the guidance range provided in the Group after the demerger, its performance in 2008, January 2008.
The directors will take into account future business review, operating performance, strategy and developments and the circumstances prevailing when outlook are not reviewed in detail but this information making a judgment on future dividend levels.
can be found in the separately published Report and BOARD CHANGES Accounts of F&C, available online at www.
com or There are a number of changes to the Board to report.
In last years Statement I paid tribute to Alison Carnwath DIVIDEND and Jim Smart who left the Board in May and August We have not of course been immune from the financial 2008 respectively.
At the end of November, Ben Gunn crisis, most evidently reflected in the 47% fall in retired after a long and distinguished career in our the value of our shares over the course of 2008.
Our industry, serving Friends Provident for the last decade financial results have also been affected by the economic and a member of our Board since 2000. environment and by lower levels of new business, the Lady Judge will be retiring from the Board at the latter being the planned result of our change in strategy conclusion of the 2009 Annual General Meeting, having announced in January 2008. served Friends Provident as a director since 1994 and Nevertheless, the directors continue to believe that it is as Deputy Chairman since 1998.
Lady Judge has in the interests of our shareholders to maintain the contributed to the Boards proceedings in a unique Groups existing dividend policy.
While the Group has way throughout her many years of loyal service.
sufficient cash to support a final dividend for 2008 of I also announced last year our delight at having recruited 2.6 pence per share, as a technical legal and accounting Trevor Matthews as our new Chief Executive Officer.
matter, the distributable profits shown in the individual Trevor took up his office at the end of July and is already company accounts for Friends Provident plc are proving to be the outstanding leader that we knew he insufficient to enable it to declare the final dividend, would be.
We were further delighted to recruit Evelyn following the impairment of F&C in its accounts.
Bourke as our Chief Financial Officer.
We expect Evelyn The Company Secretary, F&C Asset Management plc, 80 George Street, Edinburgh EH2 3BU 6 Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2008 29223 NEW Txt p1-74:29223 NEW Txt p1-74 2 4 09 15:54 Page 7 STRATEGY I KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS I PEOPLE AND PROCESSES I CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY I BUSINESS REVIEW I KEY RISKS I FINANCIAL REVIEW PEOPLE APPRECIATE WHAT WE DO to join us in May this year and, until then, Charles Bellringer will continue his excellent work in the Chief Financial Officer role to which he was appointed in August 2008.
Two further very experienced non-executive directors Pension provider of the year Winner Best individual income protection provider joined the Board in 2008: David Rough in June and Robin Phipps in November.
In addition, Rodger Hughes will join the Board on 31 March as a non-executive director.
All three bring exceptional talents to the Board table.
It is my pleasure to thank all of our outgoing directors for their support and commitment, and my privilege to preside over a Board that has such Winner Best online service Winner Best ethical investment provider strength in depth spanning all the relevant aspects of financial services, both in the UK and overseas.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Our Annual General Meeting this year will be held on Thursday 21 May and I look forward to welcoming 2008 2008 those of you who are able to attend.
As usual, may I Winner Group pensions Winner Protection encourage all shareholders to vote on the resolutions being put forward at that meeting.
Sir Adrian Montague Chairman Winner Best online 5 star Investment providers protection provider and packagers 2008 Triple E ratings awarded for: 2009 Triple E ratings awarded for: Group personal pensions including Group self-invested personal pension Stakeholder New business and Group personal pension Existing business Group contracted in money purchase Group self-invested personal pension Group contracted in money purchase Existing business Group 32 New business Life protection Critical illness Income protection Individual pensions Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2008 7
