Goldman Sachs Dynamic Opportunities Limited Chairmans Statement I am pleased topresent shareholders with this annual report of Goldman Sachs Dynamic Opportunities Limited GSDO for the year ended 31 December 2008.
During2008, % insterlingterms, netoffees,  US$221 million raised through the issuance of C shares in June 2008.
As detailed in the Investment Managers Report, the Companys Advisors have experienced a highly challenging environment.
While performance was negative over the last few months of 2008 we take some comfort from the fact that the Companys results outperformed broad equity markets and compared favourably with the Companys peer group.
After the first half of 2008 in which the Companys net asset value remained generally flat, performance over subsequent months .
 to repay borrowings incurred in connection with the Companys foreign exchange hedging programme which was suspended with effect from 25 November 2008.
Amid unprecedented market volatility, investor risk aversion saw the Companys share price discount toits net asset value widen considerably in 2008 across all three currency classes, a trend seen across the listed hedge fund sector.
While that discount has since narrowed considerably, on 12 January 2009 the Company announced that its rolling 12-month discount had triggered continuation votes for each class of the Companys shares.
These votes were considered at separate class meetings held on 17 April 2009.
The continuation vote of the Shareholders was passed whilst the continuation votes of the Shareholders and US$ Shareholders were not passed.
I would like to thank those Shareholders who have voted in favour of continuation for their support.
,  to25%$ US$ Shares within the next 2 months.
Shareholderswho wish toremain invested in the Company are advised totake noaction at this time.
The Directors and the Investment Manager are mindful of concerns raised by some Shareholders during the continuation process with respect, in particular, to currency hedging and discount management and will be actively working together in seeking to address such concerns, as far as practicable.
