HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Group Chairmans Statement Group Chairmans Statement low.
This cheap money fuelled a consumer boom and rising house prices.
It encouraged increased borrowing by banks and by their customers, fuelling asset price bubbles particularly in housing markets.
Loose monetary conditions in the US and in much of the emerging world gave added strength to this already potent cocktail.
Third, securitisation based on overly complex product structures.
The complexity and opacity of certain financial instruments reached a point where even senior and experienced bankers and professional investors had trouble understanding them.
This meant that people were selling and buying assets whose risks they had not properly assessed.
Many banks 2008 was the most extraordinary year for the global became overgeared and too dependent on economy and financial services in well over half a wholesale funding, which they assumed, century.
It marked the first crisis of the era of incorrectly, would never dry up.
And it also marked the first created on the back of ever higher leverage, both crisis of the just-in-time global economy as the direct and indirect.
And when the securitisation impact of the financial crisis fed rapidly straight into market began to collapse, banks found the performance of the real economy.
themselves with assets that they could neither sell nor fund, so forcing large losses on the asset Causes of the crisis side and a funding challenge on the liability side for which they were entirely unprepared.
The causes of the crisis are complex and interrelated.
But we can clearly see that a number of different The result has been unprecedented stress in the factors contributed: financial system, and it has led to a major breakdown in trust.
In many countries, huge support from First, the global financial imbalances that arose taxpayers has been required in order to stabilise the from the accelerating global economic shift system.
The rapid growth of emerging economies created a macro-economic Failings in the banking industry triangle, made up of: the major consumer markets, in particular the US but also a number The industry has done many things wrong.
It is of other Western economies: major producer important to remember that many ordinary bankers nations notably a number of fast-growing have always sought to provide good service to their emerging markets which have been customers: but we must also recognise that there manufacturing a vast range of goods for have been too many who have profoundly damaged consumption in the West: and resource providers the industrys reputation.
whose wealth of hydrocarbons and other Inappropriate products were sold commodities have helped power the producer inappropriately by many.
Compensation practices economies and have thus commanded such high ran out of control and perverse incentives led to prices until recently.
There is genuine and triangle delivered high rates of growth, but also widespread anger that the contributors to the crisis created major financial imbalances as producer were in some cases amongst the biggest beneficiaries nations and resource providers accumulated of the system.
massive reserves whilst the US and other consumer markets ran significant and growing Underlying all these events is a question about deficits.
the culture and ethics of the industry.
It is as if, too often, people had given up asking whether Second, cheap credit.
A large proportion of the something was the right thing to do, and focused accumulated savings of the producers and only whether it was legal and complied with the resource providers was invested in the worlds rules.
The industry needs to recover a sense of what reserve currency, the US dollar, keeping rates 8 is right and suitable as a key impulse for doing sharply scaled back in 2007 while others continued business.
We also devoted considerable resources to helping our customers.
Virtually no one then foresaw HSBC strategy intact the subsequent scale of the deterioration in the US economy and financial markets.
It is now clear that We at HSBC were not immune from the crisis.
But models of direct personal lending that depend on we have built our business on very strong wholesale markets for funding are no longer viable.
foundations and are able to report results which In light of this, we have taken the difficult decision demonstrate our ability to withstand the storm.
that, with the exception of credit cards, we will write Our strategy has been tested and remains intact.
no further consumer finance business through the We will continue to build our business by focusing HFC and Beneficial brands in the US and close the on faster-growing markets around the world and on majority of the network.
Thus, in terms of new businesses where international connectivity is business, we are drawing a line and we will run off important all from a position of financial strength.
our existing business, providing all necessary If anything, the current crisis validates our renewed support to HSBC Finance to enable it to do so in a focus over the last few years on fast-growing measured way and meet all its commitments.
economies, since it will accelerate the shift in the HSBC has a reputation for telling it as it is.
worlds centre of economic gravity from west to With the benefit of hindsight, this is an acquisition east.
we wish we had not undertaken.
Our robust balance sheet and liquidity means The US remains the worlds largest economy that we have continued to lend.
In 2008, we grew our and HSBC remains committed to the US, which we lending to commercial customers by 10 per cent on see as a core market for HSBC.
HSBC Bank in the an underlying basis.
Lending to personal customers US is not affected by the restructure.
In the increased in all regions except North America.
And immediate future we will focus on those businesses our brand strength continues to underpin our and customers for whom our global connectivity performance.
It was noticeable that, at times of stress gives us advantage primarily in corporate and in many markets, HSBC was a beneficiary of funds commercial business, and in Private and Premier flowing in.
Recently, the HSBC brand was banking.
recognised as the number one brand in banking by Brand Finance.
Performance overview and strategic activity Profitable from a broad-based earnings In this difficult environment, we missed our platform profitability targets.
We hit our capital target with our tier 1 ratio at 8.3 per cent.
We maintained a very Excluding the goodwill impairment on our North conservative advances-to-deposits ratio at 84 per America Personal Financial Services business, cent.
We grew lending in each region outside North HSBC reported a pre-tax profit for 2008 of America on an underlying basis.
And we constrained US$19.9 billion, a decline of 18 per cent.
On a costs, with the cost efficiency ratio improving to reported basis, pre-tax profit was US$9.3 billion, 47.2 per cent, excluding the goodwill impairment down 62 per cent.
Within this were some strong mentioned above.
We also continued implementation regional and business line performances.
However, of OneHSBC, our programme to enhance customer there is one area on which I would like to comment.
experience and improve cost efficiency through For North America, we reported a loss of standardising products, processes and technology US$15.5 billion including the goodwill impairment around the world.
charge of US$10.6 billion in Personal Financial We also acquired businesses in strategic areas Services.
The significant deterioration in US we acquired the assets, liabilities and operations of employment and economic outlook in the fourth The Chinese Bank in Taiwan in March: IL&FS quarter of 2008 were the primary factors in causing Investsmart, a retail brokerage in India in May: and, us to write off all the remaining goodwill carried on in October, the acquisition of Bank Ekonomi in our balance sheet in respect of our Personal Indonesia was announced.
The first two are complete Financial Services business in North America.
and being integrated, the last is expected to be The management team has worked tirelessly to completed in the second quarter.
The most notable address this problem acquisition in the US and we disposal was the sale of our regional bank network in have considered all viable options.
We saw the France for a consideration of US$3.2 billion.
disruption in sub-prime lending as early as 2006 and 9 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Group Chairmans Statement continued Group Chairmans Statement Thank you to our people 31 December 2008.
I shall be writing to all shareholders with full details.
This was an extraordinary year and made extraordinary demands on many of our people.
I Over the past 12 months, many of our want to express my sincere thanks for all their efforts competitors have received significant government and achievements.
Our industry has rightly been capital injections something we said we could not under considerable public scrutiny and banks have envisage or have raised capital from shareholders been indiscriminately bunched together.
It is through and other investors.
Higher regulatory capital our staff that HSBCs distinctive character stands out requirements, in part from the effect of the economic for our customers and it is they who ensure that not downturn on capital requirements under the Basel II all banks are the same.
regime, as well as changing market sentiment on appropriate levels of leverage, have also raised Dividend declaration and progressive expectations regarding capital levels.
We are dividend policy determined that HSBC should maintain its signature financial strength and we are now raising the top of The Directors have declared a fourth interim our target range for the tier 1 ratio so that the range dividend for 2008 of US$0.10 per ordinary share in will be from 7.5 per cent to 10 per cent.
lieu of a final dividend which, together with the first three interim dividends for 2008 of US$0.18 already Planned internal capital generation remains paid, will make a total distribution in respect of the strong and this capital raising will enhance our year of US$0.64 per ordinary share.
The payments in ability to deal with the impact of an uncertain total represent a decrease of 29 per cent in US dollar economic environment and to respond to unforeseen terms compared with 2007 and of 15 per cent in events.
Importantly, it will also give us options with sterling terms.
The dividend will be payable on 6 respect to opportunities which we believe will May 2009 to shareholders on the register at the close present themselves to those with superior financial of business on 20 March 2009. strength.
These may involve organic investment in the continued taking of market share from more After 15 years of double-digit dividend growth, capital constrained competitors.
There may also be we did not make the decision to lower the dividend opportunities to grow through targeted acquisitions lightly.
Very careful consideration was given to the by taking advantage of attractive valuations where current operating environment and the increased the opportunities in question align with our strategy uncertainty over both the supply of capital required and the risks are understood.
in an increasingly volatile financial world and a pro-cyclical regulatory capital framework.
Culture and compensation For 2009, HSBC has rebased the envisaged We believe in the profound importance of culture dividend per share for the first three interim and ethics in business.
HSBCs longstanding dividends to US$0.08 to reflect the impact of the traditions of financial strength, long-term customer enlarged ordinary share capital following the Rights relationships and conservative management are as Issue we are announcing today, prevailing business important today as ever.
They have not always been conditions and capital requirements.
The dividend fashionable and we have not always been perfect.
payments remain substantial and reflect One of the consequences of the crisis and rightly managements long-term confidence in the business.
is that we are going to see a fundamental HSBC will continue to aim to pay progressive re-evaluation of the rules and regulations that govern dividends in line with the long-term growth of the our business.
But we should remember that no business.
amount of rules and regulations will be sufficient if the culture does not encourage people to do the right Maintaining HSBCs financial strength thing.
It is the responsibility of Boards to supervise The logic of maintaining HSBCs distinctive and management to embed a sustainable culture into financial strength which we have applied to our the very fibre of the organisation.
For HSBC, there is dividend also applies to our capital position.
have announced today a Rights Issue to strengthen We also intend to play our part in rebuilding further our capital ratios.
We propose to raise, on a public trust in our industry.
This means we must be fully underwritten basis, approximately willing to take part in and shape the debate on how US$17.7 billion of equity which will increase our our industry should evolve in the coming years, capital ratios by 150 basis points, strengthening the based on the lessons which must be learnt from this core equity tier 1 ratio to 8.5 per cent and the tier 1 crisis.
In particular, we strongly believe that the ratio to 9.8 per cent, both on a pro forma basis as at 10 industry must respond to the requirement for a more Continued economic strain sober and reasonable approach to compensation.
At The coming twelve months will be difficult.
We HSBC, we are committed to the principle of sensible expect parts of Asia, the Middle East and Latin market-related pay, structured to align executive America to continue to outperform Western actions with long-term shareholder interests.
A small economies, but to be constrained by the global number of individuals in a market system will downturn.
inevitably receive compensation that is high in absolute terms, but this must be genuinely linked to We see unemployment rising through 2009 into long-term shareholder interests.
It is clear that the 2010 in both the US and the UK, together with banking industry got it wrong in the go-go years: continuing declines in housing markets.
We should we will play our part in helping the industry remember that the US is the driver of the global respond appropriately to the new realities.
economy and global growth depends on the US recovery.
It is right therefore that in HSBCs case, I outline our present position.
As Chairman I elected We remain confident that HSBC is well-placed in 2007 to no longer receive any cash bonus award: in todays environment and that our strength leads to any variable compensation would be delivered opportunity.
Our strategy has served HSBC well and through performance share awards which would positions it for long-term growth with attractive only vest if performance hurdles are met.
HSBC continues to combine its position as performance share awards will be made in the Group the worlds leading emerging markets bank with an in respect of 2008.
Mike Geoghegan, Group Chief extensive international network across both Executive, and Stuart Gulliver, Chief Executive developed and faster growing markets.
At the same Global Banking and Markets, and Douglas Flint, time, as the financial system exhibits stress, our Group Finance Director, have asked the competitive position is improving as the capacity Remuneration Committee not to consider them for and capabilities of financial institutions are any bonus award for 2008.
No cash bonus award will constrained by lack of capital and funding: many of be made to any Executive Director for 2008.
Full them are also focusing more on their domestic details on Directors remuneration can be found in markets.
Further strengthening our capital base will enhance our ability to deal with the impact of an Learning the lessons uncertain economic environment and to respond to We are living through a genuinely global crisis: it unforeseen events, as well as giving us options cannot be solved by one nation alone.
Governments regarding opportunities which will undoubtedly need to work together with our industry to tackle the present themselves to those with superior financial root causes of the crisis, while maintaining the open, strength.
globalised markets that have helped spread prosperity in the last two decades.
Protectionism, both in trade and in capital flows, is a threat and in all its forms must be resisted.
We must also urgently improve governance and regulation to create a more stable financial framework.
The globalisation of financial markets S K Green, Group Chairman contrasts sharply with the domestic agenda of the 2 March 2009 regulatory regimes that underpin it.
We support intergovernmental efforts to enhance the coordination of regulatory oversight, since we believe that this is essential to the stable development of the international capital markets for the benefit of the common good.
