Chairmans statement We made good progress with all 4 elements of our strategy: growth, productivity, responsibility and building a winning organisation.
It should continue to build sustainable shareholder value in the years ahead.
Jan du Plessis Chairman Value creation Excellent results Growth Over the past 10 years, British 2008 was an extraordinary year, with Our continued focus on our 4 Global American Tobacco has achieved financial markets in unprecedented Drive Brands GDBs has played a major compound growth of 11 per cent in turmoil, economies slowing and role in these achievements.
Last year, earnings per share and 13 per cent confidence badly shaken.
Despite our 4 GDBs grew by 16 per cent, in dividends per share.
Our total these conditions, British American with about a quarter of the increase shareholder return has been Tobacco continued to deliver excellent attributable to successful brand 486 per cent, compared to results and completed 2 important migrations.
Kent rose by 18 per cent 3 per cent for the FTSE 100 acquisitions.
and Pall Mall by 22 per cent and they as a whole.
each achieved sales of over 60 billion Revenue rose by 11 per cent at constant cigarettes for the first time.
Kent, which rates of exchange and by 21 per cent to is premium priced, is now the Groups 12,122 million at current rates.
Completing a very from operations, excluding adjusting strong all round performance, Lucky items, increased by 14 per cent at Strike increased by 9 per cent and constant rates of exchange and by Dunhill by 7 per cent.
24 per cent to 3,717 million at current rates.
The benefit from the translation of GDB volume now represents over our results into sterling was 295 million.
26 per cent of our total volume, providing us with a significant Adjusted diluted earnings per share opportunity to add scale to our key grew by 19 per cent to 128.8p and competitive innovations.
Moreover, as the Board has recommended a final the GDBs are predominantly premium, dividend of 61.6p, an increase of our premium volume grew by 5 per cent 29 per cent.
This brings our total organically, compared to the 1 per cent dividend for the year to 83.7p, an level of overall organic growth.
Total increase of 26 per cent.
For us, 2008 volumes were up 4 per cent as a result of was an outstanding year.
the combination of this organic growth It rounds off a decade of value creation and the benefit from the acquisitions of for shareholders.
It is just over 10 years Tekel and Skandinavisk Tobakskompagni since we demerged our financial services ST in the middle of the year.
businesses and announced the merger As a result of these acquisitions, we now with Rothmans.
Over the past 10 years, have much stronger market positions British American Tobacco has achieved in Turkey, Denmark, Sweden, Norway compound growth of 11 per cent in and Poland and both acquisitions are earnings per share and 13 per cent in performing in line with expectations, dividends per share.
Our total shareholder each contributing positively to earnings return has been 486 per cent, compared in 2008. to 3 per cent for the FTSE 100 as a whole.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2008 02 Business review
