IG Group Holdings plc Chairmans Statement Report and Financial Statements 2008 09 Chairmans Statement t is my pleasure to present this statement after another successful year at IG.
Revenue for the year was up 51% to 184m 2007 - 122m and profit before tax was up 41% to I97m 2007 - 69m.
These results were the product of our continuing focus on broadening our client base by offering high quality dealing platforms, a broad range of Revenue for the year was products and excellent customer service.
up 51% to 184m and profit Our international strategy continues to be to widen our geographic spread where local before tax was up 41% to regulation and market conditions are appropriate.
We have made further progress on our strategy this year, opening offices in Paris, Madrid and Chicago.
97m There remains a great deal of work to be done to build on the initial success we have seen in our recently established overseas businesses.
Our aim is to develop each of these operations and we believe that they all have the potential to grow into substantial businesses over time, emulating our success in the United Kingdom and Australia.
Dividend At the AGM your board will recommend the payment of a final dividend of 9.0p per share.
This brings the total dividend for the year to 12.0p, an increase on last year of 41%.
This represents a total dividend of approximately 60% of earnings for the year, in line with the policy that I announced last year.
Our policy, which we will review from time to time, will be to continue to pay a similar proportion of earnings in future years.
These results could not have been achieved without the hard work and skill of all our employees throughout the world.
Along with my fellow directors I would like to extend my thanks to them all for their contribution to these excellent results.
I and my colleagues at IG look forward to working towards another successful year for our business.
Jonathan Davie, Chairman, 21 July 2008 IG Group Holdings plc 10 Report and Financial Statements 2008 Chief Executives Report
