Job: 10795 British Energy R&A 08 FRT AW Proof: 02 Proof Read by: Operator: rich Date: 03.06.2008 Server: studio 3 Set-up: Dave First Read Revisions Chairmans Statement Our objectives are clear: to maximise value in the existing asset base through careful stewardship and investment, while positioning ourselves for a pivotal role in the New Nuclear Build programme.
Output from our nuclear power stations of the major electricity generators in the during the year was materially impacted United Kingdom and the only low carbon by boiler temperature restrictions at two baseload generator, the contribution that stations and a further two stations coming British Energy is making towards meeting of ine to rectify the Boiler Closure Unit this complex challenge has become issue.
As a result, total output for the increasingly clear.
year masked positive progress in the management of small generation losses The case has now been made for nuclear and safety and environmental performance to play a role within a balanced energy across the eet.
The progress that has been policy.
We welcome the Governments made in developing a culture of increasing commitment to remove barriers to the operational safety and excellence across industry taking forward new nuclear our eet is most visible in the world class projects.
Initiatives include making progress operation of Sizewell B, our Pressurised on radioactive waste management and Water Reactor.
Our ongoing investment decommissioning policy, reform of the in our plant and our people underpins our planning system, reviewing the regulatory ambition to continue extending the life framework and clarifying national policy of our plants.
This year we announced the on the need for new generation capacity.
extension of the accounting lives of Hinkley We also welcome Governments plans Point B and Hunterston B by five years, to strengthen commitments to combat from 2011 to 2016. climate change and set ambitious targets for CO reduction combined with a market 2 There is growing recognition of the driven approach to reducing emissions importance of energy policy in the United through emissions trading.
Delivery of Kingdom and around the world.
With a major programme of investment in increased awareness of climate change, the new nuclear for the United Kingdom issue of reducing carbon emissions is now will require a disciplined approach and, recognised alongside energy price stability on occasion, competing priorities will and security of supply as one of the major need to be evaluated.
challenges facing the United Kingdom economy.
As the lowest carbon emitter 04 British Energy Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 08 M M6005 BE front.
