CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Since my last communication with shareholders at the end of August 2008, the global economy and financial markets have experienced an unprecedented upheaval.
Impax Environmental Markets plc IEM, or the Company has not been immune to these difficult conditions and the value of the Company fell slightly more than global equity markets over the year with particular weakness in the second half.
While the environmental markets undoubtedly face challenges in the form of weakening economies, tighter credit conditions and low commodity prices, I am encouraged by the continued government support for the sector through stimulus packages and new legislation.
The various positive and negative developments for the Company are discussed in more detail in the Managers Report.
In particular, I would like to highlight the potential implications for IEM following the election of Barack Obama as the new President of the United States.
Domestically, Mr. Obama has allocated a substantial part of the US$ 787 billion economic stimulus package to promote various environmental markets, and is set to support several environmental regulations that had been blocked by the previous Administration.
At an international level, the new President has already signalled that he will be constructive in seeking a successor to the Kyoto Protocol for the control of global carbon dioxide emissions, which expires in 2012.
Performance and Current Status During the year, the Companys net asset value NAV per Ordinary Share excluding current year net revenue and taking into account the dilution effect of the warrants in issue decreased from 127.9p to 98.8p, an overall decline of 23 per cent while the share price fell 34 per cent from 128.9p to 85.0p.
Over the same period, the MSCI World and the MSCI World Small Cap Indices priced in Pounds Sterling fell by 21 per cent and 22 per cent respectively.
Whilst slightly under performing these indices, the Company out-performed most competing environmental markets funds, thereby further demonstrating the benefits of a portfolio diversified across the energy, water and waste sub sectors.
Over a longer five year period, the Company has out-performed, with growth in NAV of 49 per cent compared to 22 per cent for the MSCI World Index and 23 per cent for the MSCI World Small Cap Index.
The IEM share price tended to trade on a small discount during the second half of the year, and this widened in late December to almost 15 per cent.
The warrants in the Company that were issued in December 2005 were priced at 45.0p at the start of 2008 and at 21.5p at the end of December 2008.
Into 2009, credit issues and macroeconomic concerns have continued to drive equity markets, which have generally seen further declines.
As at 13 March 2009, the diluted NAV has fallen 14 per cent since the start of the year, while the share price has decreased by 4 per cent.
The MSCI World Index in Pounds Sterling has also fallen 14 per cent over the same period.
The discount of the Companys share price to NAV has narrowed from 15 per cent at the end of the year to5 per cent.
The universe of Environmental Markets stocks continues to expand and comprises over 800 companies with an aggregate market capitalisation of more than 160 billion.
With Initial Public Offering IPO markets closed, the Manager is also seeing strong deal flow in the late stage development capital area, although the current focus remains on the existing unquoted portfolio.
Against a challenging macro economic backdrop, IEMs unquoted investments have been marked down, and represented 5 per cent of the IEM portfolio as at 31 December 2008.
3 IMPAX ENVIRONMENTAL MARKETS PLC CHAIRMANS STATEMENT CONTINUED Dividend The Companys net revenue return for the year was 2.7 million reflecting strong cash flow generation by a number of IEMs companies.
In order to retain investment trust status, IEM must pay a dividend in respect of the year ended 31 December 2008 of at least 0.7p per share.
The directors recommend a dividend of 0.85p per Ordinary Share 0.3p per share in 2007, which, if approved at the Companys Annual General Meeting, will be paid to shareholders on the register as at the close of business on 17 April 2009.
It should not be assumed that this level of dividend will be paid in future years.
Share Issues and Buybacks The Company issued 3.5 million shares at a premium to NAV during the course of the year through a tap issue.
In addition 659,168 shares were issued following the warrant subscription in June 2008.
In March 2009, the Company has commenced selective share buy-backs in response to the increased share price discount to NAV.
VAT on investment management fees Since the year end, the Company has received a repayment from the Manager of 343,000 in relation to unrecovered VAT paid in previous years.
This repayment has been accrued in the accounts for the year just ended.
In aggregate, through the above repayment and its own voluntary VAT registration, the Company has recovered 97 per cent of the total VAT on investment management fees it had previously suffered.
Outlook The economic outlook remains extremely challenging, affecting the prospects for certain environmental markets in the short term, and thereby explaining the reduced earnings growth expectations for the Companys holdings over the next twelve months.
Whilst not immune to the economic cycle, continued strong legislative support and government spend should offer the Company some limited protection from a protracted recession.
On valuation, it is interesting to note that the price-earnings ratio of the portfolio has fallen to a level that is only slightly higher than that of the MSCI World Index despite offering substantially higher growth prospects.
On this basis, the Manager and directors continue to believe that the shares of IEM offer an attractive opportunity for investors to gain exposure to the long term growth potential inherent in Environmental Markets.
Richard Bernays 17 March 2009 4 IMPAX ENVIRONMENTAL MARKETS PLC
