These changes are creating significant opportunities for companies that have the capability and the appetite to adapt their businesses.
The steps that we have taken are delivering results.
We have gained exposure to an enlarged growth opportunity in the broad marketplace for entertainment and communications.
The expansion of our product set has provided more tools than ever to meet the needs of our existing and future customers, and our focus on quality, choice and value is being met by increased demand.
As a consequence, more customers are choosing Sky for a broader range of products and services than ever before.
Sky is a business that makes a positive contribution to life in the UK and Ireland: through the products chosen by millions of customers: through our investment in much-loved content: and through our commitment to innovation.
A further dimension of that contribution is the sense of responsibility that we bring to the way we do business.
We continue to make progress in our work to contribute to a healthy environment and to develop our activities in sport and the arts.
Afterserving for18 years on theBoard of the Company, Rupert Murdoch decided to step down as Chairman and as a Director in December 2007.
On behalf of the Board and shareholders, I would like to express our gratitude for his unparalleled contribution and tireless dedication to Sky.
His spirit and vision have been instrumental in growing the business from a standing start to reach more than one in three households across the UK and Ireland.
Having stepped down as Chief Executive in December 2007, I am pleased to have the opportunity to continue to serve the Company in a new role as Non-Executive Chairman.
I am delighted to have been succeeded as Chief Executive by Jeremy Darroch, who is the first person from within Sky to have been appointed to that role.
Jeremy has been a key part of the Companys leadership team since joining Sky as Chief Financial officer in August 2004 and has been instrumental in our progress over that period.
The Board considered Jeremy to be the outstanding candidate for the role of Chief Executive and I am certain that under his leadership the Company will continue to grow and prosper.
Andrew Grifth joined the Board in April 2008 on his appointment to succeed Jeremy as Chief Financial officer.
Andrew was previously Skys Director of Group Finance, M&A and Investor Relations and his appointment is further evidence of the strength in depth of our management team.
I would also like to welcome Daniel Rimer to the Board following his appointment as a Non-Executive Director, also in April 2008.
Finally, I would like to thank all my colleagues at Sky, including those at Amstrad who have recently joined the Group, for their hard work and commitment over the past 12 months.
The opportunity for Sky has never been greater and we are well positioned to achieve continued growth on behalf of shareholders.
That confidence is reected in the proposed 8% increase in the full year dividend to 16.75 pence per share.
