Overview Chairmans Statement Dear Shareholder The past year has been another one of considerable achievement for ICG.
Despite volatile markets, I am pleased to report core income up 22 per cent to 36m 2007: 2m, and profit before tax of 230m 2007: 224m up two per cent on last years record level.
This 230m includes a 36m positive adjustment of the fair value of the financial instruments we hold for hedging purposes.
The Board has proposed a final dividend of 45.5p, making a total of 65.0p for the year, an increase of 8 per cent compared to last years dividend of 55p adjusted for the Rights Issue.
The dividend will be paid on 4 July 2008 to shareholders on the register on 6 June 2008.
ICG has an excellent track record of creating significant value for shareholders.
Over the past five years we have more than doubled core income, profit before tax, earnings per share and dividend per share.
Since we listed in 994, total return for our ICGs strong performance is an endorsement of our shareholders as measured by the rigorous credit culture, the high quality of our employees, increase in the value of a share including reinvested dividends has and the strength of mezzanine as an asset class.
been top quartile within the FTSE 250.
ICGs strong performance is an endorsement of our rigorous credit culture, the high quality of our employees, and the strength of mezzanine as an asset class.
6 Intermediate Capital Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Overview 230m 65.0p Profit before tax Full year dividend Looking forward, we believe that there We do believe that companies in the US I would also like to thank our is considerable scope for further and some European countries may be management and staff, as well as increasing shareholder value over the negatively affected by the deteriorating business associates and investors, longer term.
The changes in the credit economic environment, leading to for their continued confidence in ICG markets have considerably improved greater risks for mezzanine investors.
In and for helping us to scale new heights.
the balance of risk and reward.
Whilst this context we will be particularly I would particularly like to thank our the pace of early repayments has fallen vigilant in monitoring and managing our shareholders who demonstrated their sharply, reducing our capital gains, existing portfolio, and highly selective in belief in ICG and its prospects for growth we welcome the opportunity to invest choosing new investments.
ICG has a by supporting our recent 75m Rights in better structures for longer periods, strong track record for delivering value Issue, and our bank lenders who have creating the potential to deliver strong throughout many economic and debt arranged our new 500m debt facility.
core income well into the future.
cycles, due to its proven and rigorous These were accomplished in difficult investment discipline.
markets, and we take seriously the We have further expanded our stewardship responsibilities entrusted investment teams in local offices across We are a people business.
Europe and Asia Pacific, and opened the high calibre and dedication of our an office in North America.
Our team employees is one of our key strengths.
I am confident that together we can of investment professionals is supported I am particularly pleased with the continue to grow our business profitably by the strength of our balance sheet results of a recent employee survey and to deliver value to our shareholders.
With a which showed high levels of commitment diversified, high quality portfolio which and pride in our business amongst is performing satisfactorily, and a well our employees as well as confidence in financed balance sheet, we are in a our leadership.
good position to take advantage of the increasingly attractive investment In March, Andrew Phillips announced his opportunities that are emerging as decision to retire from the main Board.
a consequence of the changes in On behalf of ICG, I wish to thank Andrew credit markets.
for the many contributions he made John Manser as a Director.
We are delighted that he Chairman has agreed to continue to assist ICG 2 June 2008 as Chairman of Intermediate Capital Managers Limited, our wholly owned fund management subsidiary.
Intermediate Capital Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 7
