Chairmans Statement I am pleased to report record trading performance and substantial progress in strengthening and developing the Group.
The results for the year ended 31 March 2008 reflect strong growth in revenue and profitability, increased market share and excellent cash performance.
Investment has been increased, the branch successfully extended and the customer base Outlook network expanded and the Specialist Division continues to increase, helping to sustain good The economic outlook remains uncertain.
formed with the acquisition of Buck & Hickman like for like growth in revenue.
We anticipate that a slower housing market and Birchwood Products.
and reduced consumer spending will have The Specialist Division, formed in April 2007 relatively little direct impact on the Group, as The Group continues to enhance its reputation with the acquisition of Buck & Hickman, was our exposure to new build residential housing for service and expertise and this remains key enhanced further with the acquisition of represents around 5% of Group revenue.
Against a background of Birchwood Products on 1 March 2008.
Buck economic uncertainty, business throughout the & Hickman has had a successful first year Demand for the Groups products is primarily year has remained resilient and new growth in Group ownership.
The first stage of the driven by repairs and maintenance activity, opportunities have been identified.
The outlook recovery plan has been completed with much of which is essential replacement and remains positive.
costs reduced and efficiency improved.
A significant proportion of pleased to report that Buck & Hickman has the work undertaken on improvement is based Results and Dividend been returned to profit and has contributed on fixed commitments and programmes of Profit before tax increased by 23.3% to positively to Group earnings and cash flow.
refurbishment that have a life beyond 2009.
58.3m 2007: 47.3m on revenue of The Specialist Division offers new growth 1,289.0m 2007: 1,012.1m, an increase potential for the Group.
The Board remains confident that the of 27.4% on last year.
Group can maintain momentum despite People the anticipated slowdown in the economy.
Earnings per share increased by 22.9% In the last year there have been no changes Trade in the final quarter of the financial year to 33.3p 2007: 27.1p and the Board, in to the Board or the executive management was particularly strong and the new year has recognition of the strong earnings performance, of the Company other than the addition of started in line with our expectations.
The proposes a total dividend of 7.43p per share Anthony Smith, the Managing Director of Company is keeping close to its customers, 2007: 6.19p, an increase of 20.0%.
Birchwood Products, who joined the and the outlook remains positive despite a Executive Committee in March 2008. more uncertain economic environment.
Excellent cash performance is reflected in free cash flow of 30.7m 2007: 25.5m, an There is considerable ambition within the increase of 20.4% on last year, after increasing Group to develop and grow the Company.
There is a clear plan and an energetic and able executive management that is working Operating Performance well together and is focused on delivering Both the Industrial and Domestic Divisions further growth.
have delivered strong organic revenue growth Peter Warry of 12.9% and 13.9% respectively, increased The experience, knowledge and skill of all our Chairman market share and improved profitability.
employees are key ingredients to the success 28 May 2008 of the business.
Our customers value this The Industrial Division has had an excellent experience and combined with investment year.
Through its nationwide branch network, in stock and infrastructure, productivity the Division has supported an increasing within the Group has improved.
I take this number of major contract and infrastructure opportunity to thank all our employees for projects as well as providing ongoing service their hard work and dedication.
support to a broadening customer base.
Investment in infrastructure and stock has The health and safety of our employees is of enhanced the product offering and improved great importance to the Group.
Improved service and focused training has been increased, incidents that do technical support has helped drive strong occur are investigated and lessons learned revenue growth and market share gains.
I am pleased to report that the number of lost time accidents has been The Domestic Division has continued to reduced by 13% on the prior year.
expand with 34 branches added to the PTS branch network and the successful integration of AHED acquired in January 2007 completed.
The Division has benefited from focusing on a number of growth streams that underpin a resilient repairs and maintenance business.
The product offer has been The BSS Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 3 John Hammond NDC Manager BSS Cross Point, Coventry John The BSS Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 4
