JPMorgan European Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 4 Chairmans Statement Performance I regret to report that it has not been a successful year for your Company as measured by the criterion of outperforming its benchmark indices.
The total return on the Growth portfolio was -1.7% compared with 2.5% on its benchmark, the FTSE World Euro ex-UK index in sterling terms.
The total return on the Income portfolio was -7.3% compared with -1.1% on its benchmark, the MSCI Europe index also in sterling terms.
As reported by the Investment Managers on page 8, the principal cause of the underperformance was the unusual reaction of short term stock prices to the onset of the credit crunch, which was not anticipated by the value-based approach that fundamentally underpins the stock selection process.
Selection in the Growth portfolio is from the universe of companies which have  earnings yet which are selling on below average price earnings multiples.
In the Income portfolio, it is from the universe of high-yielding shares that are supported by strong cash flow and high dividend cover, yet are selling on the lowest third of multiples in the market.
In the credit crunch, both these categories, squarely in the value universe, were perversely outperformed by shares on much higher multiples.
In acute uncertainty, institutional investors fled to consensus stocks.
Since the process has shown divergence at previous climacterics, your Board has instituted a review of the investment process to see if lessons can be learnt.
Dynamic markets are inherently prey to shocks.
And these shocks will, almost inevitably, be costly in the short-run to portfolios positioned for long-term outperformance.
The Companys Growth portfolio continues to perform satisfactorily in this all-important respect.
Despite the negative impact of this years results, over three and five years net assets have out-performed the relevant index by 0.3% and 0.8% per annum respectively, and by 1.5% per annum over ten years.
The Income portfolio is too young to have delivered long-term performance.
But it must now begin to move ahead smartly if it is to achieve a positive capital return after three years, having underperformed its index by -3.5% over the twenty months since launch in August 2006.
As a result of this years underperformance, no performance fee from either portfolio is payable to the Managers.
And the pool of accrued fees in the Growth fund one-third of which are paid out when annual performance beats the index by at least 0.5% - is eliminated by this years underperformance and a negative balance carried forward.
Of course, the figure has to become positive again before pay-outs can occur and in no year can the performance fee paid exceed 1% of net assets.
In share price, rather than net asset, terms a widening of the discount over the year, on both portfolios, has increased the under-performance to -3.3% on the Growth shares and to -7.6% on the Income shares.
For the Growth shares, however, the three, five and ten years figures are still well ahead of the index, having outperformed it by 3.2%, 5.2% and 1.4% per annum, respectively, despite this years set-back.
As a result of the continuing successful accomplishment of the Companys long-term objectives, your Board has concluded that the reappointment of the Manager is definitely in the best interests of shareholders.
T H E C O M P A N Y 5 JPMorgan European Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Chairmans Statement continued The attribution tables on pages 9 and 10 quantify the relative impact of the factors which have driven this years performance.
It can be seen that, after the negative effect of stock selection and currency movements, the next two most important factors to which your Board devotes much of its attention - are the level of borrowing used to gear the investment returns on net asset value and the management of the discount through the share buyback programme.
Gearing The Boards policy is to limit gearing within the range 90% - 120% of net assets.
In other words, a maximum 10% cash position is allowed when markets are confidently expected to fall and borrowings of a maximum of 20% of net assets are allowed when markets are confidently expected to rise.
As your Company is confident in the positive long-term performance of equities, only severe worries for the short-term would produce a net cash position.
Tactical decisions within the permitted range are taken by the investment managers.
Debt in the Growth portfolio grew from 105% to 110% over the first nine months of the year, when stock prices were rising, so boosting returns.
But valuations suffered in the final quarter as gearing was further increased into accelerating market weakness.
It rose to 117% at the year-end and has again boosted returns in the rising market since then.
For the Income portfolio the gearing ranged between a high of 114% at endDecember 2007 and a low of 106% at the financial year end.
Managing the Discount by Share Buybacks During the year 9.5 million Growth shares and 4 million Income shares were bought back and cancelled, adding approximately 1.0p and 0.4p to their respective net asset values.
Despite the buybacks, the discount on the shares temporarily widened to 8.1% and 9.6%, respectively: deeper discounts than the 5% target.
The temporary excess was at least partially due to reductions in trading activity during market uncertainty in the latter half of the year.
Buybacks are unwise when no shares come on offer and prices are defensively marked down, thereby inevitably widening the discount even in the absence of stock on offer.
Since the year-end, trading confidence has returned somewhat.
Share liquidity has risen again and the buy-back programme has resumed.
The discount has therefore narrowed to approximately 6% on both share classes.
These discounts are calculated on the respective net asset values with debt valued at par, as stated in the circular issued to shareholders on the Companys reorganisation in 2006.
However, market participants tend to use fair value for the Companys long term debt when calculating the net asset values and hence, from now on, the Board will use this measure to monitor the discounts on the Companys shares.
Dividends Although dividend returns are not the primary aim of the Growth share portfolio, its dividend has risen by two-thirds, from 3.80p per share excluding the special dividend of 2.00p paid in July 2006 to 6.33p per share, on the slightly fewer shares outstanding, to yield 3.0% on the share price of 219p at the year-end.
I am pleased to report that the Income portfolio achieved its main objective of producing annually rising dividends by lifting its dividend by more than one third, from 2.90p T H E C O M P A N Y JPMorgan European Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 6 per share to 3.90p.
This provided a yield of 4% on the year end share price of 98p, compared with an estimated yield of between 3.25% and 3.5% on the launch price of 100p in August 2006.
Your Board has under review ways in which the disparity in yield between the Growth and Income shares might be increased, to the mutual advantage of both classes of shareholder in meeting their respective objectives.
VAT on Management Fees In September last year the European Court of Justice ruled that the levying by the Manager as required by HMRC of VAT on the management fees of investment trusts was unlawful, as it has been on unit trusts and OEICS since 1990.
As a result, from 1st October last year VAT is no longer payable on the Companys management fees.
In the year ended 31st March 2007 VAT expense amounted to 426,000.
The Company also has the right to re-claim from the Manager the VAT incurred on management fees since 1990.
However, not for all years since then, as a consequence of other UK government legislation, which may itself be subject to further legal proceedings.
The situation is further complicated by the fact that Fleming Investment Trust Management Limited, the Companys Manager prior to 2001, is no longer in existence.
Your Company therefore has no party against which to claim for the prior periods - unless it can claim for these directly against HMRC.
And whether this is possible is subject to further litigation in contemplation by another party.
A yet further complication is that the Companys payment is an input offset by the Manager against its output VAT liability to HMRC and HMRC will only repay the net amount of tax it received.
As you can readily infer, the issue is a complex one and the amount and timing of recovery is therefore uncertain.
However, your Board believes that it should be possible to recover a minimum of 3.9m.
Further details are given in Note 21 to the accounts.
Board of Directors The Nomination Committee meets annually to discuss the effectiveness of the Board and its Committees, and assesses the performance of Directors individually, and of the Manager, each against a demanding set of criteria.
Alex Zagoreos has been on the Board since 1987 and, having reached the age of 70, will retire at the end of this calendar year.
His career-long experience of international investment management at Lazard Freres, beginning when the cult of the equity was still in its infancy, and continuing through the many vicissitudes in stock markets since then, has brought extra-ordinary insight and wisdom to the Boards deliberations.
We shall greatly miss his shrewd judgement and advice, being as they were always highly insightful, relevant and practical, and with shareholders interests absolutely paramount.
As a consequence of Alexs retirement in December, your Board has already begun the process of seeking his successor.
His will be a hard act to follow and time must not be a limiting factor in finding the best qualified candidate.
Your Board also sees advantage in having a period of cross-over.
T H E C O M P A N Y 7 JPMorgan European Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Chairmans Statement continued Annual General Meeting The AGM will take place in The Library at the offices of JPMorgan in the old City of London School, 60 Victoria Embankment near Blackfriars, London EC4Y 0JP on Thursday 17th July at 12.00 noon.
In addition to the formal proceedings there will, as usual, be a presentation by the Investment Managers, followed by a buffet lunch where shareholders, who are always most welcome, can meet the Directors and Investment Managers for more informal conversation.
It would be helpful if shareholders seeking answers to detailed questions put them in writing beforehand, addressed to the Company Secretary at Finsbury Dials, 20 Finsbury Street, London, EC2Y 9AQ.
Alternatively, questions may be submitted via the Companys website.
Shareholders who are unable to attend the meeting are encouraged to use their proxy votes.
Shareholders who hold their shares through CREST are able to lodge their proxy votes electronically.
Articles of Association The Companies Act 2006, at double the length of its predecessor, introduces a number of changes which require alteration to the Companys Articles of Association.
The Government wished to introduce these changes over time: consequently, some require alteration to the Articles this year while others will be altered at next years AGM.
More details on the changes are given in the Directors report on page 36, and in the Appendix on pages 75 to 77.
Outlook While the impact of the credit crunch may have had less immediately-adverse effect on market indices than some may have expected, the impact on those sectors most directly effected, such as banking, building and retailing, has already been substantial.
Now, the likelihood of a slowdown in consumer spending generally seems inevitable, particularly as the substantial increase in commodity prices is simultaneously having a profoundly deflationary effect on consumers income worldwide.
These severe blows to the fundamental drivers of economic growth and corporate profits suggest that the relatively low average profit multiples upon which sit todays share prices may be about to be proved illusory, as consumer, and then corporate, spending goes into reverse and profits are squeezed.
In Europe, moreover, the risen Euro puts an additional clamp on companies profitability, by limiting their export competitiveness.
Thus the outlook for share prices in the short-term looks decidedly uncertain.
That said, the balance sheets of your portfolio companies are strong, as is their competitive position, and your Board is confident that the Investment Managers will capitalise on the long-term opportunities presented.
