2 JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Chairmans Statement Investment Performance Last year turned out to be an exceptionally depressing year for equity investors and the US markets proved to be no exception, with the S&P 500 Index falling by 37.2%, in Dollar terms, over the course of the year.
Benefiting from strong relative investment performance and the weakness of sterling, your Company produced a total return on net assets in sterling terms of 7.3% for the year to 31st December 2008, outperforming the sterling total return of the S&P 500 Index our benchmark of 13.1%.
The Companys total return to shareholders was stronger still, at 4.1%, reflecting a narrowing of the discount from 8.4% to 3.9%.
As stated above, our benchmark fell by 37.2% total return in Dollar terms over the course of the year and, on the same basis, the Companys net asset value fell by 33.0%.
The Dollar, having begun 2008 at a rate of 1.99 to the pound, strengthened dramatically over the late summer and autumn, ending the year at 1.44.
This weakness of sterling, has meant that UK based investors, saw their returns enhanced by 38.4%.
In order to protect against currency fluctuations in respect of the Companys existing 50 million debenture, a currency hedge was put in place on 3rd October, 2001 at a $ rate of 1.46.
The Companys net asset value in sterling total return terms thus outperformed our benchmark index by 5.8 percentage points over the year.
Performance attribution data shows that the larger companies portfolio outperformed by 9.0%, with the smaller companies portfolio underperforming by 0.2%.
The investment management team has continued its policy of investing in larger, blue chip growth companies on attractive valuations.
Full details of the activities of the investment managers are set out in their report on pages 5 to 8.
Shareholders may be aware that the Company, under its contract with JPMorgan Asset Management UK Limited, has a performance fee mechanism in place.
The strong performance achieved by our investment managers over the last six years means that the targets in respect of outperforming the benchmark index have now been achieved and the investment managers have earned a performance fee of 1,257,000.
The performance fee is calculated at the rate of 10% of the difference between the net asset value capital return and the capital return of the S&P 500 Index, expressed in sterling terms.
The performance fee due in respect of any single year is divided into equal parts payable over three years.
Revenue Account and Dividends Net revenue return after taxation for the year was 4,853,000 2007: 4,605,000 and earnings per share were 11.36p 2007: 10.70p.
Revenue this year was boosted modestly by the successful conclusion of the action brought by JPMorgan Claverhouse Investment Trust and the Association of Investment Companies, against HMRC, for the recovery of VAT previously charged on management fees.
Following agreement with JPMorgan Asset Management UK Limited, the Company recovered 185,000 of VAT, which was allocated between income and capital on the basis on which it was expensed, and 66,000 of associated interest, all of which was taken to income.
The Companys dividend policy has been to distribute all, or substantially all, of the available income in each year.
In this instance, the Board is proposing to maintain last years dividend of 11.0p per share and, in doing so, will be taking around 153,000 to revenue reserves.
Shareholders should note that income streams can vary significantly, and the Companys dividend payouts are likely to reflect those variations.
After accounting for the payment of the proposed final dividend, this leaves a balance in revenue reserves of 10.2m equivalent to 23.8p per share.
The dividend will be paid on 8th May 2009 to shareholders on the register on 3rd April 2009.
JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 3 Gearing The Board of Directors sets the overall gearing strategy and guidelines and reviews these at each meeting.
The investment management team manages the gearing levels actively within these agreed guidelines.
At present, there is an upper limit of 20% of shareholders funds and this can only be increased with Board consent.
The 50 million debenture provides the potential to gear up to around 117%.
As at the year end, the Companys net gearing level offsetting cash and near cash against our debenture was 113% of shareholders funds, having ranged between 97% and 116% during the year.
Investment Manager The Companys objective is to provide shareholders with capital growth from a broad portfolio of North American investments.
Your Board has once again thoroughly reviewed the capabilities of the Investment Manager in order to assess whether JPMorgan Asset Management remains the most appropriate manager of the Companys assets.
In addition to scheduled Board Meetings, your Directors have undertaken additional strategy and investment meetings with the named investment managers, conducted comparisons with the peer group both in the UK and the US with regard to performance, fee rates and costs of management and spent time reviewing the investment management operation whilst in New York for a Board Meeting.
We have concluded that the ongoing appointment of the existing Investment Manager is in the best interests of shareholders.
Management of the Discount The Companys discount narrowed by 4.5 percentage points over the course of the year, finishing at 3.9%.
During the year the Companys shares traded between a 9.0% discount and a 4.5% premium.
Whilst the Company did not repurchase any shares during the year your Board believes that such a facility is an important tool in the management of discount volatility.
A resolution to renew the authority to allow the Company to repurchase up to 14.99% of its share capital will be submitted to the Annual General Meeting.
The Board Your Board has put in place procedures to ensure that the Company complies fully with the revised Combined Code and the AIC Code on Corporate Governance.
Details are given in the Corporate Governance section of this report on pages 22 to 25.
In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, Kate Bolsover and myself will retire at this years Annual General Meeting.
Kate Bolsover, who was appointed in July 2005, contributes significantly on a wide range of issues and will seek reelection from shareholders.
Details of Kates background and experience can be found on page 16 and the Board recommends her re-election.
I am also retiring at this years Annual General Meeting and will stand for re-election.
Annual General Meeting Your Directors and I very much look forward to welcoming shareholders to the Annual General Meeting, which will be held at Trinity House, Tower Hill, London EC3N 4DH on Thursday 7th May 2009 at 2.30 p. m. Garrett Fish, our lead investment manager, will make a presentation to shareholders, reviewing the year and commenting on the outlook for the current year.
It would be helpful if shareholders could submit, in advance, in writing any detailed or technical questions that they wish to raise at the Annual General Meeting to the Company Secretary at Finsbury Dials, 20 Finsbury Street, London, EC2Y 9AQ.
4 JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Chairmans Statement continued Outlook The last eighteen months have seen the second largest decline in US stock market history.
Economic growth numbers continue to look poor and, with the government more intertwined in the workings of the economy than at any time in the recent past, the near term outlook appears less than promising.
However, such dark times often herald better prospects: equity valuations are looking much more attractive, especially when compared to US Government Bonds, and any recovery would be boosted by the substantial volume of cash that has built up on the sidelines.
There are plenty of risks and the very bearish tone continues, but our Managers perceive value in the market and have increased the Companys level of gearing accordingly.
