2 JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Chairmans Statement It is pleasing to report a positive return over the year as against a fall in most of the main financial markets.
However, for the first time in five years we have underperformed our benchmark index.
The net asset value NAV total return for the year to 30th June was 2.5% as against a total return of 5.5% for our benchmark index, the MSCI Emerging Markets Free Index in sterling terms.
The share price increased over the year from 416.5p to 433.5p, producing a total return to shareholders of 4.7%.
Our performance over the year was clearly affected by the high volatility and uncertainty in markets generally.
The Managers approach, with the support of the Board, has been to take a long term view and at the same time try to take advantage of any short term weakness to adjust the portfolio.
Our medium and long term performance remains excellent, and over a five year period the NAV total return has been 273% as against our benchmark of 205%.
Moreover, the Company is also the best performer over this period within a peer group of ten open and closed end funds that the Board monitors for performance comparison.
As a Board we continue to monitor carefully the discount of our share price to NAV and it is pleasing to report that it narrowed from 9.6% to 7.8% over the reporting period.
The discount remained in line with our peers and at no time did the Board feel it was necessary to buy back shares.
Our discount policy remains as stated last year, that in a stable market and with the Company performing well against its benchmark, we would buy back shares if the discount is materially out of line with our peers and over 10%.
The Board regularly reviews this policy.
As last year we will be putting forward resolutions at the AGM to buy back shares for cancellation or to put into Treasury for reissue only at a premium to the then NAV.
In 2007 the European Court of Justice ruled that VAT should not be levied on the management and performance fees of investment trust companies.
Consequently, with effect from 1st October 2007, VAT is no longer payable on these fees.
The Company also has the right to reclaim VAT it has paid on these fees in most years since its launch in 1991.
Following discussions with JPMorgan Asset Management, the Board has concluded that the recovery of 1.1m of this VAT is sufficiently certain that it can be recognised in the Companys accounts for the year to 30th June 2008.
However, the timing of its receipt remains uncertain.
More information on this matter is given in Note 6 to the accounts on page 36.
The Companys policy continues to be to maximise capital growth.
Nevertheless, we are proposing to maintain the level of the final dividend at 2.00p per share 2007: 2.00p.
Subject to shareholders approval at the AGM, this will be paid on 13th November 2008 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 24th October 2008.
You will see from the Directors Report that the Board fully complies with the Financial Reporting Council Combined Code and the AIC Code of Corporate Governance.
We pay particular attention to monitoring the performance of the Manager and ensuring that we have the strategies in place to see that the Manager continues to deliver out-performance in the medium and long term.
At the end of the year we carried out a formal review of the Manager, the Board as a whole and, separately the Board evaluated my role as Chairman.
I am pleased to report that no concerns were raised in these appraisals and the Board believes the Manager is continuing to do an excellent job and that their reappointment is in the best interests of shareholders as a whole.
JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 3 As I mentioned in last years report Val Powell and I will be retiring from the Board during 2009 and I will be giving up my Chairmans role at the AGM in 2009.
The Nomination Committee, with the help of external advisors, has therefore been searching for two new Directors to join the Board and we have been fortunate in securing the services of Nigel Kenny and Percy Mistry.
Nigel joined us on 1st September 2008 and Percy will join the Board on 1st January 2009.
Both bring with them enormous knowledge of developing economies.
Nigel Kenny is a founding partner of Sabre Capital, an emerging markets private equity company.
He has considerable experience in emerging markets having held a number of senior positions in Standard Chartered Bank including Group Head of Strategy, Operations and Group Finance Director.
Prior to that he spent a number of years with Chase Manhattan Bank.
He is a Chartered Accountant and has a PhD in theoretical physics.
Percy Mistry, an Indian national living in the UK, has broad emerging markets experience having worked in senior positions with The World Bank and having been Chief Executive of businesses in India and Hong Kong.
He is Chairman and founder of Oxford International Group, which provides advice to governments and international companies and institutions operating in developing countries, and is particularly active in India.
To attract and retain Directors of the calibre required it is important that the fees paid are appropriate.
Fees were last reviewed in July 2006 and, after taking advice, the Remuneration Committee decided that it was necessary to raise the Directors fees to 20,000 per annum and those of the Chairman of the Audit Committee and Chairman of the Company to 25,000 and 30,000 respectively as from July 2008.
Last year I wrote about a market correction taking place and increasing levels of uncertainty.
Whilst this certainly has proved accurate, by comparison with today's situation last year seems like calm waters.
At the time of writing this year's report we are witnessing on almost a daily basis the failure of financial companies that are at the very heart of the world market economy.
The changes now happening are of seismic proportions and it is likely that it will take years for us to fully understand the impact of what is now taking place.
There are clearly big implications for our Company.
However, emerging markets in general are better run and better capitalised than they were 5-10 years ago and I believe will prove more robust in handling this crisis.
Moreover, whilst in no way are global markets decoupled, many of the fundamentals for continued growth in emerging economies remain in place.
That said, it will not be an easy ride and, more than ever, there will be clear winners and losers.
As a company we have a number of strengths.
As an investment trust we can, and do, take the long-term view and are not forced sellers in market conditions such as these.
We have a global emerging markets mandate and have the flexibility to switch the focus of our investments and better manage risk.
In JPMorgan we have a manager with a strong base that is not threatened by the current turmoil.
Finally, the team managing our Company has shown itself to be one of the best in the business.
The years ahead, and particularly this year, will not be easy but your Board remains confident that the Company will deliver long term capital growth for its shareholders and we have no hesitation in recommending its continuation for a further three years.
