2 JPMorgan Fleming Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Chairmans Statement Over the year to 31st January 2008 the Companys total return on net assets i. e. with net income reinvested was 16.2%, which compares with a return of -12.7% on the same basis from the Companys benchmark index, the FTSE All-Share excluding FTSE 100 constituents and investment trusts.
As has been widely acknowledged, the last six months of the year to 31st January 2008 were difficult, volatile times for the market, particularly the small and mid cap sector.
However, the underperformance against the benchmark in the current year should be viewed in the context of the overperformance achieved during the previous seven years.
Earnings and Dividends Earnings per share increased by 44.6% for the year, from 27.51p to 39.79p partly due to the receipt of some special dividends, a higher level of interest income and the accrual of recoverable VAT.
The Company has paid three interim dividends of 5.5p per ordinary share, and the Directors have declared a fourth quarterly interim dividend of 17.5p and, in addition, reflecting the accrual of recoverable VAT, the Directors have declared a special dividend of 4.0p per ordinary share, giving a total dividend of 38.0p for the year, an increase of 52.0%.
It is the Boards intention to continue to operate a progressive dividend policy and to increase the level of the first three quarterly dividends for the current financial year, thereby spreading the payment of the total dividend more evenly throughout the year.
Share Price Discount The share price fell by 18.9% during the year and including dividends paid the total return to shareholders was 16.7%.
The discount to net asset value widened during the year from 8.9% to 10.5% with debt at fair value.
The average weekly discount, with debt at fair value, during the year was 10.4%.
Share Repurchases During the year under review a total of 20.756m shares were repurchased for cancellation, amounting to 16.6% of issued share capital, at a total cost of 271.07m.
The purchase of 12.264m of these shares utilised authority granted at the 2006 AGM and the purchase of 8.492m of these shares utilised authority granted at the 2007 AGM.
The Board continued to take a proactive approach towards share repurchases in order to enhance the net asset value and minimise the absolute level and volatility of the discount on the Company's shares.
Share repurchases during the year under review have added approximately 28 pence to the net asset value per share.
The Board is therefore proposing that the authority be renewed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
VAT case Following HM Revenue & Customs announcement in November 2007 that it was withdrawing its appeal in the case brought jointly by the AIC and JPMorgan Claverhouse Investment Trust plc challenging the imposition of VAT on management fees paid by investment trusts, the Company is no longer obliged to pay VAT on its management fees going forward and may be able to recover VAT paid by it on its management fees in the past.
The Board has retained advisers to act on behalf of the Company in this matter.
The Manager has undertaken to the Company to repay to it all amounts of VAT recovered by the Manager from HM Revenue & Customs in relation to management fees paid by the Company and, in any case, the Company expects that all VAT paid by the Company on its JPMorgan Fleming Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 3 management fees from the turn of 2004 2005 onwards will be repaid to it.
An amount of 5.8m 5.6p per share comprising approximately 4.8p per share in respect of the expected recovery of VAT from previous years and 0.8p per share in respect of the expected recovery of VAT over the year to 31st January 2008 is therefore included in the Companys net assets at the year end in respect of the period 1st February 2001 onwards, although the sum may not be received by the Company until recovery of certain sums is made from HM Revenue & Customs.
Certain VAT in relation to earlier periods may also be recoverable and the Company is in discussions with its Manager in relation to the potential recovery of those sums.
Board The Right Hon the Earl of Halifax was appointed a Director on 5th December 2007.
He was formerly Vice-Chairman of Christie, Manson & Woods, the European Division of Christies International Fine Arts Auctioneers, and a non-executive director of Hambros Bank.
He is Deputy Lieutenant of The East Riding of Yorkshire, High Steward of York Minster and a JP.
Having been appointed to the Board during the year, he will stand for re-election at the forthcoming AGM and if appointed will be eligible to serve for a three year term.
The Directors retiring by rotation are Charles Peel and myself.
If re-elected, Charles will serve for a further three year term.
Having been a Director for more than nine years, in accordance with the Boards policy, I offer myself for re-election on an annual basis only.
Investment Managers During the year the Companys investment management team recruited Emel Akan.
Observer Money Annual Awards 2007 The Company was presented with the Best Large Trust award at the Observer Money Annual Awards in March 2007.
Change of Name The Board believes that there are advantages to a Company of this size and sectoral importance of having its own named identity, and wishes to revert to a name which relates more closely to the original name of the Company.
It is proposed in the Notice of Meeting that the Company name be altered to The Mercantile Investment Trust plc.
Annual General Meeting The Companys one hundred and twenty second Annual General Meeting will be held at Trinity House, Tower Hill, London EC3N 4DH on Wednesday 30th April 2008 at 12.00 noon.
In addition to the formal part of the meeting, there will be a presentation from the Investment Managers who will answer questions on the portfolio and performance.
The meeting will be followed by a buffet lunch which will give shareholders an opportunity to meet the Board, the Investment Managers and representatives of JPMorgan.
I look forward to seeing as many of you as possible at the meeting.
Please submit in writing any detailed questions that you wish to raise at the AGM to the Company Secretary at Finsbury Dials, 20 Finsbury Street, London EC2Y 9AQ or via the website.
Shareholders who are unable to attend the AGM in person are encouraged to use their proxy votes, and attention is drawn to the changes to the proxy voting regime following the introduction of the Companies Act 2006.
4 JPMorgan Fleming Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Chairmans Statement continued Outlook The condition of the UK stock market is dependent on the resolution over the coming months of the current turbulence which is adversely affecting financial markets globally.
The Company has faced such conditions a number of times over the years and the Board believes that the Company can once again achieve positive returns for shareholders as market conditions gradually improve.
Hamish Leslie Melville Chairman 27th March 2008
