2 JPMorgan Russian Securities plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Chairmans Statement After five years of out-performance, the second half of the Companys financial year witnessed the worst market conditions for the Russian market since the loan default crisis of 1998.
The Companys total return on net assets for the year to 31st October 2008 was -64.6%, compared to a return of -51.9% in sterling terms from the Companys Benchmark, the MSCI Russian 10 40 Equities Indices Index.
There is obvious disappointment that the Company underperformed the benchmark after such stellar performance in past years.
However, against a background of extreme volatility on the worlds stock markets, your Board remains fully supportive of the Investment Managers and believes that their in-depth knowledge of the Russian market, fundamental research and trading discipline will provide the basis for future long term out-performance.
The Investment Managers explain in detail the reasons behind this years underperformance in their report on pages 4 to 6.
Revenue and Earnings Revenue gain after taxation for the year to 31st October 2008 was 529,000, representing a revenue gain per share of 0.95p.
Although there is a positive contribution to revenue this year, the Company has a significant accumulated revenue deficit and therefore no dividend has been proposed.
Authority to Repurchase the Companys Shares During the year under review the Company did not repurchase any shares.
However the Board continues to believe that a facility to reduce discount volatility is important to have in place, and is therefore seeking approval from shareholders to renew the authority at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Corporate Governance The Company operates in accordance with corporate governance best practice.
The Board has reviewed the investment management, secretarial and marketing services provided to the Company by JPMorgan Asset Management UK Limited.
This annual review has included their performance record, management processes, investment style, resources and risk control mechanisms.
Although investment performance was disappointing this year, the Board took into account the Companys outstanding performance over the preceding five years.
Accordingly the Board was satisfied with the results of the review and therefore, in the opinion of the Directors, the continuing appointment of JPMAM for the provision of these services is the interests of shareholders as a whole.
Board of Directors In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association the Audit Committee Chairman, Mr Paul Teleki, will be retiring by rotation at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Having been appointed during the year, Mr George Nianias will retire and seek election at the Annual General Meeting.
A Nomination Committee of the Board, has met to consider the attributes and contribution of Mr Teleki and Mr Nianias to the Boards deliberations.
Following this review, the Board recommends to shareholders that, taking into account their respective investment experience, understanding of the Russian market and contribution to the Board, both be re-elected.
Articles of Association At the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, it is proposed that the Company adopts new Articles of Association in order to comply with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 that have already been brought into effect.
The new Act is being implemented in stages and some changes require alterations to the Companys Articles this year, while others will require further amendments in 2010.
More details on the proposed changes to the Articles are given in the Directors Report and Appendix to the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
J JPMor PMorgan R gan Russian Securities plc ussian Securities plc Annual R Annual Repor eport & Accounts 2008 t & Accounts 2008 3 3 Annual General Meeting The Companys sixth Annual General Meeting will be held on Friday 13th March 2009 at 12.00 noon.
at Trinity House, Tower Hill, London, EC3N 4DH.
In addition to the formal part of the meeting, there will be a presentation from the Investment Managers who will answer questions on the portfolio and performance.
There will also be an opportunity to meet the Board, the Investment Managers and representatives of JPMorgan Asset Management.
I look forward to seeing as many of you as possible at this meeting.
Shareholders are asked to submit in writing any detailed or technical questions that they wish to raise at the AGM in advance to the Company Secretary at Finsbury Dials, 20 Finsbury Street, London EC2Y 9AQ.
Alternatively you can lodge questions on the Companys website at jpmrussian.
Outlook In 2009 it is likely that we will see continued difficulties for the Russian market, mainly driven by economic slowdown and falling commodity prices.
The triggers for a rebound in the Russian market are a return to global growth and a stabilisation of commodity prices.
In the short term, however, the market is expected to remain volatile on the back of adverse financial market conditions, and further downgrades in consensus EPS expectations in the commodity sectors oil in particular, in order to reflect lower commodity prices during 2009.
Despite these extremely testing times, the Russian stock market is the cheapest of the major emerging markets and the growing number of high quality businesses trading at distressed valuations makes the investment case for long term investors.
Pamela Idelson Smith Chairman 5th February 2009
