Investment While Bunzl does not have heavy capital Chairmans expenditure for a company of its size, both organic growth and acquisitions require investment in the business to expand and statement enhance its asset base.
Systems are critical to our ability to serve our customers in the most efficient and appropriate manner and we are convinced that our modern systems are a source of heightened advantage that enable us to manage our business in a way that will maintain our leadership in the market place.
We therefore continuously upgrade our systems as we increase functionality Anthony Habgood and enhance customer service.
Chairman 23 February 2009 Environment and climate change A common theme across Bunzl is a strong I am very pleased to be able to report that Credit facilities desire to increase environmental awareness Bunzl increased its revenue by 17% to Bunzl has committed funding from the US for Bunzls customers and staff.
Green Teams 4,177.3 million and its operating profit before private placement market and syndicated have been formed in each of our business intangible amortisation by 15% to 280.5 and bilateral facilities totalling 1.1 billion.
areas and have implemented a number of million in a period of increasingly difficult The first significant facilities mature in initiatives to encourage sustainability.
These macroeconomic conditions, most markedly December 2010 and the longest committed include developing environmentally friendly in the UK but also across the international funding matures in 2018.
We expect to remain services and products such as customer markets in which we operate.
These increases comfortably within our banking covenants.
information sheets and catalogues describing were the result of continued organic growth We are a highly cash generative business and green products, reviewing the possibility and acquisition activity with the impact of will continue to rely on diverse sources of of closed loop recycling whereby Bunzls currency translation contributing between funding to achieve our objectives.
plastic waste and that of our customers 8% and 9% as sterling weakened significantly can be recycled to produce some of the against the euro and the US dollar.
While Strategy products required by the customer base the UK & Ireland was somewhat weaker in In difficult economic conditions, Bunzl is and conferences for sales representatives the second half, our strength around the world pursuing its strategy of focusing on its and customers.
In addition, during 2008 has again been demonstrated as all four strengths, continuously reviewing its cost we have continued to refine our approach of our business areas showed increased base and consolidating the markets in which to measuring CO2 emissions to help identify revenues and operating profits in local it competes.
Through the pursuit of this our carbon footprint and enable us to currencies for the year as a whole.
strategy we have built leading positions in reduce our environmental impact.
specific business sectors in the Americas, Profit before tax and intangible amortisation Europe and Australasia.
In 2008 we further Employees was up 13% to 242.9 million.
Earnings extended our business coverage with a Our ability to deliver quality service depends per share rose 12% to 44.5p and adjusted number of acquisitions that took us deeper on the excellence of our employees and their earnings per share, after eliminating the effect into our chosen markets and we entered willingness to listen and respond to our of intangible amortisation, increased by 17% Brazil for the first time.
Currency translation also accounted deepening our commitment to customers everyone has worked together to adapt the for 8% of the increases in profit before tax and markets, extending our business operations in line with the changes in the and adjusted earnings per share.
into new geographies as appropriate and market environment and to integrate newly expanding and coordinating our procurement acquired businesses into the organisation.
Dividend and international sourcing are important We very much appreciate the flexibility, The Board is recommending a 10% increase elements of our strategy.
hard work and enthusiasm shown by our in the final dividend to 14.15p.
This brings employees which is key to the ongoing growth the total dividend for the year to 20.6p, also Sourcing and consolidation operation and success of Bunzl.
This year we propose in Shanghai to reintroduce a scrip dividend alternative, During 2008, Bunzl established a wholly subject to shareholder approval, to replace owned operation in Shanghai to coordinate the existing dividend reinvestment plan.
further the Groups sourcing and inventory Further information, including details of how consolidation activities in China to meet the shareholders can elect to participate should evolving needs of our customers.
In addition a they wish to do so, will be included with Quality Assurance and Quality Control function my letter to shareholders relating to the has been set up to ensure that purchased forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
products meet the required specifications and that the factories producing the products meet the Groups Ethical Trading policy.
Bunzl plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2008 Chairmans statement 05
