CHAIRMANS LETTER 48 2007 08 has seen strong growth in Burberrys sales and I would like to mark a significant Board change.
In July 2007, profits, while the team has successfully delivered on the Rose Marie Bravo stepped down following a twelve-month critical elements of the Groups five-point strategy for period as Vice-Chairman.
As Chief Executive of Burberry generating future value.
from 1997 to June 2006, Rose Marie led the Group through a time of enormous growth and transformation.
I would like This year, the Group neared 1billion in total revenue, to thank Rose Marie for her decade of leadership and representing 18% underlying growth compared to the contribution to Burberry and for her support of the Groups previous financial year.
Adjusted operating profit increased strategic vision for the future.
by 14% underlying while adjusted diluted EPS increased 9% to 31.6p.
Accordingly, the Board has announced On behalf of all shareholders, I thank Angela and the team a 14% increase in the full year dividend to 12.0p, as we whose people work together so seamlessly to deliver progressively move to a dividend payout ratio of 40%.
I am confident of their continued We also returned a further 40m to shareholders via a success and of the long-term performance of the iconic share buyback.
As you can see from this Annual Report, Burberry has five very clear and measurable strategic initiatives, which John Peace determine how it acts and how it invests.
During the year, Chairman Burberry has made further progress in enhancing the luxury quotient of the business led by the success of our Prorsum ranges, growing retail with a record number of store openings and increasing the penetration of non-apparel now 32% of retail wholesale revenue.
At the same time, we have been investing to strengthen Burberrys infrastructure, improving efficiency and giving us a platform from which to grow the business so we can deliver sustainable, long-term value to shareholders.
Looking ahead, we are facing an increasingly volatile economic environment.
Against this background, Burberry remains above all committed to creating value for our shareholders via the evolution and execution of our strategic initiatives.
