6 Chairmans statement Performance Investment trust The year to 31 December 2008 was a most During the year the total return of the portfolio disappointing one for stock markets.
Our net asset was -29.9%, in line with the FTSE All-Share Index.
value total return was -31.9%, compared to a total The underperformance of our net asset value total return of -29.9% for the FTSE Actuaries All-Share return was a result of the level of gearing in Index.
Our gross income increased over the year by 0.7% The year was dominated by the crisis in the from 48.5 million to 48.9 million.
Profit revenue international financial system.
We underestimated attributable to shareholders was 18.2 million, an the extent to which this would spread to the wider increase of 9.6% over the previous year, as a result economy, and indeed we raised our gearing to a of a 19.0% improvement in the investment trust peak of 116% before recognising our error.
By the and a 5.0% fall in independent fiduciary services.
end of the year gearing had been reduced to Improved company dividends and a 455,000 VAT 108%, partly through the sale of bank holdings.
refund increased the return from the investment The outlook for economic activity is very trust.
Our independent fiduciary services businesses uncertain, and our focus is on investment in performed well but without the exceptional level of companies which we think would be survivors even special fees which arose last year.
Following the steep fall in markets, equities look reasonably valued by conservative standards on a long term view.
For a Revenue return and dividends discussion of the investment background please Revenue return per share for the year to see the report by the portfolio manager, James 31 December 2008 was 15.58p, an increase of Henderson, on pages 8 and 9.
The board is recommending a final dividend of 8.0p per The investment trust has benefited from a VAT ordinary share 2007: 8.0p, which, together with refund arising from the successful JPMorgan the interim dividend of 4.2p 2007: 4.0p gives a Fleming Claverhouse case against HM Revenue & total dividend of 12.2p 2007: 12.0p, an increase Customs.
We reached a final agreement with our of 1.7%.
The final dividend will be paid, subject to investment manager in respect of the period 2000- shareholder approval, on 22 April 2009 to holders 2007 and we have recognised this in 2008.
We on the register at the record date of 13 March have not recognised any amount at 31 December 2009.
The policy of the Corporation continues to 2008 in respect of earlier periods, which in any seek growth in both capital and income.
event will not materially effect our NAV and results.
The Law Debenture Corporation p. l. c. www.
com 7 Independent fiduciary services Staff Independent fiduciary services profit before tax fell The independent fiduciary services businesses by 16.6% as a result of the non-recurrence of are dependent upon the professionalism and exceptional fees which arose in 2007.
There has commitment of our people, whom I should like to been a marked downturn in the level of activity in thank for their hard work during the year.
the capital markets following the global credit crunch.
The economic outlook for 2009 is poor and we expect an adverse impact on the results.
Douglas McDougall However, we continue to seek new opportunities and Law Debenture is involved in a wide variety of capital market transactions.
We have new appointments in the UK and the US as a result of restructurings.
Increased levels of fraud in the current environment help us market our whistle blowing service.
Our pension trustee business continues to see growth in the market for professional independent trustees.
For a discussion on the independent fiduciary services businesses please see the report by Caroline Banszky on pages 16 and 17.
Board Rob Williams is not seeking re-election to the board at the Annual General Meeting and I thank him for his long and distinguished service to the Corporation.
Christopher Smith, recently retired as a Managing Director - Corporate Finance of JPMorgan Cazenove, comes up for election to the board at the Annual General Meeting.
Christopher has long experience of investment trusts: he should be a valuable addition and we look forward to working with him.
com The Law Debenture Corporation p. l. c.
