Our Group Chairmans Statement The credit crisis and its consequences in terms of confidence in financial markets and economic activity has taken us all It is your Boards view that into waters uncharted in our lifetimes.
It has had a heavy impact on our share price and on your returns.
Shareholders the long term success of your exposure to actual impairments and defaults has been Company is best served by contained but, as asset values have fallen, the Companys capital base, whilst remaining strong, has declined.
After focussing on sustaining the thorough analysis and much consideration, your Board is strength of its capital base and pursuing a more cautious strategy which reflects the heightened risk and uncertainty being experienced in improving cash flows through global financial markets.
Our operating businesses remain sound and are generating healthy cashflows.
It is your Boards view that the integrity and long term success of your Company is best served by focussing on sustaining the strength of its capital base and improving cash flows through these turbulent times.
We will therefore continue to reduce risk, whilst accelerating our programme to reduce capital strain and improving cash generation across the business.
Shareholder Return, Share Buyback and Dividend Total Shareholder Return TSR for 2008 was negative 38% 2007: negative 14%.
This reflects a fall of 31% in the FTSE All-Share Index and a decline of 40% for the life insurance sector during the year.
We have pursued a progressive dividend policy for many years, and we believe this has served our long term shareholders well.
In arriving at its dividend recommendation, the Board must take account of market conditions, future growth expectations and the need to retain a strong capital base.
This year, in line with changed market circumstances we are recommending a reduced final dividend of 2.05p per share.
With the interim dividend of 2.01p, this will bring total dividends for 2008 to 4.06p, a reduction of 32%.
During the year we suspended the 1bn share buyback having completed 843m of share purchases under the programme.
The consequent reduction in the number of shares outstanding has significantly cut the ongoing cost of dividend.
04 Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 www.
com Our Group To see interviews with Sir Rob Margetts please visit www.
com 4.06p 189 m 870m Full year dividend IFRS operating loss EEV operating profit 2007: 5.97p 2007: profit of 658m 2007: 848m Financial Highlights to align our resource base and infrastructure more closely Worldwide new business sales for 2008 were 1,486m on with changing business volumes.
At the same time, we an Annual Premium Equivalent APE basis 2007: 1,437m.
welcomed new employees to Legal & General following our International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS operating acquisitions of Suffolk Life, Nationwide Life and Nationwide loss was 189 m 2007: profit of 658m and IFRS loss Unit Trust Managers.
Throughout the year we worked to from ordinary activities after income tax was 1,130 m improve employees understanding and knowledge of the 2007: profit 718m.
The Company remains strongly business and to raise levels of skill and engagement through capitalised with a regulatory capital surplus of 1.8bn on the improved training and communication.
Our partnership Insurance Groups Directive IGD basis, and a AA Financial with Unite, the trade union, remains strong and collaborative Strength Rating.
and as ever we appreciate their support.
Shareholder Communications and AGM Outlook After two transitional years, I am pleased to report that In 2007s Annual Report, I indicated that we expected to the majority of our shareholders are now receiving Annual see more difficult market conditions.
The dislocation in and Interim Reports online.
Of those of you who chose credit markets in 2008 will, we anticipate, be followed by to continue to receive printed copies, most now favour the continuing recession in the UK in 2009 and perhaps beyond.
These changes have Business conditions are becoming more difficult as a result been positive in environmental and cost terms, and the shift of falling house prices, rising unemployment and declining online has enabled us to make more information available corporate profitability.
to shareholders, in increasingly user-friendly formats.
Legal & General, however, has a robust and diversified This years Annual General Meeting AGM will be held on business model and a long history of operational success.
Wednesday 27 May at the Institution of Engineering and While it is undoubtedly appropriate for us to adopt a more Technology, Savoy Place, London WC2R 0BL.
cautious stance during this period of financial turbulence and uncertainty, we believe the Company is well positioned Board Changes to trade through the economic downturn and emerge in There were no Board changes during 2008.
In January a strong financial and competitive position.
2009, Kate Avery stood down from the Board.
I would like to thank her for her contribution to Legal & General since 1996, and to the Board since 2001.
Mark Gregory joined the Board as Executive Director Savings in January 2009, and I look forward to working with him in his new capacity.
Sir Rob Margetts Our Staff Chairman I remain convinced that Legal & Generals people and culture are significant assets which differentiate the Company from its competitors.
While the increasingly difficult recent market conditions have placed correspondingly greater burdens on our management and staff, they have risen to the challenges of a much more uncertain business environment and the increasing need www.
com Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 05
