2 lloyds Banking Group Annual report and Accounts 2008 CHAirMANS STATeMeNT Sir Victor Blank thE hBOs tRAnsActiOn 2008 was a very difficult and challenging year for the banking industry, lloyds TSB and HBoS had, on a number of occasions over the years, both in the uK and overseas.
Asset values fell significantly in many discussed the possibility of a combination.
it was only the unique developed markets.
Wholesale funding contracted in a dramatic fashion circumstances of last autumn, however, that enabled this transaction to as the expansionary credit conditions that had prevailed for some time happen.
When we decided to acquire HBoS, we were doing so at a time ended abruptly.
The uK Government had to intervene in the banking when the economy was already deteriorating with the prospect of further system by providing capital and liquidity where the markets had failed.
We were very mindful of the difficult economic backdrop in short, markets and economies behaved in ways which, i think it is fair to this transaction.
We were also very aware, however, of the compelling to say, we have not seen in living memory.
logic of this transaction, including the substantial market positions we would secure and the significant synergies that would be generated.
in short, we At times of great economic and financial uncertainty, many apparently see the deal as being strategically imperative for us.
The size and scale settled ideas come under great scrutiny.
There is no doubt that there of the new group is very significant indeed and it offers opportunities for is a great deal of rethinking going on now and a new banking system growth for the future which a stand-alone lloyds TSB might not have been will emerge both in this country and elsewhere in the coming years.
in a position to deliver to the same degree.
our senior management team, Some certainties continue to prevail, however.
for us, our emphasis on given its track record and strength in depth, is very well placed to exploit our relationship with our customers will remain very much at the core of these opportunities on behalf of all our shareholders.
how we do things as a business.
indeed, we believe this emphasis on customer relationships was a great asset to us last year and it will be at We believe that the HBoS transaction will prove to be very successful the core of how we develop our enlarged business in the future.
for our shareholders and our other stakeholders as well.
lloyds Banking Group is now the largest financial services franchise in the uK with a range 2008 was also, of course, the year when lloyds TSB announced it was of leading market positions in important product lines, such as savings, acquiring HBoS plc: the transaction was subsequently completed on current accounts, mortgages, insurance and long-term savings.
We are also 16 January 2009. it is this transaction to which i will now devote most of a leading player in the Small and Medium enterprise SMe and wholesale my attention in this review.
i will also cover a number of other important banking sectors.
The Group clearly has a very significant retail banking issues, however, which i know shareholders would like me to discuss.
footprint and, with approximately 3,000 branches, is present in more uK They include the state sponsored banking recapitalisation last autumn locations than any other financial institution.
We will also have the benefit and more recent significant Government measures, our dividend policy, of substantial synergies.
our obligations to society, our corporate governance and the outlook for your company.
There is no doubt that the immediate outlook is challenging as indeed it is for most other banks in the uK and overseas.
lloyds TSBs trading performance in 2008 was by no means immune from the continued turbulence in the global financial markets which contributed to the decline in profit before tax to 807 million.
HBoS was adversely affected by the challenging market conditions, a sharp decline in asset values and the dramatic contraction in the wholesale markets.
Taking all these factors together, HBoS recorded a loss of 10.8 billion.
Against this backdrop, it is unsurprising that questions have been asked about the HBoS transaction.
i think it is important to remember, as i have already mentioned, that we purchased HBoS when the economic downturn was already well underway.
in short, the opportunity to acquire HBoS only came about in the middle of great economic adversity and in conditions which are unlikely to be repeated.
in purchasing HBoS we acquired 17.9 billion of net asset value for 7.7 billion so, as a board, we remain very much convinced that this is the right transaction for your company.
The short-term outlook is indeed difficult.
Your board believes, however, that the earnings potential of lloyds Banking Group will be significant in the longer term.
thE ROlE Of gOvERnMEnt A great deal has been said in recent months about the nature of the Governments involvement with the banking sector.
We believe that most of the Governments initiatives have been positive and well considered.
in particular, we very much welcome the Governments interventions to stabilise the banking system, provide liquidity and to encourage more lending.
The dramatic unfolding of events across the world following the collapse of lehmans meant that the Government needed to take swift and decisive action.
That is why, despite lloyds TSBs relative strength, in october 2008 we, together with other uK banks, were required by the uK Government to strengthen capital ratios as part of an industry wide initiative to reduce the systemic risk in the uK banking system.
This led to us raising an additional 5.5 billion in capital, 4.5 billion in ordinary shares and 1 billion in preference shares.
HBoS were also required under the recapitalisation scheme to raise 11.5 billion, 8.5 billion in ordinary shares and 3 billion in preference shares.
The uK Government, as part of the capital raising process, has now become a 43.4 per cent shareholder in the Group.
OvERviEw BusinEss REviEw gOvERnAncE finAnciAl stAtEMEnts shAREhOldER infORMAtiOn Group profile 1 Summary of Group results 10 The board 66 report of the independent Shareholder information 191 auditors on the consolidated chairmans statement 2 Divisional results 18 Directors report 68 index to annual report 192 financial statements 96 Group chief executives review 4 Corporate responsibility 36 Corporate governance 70 financial calendar 2009 195 Consolidated financial Group chief executives Q&A 6 our people 40 Directors remuneration report 74 statements 97 Marketplace trends 8 risk management 42 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 102 five year financial summary 65 report of the independent auditors on the parent company financial statements 182 parent company financial statements 183 3 lloyds Banking Group Notes to the parent company financial statements 186 Annual report and Accounts 2008 dividEnd OutlOOk As part of the HM Treasury recapitalisation scheme, the Group was The unprecedented market conditions which i sketched out at the start required to suspend the payment of cash dividends to ordinary of this review have continued into 2009.
At the same time, the economy shareholders until the HM Treasury preference shares issued as part of is continuing to deteriorate: the debating point now is how deep the the scheme are repaid.
in the meantime, however, as we indicated in our recession will be and how long will it take for it to end.
one thing is shareholder circular last year, the board has approved a capitalisation issue certain we are facing a prolonged period of economic difficulty for many of one for 40 ordinary shares held.
households and companies up and down the country.
As a bank with a strong focus on customer relationships, we are committed to helping OuR ROlE in sOciEty our customers wherever possible to manage their way through these challenging times.
At a time when there is a great deal of public debate about the role of the banking system, i think it is important to reflect on the contribution that We know the short-term outlook for the enlarged Group is challenging.
Whenever economic conditions do begin to normalise, however, we believe banks, and lloyds Banking Group in particular, make to our society.
our company is the largest provider of social banking accounts in the uK.
We your company will be in a very strong position to reap the benefits.
our strong franchise across the whole range of product lines will enable us to provide four million of these accounts and are proud of the way in which we help our low income customers to access the banking system and, do just that.
in the meantime, our imperative is to manage your business as effectively as possible on your behalf during these challenging times.
where appropriate, move up to a full service current account.
We also have a substantial community investment programme through activities i believe we have the right people to do so.
within the Company as well as the four lloyds TSB foundations.
our one of the most important ways in which leading businesses differentiate overall community investment programme is now somewhere in the themselves from their peers is through the quality of their people.
i have no region of 100 million a year and is, as a result, one of the most significant doubt that we at lloyds Banking Group are very fortunate in having many of contributions by any major corporate to uK society.
We are determined to the best people in our industry working for us.
The last 12 months, however, continue to play an important role in the many communities in which we have been exceptionally difficult for many of our customers and colleagues operate up and down the country.
The unprecedented levels of market turbulence have meant that my Turning to broader societal issues, a great deal has been said in recent colleagues have spent a great deal of time helping customers to understand what is happening and providing them with the necessary reassurance.
The months about the role of bonuses in the banking system.
We recognise the legitimate public interest in this subject.
We have worked closely with job that our colleagues do for our customers is very valuable and highly valued by us.
i would therefore like to take this opportunity to thank them the Government to devise a bonus system which is fair to our colleagues and sensitive to the wider needs of society as a whole.
We do think that on our behalf for their outstanding contribution in 2008. a necessary process is now underway to reassess the way in which some incentives in the banking system were structured and awarded typically in areas in which we dont have a great deal of involvement.
Specifically, we are very much a retail and commercial banking business with very little in sir victor Blank the way of investment banking activity.
We also recognise how important Chairman it is to align bonus and remuneration schemes with the interests of our 26 february 2009 shareholders, something we believe we have done over the years.
from our perspective, it is particularly important that we retain our best talent both in the uK and overseas and we believe that it is an important factor that should also be taken into account when designing total reward systems.
OuR cORpORAtE gOvERnAncE We are committed to ensuring that the Group has a robust governance structure in place.
Good corporate governance matters even more now than ever before.
As we integrate HBoS we are now moving quickly to common governance standards.
i believe this is important as there is a clear link between high quality governance and shareholder value creation.
During the year, we have continued the boards renewal process with the appointment of three new non-executive directors, each of whom brings a wealth of experience to the board.
They are Carolyn McCall, Sir David Manning and Martin Scicluna and brief biographical details can be found on pages 66 and 67. in addition, Tim ryan and Tony Watson will join us on 1 March and 2 April 2009, respectively.
These appointments ensure that your board has a broad range of skills and senior experience, qualities which i believe are even more important now than they might have been before the economic turmoil began.
in october, Tim Tookey was appointed our new group finance director following Helen Weirs move from this role to become group executive director, uK retail Banking after Terri Dials decision to leave the Group.
Mike fairey, deputy group chief executive, retired in June following a 17 year career with the Group.
on behalf of the board, i would like to thank Mike for his invaluable contribution to the Group over such a long period of time and wish Terri well in her new career.
