the worlds capital market chairMans stateMent our strateGY For international GroWth continues to DeliVer real Value to our custoMers anD shareholDers chris GiBson-sMith i would like to thank all our employees for their hard work and dedication which delivered another year of major achievement, in particular the merger with Borsa italiana which adds significant new opportunities for growth.
London Stock Exchange 14 annual report 2008 the worlds capital market It has been a remarkable year in the I am grateful for the continued support we financial sector, with market conditions have received from HM Government and the becoming more difficult during the period.
City of London in pursuing our international Nevertheless, we made good operational, growth strategy.
We set new records in trading, information and post In the last year your Company consolidated trade services, achieved higher earnings its unique strategic position and per share, and completed the merger with strengthened its prospects for growth.
Reflecting this performance Reflecting strong organic growth and the and its confidence in the future, the Board merger, the Group became a member of is proposing a final dividend of 16 pence the FTSE 100 index in December 2007. per share, making a total of 24 pence for the year, an increase of 33 per cent.
Despite challenging times for the financial sector and the prospect of increasing The enlarged Group delivered strong competition in Europe and beyond, we revenue growth for the year, up 56 per cent approach the future with confidence.
DiViDenD to 546 million and up 15 per cent on a pro Our merger brings greater diversification 1 forma basis.
Adjusted basic earnings per of revenues and further opportunities for share for the year, excluding exceptional growth.
Your Company continues to maintain items and amortisation of purchased its global leadership in international IPOs, 8.0 pence intangibles, was 73.1 pence.
This was to invest in ever faster and more efficient a 30 per cent increase over last year.
technology to meet the increasing demand interim dividend per share for neutral, highly liquid execution services, We continued to return capital to and to develop its suite of data products shareholders through our share buyback the lifeblood of an efficient market.
In the last year we returned 139 million, bringing the total returned A new Group Board structure was put Final dividend per share since 2004 to over 910 million.
I would like to welcome Angelo Tantazzi as Deputy Our merger with Borsa Italiana, completed Chairman and Massimo Capuano as Deputy on 1 October 2007, brought together Chief Executive together with Paolo Scaroni, two highly efficient and complementary Andrea Munari and Sergio Ermotti as Nonbusinesses.
As a result, your Company has Executive Directors.
Jonathan Howell, extended its position as Europes leading Gary Allen and Peter Meinertzhagen equities business, and diversified its product have stepped down from the Board and offering, in particular through the ownership I would like to thank them for their valuable of Europes most efficient providers of contribution.
Jonathan Howell is succeeded clearing and settlement services Cassa as Chief Financial Officer by Doug Webb.
di Compensazione e Garanzia CC&G and Monte Titoli.
I would like to thank all our employees for their hard work and dedication which Despite the uncertainty caused by current delivered another year of major achievement, global financial conditions, trading on our in particular the merger with Borsa Italiana markets has proved very resilient, setting which adds significant new opportunities new records at a time of limited liquidity for growth.
This highlights the value and importance of trusted, well regulated exchanges that provide quality price formation and certainty of execution.
The continuing globalisation of capital markets underpins our international strategy.
We are developing our business organically chris Gibson-smith as well as through cooperation and chairMan consolidation.
In October we announced a joint venture with the Tokyo Stock Exchange to establish a growth market for early stage 1 Pro forma figures are presented for the full companies from Japan and elsewhere in year and the prior comparative year as if Borsa Asia.
In January, I was delighted that, after Italiana had been acquired on 1 April 2006, with the expeditious handling of our application translation of prior year using the same average by the Chinese authorities, the UK Prime exchange rate as the year ended 31 March 2008 Minister opened our new office in Beijing.
London Stock Exchange 15 annual report 2008
