Chairmans statement The Group has continued to set the pace This Annual Report, my first as chairman, highlights our ability to continue to advance in the face of challenging external factors.
These in 2008 include, at a macro level, a global financial crisis and highly volatile foreign exchange markets, and at a micro level the unlevel playing field in poker caused by sites that continue to take wagers from customers located in the United States, despite the enactment of the UIGEA.
We have been able to move forward because PartyGaming is a remarkable company.
The ability to adapt and innovate runs deep in the organisation and our staff have continued to deliver despite the scale of these challenges.
As in previous years, there have been many notable achievements.
Foremost amongst these was the launch of the next generation of PartyPoker, our flagship brand.
We believe that PartyPoker is once again best in class and we are aiming to achieve similar levels of recognition for all of our products.
Our casino business is the largest online casino in the world and now has a suite of movie-themed slot Rod Perry games that is second to none.
Non-Executive Chairman Besides making great strides on the product development front, the Group has also built a strong business-to-business B2B operation in 2008.
Having already established our B2B credentials, we have struck some exciting deals since the end of 2008 namely with CIRSA, the international gaming and leisure company, and with DM plc, the largest direct marketing group in the UK.
Each of these deals is a testament to the quality of our products as well as the strength of our reputation as a business partner.
18 | PartyGaming Plc Annual Report 2008 Overview 02 29 Business review 32 77 Governance 78 101 Financial statements 102 138 Other information 139 149 Governance Whilst there has been some refreshing of the Boards membership and leadership, I and my colleagues are confident that the current team of Directors can effectively oversee the implementation of the Companys strategy, whilst maintaining the highest standards of Earnings growth Clean EPS for our Continuing operations increased by corporate governance which we have 55% in 2008 to 24.9 cents.
In this Annual Report we have sought to provide an insight into our operations and also our approach with regard to all our stakeholders.
I am proud to say that our efforts, especially for corporate and social responsibility, were recognised again in 2008 through being crowned eGaming Reviews Socially Responsible Operator of the Year at the annual industry awards as well as by the inclusion of PartyGamings shares in the exclusive FTSE4Good Index Series.
Dividends Whilst the Group has continued to recover well following the enactment of the UIGEA, in light of any possible settlement with the US Department of Justice in respect of the Groups pre-UIGEA activities, and given significant industry consolidation opportunities, the Board believed it was imprudent to pay an interim dividend or to recommend a final dividend for 2008.
The Board continues to keep this position under review.
Outlook Despite an uncertain macroeconomic environment, the Groups business strategy is in place and on track.
The strength of our brands, the resilience of our business model and the proven industry expertise of our management team mean that the Board remains confident about the Groups prospects.
