Chairmans review 2007 08 delivered further good progress, We wanted to refocus International on the EBITDA grew by 23% and total operating drivers of value which were doing.
We have profit has more than doubled.
In 2008 09 set our strategy and approach and as a result therell be more growth in EBITDA, which I expect International to deliver growing numbers I expect to flow through into cash.
of customers, improving customer service, increased EBITDA and better cash flow.
Im pleased with what we have achieved in 2007 08, building on last years solid Two years after we introduced two standalone foundations.
business units Europe, Asia & US and International to Cable & Wireless, its Europe, Asia & US continues to focus on the clear that good progress has been made largest users of telecommunications whether in our performance.
at home or abroad which plays to our strengths, particularly our scale and reach.
The high quality In 2008 09 I expect our performance managed services that we offer are exactly what to improve even further.
Financially and these customers require.
Its something of a first operationally, we are showing the necessary for me to be able to say that our latest IP based momentum for the Board to consider the next product suite, supported by our next generation steps to deliver further value to shareholders.
network, gives us a market lead thatll exist for At the interim results I indicated that Id some time.
All of this at a time when our service recommend a 28% increase in the full year levels are at an all time high.
50 pence per share subject to In the second half of 2007 08, Europe, trading conditions.
Trading conditions continue Asia & US passed two important milestones to be fine so Im delighted to confirm that I am it returned to revenue growth and it generated making that recommendation.
trading cash for the first time in many years.
Finally, my congratulations go to our people International grew during 2007 08 but not because the success that Im reporting by as much as we would have liked.
There on is a real credit to every one of them.
were stunning performances from Panama and Macau.
These two businesses are thriving Richard Lapthorne as truly competitive enterprises.
In 2008 09 Chairman we will see more mobile competition in Panama but weve prepared diligently and are as ready as we can be.
Elsewhere there were solid performances from the portfolio although Jamaica remains a blemish.
With a new management team in Jamaica since August 2007, performance improvements are beginning to show through but theres still some way to go.
06 Good progress Business review A review of our two business units International and Europe, Asia & US and our performance during the year.
International 09 Executive Chairmans review 10 Business overview 14 Performance review 20 Corporate social responsibility Europe, Asia & US 23 Executive Chairmans review 24 Business overview 28 Performance review 34 Corporate social responsibility Group 36 Group Finance Directors review 37 Financial performance review 41 Risk overview 07 Business review International
