Overview Strategic review Governance Financial statements Other information U06003 pp001-pp033.
qxp:1-33 5 3 09 14:55 Page 05 Chairmans statement energised by the challenges ahead The Group delivered a strong performance in 2008.
We met or exceeded our financial targets during a period of economic slowdown and financial turmoil while at the same time implementing important changes to the structure of the Group and the confectionery business.
Roger Carr Chairman The Groups trading performance was strong, Despite our own change programmes and with a significant improvement in operating margin the unprecedented turmoil in financial markets, and an increase in confectionery revenues of 15% to our teams around the world worked diligently to 5.4bn.
Excluding the benefit of foreign exchange, implement our business plan.
I would like to thank base business revenue growth was 7%, representing all of them for their commitment, enthusiasm and organic growth above the top end of our 4%6% focus on the job at hand and for making 2008 goal range.
Strategy Throughout the year, we took effective measures Your Chief Executive, Todd Stitzer, explains our strategy to protect and expand our profit margins.
We at length in the next section, but I would like to briey increased our prices to offset the rise in input discuss the transformation of Cadbury into a focused confectionery company.
costs and streamlined our cost base, mainly through reductions in sales, general and administration costs Cadbury plc started trading in May 2008 when we completed and in central overheads.
As a result, combined the successful demerger of the Americas Beverages business.
The with the good revenue growth, we signicantly final steps towards becoming a pure-play confectionery business were announced in December 2008 with an agreement to sell increased our profits.
Our underlying operating Schweppes Australia, our last remaining beverages business, margin increased from 10.1% in 2007 to 11.9% in subject to certain conditions.
Your Board is convinced that the 2008.
Excluding the gain from foreign exchange, focus gained by the separation, combined with the power of the improvement in margin was 150 bps.
our brands in both developed and emerging markets, is already enhancing the prospects of the business.
It is encouraging how quickly we adapted to being a focused confectionery company, I believe this is a strong performance and shows and the enthusiasm with which this change has been embraced.
good progress on our four year Vision into Action VIA strategic plan which includes achieving mid-teens margins by 2011.
Cadbury UnileverUK InOctober,  Proctor&Gamble  Kraft .
