CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Chairmans Statement all costs are charged to the Revenue for sterling and since then the majority of Performance Account.
As a result, earnings may uctuate cash balances have been held in other In the year to 30 April 2008 net asset value considerably from year to year and the currencies.
We also decided not to roll over per share, with borrowings at fair value, Board has taken this into account in maturing forward contracts that had been rose by 14.2% and the FTSE World Index recommending a final dividend of 3.20p designed to improve the match between the in sterling terms fell by 1.4%.
All of the compared with 2.65p for the previous year.
currencies in which we have borrowings increase in net asset value per share was If approved, this will make the total dividend and the distribution of assets.
Together with achieved in the first half of the Companys for the year 3.70p, an increase of 17.5% the repayment of yen borrowings, these year, during which period the comparative from the 3.15p paid last year.
changes leave the Company with all of its index rose by 4.4%.
In the second half, net borrowings in sterling in the form of existing asset value per share fell by 0.3% and the Investment Activity long-term debentures.
The share price ended During the year we made considerable the year at 348.0p, 15.9% higher than at Discount and Buybacks changes to the portfolio and the Managers the end of the previous year and 2.2% off Report on pages 6 to 8 explains many of The discount at fair value narrowed from the record high reached in October.
Net sales of equities 11.3% to 10.0% over the course of the Our holdings in oil and gas producers, oil of 162.6m were partially offset by year.
The Board considers the level of service companies, mining companies and 45.4m of net purchases of bonds, so that discount and has authorised the repurchase steelmakers performed particularly strongly, net sales of equities and bonds combined of shares when this will be of bene t to though it was notable that in the second amounted to 117.2m.
The proceeds of continuing shareholders as well as being in half of the year these companies performed these sales were used to repay all of our the interest of those shareholders who may less well despite the oil price reaching a yen borrowings and repurchase shares.
not have the luxury of choosing the optimum new record high, large increases in iron There was a small decline in the amount of time to sell some or all of their shares.
ore and coal prices, and rising exploration cash held but effective gearing has been During the year to 30 April 2008 54.7m and development spending in the oil and reduced: at the year end net current assets was spent on the repurchase of 16.47m gas industries.
We also bene ted from mainly consisting of cash were well in shares, increasing net asset value per share a large rise in the value of the Brazilian excess of the fair value of outstanding debt.
If the proposed final dividend is currency during the year and from holding Equities as a percentage of shareholders approved, the total amount of money paid cash.
For the year as a whole, the main funds were 87.8% and equities and bonds to continuing and exiting shareholders for disappointment was the poor performance together were 98.1%.
the year based on the issued share capital of Japanese property shares.
In the second A motivation for many of the sales was the at the year end will be 64.5m.
This would half there was also a signi cant fall in Asia reduction of exposure to companies likely be a substantial increase over the equivalent ex-Japan, the impact of which was mitigated to suffer adverse effects from the bursting gure of 27.7m for the previous year.
by sales following large gains in the earlier of the housing bubble in the United States, part of the year.
Since the power to buy back shares was first and the likelihood of similar problems granted in 1999, 123.8m shares have been occurring in the United Kingdom.
The largest Earnings and Dividend bought back and cancelled, representing net reduction was unsurprisingly made in Earnings per share were 4.53p compared 32% of the share capital at the start of that North America, followed by the UK.
Pro ts with 3.91p last year, an increase of 15.9%.
The Board will continue to buy back were also taken in Asia after a period of Pre-tax earnings rose by 30.3% as a result shares if suitable opportunities appear.
rapidly rising share prices in the first half of increased income from shares, bonds and of the Companys year.
Net purchases cash and the recovery of VAT paid in previous VAT were made in Continental Europe and in years.
We have exhausted tax losses carried Following the rulings in various court cases non-Asian Emerging Markets.
It should be forward and are now paying corporation during the year, VAT is no longer payable emphasised, however, that these changes in tax with the result that post-tax earnings rose on management fees.
In addition, the geographical weightings were the outcome by only 9.9%.
Excluding the impact of the Company will be able to recover some of decisions made to avoid or favour certain recovery of VAT, the increase was 2.6% in of the VAT paid in previous years.
We types of companies rather than to avoid post-tax earnings and 8.2% in earnings per have recognised 1.2m as a debtor in or favour countries or regions.
The larger increase on a per share the accounts in respect of the period from what a company does and where it does basis is a result of a reduction of 5.0% in 2000.
There could be further recoveries it are more important than where its shares the weighted average number of shares in respect of this period and the period happen to be quoted.
outstanding owing to share buy backs.
from 1990 to 1996 but the amounts are In the second half of the Companys year uncertain.
Further information is included in Monks invests with the aim of achieving we formed a negative view on the outlook note 21 to the accounts.
capital growth rather than income and Past performance is no guarantee of future performance.
4 ANNUAL REPORT 2008 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT and weakening activity in Asia, with knockopportunities are likely to arise in equity Outlook on effects on demand for commodities and and xed income markets to invest our cash Despite, or possibly because of, the capital goods, which will have the effect into assets at prices that will yield attractive increasing integration of the global economy of spreading the impact to Latin America, returns over the long run.
We begin the year the prospects for parts of the world appear Europe and beyond.
In the longer run there well-placed, with a substantial amount of very different.
In those countries such as the seems little doubt that the economic centre cash available to invest.
United States, the United Kingdom, Spain, of gravity of the world has shifted back to Ireland and Australia, where growth in recent the East and the driving force of global AGM years has been accompanied by, and to growth will be rising consumption in China, Following the introduction of the Companies varying extents fuelled by, a massive increase India and other populous and rapidly Act 2006, a number of changes to the in property prices and a matching increase developing countries, but it remains to be Articles of Association are proposed.
These in indebtedness, the most likely outcome is a seen just how far along this road we have are detailed in the Appendix to the Notice period of low growth or even contraction.
Our portfolio is currently of Annual General Meeting on pages 45 explained in more detail in the Managers positioned to bene t from the continuation of and 46, with further information shown in Report, banks are short of both capital global growth, with signi cant exposure to the Directors Report on page 23. and liquid funds and as a result credit has commodity and energy producers and to the become much less freely available.
A period I hope shareholders will come to the Annual companies that supply these industries.
of retrenchment, rising savings rates and General Meeting, which will be held on 5 falling property prices was overdue and is An immediate concern is that one of the August 2008 at 11:00am at the RSA see probably necessary to correct the imbalances supports for equity markets in recent years, map on page 43.
Our manager will give created in recent years.
In the countries in namely a net reduction in the quantity of a short presentation and there will be an which the majority of the worlds population publicly traded equity as companies have opportunity to ask questions.
live the situation is very different.
The biggest repurchased shares or been taken private, concern here is that unwelcome consequence has been kicked away and companies are of too rapid growth, in ation.
Here savings now raising large amounts of additional are abundant and exceed even the need for capital.
Sovereign wealth funds have funds to support the high levels of investment provided signi cant amounts of new equity in productive capacity and infrastructure that for troubled financial institutions but their James Ferguson are accompanying the rapid growth of their appetite is likely to be nite and there is a 6 June 2008 economies.
risk that there will be an overall downward pressure on equity markets.
We also see In the year ahead we will discover whether in ation as a greater risk than fide ation this divergence of fortunes can continue as the high cost of energy feeds through or whether we are only witnessing a lag into other costs.
In such circumstances between weakening demand in America THE MONKS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 5
