Chairmans Statement Performance In my statement last year, I was relatively cautious about the outlook for 2007-2008, anticipating very low but positive returns from the market.
In the event, this has turned out to be considerably over-optimistic.
The NAV total return for your Company fell by 19.9% compared with a fall of 12.9% for the FTSE All-Share Index.
The tightening of credit through the damage done to banks balance sheets by imprudent lending, especially in the housing sector and through structured credit, has meant that economic growth Patrick Gifford worldwide has fallen well below earlier expectations.
Chairman Several countries are now in recession, though the United Highlights States appears so far to have been saved statistically from Net Asset Value Total Return -19.9% this fate by a curious combination of very strong net exports Share Price Total Return -18.8% and an implausibly low GDP deflator.
Britain, however, almost certainly is in recession though, as with the US, it may be mitigated by swings in net exports following the weakness of Sterling.
The Bank of Englands response has been muted due to concerns about inflation, even though this is likely to be an historic problem.
Most of the trends in the market reversed during the year.
Equity withdrawal, which had been a major source of strength, came to an end, and was replaced by large calls for capital, especially from banks, to replace the capital base which they had lost.
The Oil & Gas and Mining sectors provided the only positive returns.
Unfortunately, the latter is relatively low-yielding, which makes it difficult for us to participate fully in it.
The consequent underweighting was a significant source of the underperformance relative to the Index.
At the same time, the market was implacably hostile to any company with weakness either in its balance sheet or business profile.
This led to particularly savage falls in the banks, especially mortgage banks, anything related to property, and much of the consumer discretionary sector.
Towards the end of the period, there was some reversal of those movements, as mining companies investors realised that they would not be unaffected by a sharp slowdown in growth, and value buyers emerged for some of the sold-off sectors.
Dividends As one would expect given the more difficult earnings environment, short term dividend growth has fallen across the market as a whole.
Consensus dividend growth expectations for calendar 2008 are now 1.9%.
However, within the portfolio income generation has remained relatively robust.
The Directors are therefore proposing a final dividend of 11.25 pence per share payable on 6 November 2008 to Shareholders on the register on 3 October 2008, making total dividends for the year of 27 pence.
This represents an overall increase for the year of 11.3%, the twenty-third consecutive year in which the dividend has 4 Murray Income Trust PLC Enfocus Software - Customer Support increased.
Looking forward, dividend growth for the current At the moment, the most positive aspects of the equity financial year will be more muted.
Consensus expectations market are that it is totally unloved and appears cheap, even are for growth of 4.8%, which may, however, prove to be too on gloomy company forecasts.
Both these characteristics are optimistic.
Nonetheless, the Directors have decided to extremely useful, and may mean that we are at, or close to, a increase the rate at which interim dividends will be paid to low for markets.
However, there is clearly a lot of bad news 5.5 pence.
The rate of the final dividend will be decided when ahead, as the effects of the contraction in bank lending work the results for the year are known.
However, the Directors through the economy both via consumers and companies.
currently expect total dividends for this year to be at least There are beginning to be signs that this has been equal to those paid for the year ending 30 June 2008. discounted, but individual companies share prices still react surprisingly badly to rather predictable news.
It is hard to know what this might mean for capital returns in the current VAT on management fees year.
HM Revenue and Customs, on 5 November 2007, accepted the European Court of Justice ruling in the case brought by The timing of any improvement is difficult to predict.
JPMorgan Claverhouse Investment Trust against them.
It is Monetary policy will have to act alone, since fiscal policy probable that some of the VAT suffered in the past on its cannot really be deliberately eased from its present position.
investment management fees will be recoverable.
It has long leads and lags, and hasnt really been eased yet Appropriate steps have been taken to protect the Company's due to the perverse interaction of official policy and the position in this respect.
Since a number of legal and balance sheets of the banking sector.
2009 therefore seems procedural matters need to be resolved, no asset is, as yet, likely to be another difficult year, economically.
The Company will make an announcement once these matters are resolved.
In previous recessions, dividends have come under great pressure.
We have, therefore, modelled several scenarios for Annual General Meeting dividends.
At present, even the most pessimistic leave our The Annual General Meeting will be held at the Glasgow ability to pay a maintained dividend at least intact.
The Royal Concert Hall, 2 Sauchiehall Street, Glasgow G2 3NY on Company does, in addition, have substantial revenue Wednesday, 5 November 2008 at 12.30 p. m. reserves.
This should be a source of support for your Company, even when profits are under pressure.
This year, the Directors are proposing to make certain amendments to the Companys Articles of Association as a result of the Companies Act 2006.
Details of the Patrick Gifford amendments are set out in the notes to the Notice of Annual Chairman General Meeting, which is on pages 55 to 57.
16 September 2008 As at previous AGMs, there will be a presentation by the Managers and an opportunity to meet the Directors over lunch following the AGM.
Outlook The UK economy remains in a difficult position with high levels of government and personal debt, falling house prices and low consumer confidence.
The recent fall in the oil price should help provide relief from the unwelcome inflationary forces that have resurfaced over the past year or so.
Positively, to date, the second-round inflationary effects, for example, on average wages, have been muted.
However, the Bank of England still has very limited room to reduce interest rates in order to spur economic growth, though it will receive some help from the fall in Sterling against both the US dollar and the Euro.
Internationally, growth in emerging markets has remained relatively strong, but high inflation rates suggest sterner action is required to reduce growth.
The Eurozone, in contrast, is suffering from the lack of competitiveness of several major members.
Murray Income Trust PLC 5 Enfocus Software - Customer Support
