Chairmans Statement countries in Europe is running at a lower percentage of GDP in both public and private sectors.
Although Asia and Latin America continued to expand domestically, without reducing savings ratios, little attention was paid to such economic progress.
Regional stockmarkets declined in line with most international bourses as risk aversion took precedence over fundamentals.
The long-awaited decoupling of emerging markets from developed markets clearly failed to materialise, J F H Trott but last years events added to the economic power shift Chairman from West to East.
Given prevailing economic conditions, market declines were not unexpected, but the severity and Highlights volatility of these declines surpassed anything witnessed for Net Asset Value Total Return of -12.3%: a long time.
Weakness in Sterling, however, helped soften Benchmark Total Return of -21.7%: the blow given the Trusts broad international exposure.
Total proposed dividend increased by 10.5% versus 2007: Shares trading at a premium to net asset value per Dividends Ordinary share for most of the year: I am pleased to report that revenue generation from the 20m of new shares issued at a premium during the year.
Companys portfolio remained strong during the year and we have been able to increase the level of the three interim Performance dividends that have been paid to 4.8p 2007: 4.3p.
Your The total return on net asset value during the year was Board is now recommending a final dividend of 8.8p 2007: -12.3%, significantly ahead of the return on the benchmark 8.1p which, subject to the approval of shareholders at the index of -21.7%.
The share price total return was -8.1% Annual General Meeting, will be paid on 15 May 2009 to reflecting a move in the share price from trading at a shareholders on the register on 3 April 2009.
The smaller discount of 10.2% to net asset value at the end of 2007 to a percentage increase in the recommended final dividend discount of 5.9% at the end of 2008.
The Investment continues the policy of reducing the disparity between the Managers Review in the Annual Report contains an interim and final dividends.
If approved, the total dividend attribution analysis which shows the factors affecting net for the year will amount to 23.2p, an increase of 10.5% from asset performance.
Overall, although any capital loss is last year 2007: 21.0p.
B Ordinary shares now receive their unwelcome, the Board believes that the performance was capitalisation issue of B Ordinary shares at the same time as encouraging bearing in mind the considerably higher falls each dividend is paid.
Accordingly, subject to approval at the which occurred in many of the World markets in which we Annual General Meeting, B Ordinary shareholders will be invest.
issued on 15 May 2009 with new B Ordinary shares equivalent in Net Asset Value to the recommended final Background dividend for the year just ended.
2008 will be remembered as one of the most eventful years VAT on Management Fees Update in modern financial history.
Seldom has such economic adversity and financial pain been felt by so many countries Shareholders will be aware from my previous statements simultaneously.
What had begun as a sub-prime property that HM Revenue & Customs have agreed that VAT on collapse in the United States in 2007 escalated to a management fees should not have been incurred by UK worldwide credit crisis as trust in financial institutions investment trusts.
The Board is pleased to be able to report declined.
In the second half of the year recessionary that our income this time includes a sum of 1,337,190, conditions affected the Western world as banks denied representing the VAT charged on our management fees heavily indebted consumers further credit.
Structurally between 2004 and 2007 exclusive of interest thereon leveraged businesses and financial products dependent on which has not been offset previously by the Company.
This borrowed money suffered particularly under the pressure of repayment has been split in accordance with the Companys relentless selling.
In the UK, the banking system came close accounting policy, with 1,027,064 being credited to capital to insolvency as public mistrust and a run on deposits and 310,126 being credited to revenue.
We expect, in due emphasised its fragile state.
The Government ultimately course, to be able to recognise further sums, once there is intervened by guaranteeing savings and semi-nationalising more certainty as to the amounts recoverable by the the most vulnerable institutions, but not before substantial Manager in respect of the VAT incurred on management fees systemic damage had been done.
Europe also suffered from in prior periods.
the shift in global attitude towards credit, but the impact was less than in the UK as current indebtedness in most 4 Murray International Trust PLC Gearing would be grateful if you would confirm your attendance by completing the notice that will accompany the Annual The Companys gearing with cash netted against borrowings Report and returning it together with an indication of any was 11.1% as at 31 December 2008.
During the year the particular questions that you would like to ask.
Board negotiated a new 40,000,000 multi currency facility with Barclays Bank plc.
4.15 billion yen approximately Outlook 20.2 million under this facility was used to repay expiring yen facilities and the remaining 4.1 billion yen There has been no respite for global equity markets since the approximately 19.8 million was new borrowing.
High volatility and widespread selling pressure has Board believes that the low level of confidence that currently continued to push markets lower.
There can be no denying exists will provide attractive opportunities for profitable that countries such as the US and UK face deep economic investment.
A small part of this gearing was invested in recessions that will be painful to endure.
However the November and December but the bulk is still held in cash indiscriminate nature of global equity market declines is awaiting investment.
We have continued the policy of uncovering numerous valuation anomalies.
When at last eliminating the currency risk on these borrowings by stability returns to the global financial system, many covering the yen exposure back into sterling.
companies in the developed world should be well placed to capitalise on recovery given the demise of worldwide Issue of New Shares competitors whilst the developed world, unburdened by debt and the structural weakness that accompanies it, can look At the Annual General Meeting held in April 2008 forward to reaping the rewards of earlier saving and investing shareholders authorised Directors to issue up to 5% of the in an increasingly competitive world.
It is the Board and Companys issued share capital for cash at a premium to the Managers belief that with many high quality, financially prevailing asset value at the time of each issue.
During the strong companies now yielding over twice the level of year 3.16 million new Ordinary shares or approximately 3.5% Government Bonds, the case for equities is improving.
With of our capital were issued under this authority at a weighted its liquidity position still high, the Trust remains well average premium of approximately 2.5%, resulting in a positioned to capitalise on further opportunities as they arise.
modest enhancement to net asset value for existing shareholders.
Given the continuing demand for the Companys shares the Board will be seeking approval from J F H Trott shareholders to increase the level of this authority for 2009 Chairman to 10% of the issued share capital.
As in previous years, new 24 February 2009 shares will only be issued at a premium to net asset value in order to avoid diluting the assets of the Company.
Resolutions to this effect will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting and the Directors strongly encourage shareholders to support this proposal.
Directorate Mr Benson has served on the Board since October 1999 and has now decided to retire as a Director of the Company at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
I would like to take this opportunity to thank David both personally and on behalf of the Board for the service that he has provided to the Company over the years.
We shall miss his wise counsel.
Annual General Meeting As shareholders will be aware, from time to time the Company holds its Annual General Meeting in London in order to allow the considerable number of shareholders based in the South East to meet the Directors.
This years Annual General Meeting has therefore been convened for Wednesday 22 April 2009 at 12.30 p. m. in the Capital Suite at the London Chamber of Commerce and Industry, 33 Queen Street, London EC4R 1AP.
As at previous AGMs, there will be a presentation from the Manager and an opportunity to meet the Directors and Manager and ask questions.
