BUSINeSS revIeW Chairmans Statement Norman Murray, Chairman Today Cairns Indian business is entering a period of transformational growth with the phased build up of oil production, followed by a sustainable plateau, from its world class oil fields in Rajasthan.
Previous page The Mangala Processing Terminal, Rajasthan.
Mangala production is due to commence in Q3 2009.
12 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2008 The planned ultimate production capacity of the Rajasthan development has increased over the last 12 months as we have sought to optimise the potential of the resource base.
The decision to develop the key fields in a phased manner has enhanced operational flexibility and allowed the initial focus to remain on Mangala and the export infrastructure.
The Bhagyam and Aishwariya fields, Enhanced Oil Recovery EOR, the Barmer Hill potential and other fields will follow in sequence when production is expected to rise to more than 175,000 barrels of oil per day.
Once Mangala is on stream it will generate revenues that will be used initially to invest in further development work in Rajasthan and to pay down debt.
The increasing production profile will deliver further value from Rajasthan, which will in turn provide Corporate overview the Group with additional financial flexibility.
Cairn has a focused strategy for delivering organic growth and shareholder value.
Greenland Cairns exploration acreage position in Greenland is held through Underpinning the strategy for growth is the sequential its 90% owned international exploration subsidiary Capricorn.
development of our 25 oil discoveries in Rajasthan, A total of eight offshore blocks were acquired during 2008 and complemented by a new and exciting frontier exploration Capricorn has already completed its obligatory seismic work position in Greenland.
programme for the first four-year period over all of its blocks.
Planning for an exploration drilling campaign is already underway.
Cairns vision to create and build a business in India over the last 15 years has been based on the firm belief in the hydrocarbon The Arctic basins of Greenland are increasingly being recognised potential of the country and its hidden value potential.
Today as a potentially world class prospective area.
In July 2008, the US Cairns Indian business, operated and managed by Cairn India Geological Survey USGS released its Circum-Arctic Resource Limited CIL, is entering a period of transformational growth with Appraisal report and concluded that The extensive Arctic the phased build up of oil production, followed by a sustainable continental shelf may constitute the geographically largest plateau, from its world class oil fields in Rajasthan.
unexplored prospective area for petroleum remaining on earth.
A previous study by the USGS in 1996 recognised Greenland as Cairn holds a similar vision for Greenland, based on the same one of the worlds top ten potential hydrocarbon destinations for belief in its hydrocarbon potential.
These two areas are however yet to finds.
at different stages of the exploration and production cycle: in Rajasthan, production will commence in 2009, whilst Greenland Board offers material frontier exploration potential, the true value of I would like to record my thanks to Ed Story who stood down as a which has yet to be discovered.
Non-Executive Director in January 2009 having joined the Board in 1997.
His insight and knowledge of the worldwide oil and gas In the first half of 2008, the Government of India GoI approved industry has been hugely beneficial to the Board.
the shifting of the point where the crude would be delivered from the MBA fields in Rajasthan.
This meant that the contractual crude Dr James Buckee, the former President and Chief Executive Officer oil delivery point moved from the Mangala Processing Terminal of Talisman Energy, was appointed to the Board in January 2009.
MPT in the Rajasthan desert to existing infrastructure hubs and points on the Gujarat coast, with investment in the evacuation I am also delighted to report that Mike Watts, formerly Exploration pipeline included in the project.
This change in development plan and New Business director is now Deputy Chief Executive of necessitated the raising of $630m of additional funds via a placing the Company.
Following the placing, the Companys holding in CIL reduced by 4% to 65%.
outlook The Group intends to continue to target material growth across In the second half of the year, the capital markets both debt and its business.
equity were difficult to access for most businesses.
The main priority for Cairn throughout this period was to re-examine and The focus in 2009 is delivering production in Rajasthan on re-schedule the phasing of certain key elements of the Rajasthan schedule and agreeing oil sales contracts with the buyers of development.
This was done to meet the target delivery date of the Rajasthan crude.
first oil in the second half of 2009 and to ensure that the project remained suitably financed.
Cairns original vision for and belief in India has been borne out by events.
This year will see production commence not only in The 5% placing of PLC shares announced in March 2009 has Rajasthan but also from the substantial discoveries made by raised $161m to strengthen Cairns equity capital base in order Reliance off the east coast.
to maintain operational and financial flexibility across all of its operations both in relation to the Rajasthan development and Our exploration activities in Greenland are at a very early stage, its exploration position in Greenland.
but we firmly believe in the countrys hydrocarbon potential and our evaluation efforts will continue whilst we also investigate India options for early drilling.
The current focus for CIL is the delivery of the high-value Rajasthan project.
The next two years promise to be an exciting time for Cairn.
With a marked increase in Group production and cash flow we will continue to evaluate the strategic options for further creation of shareholder value.
Norman Murray Chairman, 6 April 2009 Image Above Cairn Board visit to the Mangala Processing Terminal, Rajasthan in December 2008.
CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2008 13
