com 6 Chairmans statement John Hastings-Bass Chairman In my first statement as Chairman of Novae, I am delighted and broker relationships built up over many years.
They have to report a sparkling set of results.
Against the backdrop of done well to juggle these sometimes con icting demands to poor results from many underwriting businesses and some protect both the short term and the long term interests of catastrophic results from the rest of the financial sector, your company.
Novae steered a steady course between the Scylla and There is much talk of the insurance market cycle.
This Charybdis of a low point in the underwriting cycle and makes it no easier to predict the pattern for the next year the Sirens of finance houses offering seemingly attractive or so.
The reduction in capital from the combined effect of innovative investment products.
Matthew Fosh will catastrophic loss in 2008 and the investment impairments address the detail in his report.
I will focus here on the suffered by many insurers should mean that rates will rise background and the path Novae is following.
But to date this appears to have manifested 2008 will be seen as a watershed in the development of itself only in certain catastrophe classes, such as Gulf of your company.
The long period of rehabilitation has been Mexico energy and US property, largely in response to the substantially completed.
The decision to raise long term debt damaging hurricanes Gustav and Ike in 2008.
As for many capital in 2007 proved propitiously timed.
Our decision to other classes, in particular a number of liability classes, the pursue a conservative investment policy was fully vindicated rmer trend in rates is yet clearly to emerge.
Our investment committee did well to block their emerge, as it must do, we expect to see a balancing effect on ears to the enticements of the financial product salesmen.
the gross written premium line from reduced sums insured At a time when availability of capital is a key issue, Novae and reduced turnover as a result of the recession.
This will nds itself in a strong position.
disguise the bene cial impact of a higher rate on line.
We remain highly protective of our capital.
In 2008 we were I mentioned earlier in this statement that 2008 will be seen cautious in what we would underwrite.
We made some as a watershed for us.
Our balance sheet is in good shape.
tough decisions either to reduce our line size or exit certain We have a strong underwriting and management team on types of business where we believed that either rates had which we continue to build.
We are in a good position gone down too far or the economic climate would result in to look at corporate transactions which will add value an increase in claims beyond the outcome predicated in to the rm foundation that we have built.
This has been dif cult for our underwriters who have had to balance underwriting policy against client Novae Group plc | Annual Report 2008 Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 7 At the AGM on 16 May 2008, Paul Selway-Swift stepped down from the Board and as Chairman.
Paul joined the Board as Chairman in 1998.
He guided your company through stormy weather and we have bene ted much from his wise guidance.
In July 2008 we were delighted to welcome Laurie Adams as a non-executive director.
He brings a wealth of experience from his legal and banking background which has already begun to bene t Novae.
2008 has been my first full year on the Board of Novae.
I have been impressed from the outset by the professionalism and the dedication of both the management and underwriting teams.
They deserve our thanks for the result in 2008 and we can expect much more in the years to come.
