CHAIRMANS STATEMENT The Board is grateful to all Old Mutual people, who have worked very hard throughout this dif cult year.
Christopher Collins Chairman OVERVIEW OF 2008 2008 was a challenging year for Old Mutual.
While disappointing for shareholders, we believe that this is the operations in Europe and our heartland of South Africa prudent and correct course for the Company to take at were resilient, our US Life onshore business and this time of unusual economic stress.
operations at Old Mutual Bermuda experienced Annual General Meeting 2009 dif culties, particularly in the second half of the year.
This years Annual General Meeting AGM will be held This led to a disappointing decline in our adjusted at our of ces in London on Thursday, 7 May 2009. operating earnings per share on an IFRS basis, which The Notice of AGM is enclosed with this document fell by 28 percent compared to 2007, to 12.2p.
and includes details of the resolutions to be proposed Board at the meeting.
In September our Group Chief Executive, Jim Sutcliffe, Future resigned.
He was replaced by Julian Roberts, formerly This is my last year as Chairman, as I am planning to step Chief Executive of our European businesses.
Jonathan down at the end of December ahead of my seventieth Nicholls, our Group Finance Director, also left us towards birthday.
A process to select my successor, chaired the end of the year and was replaced by Philip Broadley, by Rudi Bogni, our Senior Independent Director, former Finance Director of Prudential plc.
Together, they is now underway.
have made a positive start in addressing the challenges that the Group faces.
The Board is determined to do everything in its power during 2009 to establish Old Mutual rmly on the road The Board is grateful to all Old Mutual people, who have to recovery.
worked very hard throughout this dif cult year.
Christopher Collins Dividend Chairman The Groups capital and liquidity positions are being 4 March 2009 closely monitored.
While they are currently satisfactory, we have taken the view, in the light of continuing market volatility and the uncertain economic outlook, that the Company should preserve its capital by not paying dividends during 2009.
Although we know this will be Page 04 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008
