PERPETUAL INCOME AND GROWTH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 05 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT I am pleased to present the Companys first annual financial report since I was appointed Chairman of your Board in July 2007. Review of the Year This is my first report to you as the Chairman of your Company and I would like to thank my colleagues on the Board for their contribution to the Company.
I would particularly like to thank Sir Patrick Sheehy for his stewardship and development of the Company until his retirement at our last Annual General Meeting.
The year started well as our investment manager, Mark Barnett, sought to reposition the portfolio by moving your investments into the UK markets larger companies.
However, the second half of the year was dominated by extreme volatility in the global stockmarkets brought on by the credit crunch and slowing economies.
This was the primary cause of your Companys fall in its total return diluted net asset value by 10.8% in comparison to the decrease of 7.7% for the FTSE All-Share Index total return.
Outlook Our investment manager believes that the UK economy has entered a period of slower growth, however, he remains cautiously optimistic in his outlook for the UK equity market, despite concerns over sluggish consumer and government spending.
This has led our investment manager towards a strategy that focuses clearly on companies that he believes should perform well in a more challenging economic environment.
Dividend An increased first interim dividend of 3.1p 2007: 2.75p was paid to shareholders on 28 December 2007.
The Directors have declared a second interim dividend of 4.7p 2007: 3.85p giving total dividends payable for the year of 7.8p 2007: 6.6p, an increase in the total dividend for the year of 18.2%.
The second interim dividend will be paid on 27 June 2008 to shareholders registered on 6 June 2008.
The Boards aim is for the Company to continue to maintain its policy of real dividend growth.
Gearing Actual gearing of the Company was 17% at the year end 2007: 21%.
The Boards policy is to allow gearing up to a level of 25%.
Subscription Share Exercise During the period under review, subscription shareholders had their second opportunity to exercise their right to subscribe for one ordinary share of the Company at a price of 218.94p.
The subscription period ended on 31 August 2007.
As a result, 369,344 ordinary shares were allotted on 17 September 2007.
Subscription shareholders will have further opportunities to convert their holdings in each of the years 2008 to 2013.
Issued Share Capital The issued share capital of the Company at the time of writing is 207,229,981 ordinary shares of 10p each and 17,767,023 subscription shares.
VAT on Management Fees In early November last year, HMRC accepted the European Court of Justice ruling in a test case that investment trusts should not be charged VAT on management fees.
Following this the Manager ceased to charge VAT on management fees.
Your Board is now taking steps to recover VAT paid in the past on your Companys management fees.
These fees span a number of years and your Board is holding discussions with the Manager concerning the amounts recoverable, and will advise shareholders of the outcome in due course.
Corporate Governance The Board remains committed to maintaining the highest standards of Corporate Governance and is accountable to you as shareholders for the governance of the Companys affairs.
The Directors believe that, during the period under review, they have complied with the provisions of the AIC Code of Corporate Governance as endorsed by the Financial Reporting Council, save in respect of matters discussed in the Corporate Governance statements contained on pages 26 to 31.
06 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT continued Annual General Meeting AGM At the AGM there are six items of Special Business to be proposed: Share Issuance First your Directors are asking for the usual authority to issue up to an aggregate nominal amount of 6,907,666 a third of the Companys issued share capital as at 10 June 2008 in new ordinary shares.
This will allow Directors to issue shares within the prescribed limits should any favourable opportunities arise to the advantage of shareholders.
The powers authorised will not be exercised at a price below NAV so that the interests of existing shareholders are not diluted.
This authority will expire at the AGM in 2009.
Secondly, your Directors are also asking for the usual authority to issue new ordinary shares pursuant to a rights issue or otherwise than in accordance with a rights issue of up to an aggregate nominal amount of 2,072,299 10% of the Companys issued share capital as at 10 June 2008 of new ordinary shares dis-applying pre-emption rights.
This will allow shares to be issued to new shareholders without having to be offered to existing shareholders first, thus broadening the shareholder base of the Company.
Share Buy Backs Thirdly, your Directors are seeking to renew the authority to buy back up to 31,063,774 14.99% of the Companys issued share capital as at 10 June 2008 subject to the restrictions referred to in the notice of the AGM.
Forthly, your Directors are proposing that shares bought back by the Company either be cancelled or alternatively, be held as treasury shares with a view to their resale if appropriate, or later cancellation.
The holding of treasury shares is restricted to 10% of the Companys issued share capital and any resale of them will only take place on terms that are in the best interests of shareholders.
Investment Objective and Policy Fifthly, pursuant to changes to the UKLA Listing Rules, listed investment companies are now subject to additional requirements in respect of their published investment policies.
Your Directors are therefore seeking the formal adoption of a restated investment objective and policy including investment limits for the Company.
It is not expected, or intended, that this will give rise to significant changes in the way the Companys assets are managed.
The Report of the Directors sets out the proposed investment objective and policy of the Company on page 14.
Amendments to the Articles of Association Finally, your Directors are seeking the approval of a number of amendments to the existing Articles of Association of the Company, primarily to reflect the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 that came partly into force in October 2007 and April 2008, and are also coming into force in October 2008.
An explanation of the main changes between the proposed and existing Articles of Association is set out in the Notice of the AGM on pages 52 to 54.
The AGM of the Company will be held at the Lanesborough, Hyde Park Corner, London SW1X 7TA on 9 July 2008 at 12.00 noon I do hope that as many shareholders as possible are able to attend.
This will be an opportunity not only to meet the Directors, but also to hear the views of Mark Barnett, who is the investment manager at Invesco Perpetual with the day-to-day responsibility for managing the Companys share portfolio.
