: DIRECTORS REPORT OVERVIEW Chairmans statement 02 A straightforward approach delivering strong performance balance between growth and collections capacity Provident Financials as well as reinforcing the groups responsible straightforward approach to lending policy.
lending, with a strong focus on The businesses continue to benefit from the customer affordability, has proved ongoing investment in credit management, new marketing and distribution channels and over a long period of time to be a technology.
During 2008, a new core accounting sound formula in addressing the platform, an enhanced agent commission UK non-standard credit market.
scheme, and further refinements to the credit scorecard were all rolled-out across the home The strength of the lending model credit branch network.
Vanquis Bank moved to combined with a strong funding larger premises and also completed a major upgrade to its IT platform, positioning the position and good management, business for further growth.
These major has seen the group make excellent changes were completed ahead of plan and progress during 2008 in pursuing leave both businesses with a clear focus on collections and arrears management during its strategy to consolidate its John van Kuffeler the early part of 2009.
Chairman position as the UKs leading The final dividend is maintained at 38.1p per non-standard lender.
share 2007: 38.1p reflecting the companys policy set out at the time of the demerger to at least maintain a full year payment of 63.5p per Summary of group results share whilst moving to a target payout ratio of The group has delivered excellent results for 80% of post-tax profit in the medium-term.
2008, despite a turbulent year for the economy.
Customer numbers have grown in line with The group has a strong balance sheet and has our internal plans, whilst arrears and recently strengthened its funding position impairment levels have remained stable through the successful extension of 213.2m throughout the year.
Profit before tax from of bank facilities maturing in March 2010 by continuing operations was up 11.8% to 128.8m 12 months.
It has committed facilities of 1.1bn 2007: 115.2m, including a first full year which provide headroom of over 250m with no profit before tax from Vanquis Bank of 8.0m scheduled maturities during 2009.
Adjusted earnings per share were up 11.7% to 70.9p 2007: 63.5p.
Market conditions The UK non-standard lending market in which Although the groups businesses have a number Provident Financial participates became of features which make them more resilient than increasingly under-served during 2008.
Many other lenders through difficult economic near-prime and non-standard unsecured conditions, this strong performance is also the lenders and credit card issuers have heavily result of decisive management actions.
In constrained their lending or have withdrawn particular, the group has adopted an increasingly from this market altogether.
Whilst these cautious approach to new lending for almost two favourable competitive conditions present a years against the backdrop of rising inflation significant opportunity for Provident Financial eroding consumers incomes and managements by increasing demand for its products, a more view that the economy would experience a marked deterioration.
These actions have maintained credit quality as evidenced by the stable arrears profile, delivered an appropriate Annual Report & Financial Statements 2008 Provident Financial plc : DIRECTORS REPORT OVERVIEW Chairmans statement continued 03 Group revenue 751.2m Average receivables 890.2m important influence on the groups lending based on an up to date knowledge of customers The businesses continue decisions during 2008 was the sustained household income.
That income often arises to benefit from the pressure from price inflation on UK households from a number of different sources which continuing investment with below average incomes and the broader provides a degree of resilience, particularly in credit management, deterioration in the economy.
during difficult economic times, and the weekly new marketing and home collection visit ensures the agents distribution channels The impact of inflation on essential household knowledge is kept up to date.
items such as food, fuel and utility bills over the past two years has been more pronounced for Finally, Vanquis Bank, which is a central Provident Financial customers than for most underwriter using a highly bespoke credit UK consumers.
This pressure, together with scorecard, rechecks its customers external managements view that the broader economy credit data every month, even if a customers would experience a marked deterioration, has account is fully up to date.
This allows emerging resulted in the group maintaining a cautious signs of credit stress to be detected early and approach to lending since the middle of 2007 proactively managed, including reducing as evidenced by the progressive tightening of undrawn credit lines where appropriate.
In underwriting to maintain the quality of its contrast with mainstream card issuers, Vanquis receivables portfolios.
This greater selectivity Bank also maintains sufficient call centre has resulted in an increased proportion of resource to allow it to contact all customers who applicants being declined in both businesses.
fall into arrears immediately, so as to identify A cautious approach to growth will be maintained issues quickly and return accounts to order as through 2009. soon as possible before arrears escalate.
Whilst the outlook for inflation now appears Outlook to be easing, the prolonged effect of the utility Provident Financial continues to experience price increases from 2008, combined with the significant demand for its products from an certain rise in unemployment during 2009, increasingly under-served non-standard credit continues to place pressure on household market.
The groups increasingly cautious budgets.
However, the groups businesses have approach to lending over a period of nearly two a number of inherent strengths which lessen years has been fundamental to maintaining an the impact of the current environment on appropriate balance between growth, credit arrears and impairment in comparison to quality and collections capacity and will other lenders.
continue through 2009 in order to deliver another year of high quality growth.
Firstly, the vast majority of the groups customers have limited access to other forms of credit, which means that they have not John van Kuffeler typically developed significant levels of personal Chairman indebtedness.
For example, only around 12% 3 March 2009 of home credit customers and a quarter of Vanquis Bank customers have mortgages.
This means that these customers are better able to afford their repayments despite volatility in their income.
Secondly, the small-sum, short-term nature of the groups home credit loans means that the vast majority of loans have been written by agents, face-to-face, within the last six months Annual Report & Financial Statements 2008 Provident Financial plc
