Group Chairmans statement We are well positioned to continue to Harvey McGrath achieve growth in profitable market Chairman share, even in these very challenging market conditions.
6 Prudential plc Annual Report 2008 Ov Overvie erview w I am very pleased to welcome you to Prudentials Tidjanes capabilities have been further underlined in 2008 Annual Report, my first as Chairman, and 2009, with his appointment to succeed Mark Tucker as to report a very strong financial performance in Group Chief Executive from 1 October 2009. challenging economic conditions.
Mark has decided to leave Prudential after 25 years with the Company and I would like to thank him for his immense Despite the unprecedented turmoil in the global financial contribution to the Group.
As Chief Executive of Prudential markets, 2008 was another successful year for Prudential, Corporation Asia from 1994 to 2003 he established sustaining our consistently strong financial performance over Prudential as the leading international life company in the past four years.
Throughout that time, our business has the region.
Under his leadership as Group Chief Executive been differentiated from its competitors by our diversified but since 2005 the business has taken maximum advantage selective geographic reach, in particular our involvement in of the opportunities for profitable growth arising from its Asia: our focus on the retirement opportunity: our outstanding diversified geographic spread.
Tidjanes appointment has product expertise: and the strength of the leadership team the full support of the whole Board, and the availability of built under our Group Chief Executive, Mark Tucker.
I also such an outstanding internal candidate reflects both the want to acknowledge the outstanding contribution made to strength in depth of our management team and the the Group by my predecessor, Sir David Clementi, over the effectiveness of our succession planning.
Our strong performance in 2008 was not just about financial We are well positioned to continue to achieve growth in returns.
Our founding principles of integrity, security and profitable market share, even in these very challenging market prudence continue to drive our commitment to supporting conditions.
Our prudent but proactive risk-based approach the financial health of our customers and the well-being of to capital management has ensured that our position remains the communities in which we operate.
During the year, over robust and resilient.
2,200 of our colleagues gave time to projects to improve their Given this performance, the Board has been able to local environment through the Chairmans Award scheme.
recommend a full-year dividend of 18.90 pence per share, At the end of the year, when employees voted for the project an increase of five per cent on 2007. they felt had enjoyed the greatest impact, the winner was the Foundation for Older Persons Development in Thailand.
Looking forward, we fully expect global economic conditions to remain highly challenging for some time.
However, we Promoting financial capability remained at the heart of our remain very well positioned to outperform over the market international Corporate Responsibility programme.
Highlights cycle and our confidence is strengthened by the continued included our collaboration with Citizens Advice Bureau in the momentum across our businesses, which confirms that our UK, the Investing in our Future seminars in Asia, and our new strategy, operating model and execution are right.
Everywhere online retirement planning tools in the US.
you look in our Group, there are success stories characterised When my appointment as Chairman was announced in August by growth generated in local markets in the face of tough 2008, I said I was excited at the prospect.
Since then, my sense conditions.
of anticipation and enthusiasm has grown even stronger.
I am These successes not only benefit our individual businesses, energised by the prospects for Prudential, and am confident but our Group as a whole.
that we have the right positioning, skills and capabilities to continue to create sustainable value over the economic and During the year we continued to bring new blood into our financial cycle.
I would like to thank all our people around senior management team.
In March 2008 we announced the the world for playing their full part in this continuing success.
appointment of Tidjane Thiam as our new Chief Financial Officer.
Tidjane brought with him a richly-deserved reputation for driving performance and value, and we knew his talents and experience were well-suited to help lead Prudential in the next stage of its development.
Harvey McGrath Chairman Full year dividend per share 5% 2008 18.90p 2007 18.00p 7 more: momentum 8 Prudential plc Annual Report 2008 Ov Overvie erview w All our businesses are well positioned to take advantage of the biggest demographic wave in history as people move out of the workforce and into retirement.
To harness the power of this wave we have a clear and consistent retirement-led strategy with the right focus on the main growth regions, importantly Asia, and a relentless focus on the most profitable product lines.
This focus, combined with our distribution capability, trusted brands and flexibility to commit capital to the right products and markets will ensure we will continue to deliver profitable growth in the short and long-term.
