Treasury and nancing Regulation As a net provider of liquidity to the banking markets Whilst the fair treatment of clients has always been central Rathbones does not rely on wholesale funding to finance its to Rathbones way of doing business, we have further operations and does not anticipate that this will change.
enhanced our management information, governance and monitoring processes in this area as a response to The turmoil in the credit markets has required us to be improved FSA guidance.
As a regulated deposit taker we are able to make use of a range of appropriate instruments issued by We also anticipate that the impact of recent market events a relatively wide number of counterparties with Fitch ratings will create a proportionate regulatory response that will of A and above when placing funds in the money markets.
We will continue to monitor As liquidity in client portfolios rose to 1.1 billion in the developments closely.
year 31 December 2007: 1.0 billion and credit markets tightened considerably, we worked hard to set appropriate Outlook exposure limits and monitor counterparty quality throughout the year to keep within our conservative treasury policy, Financial markets are expected to remain volatile for which recognises the fundamental importance of financial some time to come and in addition the economy is expected stability to our clients.
Rathbones is virtually ungeared with to face a prolonged period of very low interest rates.
Whilst these factors will impact on our operating income in the short term, our track record for growth is strong and Investing in people our continued investment in our people and operations means that we are in a strong position to take advantage Staff turnover at Rathbones has continued to be low in of opportunities that may arise to grow our business 2008 at 10%, which is very much in line with expectations both organically and through acquisition.
and in keeping with our culture of stability and maintaining longer-term client relationships.
Equity ownership by Andy Pomfret staff and former staff remains at approximately 20%, with Chief executive UK Share Incentive Plan SIP participation at 88% and we 3 March 2009 will continue to encourage share ownership by Rathbones staff in 2009.
We continue to place a high premium on training, completing our structured graduate training programme and supplementing core regulatory training with management and personal development which amounts, on average, to two full days of training per employee 2007: two days.
Operations and resources We have continued to invest in the efficiency of the business and now complete the vast majority of security trades and a large proportion of unit trust trades using electronic settlement platforms on a straight through basis.
After detailed consideration of project priorities in light of current market conditions, we would still expect to invest at similar levels in 2009 to continue to improve business efficiency and support business growth in the long term.
We have also aligned lease terms in both our New Bond Street ofces and we are now a long way through the major refurbishment programme being conducted by the landlord of our Liverpool ofces.
Although the level of disruption has been considerable, I would like to thank all of our staff in Liverpool for their patience in working through the issues associated with this development.
Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2008 5 Chief executives statement
