Chairmans statement Despite this, I believe strongly that RBS can be successful once again.
I am privileged to have been given the opportunity to chair the Group.
This remains a truly international company with many excellent businesses.
Our roots may be in Scotland and our largest market in the UK, but we also employ 10,000 people in India, enjoy strong positions on the island of Ireland through Ulster Bank and in our United States markets through Citizens.
The Global Markets businesses are precisely that: global.
They will continue to operate in the leading financial centres, supporting our corporate, institutional and financial sector clients around the world.
The international nature of the Group is reflected by the fact that during 2008 we were able to benefit from liquidity support provided by central banks in a number of jurisdictions.
With hard work, determination and a willingness to take tough decisions we have the people and capabilities to enable the Group to recover.
We can make it a profitable investment, a model corporate citizen in all of the countries in which it My first statement to you as Chairman operates and an excellent place to work.
follows an exceptionally difficult period Justifying the support of our shareholders in the history of The Royal Bank of Twice during 2008 the Group sought additional capital from shareholders to enable it to weather the very testing environment Scotland Group.
The last 12 months and to achieve the higher capital ratios that markets now demand.
or so have been painful for our On the second occasion, the capital raising was underwritten by the UK government and in November it became the Groups shareholders and employees and majority shareholder.
sometimes testing for our customers.
The UK government wants RBS to operate on a commercial basis and intends to act as an arms length commercial We owe our continued independence shareholder, which will sell its interests in RBS and other banks to the UK government and taxpayers at the earliest attractive time.
We are working to restore the Groups financial performance in order to and are very thankful for their support.
allow us to repay the UK taxpayer as soon as is practicable.
The external environment has seen An inevitable but regrettable consequence of the successive unprecedented turbulence in bank and capital raising exercises has been the dilution of the interests other financial markets and deteriorating of existing shareholders.
My predecessor Sir Tom McKillop apologised to shareholders for the impact on them of the economic conditions around the world.
erosion of their investments, a sentiment I echo.
Those of us Our disappointing financial results now charged with leading RBS are committed to implementing measures which will allow us to restore the Group to standalone reflect these circumstances and our financial health in the interests of all shareholders.
It is not appropriate to pay any dividend on the ordinary shares in 2009.
However, the Board is very mindful that dividends are an extremely important part of shareholder return and income.
It is the Boards intention over time to return to paying dividends, taking account of the Groups capital position, retained earnings and prospects.
To that end, we welcome the fact that the existing prohibition on the payment of dividends on the ordinary shares will be removed when the preference shares held by UKFI are redeemed.
2 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Changing the way we work Our customers and communities To achieve its objectives, the company needs to change not Most of our businesses were profitable in 2008.
That was just the business we do but how we do business.
That includes because they met their customers needs.
A consistent hallmark our governance arrangements.
The directors decided that a of RBS has been the ability to work with our customers and to restructured Board with fewer members would be better able provide them with a high quality of service, whether they are to engage in the restructuring process which the company will personal or corporate customers, be they in the UK, Ireland, the undertake.
As a result, a number of Non-Executive Directors USA or across continental Europe and Asia.
RBS has frequently resigned from the Board in February 2009.
I would like to thank led our peers in service quality league tables.
each of them for their service to the company.
In particular, I wish to acknowledge the contribution of Sir Tom McKillop who chaired We are grateful for the support our customers gave us during RBS through testing times with great dedication and integrity.
2008, when their faith in us might understandably have been dented, and recognise that our plans will succeed only if we We will appoint a further three Non-Executive Directors in due continue to serve them well.
In every country where RBS operates, we do so within a Our people wider community.
Our activities affect, and are affected by the Last year was also a period of great anxiety and uncertainty for customers, governments, suppliers and other stakeholders with our employees.
Despite this, the vast majority of them contributed which we interact.
On joining the company, it was encouraging to a profitable year for their own businesses and they demonstrated to learn that we provide banking services to more small firms the commitment that will be needed to return the Group to good than any other UK bank and that our flagship money advice health.
Unfortunately, however, the uncertainty is not over and and financial education programme, MoneySense, has been many of our people will be affected by the steps we must take in place for many years.
As an international company, we have to restore RBS to strength.
My experience of leading businesses extended MoneySense to Ireland and the US.
We support the through periods of significant change has taught me that causes our staff care about and invest to improve the capacity people are resilient and work best when they have certainty of community to generate wealth.
These programmes are more over strategic direction, clarity about the role they are being relevant than ever to the challenges that lie ahead.
asked to play and feel engaged in pursuing shared objectives.
We have already begun to provide certainty and clarity over We recognise that our reputation has been damaged by the strategy and management structures.
My further commitments events of the last year.
So, too, has the reputation of the banking to our people are that we will move as swiftly as possible where industry in countries across the globe.
We are determined to change is required and that we will work to ensure that those rebuild our reputation, and to demonstrate leadership in the affected by change are the first to know about it.
industry in this respect, partly through our core purpose of business success, but also by playing a constructive and We must also engage our people with a new employment responsible role in the communities in which we operate.
proposition which sets incentives that reward them for delivering sustained and sustainable success.
The way forward I am confident that we can, must and will restore the RBS Group Aligning remuneration with long-term shareholder value to standalone financial strength.
Last year was undeniably tough In recognition of the crisis in global financial services and the and a worsening economic environment means that 2009 will unprecedented losses incurred by the RBS Group in 2008 the present significant challenges in all of our markets.
The path to Remuneration Committee of the Board has been working to recovery will be neither smooth nor straight.
But we build on a bring about fundamental change to the way remuneration works number of strengths: excellent businesses, talented people and, throughout the Group.
There is an obvious need for very above all, millions of loyal customers around the world who significant change to compensation policies and practice recognise the quality of service that we provide.
By doing our across the industry and we intend that RBS will be fully best by them, in all of our enduring franchises around the world, engaged in the necessary process of change.
we will take the actions that will deliver once again sustainable returns for our shareholders.
Our approach has sought to balance the reality of our current losses at Group level with a need to offer a competitive remuneration package for teams and individuals that are performing Philip Hampton well and in a manner that is sustainable in the long-term.
Chairman RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2008 3
