| | 4 RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Chairmans statement A STRONG AND FOCUSED BUSINESS WE ARE PLEASED WITH OUR 2008 RESULTS AND CONFIDENT OF A CONTINUING STRONG RELATIVE PERFORMANCE IN 2009.
In all markets we continue to take the right including agreement on Solvency II to ensure I am pleased to report on another year of action on rate and cost and delivered our that any changes to the financial services further improvement for our Company despite planned expense savings target of 200m by arrangements are proportional and risk based increasingly difficult market circumstances.
We announced new targets with our as they relate to general insurance.
In summary: preliminary results for further cost savings of 70m to ensure we can deliver competitively We did not get all our 2008 predictions right.
r a growth in net written premiums of 11% priced products and maintain our profitability The relatively large downward swing in interest r a 13% increase in pre-tax profits in all markets where we choose to operate.
rates, inflation and the relative weakness of r a combined operating ratio of 94.5% Sterling was not forecast.
The persistence of r a strengthened balance sheet and robust The common theme behind our results has not these trends has led us to go back to the original capital position.
changed, namely management excellence in shareholder approved rate of return range for strategic, operational and financial performance LTIP shares which we adjusted upwards on a We have delivered on a statement made last in all our businesses.
We continue to review and voluntary basis last year.
More generally, our year that we believed that we had improve our control environment in the pricing philosophy of closely aligning management the experience and control processes to of risk and underwriting disciplines with reward structures with the longer term operate effectively in what we expected to sustainable profitable performance linked to interests of shareholders remains.
The events of continue to be difficult and demanding market prudent reserving and a low risk investment the past 12 months are certain to drive change environments and that we could deliver strategy.
This approach remains unchanged in the structure and nature of reward for senior a relative increase in profit and strategically and will continue.
Whatever these changes, we will enhance our market positions where we maintain the strong link to performance and the choose to operate.
There have been understandable demands for focus on sustainability of results that underpin increased regulation following the issues in the our existing culture.
The main sources of profit growth were banking sector.
This from time to time can give increased net written premiums up 11% with concerns about over generalised, untargeted The main variable moving forward is the likely growth in all regions and continuing cost and and disproportionate responses.
Our policy impact of lower interest rates on predicted efficiency gains.
The largest contributors were International and Emerging Markets with strong remains to seek to cooperate positively with investment income.
There are other less growth helped by the relative currency changes.
all regulators in an open, joint way and help predictable trends in the rate of fall of economic This reflects some of the strategic benefits of develop improved industry practice.
There growth in various economies.
Our general our geographically diverse Group.
remain important external regulatory issues response is to continue to seek management INCREASE IN TOTAL DIVIDEND NAV PER SHARE UNDERLYING RETURN ON EQUITY p p % 7.71 112 21.3 20.7 7.01 18.5 91 5.87 82 10% 23% 18.5% 2006 2007 2008 2006 2007 2008 2006 2007 2008 INTRODUCTION | | Annual Report and Accounts 2008 RSA 5 the management team ably led by our Chief excellence in what we do at all management Executive Andy Haste and my Board colleagues levels and in all functions.
We have an ongoing for their commitment, support and dedication programme of review and continuous on which all results depend.
Finally I look improvement in all our management disciplines.
forward to seeing as many of you as possible at We continue to invest in operational and the AGM and introducing a new RSA director, technical excellence and progress our extensive Johanna Waterous, who joined us in the year management development programmes, which and has become an effective contributor to the are a key contributor to our progress.
There is no role for complacency in 2009.
We continue to raise our management performance and plan to improve even further.
It is an area of comparative strength for our Company and the best contingent action against John Napier any adverse circumstances.
As a result we Chairman remain well positioned to take advantage of market opportunities as they rise.
In summary therefore we are pleased with our 2008 results and confident of a continuing strong relative performance in 2009 despite expecting some inevitable decline in the investment return.
Against that background we are confident in recommending an increase in the final dividend to 7.71p, giving a total increase for 2008 of 10%.
I would like to take this opportunity to thank on behalf of shareholders, all our RSA colleagues, THE COMMON THEME BEHIND OUR RESULTS HAS NOT CHANGED, NAMELY MANAGEMENT EXCELLENCE IN STRATEGIC, OPERATIONAL AND FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE IN ALL OUR BUSINESSES.
