Chairmans Statement number of consumer-exposed selections performing Performance poorly in relative terms and sub-optimal selection in Over the year to 31 October 2008, the net asset value banks and telecommunications also holding back per ordinary unit NAV fell by 31.2% with borrowings returns.
Overall, our sector positioning was appropriate at market value, in between our primary comparator as the portfolio was moved to a defensive stance over indices, the UK FTSE All-Share Index which fell by 36.8% the year.
We also benefited from the creation of a large and the global FTSE All-World Index -28.9%.
In total position in oil production and service companies in the return terms, the outcome was -29.7% compared with spring, with profits taken as the oil price peaked.
-34.4% for the FTSE All-Share and -26.9% for the FTSE All-World.
Gearing deployed in January 2008 was eliminated over the early summer as markets deteriorated.
Equity In stark contrast to the previous year, which saw new exposure was maintained at or near 100% as markets stockmarket highs reached in October 2007, last year fell heavily in September.
By the end of September was a very difficult one for investors.
Extraordinary effective equity exposure was around 93%.
Markets then turbulence in financial markets and stresses in the fell further in October as economic concerns came to domestic and international banking systems as the the fore and at that point the decision was taken to buy US mortgage crisis unfolded prompted major falls in the a number of good quality growth and cyclical companies main international equity markets and a sharp slowdown which had fallen heavily.
Gearing was thereby restored to in the world economy.
The bursting of the US mortgage around 104% by the year end.
bubble was attributable to the over-promotion of mortgages in the US, the incorrect risk assessment of Having sold some 74m of financials in the 2006 07 year, securities comprising parcels of such mortgages and the we sold a further 39.8m during the year.
We also made excessive leverage applied by banks purchasing these useful reductions of 46.4m to our Asia Pacific ex Japan securities.
What followed was a domino-like collapse of holdings fearing a slowdown in China and related major institutions which had become over-extended and economies which now appears to be underway.
vulnerable, with the failure of Lehman Brothers being a pivotal moment.
The subsequent wholesale deleveraging The purchase of a number of new holdings late in the year by banks and hedge funds has added further downward at depressed valuations necessitated a deliberate reversal pressure on stockmarkets culminating in the heavy of the trend over recent years whereby the number of recent sell-offs.
This unwinding process has been holdings had been coming down.
It is expected that the rendered more complex by the opaque transference number of listed portfolio holdings will fall from the year of risks around the world by means of credit derivatives.
end level of 117 2007: 98 over the coming year.
An unfortunate aspect has been the extent of the involvement by UK banks, several of which were The company outperformed the main comparator paying increased dividends as recently as this year.
indices, the UK FTSE All-Share and FTSE All-World, over the last 3 and 5 years in terms of both share price While the NAV performance was ahead of both the UK total return and NAV total return.
Against the AIC group FTSE All-Share Index and the average of global growth of global growth investment trusts, the company has investment trusts, it was below the FTSE All-World Index generated an above-average NAV total return and share owing to the equity portfolios lagging that index for the price total return over the past 1, 3 and 5 years.
This in turn was due principally to a relative under-exposure to North America, which has a dominant presence in the global index, and to a Income lesser extent Japan.
This was despite having raised our Good dividend growth from holdings, exchange rates North American allocation to its highest level for many and lower expenses combined to offset the effects years.
Sterling returns from these two areas benefited of falling interest rates on cash deposits and a lower materially from currency strength against sterling allocation in UK equities, resulting in earnings per which transformed their poor local currency returns.
A corresponding over-exposure to the UK was also detrimental to relative performance despite the allocation The board is recommending an increase of 4.4% in the there being its lowest in many years.
The 22.2% regular dividend for the year to 9.50p per ordinary unit appreciation of the dollar meant that in sterling terms 2007: 9.10p, which compares with the October UK RPI North America was the most resilient area globally, down annual inflation rate of 4.2%.
The same issue affected Japan, as its 47.0% dividend in each of the last 25 years and it is a stated decline in local terms was reduced in sterling to a fall of objective of the company to increase the dividend by 20.2%.
Stock selection was mixed this year with a small more than the UK rate of inflation over the longer term.
4 The Scottish Investment Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2008 Chairmans Statement continued Stock Price, Buybacks and Discount Having reached a new all-time high of 535p in October 2007, the stock price fell by 29.7% over the year to 31 October 2008.
The stock price discount to ex-income NAV with borrowings at market value narrowed over the year from 9.9% to 7.5%.
Under the companys buyback policy, which is intended to keep the discount at or below 9% in normal market conditions, 4.6m stock units were repurchased for cancellation over the financial year adding 0.3% to NAV performance and utilising 2.22 percentage points of the 14.99% authority renewed at the January 2008 AGM at an average discount of 9.6% and a cost of 22.9m inclusive of dealing expenses.
The average discount over the year was 8.5% and the estimated daily average since the introduction of the scheme in February 2006 was 8.9%.
During moments of extreme volatility in stockmarkets late in the year, the discount narrowed materially and was at times close to being eliminated.
Board Composition Sir George Mathewson retires from the board at the Annual General Meeting.
He has been a most stimulating colleague over a long period of service to the company and I thank him on behalf of the stockholders.
Outlook Much of the developed world is already in an economic recession which may prove to be both deep and long.
Interest rates have been lowered in many regions and are likely to be cut further as the authorities grapple with the problems of the damaged banking system and widespread economic weakness.
Earnings expectations for companies worldwide are being reduced and the outlook for dividend growth is the weakest for many years.
While there are numerous imponderables facing investors, it is reasonable to assume that much bad news has been discounted by the recent sharp falls in stockmarkets worldwide.
Consequently, as we have retained the bulk of our long-term relatively low coupon borrowings in cash we are in a position to deploy this capital while equity markets are at depressed levels for the long-term benefit of stockholders.
Annual General Meeting The 121st Annual General Meeting will be held at the Roxburghe Hotel, Charlotte Square, Edinburgh, on Friday 30 January 2009 at 10.30am.
I hope to see as many stockholders there as possible.
Douglas McDougall Chairman 8 December 2008 Report & Accounts 2008 The Scottish Investment Trust PLC 5
