CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Chairmans Statement Over the year net asset value increased by 7.3% and the share price by 10.7%: this is in sharp contrast to the FTSE All World Index, which fell by 3.7% all in sterling terms.
This means we outperformed our benchmark by 11 percentage points.
The longer term performance record is also extremely good, most notably over the past five years.
It was at the start of this period that changes to the way the portfolio is managed were initiated.
This includes the gradual reduction of the number of investments and the wholehearted adoption of an integrated global approach where close attention is paid to individual companies but index weightings are ignored when constructing the portfolio and regional allocations are the outcome of global stock selection.
Good individual investment decisions Long Term Performance Dividend and Earnings were made.
When the number of Given the long term investment approach, The overall level of earnings per share holdings was reduced a high level of performance over more than one year was unchanged at 9.8p.
Paying growing conviction was expressed in determining provides a better measure of progress.
The dividends to shareholders is important and the shape of the portfolio.
Notably, profits Managers are primarily assessed over a five the Board has recommended a final dividend have been run and not taken too early, year period and this table gives absolute of 5.3p which, if approved, will bring especially amongst many of the larger and relative figures.
the total for the year to 10.3p, an 8.4% holdings.
The inflation rate over Five Year Performance to 31 March the period as measured by the Retail Price Market volatility was exploited.
As the dividend payment additional holdings have been acquired exceeds earnings this year, the balance will in attractive companies at times when Total Return capital and reinvested dividends be met from the substantial revenue reserve.
share prices have been marked down The fall in earnings was anticipated and a through market nervousness.
Scottish Mortgage Share Price 184% revenue reserve has been built up over time Scottish Mortgage Net Asset Value 156% Individual investments drive performance.
and exists precisely for this purpose.
After the This year a commentary on some of the FTSE All World Index in sterling terms 83% dividend payment, the revenue reserve will larger holdings is given in the Managers AIC Global Growth Sector Average 136% stand at 20p per share.
Over time we think it Review on pages 8 to 10.
When purchased Share Price probable that the growth in earnings from the some were controversial ideas but the portfolio will exceed the UK inflation rate and AIC Global Growth Sector Average 111% Board encourages the Managers to find that earnings will rise back to the level of the Net Asset Value such situations and to act decisively on their dividend.
This is how our performance Source: Fundamental Data Thomson Financial Datastream has been achieved.
With over 70 holdings Borrowings the portfolio is suitably diversified and It should be remembered that past Over the year the net borrowings increased performance is not dependent on any one performance is not an indicator of future as opportunities were taken in volatile markets company, sector or region.
Conditions do, and will, to borrow in order to increase holdings or change.
A further important contributor to take new ones.
Borrowings are a mixture performance is the low cost base.
Scottish of bank loans, drawn in different currencies The good performance over the past five Mortgages total expense ratio for the past where there are underlying investments, and years can be attributed to a number of factors.
Lower costs mean higher the listed sterling debentures: details are The Managers early recognition of the returns for shareholders particularly when shown on page 40.
Potential gearing with changing shape of global economic and compounded over long periods.
Conversely, the debentures valued at par is currently trade patterns, in particular the increasing high management levies eat into capital and 124% of shareholders funds.
After cash and relative importance of emerging markets.
The Board and the fixed interest holdings are offset, equity Shifting the centre of gravity of the Managers remain determined that Scottish gearing stands at 118%.
In the coming portfolio away from UK listed companies Mortgages cost advantage be maintained year, the Managers are likely to continue to towards those listed overseas has proved for the benefit of all shareholders.
maintain, or even increase gearing levels, as highly beneficial to date.
04 ANNUAL REPORT 2008 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Discount, Buybacks and Marketing Electronic Communications Outlook During the period the discount measured One resolution that you are being asked The growth of many large and rapidly with debt at fair value narrowed both in to vote on at the AGM is to enable the developing economies including China absolute terms, from 10.7% to 7.9%, and Company to extend the use of electronic and India remains prodigious.
The resultant also relative to the AIC Global Growth communications to shareholders.
transformation of economies around the Sector.
Narrowing the discount over time Disseminating reports electronically saves world is likely to dominate markets for and reducing volatility remain important consumption of resources and reduces cost.
Share buybacks during the year If this resolution is approved, shareholders impact of this transformation has been totalled 7.5m shares or 2.7% of issued share will still be able to elect to receive written greater than many expected.
The financial capital at the start of the period.
Against communications through the post if they crisis in Western markets is, in part, a the general trend, there was a net positive prefer.
This initiative is one of a number that consequence of abundant availability of investment flow into the various Baillie the Board and the Managers are taking to capital from these new sources.
After a Gifford run plans and a number of new modernise and improve communications period of exuberant lending and investment, shareholders, including some institutional with shareholders and potential credit has now dried up and trust between ones, joined the main register.
I encourage you to visit the Western financial institutions evaporated.
Mortgage won two awards during the year: Scottish Mortgage pages of the Managers The US Federal Reserve Bank took swift the What Investment Generalist Investment website: www.
and decisive action to address the unusual Trust of the Year award and the Investment position by cutting interest rates and by Trust Magazine Best Global Trust award.
AGM being willing to provide central credit support to financial institutions.
The AGM will be held on Thursday 26 June The Managers undertook a number of 2008 in Edinburgh.
Details are given on initiatives to ensure effective communication Many companies around the world which page 50.
I hope you will be able to come with shareholders including improving the have less, or little, direct exposure to the and meet the Board.
The Manager will give website so that shares can be bought onfinancial storm, continue to report favourable a presentation on the investments.
line and enabling holders within the Baillie trading conditions.
Strong demand from Gifford plans to view valuations on-line.
rapidly growing economies for a number of VAT If you hold shares in your own name, as resources, primary materials and equipment HM Revenue and Customs have accepted opposed to in a nominee name, you will looks likely to persist and prices may remain also be able to benefit from a dividend a European Court of Justice ruling that high.
investment trust management fees should be re-investment plan which the Companys On a global basis the Managers are finding registrars are introducing.
It will allow you to exempt from VAT.
As a result there will be no shortage of new investment ideas.
a recovery of VAT that has already been re-invest your dividend directly into Scottish Indeed, in many cases, their enthusiasm for Mortgage shares.
Further details are given paid in previous years.
The Managers are the existing holdings is strengthening not discussing with HMRC the extent and date on page 48.
The marketing initiatives will diminishing.
be continued vigorously in the coming year.
As the amount is still uncertain and, in the context of the size of the Trust, it will not be material, the asset has not been recognised in this set of accounts.
Sir Donald MacKay 14 May 2008 SCOTTISH MORTGAGE INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 05
