Chairmans statement The second half of 2008 was the most difficult period in theA cap on our original commitment to Permira IV at 60%, Companys history.
In late September the collapse of Lehman reducing our uncalled commitments to 493 million.
Brothers led to a radically changed financial market, which when In return for this the Limited Partners LPs who elected combined with a worsening economic environment had two to cap their commitment, agreed that 25% of all future significant potential implications for the Company: realisations from our holdings in Permira IV would go to those LPs who chose not to cap their commitments.
First, the normal pattern of calls and distributions would not In addition, those LPs who elected to cap their commitment apply.
Historically recessions have seen a low incidence of both to the fund, would also continue to pay a full fund calls and distributions.
We foresaw a long period with few, if any, management fee on Permira IV for the investment distributions, while at the same time, given the availability period and would not participate in any of the funds of uncalled private equity money and the likelihood of many new investments.
companies being equity starved, we could see the potential for rising equity investments starting in the latter part of 2009.
A Rights Issue and Placing of approximately 209 million, with 70 million placed, and 100 million either irrevocably Second, the dramatic fall in public market comparable earnings applied for, or underwritten by JP Morgan Cazenove.
multiples signalled major falls in value, given the leveraged nature of our investments.
This could have in turn affected our ability An Extraordinary General Meeting was held on 3 February to to meet our loan to value covenant ratios for our credit lines, approve the Rights Issue and Placing and all resolutions were which would be needed to support our outstanding passed with an average vote in favour across all the resolutions commitments, including to Permira IV.
The Rights Issue was completed at the end of February, with 101.3 million raised taking total proceeds raised between The Board therefore reviewed the Companys nancing strategy the Rights Issue and Placing to 171.3 million.
and the structure of its balance sheet in the light of the radically changed environment, with the objective of strengthening the None of this could have been achieved without the considerable capital resources of the Company and reducing the effective support of our shareholders, Senior Note holders, bankers, leverage in the balance sheet.
In December we announced advisers and, not least, our staff for which we are very grateful.
the following: Your Board moved swiftly and decisively to solve what might An increase in the Companys loan to value covenants on have become a major problem for the Company.
The successful its senior borrowings and its bank line in return for a reduction conclusion of all of the initiatives announced in December has in the amount of Senior Notes outstanding and a decrease strengthened the Companys balance sheet considerably.
in the size of the bank line.
Your Board moved swiftly and decisively to solve what might have become a major problem for the Company.
The successful conclusion of all of the initiatives announced in December has strengthened the Companys balance sheet considerably.
Nicholas Ferguson Chairman 5 March 2009 SVG Capital plc 04 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Overview Business review Corporate information Financial information Company information The Board is committed to restoring shareholder value and While the environment in which we are operating remains with the radical change in the economic outlook it is necessary difficult, we believe that there is good potential to grow to have a complete review of our investment strategy.
Following SVG Advisers over the next three to five years.
As part of the consultation with all our major shareholders, we are well along strategic review, we are looking at opportunities and initiatives with the process and we will report back to shareholders on the that may enhance and diversify the business and believe this outcome of this strategic review at the end of April, as stated market could present some significant opportunities for us in the recent prospectus.
Investment portfolio performance Board The dramatic fall in public markets comparable earnings multiples Andrew Williams, Director and Chief Executive of SVG Advisers, and share prices that impacted valuations in June has continued will shortly be leaving the Group by mutual agreement.
Pending in the second half of 2008.
This, coupled with the sharp decline the appointment of his successor as chief executive of SVG Advisers, in the global economic environment towards the end of 2008 I will become executive Chairman of the Company.
and the ensuing impact this had on the outlook for the portfolio On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank Andrew for the companies, has led to a number of valuations being written major contribution he has made to the Company over the last down signicantly, outweighing the positive impact of foreign 13 years.
Under his stewardship SVG Advisers has grown into exchange, realisations of Jet Aviation and debitel and the write-up a leading private equity investor and fund management business, of TDC.
with third-party funds and commitments of 4.2 billion.
Net assets per share declined by 64.3% over the year to 348.1p Annual General Meeting per share including a 40.0p per share unaudited Directors valuation of SVG Advisers with Shareholders funds falling to The Annual General Meeting will be held at 12 noon on 308.1p per share.
Following the decision to cap the Companys Wednesday 6 May 2009 at 61 Aldwych, London WC2B 4AE.
commitment to Permira IV, this valuation includes a 25% As in previous years it will include a presentation on the activities reduction in SVG Capitals holdings in the fund.
It is also in line of the Company.
with the adjusted NAV per share of 341.0p that was announced at the time of the Rights Issue and Placing, following the Boards Outlook 40% provision to the investment portfolio and a 25% reduction in the Companys holdings in Permira IV.
In the second half of 2008 we witnessed unprecedented economic deterioration across the globe.
Adjusting for the completion of the Rights Issue and Placing and the issue of a further 171,338,022 new shares in March, Private equity, like many sectors has been, and will continue the 31 December 2008 net asset value per share would be to be, impacted by the fall-out in the wider markets.
In the 207.9p per share including an 18.0p per share unaudited absence of suitable exit windows, holding periods will lengthen Directors valuation of SVG Advisers.
and managers will continue to work on value creation within their portfolio companies.
Distributions will slow, meaning little SVG Advisers capital will be returned in the short term.
At the same time, we anticipate calls will continue as managers move to inject SVG Advisers continues to be a valuable asset to the business, more equity into existing investments or to take advantage of but has also been impacted by the events which have taken place opportunities emerging from the downturn.
This mismatch in wider financial markets and its Directors unaudited valuation between distributions and calls will put a number of investors has fallen to 56.4 million, on the back of a steep decline in under pressure.
The Company acted early to mitigate this comparable public market multiples.
imbalance by severely cutting back on its future commitments.
The business has made steady progress over the year, reporting The widespread fall in markets has also negatively impacted recurring external revenues of 28.0 million, an increase of 27% the valuations of the portfolio companies which are marked-toon 2007.
Total external fee income stood at 28.4 million, which market.
However, it must be noted that these valuations provide compares to 29.7 million for 2007.
This decrease in total a guide gure at a moment in time private equity is a long term income is predominantly a result of the absence of performance asset class and managers are highly focused on stabilising and fees from the public equity team.
Including fees paid by positioning portfolio companies.
SVG Capital to SVG Advisers total fees earned by the operating subsidiaries and other income were 35.8 million, contributing We believe our underlying portfolio consists of well diversied, 20.3 million to the Groups operating profit before finance high quality businesses, many of which are in the very early costs in 2008.
This number includes certain positive exceptional stages of their value creation.
As we move through the cycle items and will not be sustained at this level in the short term.
and the portfolio companies value creation initiatives are successful, the Company would expect to see the benets The second half of the year saw the final close of the SVG Asia from these developments translating into positive returns.
Fund of Funds, raising a total of US$200 million exceeding its target of US$150 million.
Despite, this successful fund raising, We believe the next two years will remain challenging for funds and commitments under management reduced to everyone.
Managers need to concentrate hard on creating 4.2 billion over the year, from 4.4 billion at 31 December value within their portfolio companies with a view to realising 2007.
In particular, the funds managed by SVG Investment value for their investors when the market and economic Managers declined signicantly due to dramatic falls in environment improves.
SVG Capital plc 05 Annual Report and Accounts 2008
