2 Carpetright plc Annual report and accounts 2008 Chairmans statement This year sees the twentieth anniversary of Carpetright.
During that time the Group has grown at a strong pace and this year, despite adverse market conditions, I am pleased to report that we have produced yet another solid performance.
Total revenue for the 53 weeks ended 3 May 2008 has increased by 9.6% to 521.5 million.
Underlying profit before tax has increased by 7.6% to 62.1 million, although after the impact of profits on property disposals less other nonrecurring items, reported profit before tax has declined to 59.5 million.
Similarly underlying earnings per share have risen by 8.9% to 63.5 pence although basic earnings per share has declined to 63.2 pence.
Whilst the Group continues to be highly cash generative we opened a net 11 stores in addition to gaining 43 through acquisitions, and invested substantially in our new cutting and distribution centre and IT systems, closing the year with net borrowings of 57.5 million.
The Board is recommending a final dividend of 30.0 pence per share.
Together with the interim dividend of 22.0 pence per share the total dividend for the period will be 52.0 pence per share, an increase of 4.0%.
Carpetright plc Annual report and accounts 2008 3 During the year there have been several On 30 June 2008 we completed the important developments which will drive future B7.8 million acquisition of the trade and assets profitability.
These have included: of Ben fide Graaff Tapijt Ben fide Graaff, a floor coverings and curtain blinds retailer in the south Stores 47 stores opened during the year of The Netherlands.
Trading from 11 stores this including 39 in the UK and Republic of Ireland business has annual sales of approximately RoI.
The acquisition of Storey Carpets Limited B15.0 million.
The store base complements our Storeys in May 2007 and Carpetworld existing geographical coverage, enabling us to Manchester Limited Carpetworld in March accelerate the pace of expansion.
2008 also saw 30 and 13 stores respectively join I am confident that we will continue to the Group.
After the closure of 36 stores, we are achieve good growth across Europe.
now trading from 559 stores in the UK and RoI and 116 stores across Europe, plus one under Board changes our new joint venture in Germany.
Neil Page will join the Board on 14 July 2008 New ranges the Group introduced several new as Group Finance Director.
Neil will replace Ian ranges of carpets with a particular focus on midKenyon who left the Company on 29 February priced deep pile Saxony carpets and a continued 2008.
In addition, Martin Toogood will be improvement to our ranges of higher quality wool stepping down from the Board at the AGM.
In addition we have seen improved Since joining the Board in 2002 Martins wide sales from a wider range of rugs in the UK.
retail experience has been of particular benefit to us.
We would like to thank Ian and Martin New cutting and distribution centre all our for their contributions over the last few years.
cutting, distribution and UK central office functions have been relocated into the new facility People in Purfleet, Essex allowing us to close four sites I thank all our staff for their continued in April 2008.
This new cutting and distribution commitment, contribution and loyalty throughout centre enables us to reduce delivery times by two the year and extend a warm welcome to all the days and is an important element in Carpetrights staff from the Carpetworld and Ben fide Graaff future growth strategy by giving us the ability to businesses.
The efforts of all our staff, who double our capacity at minimal extra cost.
consistently provide excellent customer service, UK acquisitions on 1 May 2007 we acquired are a key success factor for our business.
Storeys for a total consideration of 19.7 million.
Based in the north east of England and trading Prospects from 30 stores at the time of acquisition, this My fiftieth year of selling carpets has been a business had annual sales of approximately challenging one.
Whilst the indicative offer for the 30 million.
Storeys is well known in the region Company, from a consortium headed by myself and the brand has been retained.
Since and other members of the senior management acquisition we have expanded the Storeys store team, did not proceed, I remain as enthusiastic footprint, simplified processes, improved the as ever.
There is no doubt that the UK floor customer offer and increased operating margins.
coverings market became more difficult, in line On 31 March 2008 we acquired with other housing and DIY related sectors.
Carpetworld together with a portfolio of six This challenge has remained and I believe that freehold and long leasehold properties, for a the next year will be one of the most difficult consideration of 7.2 million, in addition to I have seen.
However, against this background 7.7 million of net borrowings repaid.
Based in we are continuing to invest for the future.
the north west of England and trading from Carpetright is well placed to weather this period 13 stores at the time of acquisition, this business with its strong competitive position, clear UK and had annual sales of approximately 7.1 million.
European strategic plans, and continued focus It is intended that these stores will ultimately trade on margin growth and strong cash generation.
under the Carpetright or Storeys retail brands.
I am confident that our strategy of providing Since acquisition we have started to implement a comprehensive offer with the widest product changes to bring this business into line with range, best prices and excellent customer service the Carpetright operating model.
will continue to support future growth.
European expansion we have seen strong Lord Harris of Peckham sales and profit growth in The Netherlands and Chairman and Chief Executive Belgium and now have 11 stores trading in Poland.
These businesses now represent 8.5% of our underlying operating profit.
At the end of 2007 we entered into a 50 50 joint venture arrangement in Germany, with one of the existing floor covering retailers, TTL.
The joint venture is designed to utilise the key strengths of both businesses.
The first trial store under the fascia Carpri was opened in April 2008 in Berlin.
Our intention is to gain a greater understanding of this market whilst we consider further low risk expansion opportunities in the cities of Berlin and Dresden.
