214032 Temple Bar pp01-pp26 20 2 09 20:50 Page 7 Chairmans statement The total return on the brings with him a wealth of experience, notably in net assets of Temple retailing where he was formerly the chairman of Bar during 2008 was Safeway plc, and currently, where he is chairman of 24.7%, which InterContinental Hotels Group plc.
I have no doubt compares with a total that in the coming years David will add great value return for the FTSE Allto the Boards discussions.
The return achieved Outlook comprises underlying After a year which was the second worst for the UK relative portfolio equity market since the 1920s and which included outperformance the bankruptcy of a major American investment somewhat offset by the bank, the effective nationalisation of some UK banks capital gearing of the and large US financial institutions and the virtual Trust.
While it is never demise of a number of major car manufacturers, it pleasant to report negative returns, particularly of is a brave person who provides an investment such severity, it should be noted that, after an outlook with any great level of confidence.
extraordinarily difficult year, our fund managers five A number of bubbles have burst in the last twelve year record against the benchmark index remains months, most notably those of corporate credit, clearly in positive territory.
A detailed analysis of commodities, property and private equity, leaving performance is provided in the managers report.
These burst bubbles Despite the weakness of the UK equity market, the created forced sellers of most asset classes as many portfolio generated a significant increase in income.
investors with significant losses were highly The Board is recommending a final dividend of leveraged.
It is impossible to know when this forced 22.34p, to produce a total increase of 6% for the selling will end or how much of it has already been year.
This dividend will be payable on 31 March 2009 achieved and quite how cheap certain assets may to shareholders on the register at 13 March 2009. become before they bottom.
This is the 25th consecutive year in which the The Temple Bar portfolio is managed on a long term dividend has been increased.
The revenue reserve, basis and although the short term economic outlook after adjusting for the proposed final dividend for is poor, it is important to remember that ownership 2008, is 17.0m, having increased by 1.4m during of equity confers the right to a long term stream of the year.
This is likely to prove an important asset a companys dividends.
Even if we assume the over the next few years against a backdrop of falling average company makes no profits whatsoever in dividends in the UK equity market.
the next few years, this affects the discounted cash Post-tax earnings increased by 6.5%: the proposed flow value of a company by a surprisingly small dividend was more than covered by net earnings amount.
Therefore, a bear market can generate generated on the portfolio during the year.
some very attractive opportunities, provided the At the year end, capital gearing, defined as gross companies in which we invest have balance sheets assets divided by net assets, was 118%.
A number of strong enough to withstand a serious economic investment companies have recently encountered downturn and franchises durable enough to produce difficulties with their borrowing covenants.
Our two good returns over the longer term.
At this delicate debentures, which have a nominal value of 63m, stage in the cycle, our fund manager continues to have fixed coupons and are not repayable until 2017 believe that selectivity is superior to wide and 2021.
The covenants on these debentures are diversification and, therefore, the portfolio remains such that our net assets would have to fall below the highly concentrated.
63m nominal value of the debt before these would Equity valuations are currently low but the risk of an be breached.
overshoot to even lower valuations is still quite possible given the ongoing dislocations in the New Director financial system.
I am delighted to confirm that David Webster was A number of companies across a spread of sectors appointed as an additional director of the Company have already cut their dividends and further cuts with effect from the beginning of this year.
On current forecasts, the revenue Temple Bar Investment Trust 7 214032 Temple Bar pp01-pp26 20 2 09 20:50 Page 8 Chairmans statement continued we expect to receive this year will not fully cover by the European Court of Justice in October an unchanged dividend.
Negotiations with the manager, paralleling prepared to utilise part of the significant revenue those with the Revenue authorities, are reserve to supplement the total dividend for the continuing with respect to reclaiming past VAT year.
Recoverable amounts will be reflected in the accounts in proportion to the original basis of allocation of expenses between income and Discount to Net Asset Value capital applicable to each year in respect of The price of Temple Bar shares ended the year at which a recovery is made.
a small discount to their underlying net asset value adjusted for the market value of the Companys debt, having also traded at a premium Articles of Association for periods of the year.
This was a positive The directors are proposing that the existing development in a year when discounts widened Articles of Association are replaced with new significantly in the investment trust market and articles which reflect changes in the law brought probably reflects a combination of the perceived about by the implementation of the Companies stability of the dividend payments as well as Act 2006.
The proposed changes are detailed in recognition of the good long term performance an Appendix to the Notice of the annual general of Temple Bar relative to the UK Growth & meeting on page 50.
The directors do not believe Income Sector.
that these changes will have a material impact on the activities of the Company as they largely In December, following a sustained period during relate to administrative matters.
which the shares traded at a premium to their net asset value, 250,000 new shares were issued to a market participant at a 2% premium to net Annual General Meeting asset value.
A further 200,000 shares were The annual general meeting will be held at similarly issued at a premium on 12 February 2 Gresham Street, London EC2V 7QP on Monday 2009.
In addition to the formal business of the meeting our manager, The manager continues to communicate closely Alastair Mundy, will provide a review of the past with representatives of both current and year and comment on the outlook.
There will be potential new shareholders.
Our smaller investors an opportunity for shareholders to meet the remain informed via a monthly fact sheet and directors at the conclusion of the AGM.
These can be forward to meeting as many of you as are able to found on the Companys website, attend.
Shareholders who are unable to attend www.
are encouraged to use their proxy votes.
VAT on Management Fees As shareholders may be aware from my previous John Reeve statements, VAT is no longer charged on 20 February 2009 investment management fees following a ruling 8 Temple Bar Investment Trust
