Chairmans Statement Peter Salsbury BSc Chairman 5 June 2008 Introduction It was a brute of a year for property shares.
The gory details are amplified in the managers statements, and the absolute and relative performances are noted below.
Since January share values have been more stable and both share classes saw modest increases in asset value in the final quarter of our financial year.
Our managers are maintaining a cautious attitude and, for the first time in twenty years, the Trust is holding modest levels of net cash.
In contrast to the capital value declines, revenue has been at record levels allowing the Board to recommend a substantial increase in the full year dividend for the Trust as a whole.
Before diving into the detail, I think it is worth recording that the recent fall in the share prices and asset values of the two share classes come after a long period of exceptional growth.
In the seven years to March 2007 the simple appreciation in the Ordinary share price was 5.7 times and even after the decline of the last twelve months the Ordinary shares have still risen 4.1 times since March 2000.
Markets aside, the major event for the Trust was the creation of the Sigma share class last July.
When we set out the proposals last April we little envisaged the trauma that would occur last autumn due to the credit crisis.
Sigma was effectively born in a storm.
Marcus Phayre-Mudge, the Sigma manager had originally expected to switch the inherited portfolio entirely into small cap shares in four months.
Market conditions and particularly the pricing differentials between large and small stocks has resulted in the rotation of assets being slower than anticipated.
Shareholders will note that the length and layout of the report and accounts has changed.
This is due both to the introduction of the Sigma share class and to TR Property Investment Trust 7 THE GROUP COMPANY Chairmans Statement continued Ten Year Performance Price Only 600 500 400 300 200 100 0 Mar 98 Mar 99 Mar 00 Mar 01 Mar 02 Mar 03 Mar 04 Mar 05 Mar 06 Mar 07 Mar 08 Benchmark TR Property Ordinary Share Price TR Property Ordinary Shares Net Asset Value recommendations made to the industry by the FSA.
The first showed a price return of minus 27.4% and a total return of four pages now carry details of the objectives and investment minus 25.2%.
So in relative performance terms, the policies of the two share classes.
The Managers statement is managers would have preferred to have stuck to their old last.
now divided into three sections.
A general section covering Sigma Shares the market background and outlook starts on page 11.
A Over the eight month period from their introduction in July section specific to the Ordinary share class starts on page 15 2007 to the end of March 2008, the NAV declined by 11.6% and is followed by full details of the Ordinary share class from 122.85p to 108.64p while the share price fell by 13.4% portfolio, revenue and balance sheet.
Over the same period the statement for the Sigma share class starts on page 29.
The benchmark index which is the same as that for the Ordinary report and accounts for the Group start on page 40.
Total returns were minus 10.5% have been marked down the side to highlight whether they for the NAV, minus 12.2% for the share price and minus refer to one specific share class or to the group as a whole.
hope shareholders will find this convenient.
NAV and Share Price Performance Revenue Results The year saw an excellent increase in the Trusts revenue.
The Ordinary Shares two share classes combined total income topped 32m, a Over the year to 31 March 2008, NAV declined by 24.5% 22.6% increase over the previous year.
We benefited from from 290.78p to 219.61p while the share price declined by some exceptional dividend increases from our largest UK 26.6% from 256.50p to 188.25p: over the same period the share investments as these companies joined the UK REIT benchmark, the FTSE EPRA NAREIT European Property regime and our net rental income rose by over 35% as we let Share Index, declined by 25.4%.
Total returns were minus vacant space.
Meanwhile repayment of all our bank debt 22.9% for the NAV, minus 24.8% for the share price and during the year resulted in borrowing costs dropping 34%: minus 23.0% for the benchmark.
This is the tenth successive and in addition the two share classes together had interest year that the annual NAV total return has exceeded the receivable of over 1m.
The 34m spent on share benchmark total return albeit, this year, by a hairs breadth.
repurchases meant that the larger pool of net revenue was As a postscript I should add that the benchmark used until divided by fewer shares in both classes.
March 2007, the S&P Citigroup European Property Index 8 TR Property Investment Trust THE GROUP COMPANY Chairmans Statement continued Ordinary Shares the end of September the short-term bank debt had been The net revenue per ordinary share was 5.79p, an increase of fully repaid in both share classes and there were cash 41.6% over the 4.09p reported in the previous year.
This was holdings of 11m in the Ordinary share class and 20m in after some 2.2m of post tax revenue was passed to the the Sigma share class.
Sigma share class on its creation last July.
In the second half of the financial year cash has increased in the Ordinary share class to 37m, some 5m greater Sigma Shares than the 32m of Debentures attributable to the share The net revenue per ordinary share was 0.85p for the period class so net gearing level was minus 1%.
In the Sigma from 24 July 2007 to 31 March 2008.
This is a good deal share class cash holdings declined to 14.6m in the higher than our managers forecast at the interim stage second half, leaving the net gearing level at minus 5%.
The because the switching of the portfolio from large companies larger Debenture of 25m at 8.125% is due for repayment was delayed by market events resulting in greater dividend this coming November.
The other 15m is not repayable income.
Revenue Outlook As in previous years the portfolios exposure to foreign Our managers are advising the Board that, subject to currencies was not hedged either at the asset or income unforeseen circumstances, they expect that revenue per level.
Over the financial year, and particularly since last share for the Ordinary share class will increase by 5% to December, Sterling has weakened by around 13% against 10% in the current financial year.
The Sigma share class has the Euro and other European currencies giving rise to a a portfolio reorganisation in progress and the managers more welcome increase in the value of our overseas assets and tentative view is for revenue earnings of 1.2p in the current dividend income.
Since December a portion of the cash year.
These views assume an average Euro Sterling rate of balances of both share classes has been held in Euros.
75p to the Euro and no unexpected and widespread dividend reductions or omissions amongst our investee companies.
Discount and Share Repurchases The Ordinary share discount to net asset value rose over the Dividends year from 11.8% at March 2007 to 14.3% at March 2008.
Ordinary Shares In considerable part this rise reflected the general widening The Board is recommending to Ordinary shareholders a final of all UK property share and property investment company dividend of 3.3p for the year ending 31 March 2008, an discounts during the period.
Over the year 14.1m Ordinary increase of 37.5% over the final dividend of 2.4p paid last shares were repurchased and cancelled for 30.58m an year.
This, together with the interim dividend of 2.3p already average total cost of 216.9p per share.
Assets were sold to paid, will take the total payment for the year to 5.6p, a 36.6% cover these repurchases which were made at an average increase over the total of 4.1p paid last year.
The surplus generated to the shareholders funds was 4.55m, equivalent to 1.75p per Sigma Shares share on the outstanding Ordinary share capital at the year The Board is recommending to Sigma shareholders a final end.
dividend of 0.65p for the eight month period ending 31 March 2008.
Sigma paid a special dividend of 1.1p last From the date of their introduction to the end of the financial October from the revenue it inherited at the time of its year Sigma shares traded at an average discount of 15.7%.
creation, and then a modest interim dividend of 0.2p at the During the eight month period 4.1m Sigma shares 3.1% of turn of the year covering income in the two month period to the outstanding capital were repurchased from cash the end of September.
resources for 3.51m an average price including costs of 85.6p.
The surplus generated to the shareholders funds was Net Debt, Gearing and Currencies 0.73m, equivalent to 0.57p per share.
Net borrowing was eliminated during the year in both share classes.
At 31 March 2007 the Trust had net debt of 91m VAT on Management Fees 40m in Debentures repayable in 2008 and 2016 and As a result of the decisions on two court cases over the last 51m of short term bank borrowings.
In year, management services supplied to investment trusts are July 2007, when the two share classes were formed, Sigma now exempt from UK VAT and the Company is able to seek inherited 8m of the Debentures and 3m of bank debt.
By reimbursement of some of the VAT paid since 1990.
TR Property Investment Trust 9 THE GROUP COMPANY Chairmans Statement continued The Company has claimed for the reimbursement of VAT paid our capital and revenue as sensibly as possible, weighing the from its current manager, Thames River Capital LLP and from potential of future uncertainty against the prospect of future its former manager, Henderson Global Investors.
For the present the balance sheets and managers have filed their respective claims with HMRC.
portfolio selections of both share classes reflect a preference for solid cash flow and stocks with modest leverage.
This The amount to be recovered has not been definitively agreed conservative approach aims to reduce downside risk, but with the managers and HMRC has not issued specific carries the risk of being slower to invest in upside guidance as to how the claims will be effected so there is no opportunities.
Much has changed in the commercial property certainty as to the amount or timing of any recovery.
market since the last bear market in the early 1990s and the Accordingly, no asset has been recognised in these accounts, lessons of the past may not be wholly applicable to the but we anticipate a possible recovery in excess of 6 million current scenario.
On behalf of the Board, I thank the Fund Management team Alastair Ross Goobey for their hard work during a very volatile period.
They have As many of you may be aware, Alastair Ross Goobey died applied their combined experience, skill and judgement to earlier this year after a long illness.
He was a non executive good effect and we have every confidence that the Trusts director of the Trust for ten years from 1994 and Chairman assets are being managed by a first class team.
On behalf of the Board, the management team and the shareholders I should like to pay tribute to him and all that he did for the Trust.
He combined a first class brain with enormously wide experience of all financial affairs, an impish sense of humour and complete transparency.
He was a great friend of the Trust, an Peter Salsbury excellent Chairman and colleague, and a very thoughtful Chairman advisor to the management team.
Awards and Personnel During the year the Trust received the award for Best Specialist Property Investment Company of 2007 from Investment Week and won the accolade for the Best Report and Accounts in the Specialist Investment Trust category at the recent Association of Investment Companies accounts awards.
The team at Thames River Capital who manage the Trust has expanded again this year with the arrival of Christian Roos and Angelique Ello.
Christian has joined to manage the Thames River Longstone Fund a property hedge fund and has wide experience of European and Scandinavian property shares.
Angelique is assisting Nicola Williamson with investor relations and general administration.
Outlook The worst of the turmoil in credit markets may well have now passed, but the lasting implications of recent events have yet to be fully revealed.
Recuperation in banking confidence could be lengthy and the implications for property and other asset pricing, which have already been considerable, are now being seen in the wider economy, especially in the UK and European housing markets.
As an investment company dedicated to property and property shares we have to guard 10 TR Property Investment Trust THE GROUP COMPANY
