Chairmans Statement The excellent results for 2008 demonstrate Our risk management policies and the strength of our business and the procedures, and our operational processes value of the service that we provide to have been stress-tested under live participants in the worlds over-the-counter conditions, and have been proven to be OTC financial markets.
Prior to its collapse in September, OTC markets are critical to the effective Lehman Brothers was one of our biggest functioning of the worlds financial system, clients, but the direct impact of its failure and Tullett Prebon, as the worlds second on our operating pro t was minimal, and largest inter-dealer broker IDB, has an almost entirely related to provisioning important role in facilitating trading in against invoiced receivables arising from these markets by creating liquidity, and by Name Give-Up activities.
The Business providing clients with anonymity for their Review discusses the business risks and trading activities and ef cient execution.
their control and includes a section on risk management.
It is not possible to eliminate The successful implementation of our risk in any business but, provided this one is strategy has ensured that we were competently managed and led, the nature well positioned to meet the needs of its trading activities and the controls in of our customers during a period of place should not give rise to unacceptable unprecedented turmoil in financial markets.
Our strategy is to continue to focus on providing services as an intermediary in Results and dividends wholesale OTC markets, and to continue to Revenue of 943.6m 2007: 753.8m was build a business with the scale and breadth up 25% for the year.
Operating pro t to deliver superior performance and before exceptional items has increased medium term returns, whilst maintaining by 33% to 175.1m 2007: 131.8m.
The strong financial management disciplines.
operating margin has increased to 18.6% 2007: 17.5%.
Risk Whilst the upheaval in financial markets Adjusted pro t before tax was up 36% to during 2008 has proved detrimental to 155.4m 2007: 114.4m with adjusted many financial services businesses, the high basic earnings per share up 41% to 47.1p levels of volatility that persisted throughout 2007: 33.5p.
the year have been favourable to our business.
As an intermediary, the business The business has low capital requirements does not take any trading risk and does and has excellent cash ow characteristics.
not hold principal trading positions.
The In 2008, more than 100% of the operating business only holds financial instruments pro t was converted into operating cash for identi ed buyers and sellers in matching ow, the third year in a row that this has trades.
Such transactions are settled rapidly been achieved.
Cash ow before dividends and the business does not retain any and debt repayments was 124.6m.
The return on average During the year the Board and the Audit capital employed was 50% 2007: 37%.
Committee have twice formally reviewed the risks connected with the Companys The Board is recommending a final dividend activities.
These reviews were based on a of 8.0p per share, making the total dividend thorough re-evaluation by management for the year 12.75p per share, an increase taking into account the changes in market of 6% on the 12.0p per share paid for 2007. circumstances and also involved external The Board recognises that the continued advisers.
They resulted in an updating of payment of dividends is a critical element the Risk Assessment Framework, which of shareholder return.
The final dividend assesses risks and procedures to control will be payable on 21 May 2009 to them.
The quality of this work was some of shareholders on the register on 1 May 2009. the best and most effective I have seen on this dif cult topic.
Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2008 03 shareholder information financial statements governance business review Chairmans Statement continued Consolidation counterparty services for derivatives, such During the year Tullett Prebon made as credit default swaps.
Our perspectives a takeover approach to GFI Group, Inc. on the development of central counterparty Tullett Prebon, like other companies in the services and the outlook for revenue in the sector, is a product of the consolidation IDB sector are discussed in more detail in of the IDB sector, and we believe that the Business Review.
fundamental bene ts to both customers and shareholders have owed from Remuneration that consolidation.
The GFI approach The Report on Directors Remuneration is set was another example of this.
The Remuneration companies have a complementary product Committee has re-evaluated the Companys spread and we believed that a combination policies on remuneration and considered would have delivered signi cant bene ts to the relationship between remuneration shareholders.
However, it was not possible and risk.
This work has involved retaining to agree terms which would have delivered external advisers and links with the work a satisfactory division of the bene ts, on risk conducted by the Audit Committee.
a process made more complicated by the volatility experienced in both the equity As has been consistently and clearly stated and credit markets.
in previous reports, it is the Companys policy to achieve its objective of maximising Shareholder returns and market returns to investors over the medium to developments long term by attracting, retaining and The Companys overall objective is to motivating staff with remuneration which maximise returns to shareholders over the is largely in line with general practices medium to long term, at an acceptable in the IDB sector in which it trades.
Total shareholder return for Remuneration Committee considers that 2008 was very disappointing at negative this policy is in the best interests of the 70% compared to the return from the FTSE Company and its shareholders.
The majority 250 index negative 38% and the General of the Companys competitors are not UK Financials sector index negative 53%.
listed companies and their remuneration The reduction in the share price during the practices include unusually high variable year is clearly counter to the performance short term rewards dependant on of the business, and re ects the general performance.
fide-rating of financial services businesses and concerns that some commentators The application of the Companys policies have expressed over the future prospects in determining bonuses for 2008 is set out for the IDB sector in the context of a rapidly in the Report on Directors Remuneration.
The Remuneration Committee has given serious and thorough consideration to There have been signi cant changes in the the relevant issues and has concluded structure of the financial services industry that, in line with past practice and in recent months and further changes are previous explanations of policy, the main likely.
We believe that our role as a leading determinant of levels of remuneration intermediary in wholesale OTC markets for 2008 will be the performance of the will continue to be vital.
Unlike some other parts of the markets have proved themselves to be financial services sector, that performance robust throughout this turbulent period for is relatively easy to measure and very good.
the financial markets, we support the calls As previously planned, half of executive for further improvement in the quality and directors bonuses for this year will be safety of the infrastructure that supports reinvested in shares.
It is worth noting that, them, including wider adoption of central in comparison with some companies For more information please visit: 04 Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2008 www.
com which have got into dif culties, the level In connection with succession planning, of share ownership and retention by our the Company is working hard on internal Chief Executive creates a high degree of development and has made internal alignment with shareholders interests.
appointments to the positions of Chief Operating Of cer and the Chief Executive The Companys policies have been Of cers of all of its three regions.
developing and will continue to do so, re ecting changes in sector and, where Comments on corporate social practical, general practices.
We anticipate responsibility are set out on pages 22 to 24. that current general discussions over While conscious of other issues, given the remuneration practices and shareholder nature of our activities we believe that the concerns over rewards and risks in the Companys principal contributions are in financial services sector will give rise to meeting the needs of its customers and a need for the Remuneration Committee in maximising returns to shareholders to continue to review developments and over the medium to long term.
This also discuss the issues arising with shareholders.
generates general economic bene ts in the employment and remuneration of staff However, I think it is worth pointing out and the payment of corporate, employment, in the current not always rational climate, sales and other taxes.
We believe we that the Board and the Remuneration need to do this in a way which manages Committee believe that it is in the risk both for the bene t of the Company, best interests of the Company and the its customers and the structures within shareholders to conform to sector practices which we operate.
The Company has rm on remuneration and that not doing so ethical policies relating to international would be seriously destructive for value.
compliance with laws and regulations, Should the Company be forced to make trading fairly and only participating in extensive changes to its policies due to legitimate trading activities.
regulatory or other general pressures which do not apply to its international Outlook competitors, its ability to achieve its The unprecedented events in the worlds objectives will be substantially impaired.
financial markets in the last few months have resulted in signi cant structural Other matters change in the banking industry and As is appropriate in current circumstances, adjustments to the business models the Board has also given serious and honest of many of our customers.
OTC market consideration to its own effectiveness, volumes in some areas, including structured operation and skills.
Comments on Board products and emerging markets products, effectiveness are included in the Corporate are expected to reduce.
Volatility in Governance Report on pages 31 to 36.
The interest rates and exchange rates, however, Board has considerable relevant experience looks likely to persist for some time, in the financial services sector, finance, and government bond issuance is set to accounting, audit and the management of substantially increase.
The Board and its Committees recognise, expertise and depth of liquidity pools in in particular, the need to continue their these more traditional product areas, and work on proactively understanding and the service we provide for our customers, monitoring risk, developing and monitoring will continue to be attractive.
the achievement of agreed short term and long term objectives, maintaining We remain very focused on creating future links with management throughout value for shareholders.
the Company, succession planning and the application and development Keith Hamill of effective remuneration policies.
Chairman 10 March 2009 Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2008 05 shareholder information financial statements governance business review
