Directors Report: Chairmans Statement There is no wisdom like frankness.
Benjamin Disraeli Harry Henderson Highlights economic stability is more important than short term NAV total return ahead of benchmark over the last political considerations.
One has to believe the pilot year and last three years must fly the airplane from an altimeter correctly 9 out of 13 managers beat their own benchmarks adjusted.
in 2008 Shareholder Returns and Performance New management team and structure in place The share price fell over the year by 26.6% which, Dividend increased by 3% combined with the dividends paid during the year, Opening Remarks resulted in a negative total shareholder return of On 13 October 2008, the day certain banks were all 24.9%.
The five year numbers have obviously taken a but nationalised, Gordon Brown spoke of severe knock but it is worth recording that extraordinary times and that they certainly are.
In shareholders since December 2003 have experienced a last years review we stated that the future was return of 30.2%.
unclear but we did not imagine that we would be Over the year Witan was in the second quartile of the where we are now.
In 2008 we witnessed a global Global Growth Investment Trust sector.
However, financial crisis, a deepening widespread worldwide perhaps a more telling comparison is with actively recession and the US stock market posting its second managed unit trusts and other open-ended funds.
worst performance on record since 1871.
Since the inception of our new multi manager Your Board is not pleased to be reporting a negative structure in 2004 we would have been placed in the NAV total return of 23.3% but Witans globally top quartile.
diversified portfolio of equities has given some Manager Changes and Performance Attribution consolation in that it performed better than many Following the 2007 Strategic Review, and the markets.
For example, the UK where the FTSE Allcomments made in my statement last year, we reduced Share Index was down by 29.9%.
the UK enhanced index segment of the portfolio, Over the last five years the most significant change to appointing two new UK managers, namely Artemis Witans investment portfolio has been the reduction and Marathon, and appointed Varenne to manage a in that part of the portfolio which is invested in the small proportion of the European portfolio.
We also domestic equity market.
At the end of 2003 we were ended the currency contract with Mellon as it became 60% invested in UK equities: today the figure stands obvious that the dislocation in global markets was at 32%.
This decision has proved to be important not creating unprecedented foreign exchange monetary only because the UK equity market has performed flows and the arrangement was not working.
In the poorly but because in 2008 Sterling was particularly CIOs Investment Review on pages 13 to 19 we give weak against all major currencies.
more information about these changes and all the managers in the portfolio.
Before there is a sustained improvement in the UK economy and its currency, there will need to be Looking at the attribution analysis on the facing greater confidence generated by those in charge.
They page, it is significant to note that on a relative basis must demonstrate a deeper understanding of current the investment portfolio outperformed the events however unusual and show that long term benchmark during 2008 by 1.6%.
4 Performance Attribution for the year ended 31 December 2008 Net asset value total return -23.3% Portfolio investment total return -22.3% Benchmark total return -23.9% Benchmark total return -23.9% Investment outperformance 1.6% Share buy-backs 0.5% Interest on cash, etc 0.9% 1.4% 3.0% Gearing and borrowing costs -1.5% Operating costs and tax -0.9% -2.4% Outperformance 0.6% 0.6% It is also worth noting that seven out of ten managers 2008 from when he took responsibility for investment that were investing Witan funds over the full twelve policy and manager selection and monitoring.
Robert months outperformed the relevant benchmark while and Mark are working closely together and in two out of three managers appointed part way conjunction with the Board to manage all aspects of through the year are ahead.
Changes to the Executive Management Team One further change I would like to report is the In October 2008 Jim Horsburgh retired as Chief appointment of James Frost as Witans marketing Executive Officer CEO.
I would like to pay tribute to executive following James Buddens resignation in his work as the first independent CEO of the Trust.
James Budden was employed by Witan for We thank him on your behalf for his valuable ten years, being one of the first dedicated marketing contribution over such an important phase in the executives appointed to an in-house managed history of Witan.
James Frost worked with him at Witan for the last three years and has now taken on As part of a review of the business the Witan Board the responsibility for marketing the Trust.
last year decided to increase the level of resource applied to manage the business.
It also identified Your Board believes that it now has the appropriate various potential business opportunities for an structure to manage the Trusts investments and look independently managed investment trust, particularly at business opportunities.
The new management one that is involved in multi-manager.
The decision team is building upon Witans strengths and was therefore taken to split the role of CEO and to expertise while seeking to identify new ways of create a new position of Chief Investment Officer generating shareholder value.
CIO solely responsible for portfolio investments.
Dividend and Future Dividend Policy I am pleased to say that we were able to announce the Your Board has declared a second interim dividend of appointment of Robert Clarke as CEO with effect from 5.9 pence per share, to be paid to shareholders on 15 September 2008 from when he took executive 3 April 2009, making a total distribution for the year responsibility for the overall management of the Trust of 10.2 pence 2007: 9.9 pence.
This represents an and its subsidiary.
Mark Lynam was appointed Chief increase of 3% over 2008 and maintains our policy of Investment Officer CIO with effect from 3 November increasing dividends at least in line with inflation.
5 Directors Report: Chairmans Statement continued The Board has considered very carefully the global investing in Witan for the long term makes sound economic outlook and how companies around the financial sense because equities have outperformed all world are affected particularly in their ability to other asset classes over the long term and the Witan maintain their distribution policies.
There is portfolio is a globally diversified selection of top fund considerable uncertainty as a result of the global managers, with low management charges and a good financial crisis and resulting recessionary dividend yield growing with inflation.
Witans own dividend is very Outlook dependent on the income we receive from our The world seeks answers as to what next but in truth investments.
We will therefore monitor developments there is great uncertainty.
History is important but the over the next year mindful that our dividend policy is future is more so.
We can draw comparisons to the one of the most important issues for shareholders.
1930s but the global economy and financial systems Board Changes are very different today compared to what they were At the AGM in April Alan Jones retires after thirteen then, not to mention our understanding of how to years as a director of Witan the last five of which he deal with such crises.
has been Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
It is highly likely that global economic growth over His wise counsel gained at a senior level in industry the next year will be worse than currently forecast.
has been of great value to the Board and he will be Governments in the US and the UK seem to be much missed.
adopting strategies of whatever it takes and it seems We welcome Catherine Claydon to the Board.
With likely that these efforts will restore a functioning her experience at Goldman Sachs, she will no doubt banking system and avert the worst of a recession.
make an active contribution to the business.
However, the long term cost particularly to the UK may be severe.
AGM and Centenary Our Annual General Meeting will be held at Merchant At the start of my statement I mentioned that in 2008 Taylors Hall on Tuesday 28 April 2009 at 2.30pm.
the US stock market posted its second worst Formal notice of the meeting is set out on pages 62 to performance on record since 1871.
In all but one 64 and further details are given on the enclosed instance since then, when the market has been down invitation card.
With my fellow directors, I look by more than 20% there has been a 20% plus rise the forward to the opportunity to meet you then for the following year.
The only exception was the prolonged Companys 101st AGM.
bear market of 1930 to 1932 and, interestingly, 1933 was up by over 50%!
Despite a future that seems all too On 17 February 2009 the Company celebrated its uncertain this is a time to accumulate global equities as 100th birthday.
Witan has endured and prospered investors are caught like rabbits in the headlights, despite two world wars, the Great Depression, the frozen in masterful inactivity.
Equity markets are likely internet bubble and several stock market crashes.
In to recover before economic activity turns positive.
They the current climate it is particularly important to have done so in the past and it is logical that they will consider the investment returns generated over an do so again.
extended period to remind ourselves of the Witan proposition.
An investment in the UK stock market in Harry Henderson 1909 would, with dividends reinvested, have grown 6 March 2009 over the last 100 years at an average rate of 9.9% per annum compared with 5.8% per annum for bonds Source: Credit Suisse Global Investment Returns Sourcebook 2009, Elroy Dimson, Paul Marsh and Mike Staunton, London and 4.2% per annum for inflation.
Most investors are Business School not looking at a 100 year time horizon.
