Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Chairmans Performing well Statement in a difficult year W e remain focused on delivering stability and growth in Centrica for the benefit of our customers, employees and shareholders.
Centrica performed well in 2008, during what was a very difficult year for energy supply businesses.
We witnessed previously unseen levels of volatility in wholesale gas and power prices.
Oil prices rose to almost $150 per barrel and then fell back to below $50 as the high levels of global oil demand, which had been causing a tight supply position, reversed quite rapidly due to the recessionary impact of the global financial crisis.
Against this backdrop Centricas financial performance in the year In the year we delivered excellent results in our growth businesses.
was good, with the higher upstream profits providing a partial British Gas Business and British Gas Services once again reported hedge to the inevitable decline in retail profits during this time.
We strong growth in revenue and operating profit.
In North America the also made further progress on our strategic agenda which places economic climate proved challenging but the business held up well Centrica on a much stronger footing both at home and abroad.
and also delivered a good performance.
The sharp rises in world energy prices necessitated two retail price In Europe we strengthened our presence by acquiring a controlling increases for UK consumers.
We concentrated on providing some interest in SPE in Belgium.
However in The Netherlands, where the protection for our customers by reducing our operating costs market continues to favour integrated incumbents, Oxxio did not through efficiency improvements, transforming the level of service perform well and we have written down its carrying value.
we offer and increasing the support we provide to our vulnerable Dividend customers.
Cost rigour was also evident across the rest of the The Board of Directors is proposing a final dividend of 8.73 pence Group as we reduced like-for-like operating costs against 2007. per share to be paid in June 2009, bringing our full year dividend In September we entered into a Memorandum of Understanding to 12.2 pence, an increase of 5.4%.
This is in line with our policy with EDF to acquire a 25% stake in the British Energy nuclear of delivering sustained real growth in the ordinary dividend.
This potential investment is intended to provide a Board changes long-term hedge against volatile commodity prices and a platform In March we announced the appointment of Mark Hanafin as for longer-term involvement in new nuclear power generation as a Managing Director Centrica Energy and Europe, replacing Jake valuable source of growth.
Beyond this we made further acquisitions Ulrich.
I would like to thank Jake for the dedication he has shown of gas reserves in the North Sea and in North America.
We also since the formation of Centrica in 1997 and the material announced our intention, subject to successful studies, to build contribution he has made in building our portfolio of gas, power additional gas storage facilities which will help provide important and storage assets.
Mark joined us from Shell where he was additional security of supply for the UK.
president and chief executive officer of Shell Energy North America.
05 Chairmans Know more Statement about our year Visit our Annual Report online.
com report2008 In February 2009 we announced some changes to the business The future structure within Centrica and to the Executive Committee and The economic landscape, dominated by the global financial the Board.
We have combined British Gas Residential, British Gas squeeze, continues to worsen and Centrica is not immune to the Business and British Gas Services into a single customer-focused effects of this.
Energy markets remain volatile and erratic, placing British Gas retail operation to maximise the value and growth pressure on parts of our business and on our customers.
Phil Bentley assumes responsibility for the combined In these challenging conditions the task of management will be business with immediate effect.
Phil remains a Director of to ensure we provide good service and competitive prices to all, Centrica plc.
support for the most vulnerable, a fair return and reward for our Deryk King, President and Chief Executive Officer of Direct Energy shareholders and long-term environmentally friendly sources of and a member of Centricas Executive Committee, has decided energy supply for the countries that we serve.
to retire and will leave his position with Direct Energy in July 2009, In the Chief Executives review, Sam Laidlaw outlines the progress and subsequently depart from Centrica at the end of 2009.
Deryk made to date against the strategic priorities of the Group and the has built a very successful business for Centrica in North America direction and actions that will be taken as we look forward in over the last eight years.
Deryk will be succeeded by Chris Weston 2009.
In these unpredictable times, Centrica is well positioned, who will take over as President and Chief Executive Officer of with a solid set of energy and services businesses and a strong Direct Energy on 1 July 2009, after a period of handover.
I am confident that under Sams leadership the the last three years Chris transformed the operating and financial management team will remain focused on delivering stability and performance of British Gas Services and previously he headed up growth in Centrica for the benefit of our customers, employees British Gas Business, our commercial energy supply operation.
will also join the Board of Directors of Centrica plc on 1 July 2009.
Paul Walsh, a Non-Executive Director of Centrica will step down from the Centrica Board at the Annual General Meeting on 11 May 2009.
Paul joined the Board in March 2003.
The search for a replacement has commenced.
Our employees In February 2009, British Gas was recognised by The Sunday Times as one of the 20 Best Big Companies to Work For which Roger Carr is a significant achievement.
Our employees remain central to Chairman the success of Centrica, particularly during these times of great 26 February 2009 uncertainty and change.
I want to thank them for the dedication, commitment, loyalty and professionalism which they continue to display.
OUR BUSINESS PRINCIPlES Our Group-wide business principles create a 4.
Enhancing customer experiences and framework to help us make decisions in line business partnerships with a consistent set of operating behaviours 5.
Valuing our people based on trust, integrity and openness.
F ocusing on health, safety and security 1.
Ensuring openness and transparency Our ongoing campaign to communicate these 3.
Respecting human rights principles will help our employees, business partners and external audiences understand the standards we expect.
