4 CHAIRMANs sTATeMeNT We continued to drive sales growth despite At the end of 2008, Graeme Musker stepped continuing pricing and intellectual property down from his position as Group Secretary challenges in our Established Markets.
and Solicitor, and will retire in early 2009.
Managing the impact of challenges from The Board appointed Adrian Kemp to the generic manufacturers is now a key feature position of Company Secretary with effect of our business.
The Board was pleased to from 1 January 2009.
On behalf of the Board, support the Senior Executive Team strategy I would like to thank Graeme for his 30 years of settling legal challenges concerning of invaluable service, advice and guidance to Nexium and Pulmicort Respules, rather than the Board and the Company.
managing the continued cost and uncertainty associated with a sustained legal defence.
The Board continues to be confident in the During 2008, AstraZeneca maintained its Protecting our intellectual property ensures strong leadership of David Brennan and his strong focus on delivering benefit to patients that we can re-invest in the discovery and Senior Executive Team and would like to and value to shareholders and society through development of the medicines of the future thank them and all AstraZenecas employees industry-leading R&D productivity, commercial and we must manage this important asset for their hard work and dedication, which excellence and operational efficiency.
actively and effectively over the long term.
Group sales increased by 3% in 2008 to We continued our investment in fast-growing The fundamentals of the world pharmaceutical a total of $31.6 billion.
Operating profit was economies to strengthen our platform market remain robust.
Reported earnings per for growth in key Emerging Markets, and, growth is slowing, mainly due to ever-greater share for the full year were $4.20 $3.74 in alongside the rest of the pharmaceutical pressure on costs and increased generic 2007.
The Board has recommended an 11% industry, we continued to drive efficiencies competition, the continued demand for increase in the second interim dividend to across our organisation to support sustained healthcare that underpins the industrys $1.50 104.8 pence, SEK 12.02 per Ordinary shareholder returns.
future growth prospects remains strong.
This brings the dividend for the full year The pharmaceutical industry is also arguably to $2.05 132.6 pence, SEK 15.36, an increase In conjunction with the Senior Executive less exposed than other sectors to the current of 10%.
In 2008, cash distributions to Team, during 2008 the Board reviewed global economic downturn, although some shareholders, through a combination of the Groups strategy.
This review reinforced impact may result from increased constraints dividends and share re-purchases totalled our commitment to delivering differentiated on payers, suppliers and distributors.
Share re-purchases for the full medicines that make a meaningful difference year amounted to $610 million.
Shareholders to patients lives and to doing so in an efficient, Nevertheless, our rapidly changing business also benefited in 2008 from an improvement focused, cost-effective and responsible environment will continue to be a challenging in the Company share price.
More information about the work and one.
The companies that will be most listed share price increased by 30% during operation of the Board and its Committees successful will be those that are able to manage the course of 2008, as compared to a is set out in the Business Organisation and the risks and maximise the opportunities decline of 31% for the FTSE 100 index.
Corporate Governance section of this Report.
effectively, through timely and efficient investment, appropriate use of intellectual During the year, we continued to invest in In February and September 2008 we property and constructive stakeholder enhancing our R&D capabilities alongside announced the appointments of Jean-Philippe engagement.
I am confident that AstraZeneca accessing high quality opportunities externally.
Courtois and Rudy Markham respectively.
is such a company and that, with our clear This investment is guided by our disease Jean-Philippes considerable experience strategy, strong leadership and intense focus area strategy, which reflects both our inherent with Microsoft in global sales and marketing, on execution, we will continue to deliver strengths and the areas of greatest unmet including Emerging Markets, will be of great sustainable success, to the benefit of medical need.
We now have a strong benefit to the work of the Board.
Rudys patients, shareholders and society.
development portfolio of small molecule and considerable experience of over 35 years biological products targeted at bringing new at Unilever, latterly in finance, will also be therapeutic approaches to important areas of invaluable to the work of the Board and to healthcare as quickly and safely as possible.
In particular, the improvements we have made to our cycle times mean that we should In November 2008, we announced the deliver new medicines to patients even faster.
retirement of John Patterson who will leave the Company after 34 years of service and louIS SCHWEITZER Chairman will retire from the Board on 31 March 2009.
John has made an important and highly valued contribution to the business over the course of his career with AstraZeneca and over the last five years as a member of the Board.
ASTRAZENECA ANNuAl REpoRT ANd FoRm 20-F INFoRmATIoN 2008
