Overview Chairmans message I am pleased to report that we are recommending a full year dividend of 15.8 pence per share, up 5% from last year, re ecting the groups strong performance and the Boards continued con dence in the future of the business.
goes to the company judged to be improving its business and Thanks to Ben and Christopher its overall impact on society, in the marketplace, the workplace, Before saying anything else, I want to pay tribute to your Chief the environment and the community, through leadership and Executive of the past six and a half years, Ben Verwaayen, who integration of responsible business practices.
We were also the will be stepping down on 1 June 2008.
Ben has been a truly top telecommunications company in the Dow Jones Sustainability exceptional Chief Executive.
His courage, determination, vision and Index for the seventh year in a row.
The importance of such awards is that they highlight all When he arrived in 2002, BT was a deeply troubled organisation the hard work, imagination and commitment throughout our with huge debts and an uncertain future.
Since then, under his organisation that is focused on operating in an ethical, sustainable leadership, BT has delivered Broadband Britain, built a successful and socially responsible way.
and fast growing global operation and changed the regulatory Around one third of BT people are involved with corporate landscape in the UK through the creation of Openreach.
This has social responsibility related activities.
We provide the manpower enabled the most competitive broadband market in the world and technology for major charity appeals including Children in to ourish.
Ben has also and Ill return to this overseen the Need and Comic Relief, and we are working closely with childrens creation of a diverse and hugely impressive talent pool in BT at charity Childline on a campaign to ensure that no call for help goes executive team level and throughout our many operations and unheard.
specialist businesses around the world.
He has restored pride in BT As we increasingly operate globally, so the emphasis is on being and I know that he feels that in many ways this will prove to be his good citizens of the world and making a difference worldwide.
For example, when your Board recently held a meeting in India, Great credit is also due to my predecessor Sir Christopher Bland we were able to see the marvellous work that the Katha IT and who stepped down in September.
He was an outstanding Chairman E-commerce School KITES which BT supports is doing for kids to whom I and the rest of BT owe a tremendous debt of gratitude.
We recognise that we have a responsibility to the environment Number one for customer service and aim to be a leader in the new low-carbon economy.
Ben Ive been at BT for eight months and have enjoyed my time here Verwaayen chaired a recent CBI task force which was set up to enormously.
Having had a chance to meet BT people and get a first make recommendations on combating climate change.
And we hand view of operations, I am convinced that we have the right are very conscious of the importance of reducing our emissions strategy and, just as importantly, the right team to take it forward.
Our CO emissions in the UK are That team consistently demonstrates that it has the imagination 2 58% lower than they were in 1996 and we aim to improve this to and agility to deliver for our customers.
Our contract to purchase green energy is one of the We need to drive standards higher for the whole of the industry.
largest in the world and we are developing wind powered projects Being number one for service in our own sector is simply no longer which should meet up to 25% of our UK electricity needs by 2016. good enough.
We have to make outstanding customer service a differentiator for BT.
That will enable us to build on our position Regulation as Britains favourite broadband provider, grow our wholesale and The creation of a genuinely competitive environment, wherever we global businesses, and drive down the costs we incur when things operate around the world, is fundamental to our continued ability go wrong.
to meet our customers needs.
The transformation that Ben and Christopher initiated In the UK, it is vital that the regulatory environment should continues.
enable us to make the necessary investments in the next generation of the UKs communications infrastructure with Our wider responsibilities con dence.
It is vitally important for companies to be responsible and In the European Union we are also looking for a level playing contributing members of the communities in which they operate.
eld that allows BT access to other markets.
BT has an enviable track record when it comes to living up to its social and environmental responsibilities and I am delighted that we won Business in the Communitys prestigious Company of the Year award for our positive impact on society.
The award 6 BT Group plc Annual Report & Form 20-F
