Vodafone Executive Summary Chairmans Statement We took a major step forward in building our developing market presence with the acquisition of Vodafone Essar in India last year.
Dividends per share 11.1% I am pleased to report that your Company made further progress is on average equivalent to only 2 US cents per minute.
We have during the year, with continuing execution of our strategy and much to learn from this successful business and much to contribute.
delivery of our financial targets.
This is reflected in our results, 7.51p with total dividends for the year of 7.51 pence, up 11.1%.
The Your Board will continue to be alert to other developing market share price increased 21% since the beginning of the year, while acquisition opportunities.
At present, our EMAPA region 2007: 6.76p the FTSE 100 index was down 4% during the same period.
represents more than 25% of our revenue: we see this increasing in the years ahead.
Vodafone is a truly international company, with more than 260 million proportionate customers across 25 markets and In Europe, our challenges are very different given the relative partner networks in 42 more countries.
maturity of the markets, most of which have over 100% penetration.
Here we are countering pressure on our traditional With more than two thirds of the worlds population now able to revenue by becoming more productive and we are establishing benefit from mobile phone coverage, there are approximately new sources of revenue.
3.5 billion mobile customers globally, a figure that industry analysts expect to rise by around 10% per year in the near future.
We are seeing benefits from the major efficiency programmes we established several years ago and this year we undertook Approximately half of the worlds GNP now comes from emerging further initiatives to expand our network sharing with other markets and this year we reported that, for the first time, over operators, thus reducing both capital and recurrent expenditure.
half our customers are in our EMAPA region.
Independent research shows clear evidence of an inextricable link between the rate Data services including email, music and the internet in Europe of mobile penetration in developing markets and the rate of are an important source of growth, producing significant economic growth, where we can also see the social benefits of increases in revenue.
Additionally, revenue from our business mobile as it frees people to leave home in their search for jobs customers is growing much faster than the consumer sector, and can become a method for remitting payments to their which plays to our strong franchise in Europe and in an families in some countries.
We took a major step forward in building our developing market In the US, our investment in Verizon Wireless continues to presence with the acquisition of Vodafone Essar in India last year.
do well and in our judgement is an appreciating asset, which The business, which now operates under the Vodafone brand, generates very strong levels of cash flow.
We are cooperating is already our largest controlled business in terms of customer closely with Verizon Wireless in a number of important areas, numbers at over 44 million.
The Vodafone Group Board visited including 4G technology and servicing international companies.
India earlier this year: we gained a very positive impression of the business and our prospects in this huge, dynamic market.
We are Our industry remains very much in the regulatory spotlight adding around 1.5 million customers each month in India, which and your Board monitors the regulatory environment carefully operates a very different cost model, especially when revenue as it has significant economic consequences for shareholders.
2 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2008 Total shareholder return April 2007 to May 2008 Vodafone 26% FTSE 100 2% Vodafone share price 25% vs FTSE 100 Vodafone Group FTSE 100 index 200 6700 175 6375 150 6050 125 5725 100 5400 April 2007 May 2008 Whether it relates to pricing, taxation or spectrum, what we a period of rapid change.
He developed a new strategy for the would like is a public policy framework which provides clarity, business and significantly expanded our footprint in emerging accountability and which facilitates growth, investment and fair markets.
The Board has a great deal to thank him for and I would competition.
This is important in all areas of policy, including like personally to thank him for all he has done for the business the allocation of spectrum which today remains in the hands and wish him and his family all the best for the future.
In Vittorio of governments around the world.
Colao we have a fine successor and I am looking forward to working with him in his new role.
Spectrum is our licence to do business.
If we buy too much, we do not use our shareholders capital optimally.
If we buy too little, Non-executive directors Michael Boskin, who joined the Board in we drop our customers calls and, of course, we can only buy it 1999 on the Companys merger with AirTouch Communications when it is available.
The upfront costs of spectrum are ultimately Inc. and Jrgen Schrempp, who became a Director in 2000 when borne by our customers and shareholders, the effect on the Vodafone completed its acquisition of Mannesmann, will not be government finances is to receive cash in advance but to reduce seeking re-election at the AGM on 29 July 2008.
I would like to tax payments later, as the capital cost is amortised against profits thank Michael and Jrgen for their contributions and for the over the life of the spectrum.
different and important perspectives each has brought to our Board.
They have served with distinction and I am particularly This is a period of unprecedented change in our business.
The grateful to them for their tireless work on our committees.
industry is changing shape as mobile phones, new technology and the internet converge, enabling us to expand the services We conducted our annual Board evaluation internally this year that we can offer.
This is also bringing new competitors both and this generated good ideas for improving our performance.
from within the industry and from outside.
Your Company operates in a challenging environment where rapid We are very proud of the work of our 22 Foundations around change is impacting our customers and therefore our business.
the world, which represents a charitable network investing Wherever I go, I am enormously impressed by the talented 41 million each year in projects and programmes supporting Vodafone people I meet and on behalf of the Board, I would like the communities where we operate.
to thank all of them for what they have achieved during the year.
During the year, we established the Vodafone India Foundation, Your Board is confident that we are well positioned to build on which will focus on helping to improve the skills set of young our success in the coming years.
people in India as they compete for jobs in the global market.
After five years in the role our Chief Executive, Arun Sarin, has decided to retire and will be stepping down at the conclusion of our AGM.
He has done a tremendous job, having led the Sir John Bond Company with distinction and navigated Vodafone through Chairman Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2008 3
