2 STATEMENT BY THE CHAIRMAN CHEMRING GROUP PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008 K C Scobie CHAIRMAN Statement by the Chairman Once again I have the pleasure to announce another year of excellent performance, with a 39% 43% increase increase in underlying pro t before tax to 74.2 million and a 43% increase in underlying earnings per share to 160p.
in underlying The Board has given careful consideration to an appropriate dividend payment in the current earnings per economic environment but with the continuing strong growth in the Groups earnings, record cash ow and a solid balance sheet, the Board is recommending a final dividend of 25p.
This gives a total share to 160p for the year of 35p, an increase of 40% over last year.
2008 2007 2006 2005 Results m m m m 354.2 254.7 187.7 121.0 Total revenue Underlying operating pro t continuing operations 79.6 61.2 38.5 22.9 acquired 5.3 - - - Underlying pro t before tax 74.2 53.2 32.5 19.2 Operating pro t 68.4 57.8 37.8 22.9 Pro t before tax 57.7 49.8 31.8 19.2 Underlying basic earnings 160p 112p 72p 47p per ordinary share Basic earnings per 123p 105p 70p 47p ordinary share CHEMRING GROUP PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008 STATEMENT BY THE CHAIRMAN 3 During the year, the Group acquired In November 2007 the Company completed Record operating Richmond Electronics & Engineering Limited in a $150 million private placement in the US the UK and completed three further acquisitions of ten year xed interest loan notes, with cash ow of in the US Scot, Inc. Martin Electronics, Inc. and an interest rate of approximately 6.30%.
The acquisition In August 2008, although the Company had 83.7 million of Non-Intrusive Inspection Technology, Inc. suf cient bank facilities to acquire Scot and NIITEK was completed in December 2008.
Martin Electronics for cash, the Company issued These acquisitions were funded by 12 million new equity to raise 60 million.
This helped to in cash, utilising existing bank facilities, and the reduce the Groups gearing, which now stands issue of 61 million equity.
Each of the acquired at 51% 2007: 80%, and enabled the Group businesses further strengthen the Groups to maintain a good level of headroom on its presence in our target markets.
The Energetics division grew strongly, with With a record operating cash ow of revenue increasing by 54% to 196.7 million 83.7 million in the year, the expectation and underlying operating pro t increasing that this trend will continue in 2009 and an by 64% to 45.7 million, now making it easily managed debt repayment pro le, the our largest division in revenue and pro t Board believes that the Group has more than terms.
Countermeasures had a record year, adequate financial resources to meet its current driven by an exceptional performance from expansion plans, including signi cant planned Chemring Countermeasures in the UK and capital expenditure and continuing research strong revenue growth at Kilgore in the US.
A reconciliation of the underlying results to the Energetics statutory results is set out in the Review by the The Group is driving forward its programme Finance Director on page 15. of product and plant reorganisation within its production facilities in the UK, Germany, Italy, Balance sheet, cash ow and debt Norway, Spain, Australia and the US, whilst At this time of global economic and monetary continuing to grow revenue and earnings to stress, shareholders will inevitably be concerned record levels.
The expansion of our Energetics to ensure that the Companys funding position is activities is enabling an increasing number secure and adequate for both current and future of our product components to be sourced plans.
In recent years, the Board has focused internally, particularly in those parts of on ensuring that the Group had a sound cash the business where technology transfer position and debt structure.
This strategy has restrictions across national borders are not proved to be bene cial.
as stringent as have historically applied in the countermeasures business.
4 STATEMENT BY THE CHAIRMAN CHEMRING GROUP PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008 Statement by the Chairman CONTINUED Of particular signi cance during the year The strong relationship between our two In NIITEK we was the development of our training US businesses and the US Department of rounds business, where the combination of Defense has developed further over the last believe we Chemring Defence formerly Comet in Germany year and culminated in the award of several and Titan Dynamics Systems in the US makes five year IDIQ Inde nite Delivery, Inde nite have acquired the Group the clear market leader in the area of Quantity contracts, with a total value of up to battle eld simulation products.
Whereas these may not necessarily the worlds in particular, are in great demand in the US.
translate into committed orders in that quantum over the next five year period, it does give a foremost The Group has also expanded its capabilities clear indication of the long term potential of our in the supply of equipment for detecting and expendable countermeasures business.
responding to improvised explosives devices vehicle mounted IEDs, unexploded ordnance clearance and During the year, our Australian business was demilitarisation of munitions.
With Chemring EOD awarded a ten year contract by the Australian mine detection in the UK comprising BDL Systems and Government, worth A$160 million 67 million, Richmond and with the recent addition of for the supply of a range of countermeasures system NIITEK in the US, the Group now has a signi cant and pyrotechnics.
This is a great success and presence in this sector.
In NIITEK we believe establishes us as the principal supplier of we have acquired the worlds foremost vehicle these products in the region.
As part of the mounted mine detection system.
arrangement, we have committed to building a new, state-of-the-art decoy manufacturing facility near Melbourne, as well as creating a Countermeasures research and development centre for the design Our UK business, Chemring Countermeasures, of future products.
followed its record achievement in 2007 with another record year, delivering growth in revenue of 37%.
Although the business Group strategy continues to sell and export a wide range of Our Group strategy remains unchanged.
We will decoys, its recent success emanates principally continue to concentrate on our two segments from the development of a spectral are for the of Energetics and Countermeasures, combining UK armed forces.
This are, which is in great organic growth with acquisitions which t our demand, has a number of export variants which designated market sectors and product offering.
it is anticipated will generate excellent sales in the immediate future.
With the continuing development of the Group around the world, the Board has identi ed Kilgore, which is in a very strong position as the the need to strengthen the senior executive designated supplier of advanced ares for new team with the appointment of a third divisional aircraft such as the F-22 and the Joint Strike managing director.
This individual will head up Fighter, also had a record year, with growth the Groups international business outside of the in revenue of 48%.
However, the business UK, Europe and the US: in particular, in Australia, was affected by delays in customer testing India, Korea, Japan and the Middle East.
of certain products, which resulted in some revenue and margin being deferred into the first The Group already has customers in India, quarter of the current financial year.
During Korea and Japan but we believe that permanent the year Kilgore commissioned a new advanced production facilities in each of these countries are production facility.
will be required in the future in order to maintain and increase our presence in both Alloy Surfaces, the most pro table business Countermeasures and Energetics.
We recognise in the Countermeasures division, had another that in these countries some form of joint solid year of earnings and cash generation.
venture is likely to be the required structure.
However, we have had to recognise that its dramatic growth in recent years cannot Health and safety continue inde nitely, and we anticipate more The Group has not only maintained its modest growth for the next few years pending commitment to health and safety throughout the introduction of the next generation of the year but has recently strengthened it special material decoys.
through the appointment of a new senior executive to concentrate full time on all aspects of this discipline.
The new Group Director of Safety is now a member of the Executive Committee which runs the day to day activities of the Group.
In a Group which works every day with sensitive, explosive materials, our attention to the protection of our employees cannot be emphasised enough.
CHEMRING GROUP PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008 STATEMENT BY THE CHAIRMAN 5 Board of directors Prospects I believe we The composition of the Board in terms of the Our ongoing commitment to delivering total number of members, their length of service and shareholder return has inevitably been will experience their skills is kept under continuing review.
The restricted by the performance of the Companys Board does not consider that there is any need shares, although I believe that shareholders will another year of for immediate action.
recognise that the external in uences of the economic and financial dramas were outside of above average our control.
In the circumstances, I believe our Staff and employees share price has held up relatively well compared In recent years we have grown to over 3,000 growth to the stock market as a whole.
Although this is still not a large number in terms of international The Board has examined thoroughly not only businesses, it has been a rapid increase for the plans for the current year but also the the Group.
In these dif cult economic times, next five years, and whilst recognising that it is understandable that employees may be we cannot remain completely immune to apprehensive over the security of their jobs.
In economic recession, we are convinced that this statement, I have attempted to set out my our growth strategy, consistent with that convictions for the future of the Group and its articulated in previous years, is still soundly current sound financial position.
Furthermore, as mentioned earlier in set the scene and determine the big picture this statement, we believe that the Group has for the Group but it needs the commitment of all adequate financial resources to deliver members of staff and employees to deliver that this strategy.
If we do so, as we have done in the past, our employees can feel comfortable about We enter 2009 with an excellent order book, an their continuing employment prospects.
Energetics division growing rapidly but still in its youth, and several newly-acquired businesses The Board extends its thanks to all employees, determined to show the Group what they can including those in recently acquired companies, achieve.
The Countermeasures division will for their efforts that have made 2008 another continue to produce solid earnings and cash ow.
very successful year for the Group.
As a leading defence business, the issues Pensions associated with the current military operations Whilst the assets held by our fide ned bene t around the world make many judgments dif cult pension schemes have inevitably been impacted but looking to the future of the Group, these by the recent fall in stock markets, the fide cit on international tensions do not make the world the schemes is not signi cant in the context of look a safer place.
In rapidly changing economic the Group and we remain comfortable with the circumstances there are many imponderables future funding requirements.
which could affect the outcome for the next year.
However, once again I believe we will experience Dividends another year of above average growth, with The Board is recommending a final dividend of all-round solid financial performance.
25p per ordinary share, a 40% increase on the final dividend for 2007.
This, together with the interim dividend of 10p paid in August 2008, gives a total dividend for the year of 35p, a 40% increase over 2007.
The dividend is over K C Scobie 4.6 times covered on underlying pro ts after CHAIRMAN tax of the continuing operations.
The shares 20 January 2009 will be marked ex dividend on 25 March 2009 and the dividend is payable on 17 April 2009 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 27 March 2009.
Before goodwill adjustment arising from recognition of tax losses, intangible amortisation arising from business combinations and loss on fair value movements on derivatives of 16.5 million 2007: 3.4 million
