Chairmans Statement While market conditions remain extremely difficult, we are confident in the resilience of the business and the long term strength of the underlying portfolio.
Introduction We hold prime industrial of empty rates of 3.8m.
The extreme turmoil in and warehouse property Adjusted earnings per share global financial markets, in strategic locations fell 8.7% to 15.7p, or 1.2% the subsequent reduction in We continue to believe to 17.0p excluding the the availability of credit, and that our portfolio is impact of empty rates.
the worsening economic fundamentally attractive, outlook in the UK led to focused on prime strategic The imposition of empty widespread declines in UK locations, able to perform rates in England and Wales commercial property values resiliently in the current could not have happened in 2008.
These declines environment and well placed at a worse time for the accelerated in the fourth to benefit from the inevitable business community as quarter at a much greater future recovery in economic operating cash ows are rate than many, including conditions.
reduced when cash ourselves, had anticipated.
preservation for working It is widely expected that Brixton owns nearly capital is a priority for many there will be further falls 19 million square feet of companies.
Empty rates in 2009. industrial and warehouse affects businesses when property in the UK.
they are downsizing their Since 2006, the Board has Approximately 72% of the operations as they will not taken various measures portfolio by value is located be able to obtain relief for to strengthen the Groups in the strategic markets of space that they no longer financial position, including Heathrow and Park Royal, occupy under their lease selling non-core secondary where land supply is commitments.
At a time properties, restricting constrained and tenants when demand for space new acquisitions to are typically locationally has slowed empty rates prime strategic assets, sensitive.
We believe that is an additional burden and curtailing new this market specialisation which is further exacerbated development activity.
and geographic focus best when insolvencies occur positions the Group to as the loss of rental income However, the deliver attractive returns from a tenant is then unprecedented speed and to shareholders over the compounded by the extent of recent valuation long term.
declines presents Brixton with a number of challenges Brixtons operating Our income continues to regarding the current capital performance was good be well spread.
Brixtons structure, as has been in 2008 top 20 tenants represent reected in the recent share Brixton demonstrated the 31% of the rent roll and no price performance.
The resilience of its underlying single non-government Board is acutely focused on operating business in 2008 tenant accounts for more addressing these challenges generating a net annualised than 2.3% of rental income.
and continues to explore its increase in income for the Because of the worsening options to strengthen the year from lettings, lease economic environment, balance sheet and provide renewals and rent reviews of the annualised loss of rent the Group with additional 3.6m, approximately three in 2008 was 4.2m or 4.0% financial exibility.
We will times the net new income of the rent roll, of which half make an announcement generated in 2007 1.2m.
related to Entertainment as soon as appropriate.
Investment or underlying UK Ltd a subsidiary profit fell 4.1m to 42.5m, of Woolworths.
reecting mainly the impact 4 www.
uk Our vacancy rate by the formation of new joint Peter replaces Tim Wheeler income was 17.3% at ventures, renegotiations of who will be leaving Brixton December 2008, or 10.6% if our borrowing agreements, after 24 years, the last nine developments are excluded.
as well as a potential of which were as Chief Managing our vacancy rate equity raising.
On behalf of the is a key priority for the Board Board I am delighted to as we focus on maximising In the context of welcome Peter in his new income growth.
strengthening the Groups role and would like to thank balance sheet, and also Tim for his contribution Balance sheet in light of the lack of reform to Brixton.
In line with prevailing market to empty rates legislation, conditions, Brixtons the Board has decided that Outlook and priorities portfolio recorded a it would be prudent to for the next year valuation deficit of 27.2% restrict the 2008 dividend While market conditions in 2008 and 19.2% in the to the 4.9p per share remain extremely difficult, second half of the year.
The already paid at the Half Year.
we are confident in the wholly owned portfolio is The Board intends to keep resilience of the business now valued at 1,605m, its dividend policy for future and the long term strength while the total portfolio years under review.
including our share of joint We are focused on meeting ventures is valued at We have a cohesive team the immediate challenge 1,799m.
This means that in place to take Brixton to protect against further our portfolio has now fallen forward valuation falls and 33.4% since the market On 2 March 2009, the strengthen our balance peak in June 2007.
As a Board appointed Peter sheet.
We also intend result, our adjusted NAV per Dawson as Chief Executive.
to drive income growth share fell 46.8% to 290p.
Formerly Brixtons through the effective Investment Director, Peter management of our The Group remains has been with the Group vacancy level.
compliant with all covenants since 1997 and served on under its borrowing the Board since 2007.
He Finally, I would like to thank agreements.
However, given has a detailed knowledge of all our staff for their hard widespread expectations the business and is the right work and commitment of further property value person to lead the Group to the Company.
falls, our balance sheet through these challenging covenants of asset cover market conditions and into ratio and gearing are likely the next phase of its to come under pressure.
He will be supported by a very high Focus on strengthening quality and experienced the balance sheet and executive team including maximising our financial Steven Owen, Deputy Chief Louise Patten exibility Executive and Steve Lee, Chairman As a consequence, Operations Director.
the Board is currently exploring a range of options to address this issue.
These options include asset disposals, Annual Report and Accounts 2008 5
