Section 1: Overview CHAIRMANS STATEMENT COMPETITIVE ADVANTAGE Chloride has again delivered very strong growth in sales, profits and orders.
This momentum was underpinned by our focus on buoyant market sectors including IT services, energy and oil & gas, where we grew well ahead of the market.
We continued to grow strongly in our main European market where our total solutions approach is welcomed by our customers and provides real competitive advantage.
Good progress was made in Asia Pacic and the Middle East where we continue to invest in these attractive markets.
Our strategic positioning as a provider of secure power solutions reinforces our pace of growth, as blue-chip customers across the globe recognise that power quality is critical to their business continuity.
In December 2007 the Company entered the FTSE 250 Index, reecting the strong growth in its market value.
KEY FINANCIALS interest and the purchase of own shares Total sales increased by 31% to 267.6 million by the Employee benefit Trust, all of which 2007: 204.4 million, with product sales up totalled 35.1 million.
33% at 182.8 million and service revenue up 26% at 84.8 million.
Adjusted operating Tax provisions of 2.9 million were released profit increased by 54% to 36.1 million 2007: during the year.
These related to potential 23.5 million, reecting the strong operational taxation risks on businesses divested in 2001 the gearing of our business model.
The operating provisions for which were no longer required.
margin increased by 2 points to 13.5% the sixth successive year of increase.
STRATEGIC INVESTMENTS We made a number of strategic investments Adjusted profit before tax increased by 54% to improve and expand our capabilities, to 33.3 million 2007: 21.7 million, generating focusing on attractive geographic and adjusted earnings per share of 9.51p market sectors.
In Europe, our core market, 2007: 6.63p, an increase of 43%.
Basic Masterpower Electronics Limited acquired earnings per share was 9.99p 2007: 6.38p.
in March 2007, met expectations and now provides a platform to extend our business The high-growth Operating cash ow was 30.0 million 2007: in the UK oil & gas and energy sectors.
We 24.3 million, representing 83% of adjusted acquired AST Services Electronique SARL, characteristics of our operating profit, after accommodating the to expand our multi-vendor service capabilities main market sectors are increase in working capital to support the in France and, towards the end of the year, strong growth in sales and orders.
we took a minority stake in Eltek UPS to underpinned by robust introduce the Chloride brand to Scandinavia.
long-term market drivers Net debt for the year was at at 21.8 million In addition, Chloride Rus was formed with our 2007: 21.3 million after capital expenditure, long-standing partners in Russia where we payment of dividends, acquisitions, tax, already have a number of blue-chip customers in the financial services and oil & gas sectors.
4 ANNUAL REPORT 2008 We have developed a clear strategy for accelerated growth and progressively In Asia Pacic we acquired Ascor Power Since Keith was appointed Chief Executive in invested in people and Systems Pte Limited, Singapore and quickly 1992, the Company has been transformed into invested in new facilities in Singapore to a focused secure power solutions company, resources to support our establish Chloride South East Asia as our with leading positions in high-growth markets strategic development regional centre for sales, technical support worldwide.
We have developed a clear strategy and training in the region.
We also increased for growth and progressively invested in our shareholding in DB Power Electronics, people and resources to support our strategic India to 32%.
This business is exceeding development.
My fellow directors and I are expectations and provides access to very grateful to Keith for his leadership and international and domestic customers clear vision throughout this exciting period.
for Chlorides large systems in the Indian A WELL-POSITIONED BUSINESS IT services, finance and oil & gas sectors.
Keith will be succeeded as Chief Executive by Chloride has established an international Tim Cobbold, who joined the Board as Chief reputation for providing market-leading power We took an important strategic step in the Operating officer in June 2007.
We continue to make management of our supply chain, with the Chloride from Smiths Group, where he held excellent progress in our major European completion of a manufacturing joint venture a number of senior appointments notably market, and our expansion in Asia Pacic and with Phoenixtec Power Company, Taiwan.
in the John Crane division.
We are confident the Middle East is gathering momentum as Production of large systems to Chloride that under Tims leadership, and with our we continue to strengthen our infrastructure specications has now commenced in a new proven strategy for growth, Chloride will and market presence.
facility in Shenzhen China, and we expect prosper further.
important benets to come through towards The high-growth characteristics of our main the end of the current financial year, as the I am pleased to welcome Paul Lester, who market sectors are underpinned by robust facility approaches full production.
joined the Board as a non-executive director long-term market drivers.
In particular, energy in September.
Paul is Chief Executive of shortages and rising oil prices will continue We continue to look for suitable acquisition VT Group and the Board will benefit from his to attract high levels of capital investment into opportunities which will add long-term wealth of industrial experience, particularly these sectors.
We are confident that through shareholder value.
in service delivery and facilities management.
the consistent application of our proven strategy and ongoing enhancement of our DIVIDEND Robin Southwell, who has been a non-executive solutions offering we are well positioned The Board is pleased to propose a final director since 2002, will retire from the Board to deliver continued high returns on capital, dividend of 2.40p per share 2007: 1.70p, at the AGM in July, and I greatly appreciate his strong earnings growth and excellent cash reecting our continued confidence in the support over the last six years.
Gary Bullard generation over the long term.
Together with will take over Chairmanship of the Remuneration the interim dividend of 1.60p, this gives a Committee on Robins retirement.
CURRENT TRADING dividend for the year of 4.00p an increase We entered the new financial year with of 33% on the prior year.
Subject to PEOPLE a record order book reecting order intake shareholders approval at the Annual General Our people are crucial to Chlorides success consistently ahead of sales.
This positive trend Meeting AGM the final dividend will be paid and on behalf of the Board I would like to has continued into the first two months of on 4 August 2008 to shareholders on the thank them for another year of exceptional the current year, with sales, operating profit register at close of business on 11 July 2008. progress.
Our commitment to training and operating margin well ahead of last year is demonstrated through the continued and in line with managements expectations.
BOARD investment in the Chloride Academy, and I Product and service orders have again In March we announced that Keith Hodgkinson am pleased to report that in its first year of increased and we ended May with a yet will be retiring from the Board at our AGM in operation 130 of our employees successfully stronger order book, supporting the Boards July and will continue in an advisory capacity passed residential and distance-learning confidence in the outlook for the year.
until November 2008. courses run by the Academy.
