Chairmans statement 07 Despite a difficult year, Derwent London has made good operational progress with strong asset and financial management.
Last year proved to be extremely demanding for both the UK economy and the property sector, with ongoing turmoil in the financial markets creating an unprecedented lack of liquidity and pushing the wider economy into recession.
In the property industry, this has been evidenced by the largest ever annual fall in the IPD Central London Offices Index, with no part of the market being unaffected.
However, we have retained our focus on matters within our control, namely asset and financial management, and this has enabled us to make good progress with a number of operational objectives.
We entered 2008 with relatively modest balance sheet gearing and some 370 million of unutilised, committed bank facilities.
This position of financial strength was maintained throughout the year and is one result of management applying its proven strategy through a number of economic and property cycles.
This strategy is to acquire income producing office buildings, predominantly located in Londons West End and surrounding villages, that offer the potential for regeneration, and to improve these, over time, through refurbishment or redevelopment.
Capital is then recycled through the disposal of mature assets.
Results At the year end the adjusted net asset value per share attributable to equity shareholders was 1,226p, a decrease of 32% from 1,801p at 31st December 2007.
Of this decline, 78% occurred in the second half of the year.
The investment portfolio was valued at 2.1 billion at 31st December 2008, a reduction from the previous year end of 597 million before lease incentive adjustments of 5.0 million.
Properties held throughout the year fell in value by 22.1% compared to a gain of 4.3% in 2007.
Central London properties, which account for 94% of the portfolio, showed a decrease of 22.5% for the year, with a decline in the second half of 17.8%.
The portfolios annual property return of minus 18.9% compares favourably to the IPD Central London Offices Index which showed a negative return for the year of 23.5%.
During the year, the portfolios initial yield, based on the annualised contracted rental income, increased from 4.4% to 6.0% whilst the true equivalent yield increased from 5.7% to 7.1%.
The estimated rental values that underlie the 2008 year end valuation showed a decrease of 3.4% over the year, clearly illustrating the relative resilience of our middle market rental values.
The principal cause of the decline in the portfolio valuation was the upward movement in investment yields, although the groups yield profile confirms that the portfolio has maintained a reversionary element.
The groups recurring profit before tax was 23.3 million, after two major charges to the group income statement.
Without these, the profit would have been 39.9 million compared to 37.6 million for the prior year.
One of these items was reported at the interim stage and is the 8.3 million reverse premium paid to the tenant at 1-3 Grosvenor Place, for the surrender of its lease.
The other is an 8.3 million foreign exchange translation movement included in finance costs: this is a non-cash item arising on the consolidation of a dormant overseas subsidiary inherited with the acquisition of London Merchant Securities plc, the scale of which has been caused by the rapid deterioration of sterling against the dollar.
It has little impact on net assets as there is a similar amount credited direct to reserves.
Notwithstanding a tax credit, diluted recurring earnings per share were 22.73p compared with 34.99p in 2007. Dividend The directors are recommending a final dividend of 16.35p per share of which, as a REIT, 10.0p per share will be paid as a property income distribution PID.
This, together with the interim dividend of 8.15p per share, makes a total for the year of 24.5p, an increase of 8.9% on the 22.5p per share paid in respect of 2007.
The total dividend paid as a PID for the year will be 15.0p per share.
The final dividend will be paid on 19th June 2009, to those shareholders on the register on 22nd May 2009.
Going forward, the board is committed to at least maintaining the current level of dividend, with a view to returning to a progressive dividend policy when the markets improve.
Market review and activity update The consequences of the weakening economy have been felt across the central London Arup headquaters, occupier market and deteriorating tenant activity has filtered through into increased vacancy Fitzroy Street, Fitzrovia rates, below average take-up, rental declines and greater leasing incentives.
Against this Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2008 Chairmans statement backdrop, the group has performed well: delivering strong lettings, renewals and reviews and reducing the amount of vacant space.
As a group, we concentrate our ownerships in the West End and surrounding villages where there is a more diverse tenant base and lower exposure to the financial sector than in the City and Docklands.
Together with limited existing and future supply, this has, to date, seen the West End weather the downturn better and should provide a degree of resilience in the future.
During the year, the main objective of our asset management team was to capture the reversionary potential of the portfolio through lettings, rent reviews and lease renewals.
By the end of the year, these had added 16.2 million to gross property income.
The groups letting achievements demonstrate that the middle market rents in our central London locations remain attractive to tenants, albeit they are not immune to the overall downward pressure.
Lettings of 45,300m of space were made during the year which will ultimately generate rents of 16.3 million per annum.
The principal letting was the 13,000m pre-let to Cancer Research UK at Angel Building, Islington.
It is notable that in a weakening economy, over 75% of these lettings were made in the second half with 29% in the final quarter.
We were also successful in retaining tenants within our portfolio through the quality of our space and managements close relationship with them.
In the period, approximately 10% of the portfolios rent roll was subject to break options or lease expiries.
Of this income, 81% was retained or re-let.
This performance was achieved through intense management of a portfolio with a low average passing rent of 266 per m 25 per sq ft.
This is a parameter that has always been a cornerstone of our business.
It provides protection in a down market and upside opportunity for when the market recovers.
Following this activity, space available to let at the year end was 3.8% of rental value last year 4.5% and 4.0% of the groups total floor space of 520,400m.
This compares to CB Richard Elliss published rate for central London of 5.3%.
To date, we have experienced negligible tenant default.
Throughout the year, we collected, on average, 97% of the rents within 14 days of the quarter day, with the December quarter only marginally lower at 96%.
As part of our portfolio management, the disposal of non-core properties realised a total of 72.6 million, 1.2 million above the December 2007 book value.
Expenditure on strategic acquisitions totalled 32 million in the year, predominantly to facilitate future schemes in Fitzrovia.
In addition, capital expenditure of 73 million was incurred, principally on our schemes at Angel Building, Arup Phase II, Fitzrovia and Horseferry House, Victoria.
The latter two schemes were completed during the year.
In the current climate, we have restricted our development exposure to three main projects: Angel Building, Gresse Street and Arup Phase III.
This programme has been substantially fide-risked as, overall, we have pre-let nearly 60% of the space.
Capital expenditure to complete these projects is 70 million in 2009 and 25 million in 2010.
Where we have delayed schemes, the properties remain income producing and the group retains control over the timing of future development.
Three important planning permissions for future schemes were obtained during the year which, if developed, would add 37,900m of additional space to the portfolio.
Finance Despite the lack of liquidity in the financial markets, three bank facilities, totalling 253 million, have been renewed in the last twelve months, including a 125 million loan that was due for repayment in November 2009.
This shows the benefit of the long-term relationships that have been established with the groups banks.
There are no further debt maturities until December 2011.
Prospects We believe the economy will contract throughout 2009 and possibly into 2010 and the lack of financial liquidity will remain a major issue.
We are cognisant of the challenges this presents and expect there to be continued downward pressure on rental levels and capital values with little improvement in the investment market.
In response to these unparalleled market conditions, we will continue to focus on financial and asset management and to use our extensive experience of the London villages to maximise revenue.
This approach, combined with our financial strength, gives us confidence that we will emerge from this challenging period in a position to take advantage of opportunities that arise as the market recovers.
Burberry headquarters, R. A. Rayne Horseferry House, 17th March 2009 Victoria
