Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2008 05 Chairmans statement Activity has remained at a high level opportune sales and important lettings have been effected and, notwithstanding the current difficulties, new credit facilities have been put in place, providing further firepower for the future.
The year under review has proved to be a particularly testing one, personally, let it be said, I wholeheartedly subscribe to the famous with most property companies and funds experiencing a sharp fall Johnsonian Samuel, not Boris!
aphorism, when a man is tired in capital values.
Whilst we could not expect to be immune from of London, he is tired of life.
the impact of rising interest rates and the credit crunch, it is with Eheu fugaces, Postume, Postume, labuntur anni.
As Horace so a degree of satisfaction that I report briefly on our own figures.
poignantly remarked to his chum, the years do, indeed, run away Both adjusted earnings per share at 12.6 pence and the proposed from us far too quickly for, mirabile dictu, on 16 March 2009 Great final dividend of 8.0 pence show healthy advances, whilst the triple Portland Estates, all being well, will have been listed on the London net asset value per share of 590 pence is only fractionally down, Stock Exchange for 50 years.
By then I will have been a director bearing testimony to the success of our strategy implemented at, of your Company for 40 of them and your Chairman for nearly and honed since, the beginning of the decade of concentrating on a quarter of a century: that is why, not wishing to outstay my central London: we have now outperformed our peer group and the welcome, a while ago now I made up my mind that this golden relevant indices for five consecutive years.
anniversary represents the perfect date for me to retire.
This is Activity has remained at a high level opportune sales and the last time, therefore, that I shall be penning my annual important lettings have been effected, several subtle transactions statement to shareholders and, by a happy coincidence and with have been completed, particularly in respect of our growing joint quite extraordinarily good timing, in the past few months Great ventures, whereby our West End holdings have been cemented and Portland has won three prestigious awards in the form of overall enhanced with a simultaneous reduction in the exposure to our winner of The Property Accounts Awards, The Best Accounts in major Southwark development.
In addition, notwithstanding the the FTSE 250 and Property Company of the Year.
These are current difficulties, new credit facilities have been put in place, tremendous achievements and congratulations are due to all providing further firepower for the future.
Full details, together of our talented people.
with the reports on corporate governance, etc.
can be found in the The one thing I can say with confidence about the future is that my succeeding 80 odd pages and I will let them speak for themselves.
successor, about whom we anticipate making an announcement It is fascinating to reflect that, if we go back to 1959 and our very later this year, will find Great Portland in excellent shape for first set of Accounts, those were the days when shareholders were whatever conditions emerge, and she or he will inherit a skilled greeted with 12 pages of large typeface, no Chairmans Statement, and talented Board, with the young ones in the management team a few bits and pieces of information, the Notes comprised one complemented by the greyer hairs of the non-executives.
page and the Auditors Report was 13 lines long!
One could be forgiven for becoming somewhat dizzy at the plethora of After such a lengthy career with one Company, I suppose that its information which has to be absorbed these days with its overall not unusual for me to be feeling somewhat emotional as I approach cost and time to the Group.
Having said that, our own awardthe moment when, in the words of the title of a 1960s Number winning Accounts are, I feel, finely presented and full of interesting One, its all over now, so to speak, for me personally.
Nevertheless, and highly relevant material.
I shall resist the temptation to wallow in nostalgia and simply confine myself to taking this opportunity of expressing and Im Looking ahead, I cannot get away from the conclusion that it sorry if, in the circumstances, it is impossible to name particular has rarely been more difficult to read the runes.
On the one hand, individuals my enormous appreciation of the help, advice, support for the time being our core West End market appears to be holding and fun so many colleagues and advisers have given me over such a up, on the other there is no question that a deep seated sense of long period.
I am lucky that my time at Great Portland has fragility and uncertainty pervades and this is not going to disappear produced more highs than lows, more laughter than tears, and overnight.
Some seasoned operators suspect that the current malaise it has been a rare and real privilege to have been involved with a is partly due to an all or nothing, almost a lemming-like its now great industry and a host of fascinating personalities.
Above all, or never, attitude which has been taken for a couple of years I am proud and honoured to have served you, the shareholders, by a few highly leveraged, possibly less experienced, investors.
and retained your trust, for 40 years.
Not unnaturally, each generation believes that the previous one is out of time and that it has discovered the new paradigm.
How often So, with renewed thanks from me to you all and, until the next time have we heard the cyclical comment it really is different this we meet, its simply au revoir.
It may be true once in a blue moon, but it is always vital to get back to fundamental principles and one can never overstress the importance of taking a long-term view of commercial property.
Equally, from our own focused portfolio stance, I firmly believe that the Capital, a real tower of strength for the British economy, will not surrender its pre-eminent status as the European financial centre: Richard Peskin Chairman
