Report of the Directors Chairmans statement continued 9 Investors value specialisation they want to be absolutely clear on the Chart 1 Land Securities returns % speci c risks and opportunities ahead.
We believe that by demerging our businesses we can provide greater clarity and greater value 30 through a step change in focus and exibility.
To use the jargon of professional investors, we will be more ambitious in our pursuit 20 of portfolio alpha.
Throughout the demerger process we will work hard to minimise costs 10 and to communicate what we are doing and why.
The Company strives 0 to set high standards of disclosure.
We will report key decisions quickly and clearly.
-10 One principle will remain consistent throughout the process we 07 06 08 3 year will only move to demerge when the conditions are right.
We have no average Return on average capital employed timetable to follow but our own.
Return on average equity During times of profound change you see the true calibre of a Weighted average cost of capital companys employees.
I am impressed by what I have seen here this Source: Organisation year.
The demerger has not distracted anyone or anything.
We recognise business conditions are placing great demands on our people at the moment and we thank them for their terri c response.
Table 2 Win Bischoff left our Board recently after more than eight years Total shareholder returns % return % return of quite extraordinary service.
We congratulate for year to for five years 31 03 08 to 31 03 08 him on his appointment as Chairman of Citigroup.
Christopher Bland, Land Securities 25.9 148.0 Rick Haythornthwaite and Kevin OByrne have been appointed to the FTSE 100 6.3 87.3 Board as Non-executive Directors.
They will be offering themselves for FTSE 350 Real Estate 32.2 147.1 election by shareholders at our forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
FTSE All Share Real Estate 33.3 146.7 Source: Datastream I encourage you to support their election.
Regardless of the demerger process and demanding market conditions, the Company continues to make corporate responsibility a priority.
We want to be a provider and partner of choice, and our excellent track record across governance, sustainability and community affairs plays a vital role in this.
Its quite simple we want to be the sort of company people prefer to work with.
The Board thanks our colleagues, customers and suppliers for their tremendous support this year.
With their help the Company remains in excellent shape and we look ahead with con dence to the next 12 Alpha is a measure of return on a portfolio generated months in Land Securities remarkable history.
by management actions and not market trends.
Paul Myners Chairman Land Securities Annual Report 2008 10 Our Chief Executive reports High volume of sales, 1.56bn, in challenging market prices 5.3% above valuation 2 Highest ever level of development completions at 242,200m 94% let by year end Successful launch of 1.1bn fund in PPP sector Business continued to perform well while making progress on demerger Francis Salway This year the Company anticipated I belie five the key to our performance this year can be changing conditions, acted decisively summed up in two words and achieved relative outperformance timing and execution... as a result.
Chief Executive Francis Salway reports on our actions and our outlook for the year ahead.
