02 Chairmans statement This is my first report to you having joined Aegis as chairman in July Role of chairman and 2008 and subsequently, following the departure of Robert Lerwill in December, having been appointed as interim chief executive.
chief executive combined The unanimous Board view was that it was time for a change on an interim basis.
of CEO and given the rapidly changing market outlook it was an appropriate decision to combine both roles on an interim basis and thereby ensure continuity of action and full ownership of the Announcement of a new 2009 budget.
chief executive expected prior This is an interim arrangement and I expect to make an to or at calendar year end.
announcement about the appointment of a replacement chief executive on or before the calendar year end.
You will note that A series of performance in the interim I have had a modest increase in fee to cover this role.
and operational priorities I have no wish to be paid as a chief executive and do not receive any form of bonus, pension or other benefits.
I believe my primary set and detailed in the role is that of chairman and I wish to be seen to be independent chief executives report.
in this limited interim stage.
It is perhaps a paradox that when the Group had both a chairman Improved working relationship and a chief executive there was a form of joint report.
Despite briefly continuing with both roles, it is my style to write a separate report.
with all shareholders, including In my chief executives report I have set out in summary form a our single largest shareholder.
report on the 2008 results and a view on the outlook for 2009.
In this chairmans report I will be dealing with matters relating Strengthening of risk and to my role as chairman, and if I comment on any aspects of the chief executives report, it will only be to repeat what is there.
The directors report contains details of termination payments Programme to tighten paid to David Verklin and Mainardo fide Nardis, both of whom were associated with the Aegis Media business and ceased to organisation and maintain have management responsibilities last April and May respectively.
investment momentum The details in this years remuneration report of their termination packages involve elements of what is called garden leave adopted and in progress.
and, although not in post, both were paid for part of the year and remained technically in employment.
This is reflected in Company positioned to deal the technically correct but relatively lower termination payments with more challenging 2009 paid compared to Robert Lerwill, who received as part of his contractual entitlement one year in lieu of notice and had no market conditions.
John Napier chairman Aegis Group plc 2008 Annual Report and Accounts 03 I am pleased to report that Aegis Media is now in the capable I have been reasonably busy of late and would like to express my hands of Jerry Buhlmann who was appointed an executive director appreciation for the response and support of the senior managers in June 2008 and has over ten years of Aegis experience.
in the Group and the Board in this interim situation.
I am also very aware that Aegis is very much a people-dominated company.
Continuing on the subject of departures, I would also like to I would like to share with you all a general message aimed at all announce that Bernard Fournier, Leslie Van fide Walle and Daniel our staff.
I fully understand that our performance depends upon the Farrar, all non-executive directors, plan to retire from the Board commitment and efforts of all our staff.
They have performed well at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting on 22 May in 2008 and I would like to thank them on shareholders behalf.
They are retiring based on nine years service for Bernard Fournier and six years for both Leslie Van fide Walle and Daniel They, like you, however, will know that the chief executives report Farrar.
The Group owes them, and in particular the previous contains details of a cost reduction programme that involves the loss chairman, Lord Sharman, a debt of gratitude for the contribution of jobs across more than 40 countries.
This is a very targeted and they have made to the growth and development of the business.
selected programme that has two principal objectives: A vote of thanks will be proposed at the AGM.
to tighten the organisation to ensure improved efficiency In terms of the replacement of non-executive directors, MWM, to maintain momentum with continued investment in people, a leading independent executive search and board advisory firm, services and broader business development.
has already been commissioned and we expect an announcement concerning additional non-executive directors will be made prior I would therefore like to share my message to staff with you, to, or at, the AGM.
Previous AGMs have been the subject of as shareholders, which in summary form was as follows: shareholder concern about such matters.
I am able to confirm that Working in a recession is a new experience for many our single largest shareholder has already publicly expressed of you, and certainly for the Group.
his agreement to this approach and does not intend to nominate separately any directors.
This is a reflection of the increased Having to lose some people by increased focus on efficiency, confidence that has been expressed in the management and Board as well as sales, is necessary but regrettable.
It has been helpful in allowing me, as your chairman, Neither you nor I are responsible for the more difficult markets to focus on Board and executive performance without the distraction we face.
of managing the differences expressed at previous AGMs.
We all have a common purpose together with shareholders, which is to It does not reduce in any way the importance we attach to grow and develop the business and focus on shareholder value.
At your best, you are our supreme asset.
On an issue of governance, I have already made it clear that How we all perform will make the real difference, no matter I am not conflicted by any form of chief executive-style remuneration, how long the recession lasts.
In those circumstances I have been We will come out at the other side.
appointed to the Remuneration Committee.
It will be common practice for chairmen to be members of such committees and take If we can harness the aspirations of the individuals in this Group an active interest in the management and shareholder balance to our record of competitive success, we can succeed in another of all forms of pay and performance-related payments.
We have objective, which I personally believe we need to set.
also strengthened the Risk Committee, which is now chaired by When this recession is over it will not be about going back the chief financial officer at the Aegis level and co-ordinates the to where we were.
It is about being a better company in work of the separate Risk Committees in the two major businesses, every aspect of what we do.
Aegis Media and Synovate, which will be formally required to report to the Board on such matters.
The internal audit function The Board believes, as the chief executives report notes, that we has also been strengthened.
have positioned the Group appropriately to meet the challenge of market circumstances.
