Annual Report 2008 SEGRO plc Chairmans Statement Nigel Rich CBE Chairman Notwithstanding the difficult market conditions, we have been able to deliver a satisfactory level of underlying profitability largely due to our successful developments and a good letting and customer retention programme.
Going forward our efforts will be concentrated on: strengthening the balance sheet: retention of customers and filling voids: and preserving the dividends to our loyal shareholders.
Your Board began 2008 confident that we had positioned SEGRO to face the challenges that might lie ahead.
However, like many others in our sector, we had not anticipated the severity of the banking crisis and the consequences for all classes of property which followed.
The IPD Investment Property Databank UK All Property index recorded a fall of 15 per cent in the fourth quarter of 2008.
The performance of our portfolio has, to some extent, been mitigated by our Continental European business which performed comparatively well.
Nonetheless, our NAV per share fell over the year to 462 pence.
In anticipation of the risk of values continuing to fall, we decided to renegotiate our bank gearing covenants, some of which started at 125 per cent net debt to adjusted shareholders funds.
I am pleased to report that we reached agreement with all banks in February 2009 to increase the gearing covenant from 125 per cent to 160 per cent, in return for a higher cost of borrowing.
The Board continues to monitor its financial ratios closely and has already taken, and will continue to pursue, actions to provide additional financial headroom such as asset sales, restricting capital expenditure and reducing costs.
The Board today announces a fully underwritten Rights Issue to raise net proceeds of approximately 500 million, through the issue of 5,240,650,704 New Ordinary Shares.
The Rights Issue is subject to approval by shareholders at a General Meeting to be held on 20 March 2009.
Notwithstanding the difficult market conditions, we have been able to deliver a satisfactory level of underlying profitability, with adjusted earnings per share of 28.0 pence 2007: 28.2 pence from continuing operations, largely due to our successful developments and a good letting and customer retention programme which has reduced the void in the portfolio to less than 10 per cent by rental income.
The Directors have reviewed the dividend policy in light of the present economic conditions, the need to preserve capital and the difficulty in predicting, with any certainty, the likely level of near-term property trading profits.
We have concluded that it would be inappropriate to distribute 2008s trading property profits and other income at this stage and to pay-out only from the recurring property rental earnings.
Accordingly, the Board is recommending a final dividend of 5.4 pence per share.
This is subject to shareholder approval at the AGM to be held on 30 April 2009 and will be paid as a Property Income Distribution PID to shareholders on the register as at 3 April 2009.
Accordingly, the total dividend for the year will be 13.7 pence per share compared with 23 pence for the year ended 31 December 2007.
Going forward, the Boards dividend policy will be to balance the needs of the business with the requirement for dividend growth, taking into account the prevailing property market conditions, expected future earnings and the requirement under UK REIT rules to distribute annually at least 90 per cent of the REIT Groups taxexempt profits as a PID.
It has not been an easy year for any property company but SEGRO employees have responded to the challenges well and we are very grateful to them.
During the year, John Heawood and Walter Hens, both Directors, left the business and John Probert, the Company Secretary, retired.
We are grateful to John Heawood, Walter Hens and John Probert for their many years of dedicated service to the Group.
Ian Sutcliffe joined the Company in June as Managing Director, responsible for the UK, and Ins Reinmann was promoted to the Board as Managing Director responsible for Continental Europe.
Elizabeth Blease joined the Company in March and became General Counsel and Group Company Secretary following the AGM in May.
It is extremely difficult to forecast the prospects for this year at a time of such great economic uncertainty.
Our efforts will be concentrated on: strengthening the balance sheet: retention of customers and filling voids and preserving the dividends to our loyal shareholders.
Once we achieve these goals, I believe your Group will be well placed to take advantage of further attractive investment opportunities in the years ahead.
Being an optimist, I can only believe that economies will look better at the end of the year than they do now.
Nigel Rich CBE Chairman 4 March 2009 SEGRO.
