CHAIRMANS STATEMENT This has been a year of strong operational performance for the Group, both in absolute and comparative terms.
This contrasts starkly with some of the reports in the finance and property sectors and indeed the economy as a whole.
All parts of the business showed good progress and the performance demonstrates the robustness of our business model with its focus on the property needs of London as a Global City and in particular the needs of its smalland medium-sized business SME community.
Looking at the results for the year in more detail, the stand-out feature has been the success in growing like-for-like rental values by 12.2% while still maintaining occupancy at just under 90%.
This was not achieved by chance: it brings together many aspects of the business model the strength of the brand, a deep knowledge of the Tony Hales CBE, Chairman Pictured at Canterbury Court, SW9 needs of our customers and the right properties in the right locations to meet those needs.
Our focus on rental growth and occupancy has reduced the effects of the yield shift that has occurred in the year.
We are always Workspace relative share price performance 5 year disappointed to see any reduction in the valuation, especially one of the order of 5% resulting from the market movement in yields.
FTSE All FTSE 600 Workspace Group MID 250 Share Real Estate However, we have outperformed the market as a whole through our FTSE active management of rents and occupancy and repositioning of our All Share 500 portfolio.
We target ourselves to continue to outperform the market 400 FTSE in this way.
Small Cap 300 We remain very focused on identifying opportunities to intensify usage at our properties across London.
We are actively progressing 200 these opportunities across some 20% of our portfolio with planning 100 consents received at four properties during the year.
The Glebe joint venture sits comfortably alongside the redevelopment of our core 0 portfolio.
It has enabled us to pursue mixed use schemes across a broader range of properties.
There is very little included in our current Apr 03 Apr 04 Apr 05 Apr 06 Apr 07 Apr 08 property valuation to reflect these opportunities.
It has been a quiet year for acquisitions with only 29m spent buying six properties which we have tracked for some time and where we see real opportunity to add value.
Pricing of properties has been largely unattractive, although vendors' expectations have become more realistic in recent months.
We monitor long-term over 8bn of property across London and believe the forthcoming years will bring forward attractive buying opportunities for the Group.
Workspace Group PLC 04 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 For the latest information www.
co. uk The Group's operating cash flow has grown strongly over the year and accordingly, a final dividend of 3.04 pence per share is proposed, Like-for-like rental values Like-for-like occupancy making a total dividend of 4.56 pence per share for the year up have grown by remains just under 10%, consistent with the 10% pa growth we have achieved over the last 15 years.
On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank all our staff for their efforts during the year.
12.2% 90% Outlook Our strong level of enquiries and conversions to lettings has continued since the year end driven by our successful marketing activity.
Occupancy continues to be at consistent levels, with new refurbishments such as Canterbury Court letting well.
In our rent review and lease renewal programmes we continue to see good progress.
Of course, we have to temper this with the knowledge that we cannot be immune to a serious economic downturn: indeed we expect yields in the first quarter to soften further.
However, our experience in past downturns has demonstrated the fundamental resilience of the overall SME sector and the continuing demand from small businesses for flexible, affordable space.
We believe the current property investment market will present opportunities in the next couple of years to acquire and create value from properties in our sector.
Focused on growth Our business model has delivered outperformance in economic The strength of our brand, a deep knowledge of the needs of our circumstances similar to the present.
We aim to continue to build a customers and having the right company which can continue delivering superior returns.
properties in the right locations have helped us grow in 2008.
2008 growth Tony Hales CBE, Chairman Identifying opportunities We are actively progressing development opportunities across 20% of our portfolio.
This year we received planning consent at four properties.
20% Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 05 s d e e n h r t e g m n n o o i t t s a e c u o r l c t t h f g o s i r e, y g t d r d e p e n o l r w p a t o h r n g i K R B
