DIRECTORS REPORT CHAIRMANS STATEMENT 04 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT No one needs telling that 2008 has seen the rapid Wireless connectivity is becoming an increasingly core emergence of the worst global economic down-turn feature of our everyday lives.
Our strategy is to position any of us can remember.
Nor do we see any current CSR to take advantage of this and to strengthen our signs of the economic trends returning to growth.
No sector has been immune from these pressures, Decisive Action and CSRs is no exception.
We have inevitably seen CSR does not under-estimate the task ahead in 2009. significant decline in demand, and the scale of this Already we have taken decisive action to reduce costs decline increased post the September financial crisis as for the very different business conditions.
We believe a result of customers fide-stocking their supply chains.
these necessary actions were essential to safeguard the For the first time, CSR did not achieve growth.
core strategy which is our focus for 2009 and beyond.
After taking account of Joep addresses this in more detail in his statement.
non-cash items and exceptional charges, we also recorded an operating loss of $8.5 million.
Nevertheless, Quickly adapting to the changing circumstances we generated positive cash, maintained our strong of the current economic conditions as they prevail balance sheet and increased our net cash.
will be important for us in the near term to ensure that CSR is in a strong position to benefit from any future 2008 was also a year of transition for CSR.
In the first economic recovery.
quarter of the year, the Board completed a detailed operational review led by the new CEO, Joep van Management Team Beurden.
This review both confirmed the potential for 2008 saw the emergence of a new management team the markets in which CSR already operates and has led led by Joep, who has himself been in position for only to the development of a clear strategy on how CSR can a little over a year.
Joep has impressed me with his succeed in these markets.
Our new strategy is therefore expertise as a team builder, skills as a business to focus solely on the Connectivity Centre where we see strategist and attention to detail.
significant future growth opportunities, and have an advanced portfolio of suitable products.
We welcomed Will Gardiner, Chief Financial Officer, to CSR during the year.
Will took over from Paul Notwithstanding the current wider economic Goodridge, who played an important role for us over challenges, the Board believes that the strategy many years.
Prior to joining CSR, Will was Director developed in 2008 combined with our recognised of Finance Technology and Enterprise at BSkyB plc, capabilities in wireless connectivity provides a solid responsible for a 100 strong team which supported the foundation that will enable us to deliver long term technology platforms across BSkyB and its enterprise growth for CSR and for our shareholders.
He has also been CFO of Easynet Group plc, a pan-European broadband telecoms company, Even allowing for the current fall in demand, wireless and held a number of senior roles within J P Morgans connectivity will continue to grow and our strategy is to investment banking division.
position CSR to take advantage of this.
Consumers want to communicate quickly and efficiently using devices Chris Ladas was appointed to the Board at the start that connect with one another easily and reliably.
of 2008, following almost eight years as our Senior Vice President of Operations.
Chris has extensive experience of electronics, particularly the semiconductor sector, and his wealth of knowledge has made valuable contributions to Boardroom discussions.
csr plc annual report and financial statements 2008 05 wireless connectivity is becoming an increasingly core feature of our everyday lives.
our strategy is to Position csr to take advantage of this and to strengthen our ability to do so Ron Mackintosh, Chairman David Tucker, who has served as a non-executive Revenue $000 director since 2004, will retire at the AGM.
I would like to 2008 694,865 thank David for his skills, insight and good humour over 2007 848,622 the last five years.
Davids role as chair of the audit committee will be taken by Andrew Allner.
2006 704,695 2005 486,531 Outlook Looking ahead, 2009 will undoubtedly be a difficult year.
Consumer confidence is low, economic uncertainty high and determined global action by governments will be underlying R&D Expenditure $000 required in order to minimise the further impact of the 2008 152,749 downturn, while CSR fights to maintain market share and seek out opportunities for growth.
2007 140,932 2006 107,252 CSR will continue to work to safeguard and build upon 2005 59,425 the existing strengths and market leading positions which we have established.
As Joep explains in more detail in his Chief Executive Officers statement, the strategic review we carried out in 2008 has set out a path Further appointments have also strengthened our for growth in exciting, high-potential markets.
As our new Global Head of Sales, Charlie Lesko has added valuable sales and marketing We have excellent people who are executing a powerful experience and a healthy amount of assertiveness to strategy in a long term growth industry.
I thank them for our sales organisation.
Our new HR Director, Elaine their continued support and commitment.
Together, we Rowe, has similarly wide-ranging experience.
Her face the long-term future with confidence in our potential.
appointment underpins the enormous value we place on our workforce.
Ron Mackintosh We now have an accomplished and truly international Chairman team at CSR.
I would like to extend my thanks on behalf of the Board for the continuing efforts which all our staff have made during 2008.
In October, we appointed Andrew Allner as a nonexecutive director.
Andrew is a chartered accountant with extensive experience in senior executive and non-executive positions.
Between 2004 and 2007 he was Group Finance Director at RHM plc, and has also served in senior executive positions with other global and well respected listed companies.
Andrews experience and qualities have been well received by his new Board colleagues.
csr plc annual report and financial statements 2008
