qxd 4 6 08 13:27 Page 3 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2008 Chairmans statement 3 The Groups strategy continues to focus on growing its branded business together with the value added elements of its key customer relationships.
Overall Dairy Crest performed well in the Foods Division and grow margins in this Executive Managing Director of the Foods year ended 31 March 2008 and reported division to over 14%.
Division with effect from 7 January 2008. a 24% increase in adjusted profit before The Dairies Division has made steady Martyn has a proven track record at taxation to 96.1 million, revenue up 20% progress despite substantial raw milk price a senior level having worked for Mars Inc to 1,569.7 million and adjusted earnings inflation and volatility in the dairy ingredients for over 20 years, where he held a variety per share up 17% to 57.1 pence.
In our dairy operations we have of senior management positions including profit before taxation was 66.0 million.
reduced unit-operating costs and have President of the Snackfood Division of The Board is recommending an improved manufacturing efficiencies Masterfoods USA and Managing Director increase in the final dividend of 6.8% to through the closure of the Totnes dairy of Mars France.
This experience will be 17.3 pence per share.
This together with in September 2007.
In Household we have invaluable as we continue to develop our the interim dividend of 7.1 pence makes completed the integration of the Express strong brand portfolio and build our market a total dividend for the year of 24.4 pence Dairies business and we have recently position in France following the acquisition per share, an increase of 6.6%.
The Board acquired the dairy distribution business of St Hubert.
remains committed to a progressive of the East of England Co-operative Peter Thornton, the previous Executive dividend policy.
Managing Director of the Foods Division, The Groups strategy continues to We continue to value the strong left the Board by mutual agreement focus on growing its branded business relationship we have with our farmer in November 2007 having decided that together with the value added elements of suppliers and in particular, Dairy Crest it was the right time to pursue other career its key customer relationships.
We recognise the significant opportunities away from Dairy Crest.
We of this strategy is evidenced by the strong pressure that they have faced over higher thank Peter for the significant contribution performance of most of the Groups key on-farm costs particularly in respect of he made to Dairy Crest during his fourteen brands.
Cathedral City, Utterly Butterly, animal feed.
Consequently we are pleased years with the Group.
Country Life Spreadable, St Hubert that we have been able to significantly Our good performance this year is Omega 3, Petits Filous and Frubes have increase prices paid to them over the year.
not only a result of the Groups long term all increased market share with strong Having a high quality milk supply is vital strategy to invest in branded and added double-digit sales growth.
We are pleased to the prospects of the Group in the future value areas but also a reflection of the with the progress made by the St Hubert and we have increased milk prices further significant contribution and effort made French and Italian spreads business since since the year-end.
by all of our employees, for which I would we acquired it in January 2007.
The hard As previously announced Anthony Fry, like to thank them.
I believe that the Group work of the strong management team has Neil Monnery and Carole Piwnica joined the is well positioned to meet the challenges delivered results in line with our Board as non-executive directors on of the year ahead.
Since acquisition, St Hubert 1 August 2007 following the retirements has increased its market share in France to of Gerry Grimstone and David Dugdale.
36% and St Hubert Omega 3 has become They have brought with them a wealth the market leading brand variant.
These of experience and knowledge from their factors have helped to deliver an overall varied international business backgrounds.
Simon Oliver Chairman uplift in profit on operations of 34% in our Martyn Wilks joined the Board as 19 May 2008 The year in brief
