Chairmans statement When the Board considers dividends for the current financial year, it will have regard to.
pence being the second interim dividend of 0.8 pence and the final dividend of 3.6 pence as the base.
As stated to shareholders in the EGM circular for the disposal of BUT, the Board will remain exible as to the timing and amount of share re-purchases.
We will keep this under review and believe that there are benets to the Group maintaining a strong balance sheet, particularly in current market conditions, enabling us to take advantage of potentially attractive future investment opportunities.
Outlook Looking ahead, the decline in consumer confidence is continuing David Newlands, Chairman and we anticipate further difficult trading conditions.
Consequently, our priorities are to focus on maintaining product margin and improving productivity while reinforcing our strong service proposition and Dear fellow shareholders continuing our planned investments in the existing businesses and Welcome to the fifth Annual report for Kesa Electricals new markets to secure our longer-term growth.
As I announced last year, we have now changed our year end from I know our managers will work harder than ever to deliver the best 3 January to 30 April in order to improve our internal budgetary possible results in the coming year.
Accordingly, this report represents accounts for the 5 months to 30 April 2008, with proforma information for the 2 months to Finally, I would like to take this opportunity to thank everyone across 30 April 2008. the Group for all their incredible hard work over the last 5 months.
We delivered a solid set of results in deteriorating conditions which The results represent a pleasing performance from all our businesses would not have been possible without such a strong and dedicated in deteriorating market conditions.
I look forward to working with everyone again this year.
The Group has again demonstrated its strong cash generative nature, allowing us to continue with our important investments to secure our future success and enabling us to recommend a final dividend of 3.6 pence per share, bringing the total dividend for the full 5 month period to 7.9 pence.
David Newlands Chairman Our markets Core businesses France: Darty UK: Comet Other established businesses Holland: BCC Belgium: Vanden Borre Czech Republic Slovakia: Datart Other new businesses Italy: Darty Switzerland: Darty Turkey: Darty Spain Portugal: Menaje Del Hogar Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2007 08
