Section 1 Overview CHAIRMANS STATEMENT A YEAR OF PROGRESS The board is pleased to report that Debenhams made good progress in 2008 in addressing many of the areas which had been identied for positive development, this despite it being a very difficult year for the whole retail sector.
That progress should stand us in good stead as we move into a very uncertain period for the UK consumer.
We have an experienced, resilient management team, perhaps the best equipped in the sector to take us through difficult times.
ur strategy has in essence been quite simple: to oer One area that we have been asked about many times in 2008 is our customers products that are better in terms of indebtedness.
I want to stress that we enjoy excellent relationships quality, design and value and a more pleasant in-store with our banks and our cost of debt is not only extremely competitive experience.
Several pieces of data suggest we are but also largely at xed interest rates.
However, we have listened to what starting to get this right.
First, our market share has the market has been telling us and do believe that, given the present retail increased in all major categories over the course of the climate and the uncertain macroeconomic outlook, it is right for us to Oyear.
This is backed up by the quantitative research we increase our focus on the balance sheet.
To this end, a number of actions ourselves conduct with customers on an ongoing basis.
Secondly, our have been instigated which will achieve a significant reduction in gearing scores in consumer perception studies carried out by third-party over the next few years.
There is more detail on these actions in the Chief researchers have improved considerably.
Finally, our sales performance Executives Review and the Operating Review.
for the year is amongst the best in the sector.
So we have much to encourage us that we are on the right track.
At the half year we oered a scrip alternative to a cash dividend for the first time and some 45 per cent of shareholders chose to avail themselves of Let me give you my highlights of the year.
One of these is undoubtedly this.
We said at the time of the interim results in April that the board would the opening of our new agship store in Liverpool at the end of May.
continue to monitor the dividend cover in light of the two times cover I would strongly recommend that shareholders who live nearby or are target set at the time of the IPO in May 2006.
The board has declared a fulltravelling to the area take a look to see Debenhams at its best: the store year dividend of 3.0 pence per share.
We have taken this decision in light recently won two prestigious retail design awards which I am sure you will of trading during 2008 and our current view of the Companys prospects for agree were well deserved.
The performance of Designers at Debenhams 2009.
We will again oer a scrip alternative for the final dividend of is another highlight.
You will read elsewhere in this annual report about 0.5 pence per share.
how we are expanding our designer mix throughout our product categories to good eect and capitalising on the real point of dierence The board recognises that the unprecedented and dicult economic Designers at Debenhams brings.
The performance of own bought ranges environment is placing great demands on our people.
We thank them generally not just Designers was also a high spot as own bought for their terric response and for their continuing support and loyalty outperformed concessions throughout the store and the percentage of to Debenhams.
own bought merchandise relative to concessions increased.
Our direct and international businesses have also grown strongly.
Finally I want to In conclusion, we made some very good progress in 2008.
There is more mention the landmark deal we have recently signed with Scottish Power to do but we believe that from where we stand today we are as ready as to supply all our UK stores and properties with electricity provided by wind we can be for whatever 2009 brings.
This is a big step forward in meeting our obligations to combat climate change.
JOHN LOVERING Chairman 21 October 2008 4 Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2008 JOHN LOVERING CHAIRMAN MAIN IMAGE J by Jasper Conran shirt and cardigan set.
1.3% 0.3% INCREASE IN GROSS INCREASE IN TOTAL TRANSACTION VALUE CLOTHING MARKET SHARE Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2008 5 MAIN IMAGE Grey Rose by Jane Packer silver wreath.
8.0% 71.8% INCREASE IN DESIGNERS OWN BOUGHT SALES MIX AT DEBENHAMS SALES 6 Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2008
