qxd 7 4 09 09:25 Page 4 04 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT This performance is a result of maintaining our focus on the same strategy that has served this business so well.
Peter Hindley, Chairman Results Changes to the Board I am delighted to present my first annual report as A number of changes were made to the composition Chairman of the Group.
of the Board since the last Annual Report.
Underlying earnings per share which excludes profit on Richard Connell retired as Chairman.
Richard guided the sale of xed assets and exceptional tax items increased Group through two very successful periods of its history.
14 per cent to 38.2 pence per share 2007: 33.4 pence Firstly during its private equity ownership and more recently per share.
Basic earnings per share were 38.8 pence per as a public company.
I would like to thank him, on behalf share 2007: 34.4 pence per share, an increase of of the Board, for his contribution and wish him well with 13 per cent.
his numerous other business interests.
This is another strong performance by the Group and is Mike McCollum, the previous Finance Director, was the result of maintaining our focus on the same strategy appointed Chief Executive.
Mike has over 13 years within that has served this business so well in recent years, the business and has made a significant contribution in namely that we plan to grow the profitability of our guiding the Group through all its significant changes since business by: the management buy out.
I am sure that he will be an outstanding Chief Executive.
Operating in a traditional market where people use our services based on our reputation and through Steve Whittern has succeeded Mike as Finance Director.
recommendations, where we believe our continued Steve was previously the Groups Financial Controller and commitment to excellent service for our clients has been with the Group for ten years in various roles will generate a high level of referral and organic within the finance team.
revenue growth: As well as these changes to the Executive Directors, at the Continuing to control our costs: beginning of 2009 we also appointed two additional NonExecutive Directors, Ishbel Macpherson and Alan McWalter.
Selective acquisitions of additional funeral locations: Their biographies on page 19 demonstrate their extensive experience and they are welcome additions to the Board.
National marketing, principally through afnity partners, of pre-arranged funeral plans: and Ishbel and Alans appointments also give the necessary balance to the Board, required by the Combined Code, Developing, managing or acquiring additional crematoria given our responsibilities as a constituent member of the where possible.
Dividends Our people The Board has proposed that a final dividend of 7.34 I know from my time as Chief Executive that our people pence per Ordinary Share should be paid from profits are a tremendous asset to the Group.
Their dedication to generated in 2008.
This will be paid on 26 June 2009 to doing the best possible job, be it directly with families, or members on the register at close of business on 29 May supporting operational staff, is at the heart of this business 2009, provided shareholder consent is obtained at the and I thank them for their individual contributions.
Annual General Meeting on 5 June 2009.
Outlook for 2009 This will follow an interim dividend of 3.66 pence per All three business areas continue to perform well in the Ordinary Share, which was paid in October 2008. first quarter of 2009 and the outlook for the Group remains positive for the year ahead.
These dividends represent a 10 per cent increase year on year, a rate that has been maintained since otation in 2004.
