Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual report and financial statements 2008 Business Review 04 Chairmans Statement I am pleased to report another successful year for Domino Printing Sciences Domino celebrates a milestone with the sale of the 100,000th A-Series, the worlds best-selling CIJ printer, to Tetra Pak.
Tetra Paks coding and packaging solutions are sold globally to a wide range of sectors, with Domino responsible for the complete servicing at end user sites.
Dominos global structure provides customers with technicians on hand to offer complete support, delivered to Dominos Global Service Standard.
Garry Havens, Managing Director of Domino UK, officially handed over the machine to Jose Luis Yecora, Director Supplier Management at Tetra Pak Packaging Solutions S. p. A. Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual report and financial statements 2008 05 I am pleased to report another successful year for Domino Printing Sciences.
Sales in 2008 were in excess of 250 million for the first time in the Groups history.
We celebrated 30 years in business this year and in each of those years we have reported an increase in revenue.
Despite the more uncertain global economic conditions in the second half of the year, the fundamental strength of our business has led to record results.
Revenues grew by 9 per cent of which 5 per cent was attributable to favourable foreign currency movements.
Reported underlying pre-tax profits increased by 7 per cent to 35.3 million.
Net cash inflow from operating activities before taxation was 38.5 million.
The Board is recommending a final dividend of 7.68 pence per share, which together with the interim dividend of 4.15 pence makes a total of 11.83 pence for the year as a whole, an increase of 20 per cent over the dividends declared in 2007.
Gross margins before exceptional costs have been maintained at 48 per cent and Research and Development expenditure before exceptional costs has been increased by 13 per cent to 12.8 million.
In June we acquired Photon Energy which specialises in the development, manufacture and sale of solid state laser systems used in marking and coding.
In August we acquired aps Alternative Printing Services which develops and markets Thermal Ink Jet printers and consumables.
In October we acquired the assets of PAT Technology Systems Inc. to enhance our air purification and fume extraction business.
These acquisitions extend the range of products and technologies available to us and extend the know-how for further development.
In expectation of continuing weakness in global markets, the cost base of the business has been reduced through re-organisation of manufacturing and other restructuring.
As a result the Group has reduced its headcount by approximately 10 per cent.
An exceptional charge of 8.3 million has been made against the operating profit for the year.
The full-year saving from these changes is expected to be 10 million a year.
There have been a number of Board changes during the year.
Two of our Non-Executive Directors, Bill Everitt and Peter Jensen, retired having completed more than 10 years service and I am grateful to them for their outstanding contribution to the work of the Board and to the success of the Group.
We welcome as new Non-Executive Directors Chris Brinsmead, who until recently was president of Astra Zeneca UK, and Sir David Brown who retired in July as chairman of Motorola Limited.
I would like to thank the management and all of our employees for their dedication and commitment in making the year a success.
The slow down of the global economy will inevitably have an impact on customers investment plans.
However, the fundamental strength of the business and the significant amount of aftermarket revenue gives us optimism for the future.
Peter Byrom Chairman 23 January 2009 Underlying profit before taxation is 35.3 million 2007: 33.0 million comprising profit before taxation of 25.2 million 2007: 31.8 million plus amortisation of acquired intangibles of 1.3 million 2007: 0.8 million plus interest charges on the unwinding of discounted contingent consideration of 0.5 million 2007: 0.4 million plus exceptional costs of 8.3 million 2007: nil.
