Chairmans statement Delivering to the highest standards...
I am pleased, in my first year as Chairman, to be reporting a year of signi cant achievement both operationally and corporately.
Pro t before tax and exceptional items rose 24.7% to 23.4m, on system sales growth up 18.4% to 350.8m.
In addition, we opened 52 new stores, exceeding our annual target of 50 stores for the first time.
This was an excellent performance given both the uncertain economic climate and the very tough comparatives we Stephen Hemsley were up against from last year.
Executive Chairman Corporately it has also been an eventful year with our move from the Alternative Investment Market AIM to the Of cial List on 19 May 2008 Admission.
AIM had served us well since 1999, but with the rapid growth we have achieved and our objective to broaden our investor base, a change was necessary.
18.4% Admission was closely followed by our inclusion in the System sales FTSE 250 Index and we are con dent that over 2007: 23.4% the long-term this will improve the liquidity and marketability of our shares.
We were particularly proud during the last 12 months to have our achievements recognised by winning both the AIM Investors Company of the Year and the Shares Magazine Main Market Company Achievement awards, as well as a Catey Award for Best Use of Technology.
24.7% 1 Pro t before tax Our continued expansion this year could not have 2007: 33.1% been achieved without the hard work, passion and entrepreneurial air of our franchisees.
We 1 Before operating and nonhave a strong and positive relationship with all of operating exceptional items.
our franchisees and together we work very closely 4 Dominos Pizza UK & IRL plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 in maintaining our position as the leading home food and non-food items supplied to franchisees as delivery pizza company in the UK and the Republic of well as the re-engineering of our supply chain in a Ireland.
It is particularly pleasing that the impressive number of our key product lines.
growth of last year was predominantly achieved in partnership with our existing franchisees, who opened Our strategy has been and remains to return all but one of the new stores.
This, combined with surplus cash to shareholders.
For 2008, the Board 34.1% further consolidation in the ownership of existing is proposing a final dividend to shareholders for the Dividend per share stores, has increased the average number of stores year of 3.2p per share up 28.0% on last year which, 2007: 43.8% per franchisee.
This greater concentration further if approved, will result in a total dividend for 2008 improves the returns our franchisees can achieve of 5.9p per share, up 34.1% on last year.
During the and makes them signi cantly more resilient to a first half of the year we undertook a programme of changing economic climate.
share buybacks which, combined with the dividend payments, resulted in a total of 11.8m being Our recent strong growth in more challenging times returned to shareholders in 2008.
This represents keeps us on target to exceed 1,000 stores in the 75% of 2008 post-tax earnings and brings the five next 10 years.
In addition, as a result of our recent year average of cash returned to shareholders to successes in smaller towns, the growing acceptance 103% of post-tax earnings, totalling 55.6m.
It is of home delivered meals and the predicted growth our intention to continue to return surplus cash to in population and new housing, we now believe that shareholders in the most effective way possible.
there is capacity for well in excess of 1,000 stores in the UK and the Republic of Ireland.
In the current economic climate, we are pleased to be able to continue our aggressive expansion plans, Our dedicated corporate and commissary teams have which are a real cause for celebration.
If we deliver also played an essential part in the success of the our target of an additional 50 new store openings business over the last year and I would like to thank in 2009, we will create at least another 1,500 new all of them for their focus and professionalism, which jobs in the UK and the Republic of Ireland.
Our has helped to drive one of the best performances in business model is proving to be extremely resilient the leisure sector.
A unique feature of our business during the downturn as people dine out less and model is that as we grow the number of stores and order from a trusted brand that offers great value for system sales, our headcount and costs do not need money.
We believe that current market conditions to grow proportionally.
This is enhanced when the will allow us to further increase our market share number of stores per franchisee increases, as the and strengthen our position in the home delivery larger franchisee groups rely less on the corporate market.
We therefore look forward to the future team to support their activities.
We therefore remain with con dence.
con dent that our growth in pro ts can continue to out pace the growth in system sales.
Stephen Hemsley We were delighted to welcome Peter Klauber to our Executive Chairman Board during the year as an additional, independent Non-Executive Director.
Peter is a former senior partner at Ernst & Young and brings a wealth of experience to the Board.
We also strengthened our senior management team in the first quarter with the appointment of Adam Batty as General Counsel and Company Secretary and Jon Campbell as Procurement Director.
Adam joined from leading pub company Mitchells & Butlers plc and was responsible for the process of Dominos joining the Of cial List.
Adam is also in charge of the Companys compliance with legal, regulatory and governance matters.
Jon was previously Purchasing Director at Bakkavor, the international food manufacturing company, and is responsible for the cost-effective procurement of Dominos Pizza UK & IRL plc 5 Annual Report & Accounts 2008
