Drax Group plc 02 Annual report and accounts 2008 Chairmans introduction This is my first full year report to you as Chairman, and I am pleased to report that it has been a solid year for Drax, despite the fact that the commodity markets in which we operate have been highly volatile.
Although we are reporting lower earnings than for 2007, reecting a decrease in the margins captured for power sales as a consequence of commodity market movements, our earnings for 2008 have been in line with expectations.
We report earnings EBITDA of 454 million for 2008, and the Board proposes a final dividend in respect of 2008 of 38.3 pence per share, equivalent to 130 million.
This takes total dividend payments for 2008 to 180 million.
Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2008 03 Since listing the Company at the end Turning our attention to the membership of 2005, we have worked hard to exploit of the Board.
We were pleased to welcome the strategic and commercial value of Tony Quinlan as Finance Director on Drax Power Station and to deliver additional 1 September 2008. value through fuel diversication and Following a review of the composition carbon abatement.
Over these years, of the Board at the start of the year, we have delivered value for our shareholders we decided to recruit another independent through a combination of efficient non-executive director.
I am pleased asset management, strong engineering to report that, David Lindsell joined the and commodity trading capabilities, Board on 1 December 2008.
In April 2009, and effective project execution.
David will become Chairman of the Audit Building on this rm foundation and taking Committee of the Board.
advantage of opportunities presented I believe that both Tonys and Davids by a reducing generation capacity margin knowledge and experience will complement and the UKs requirement for significant, the expertise currently held across the Board, low carbon, renewable generation, and will be of great benefit to the Company.
we are now taking the next step in the development of the Group.
In October significant progress has been made during 2008, we announced our intention to 2008 to get us to the position where we are build a large scale, dedicated biomass ready to grow the business.
that we have the right people in place and the right long-term plan to put us on course We believe our decision to pursue this for a successful future.
biomass business growth strategy, is not only timely, but right for our investors.
Finally, I should like to give my thanks Our intention to develop 900MW of dedicated and praise to all our staff.
Without their biomass-red power generating capacity commitment and drive we would not with our strategic partner, Siemens Project have made the advances that we have.
Ventures GmbH, is expected to add to the Our people are pivotal to our continued value of the business in future years.
success and growth as we embark on the next phase of the Companys development.
In October 2008, when we announced our biomass growth strategy, we also announced a change to our distribution policy which would help fund that expansion.
The Company will distribute excess cash generated from operations in 2008 and 2009 and then target a pay-out ratio of 50% of underlying earnings, adjusted for non-cash accounting items principally accounting for unrealised gains and losses on derivative contracts, from 2010 onwards to complement the expected growth potential of the Group.
Any net renancing proceeds will be used to fund Draxs equity investment in the new biomass business.
Charles Berry Chairman 2 March 2009 Biomass our expertise in renewable fuels As part of our commitment to renewable biomass-red generation, we are constructing our own state-of-the-art straw pellet plant.
Due for completion in 2009, the plant will produce some 100,000 tonnes of straw pellets a year for use in our co-ring facility, which will be the largest in the world.
Read more: Pages 20 and 27 m. This image shows the inside of one of the two storage silos, each with the capacity to hold over 300 tonnes of straw pellets.
