Business Review Chairmans Statement The Group made substantial progress in 2007 08 and faces the challenges of the year ahead from a strong base.
Peter Johnson Chairman DS Smith produced a strong set of results in 2007 08, with In line with its commitment to develop the Company profits almost 50% up on the prior year.
profits in Packaging to support good returns for shareholders, the Board is grew strongly, benefiting from the actions taken to increase proposing an increased final dividend of 6.2 pence which, efficiency and recover signicantly higher input costs through together with the interim dividend of 2.6 pence, gives a total improved pricing.
The rebuilding of profits in Ofce Products dividend for the year of 8.8 pence 2006 07: 8.6 pence.
Wholesaling, Spicers, is progressing well.
The Board On 1 April 2008, Steve Dryden joined the Board as Group continues to give close attention to the Groups strategic Finance Director.
Steve held the position of Finance Director development.
The acquisitions of New Thames Paper Mill of Filtrona plc following its demerger from Bunzl plc in 2005, and Multigraphics, together with the investment programme having previously held other senior finance positions within in our Ukrainian associate, Rubezhansk, support our plans Bunzl plc.
With his financial capability and operational for longer-term growth.
experience, Steve is already making a strong impact on the The Groups adjusted profit before tax was 49% higher at Group.
Gavin Morris, the previous Group Finance Director, 111.0 million and adjusted earnings per share advanced by stepped down from the Board by mutual agreement on 51% to 19.9 pence.
Free cash ow, before dividends and 1 April 2008.
On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank net acquisitions, was 79.0 million 2006 07: 84.0 million, Mr Morris for his contributions to the Company in recent which benefited from the net cash contribution of years and wish him future success.
29.6 million for the sale of the Taplow site.
On 29 January 2008, George Adams was appointed as Across our Packaging activity, we expanded our capability a non-Executive Director.
George, who was, until March in the value-added sectors of retail-ready packaging and 2008, Managing Director, European Development and heavy-duty packaging.
We extended our position in Chief Executive officer, UK Trade at Kingsher Plc, brings promotional packaging, through organic growth and the to the Board wide international experience in distribution acquisition of Multigraphics, a business specialising in and consumer-focused businesses.
We continued to expand our fastOn behalf of the Board, I would like to thank all our growing recycling operation, Severnside, through enhanced colleagues across the world for their efforts and commitment, services to retailers and other generators of waste materials.
without which our success would not be possible.
In the Our plastic returnable transit packaging business benefited year ahead, the Group faces a more challenging trading from the introduction of new products.
Our businesses are prepared for this and I presence in Packaging in central and eastern Europe: our am confident that our good market positions give us a business in Poland continued to grow well and we strong base from which to compete.
established new businesses in Slovakia and Bulgaria.
In February 2008, we announced an investment of 104 million to acquire and convert the adjacent paper mill to our successful Kemsley operation.
This will enable us to supply high-quality lightweight corrugated case material, helping our customers meet the growing demand to reduce the weight of packaging.
In Ofce Products Wholesaling, Spicers increased both Peter Johnson revenues and profits.
In recent years, we have developed Chairman strong and successful positions in a number of continental markets, and these continued to advance strongly.
