Chairmans Statement Strategy Philip Rogerson Aggrekos strategy is to deliver attractive returns Chairman to shareholders, excellent service to customers, and rewarding careers to our employees by being the leading global provider of temporary power and temperature control.
We focus on growing our business organically, supported by eet investment and geographic expansion, but we will also make acquisitions where we feel they can add value.
We made good progress on both fronts in 2008.
To drive organic growth, we increased total capital investment in the year to 265.2 million 2007: 180.6 million, the equivalent of 2.3 times depreciation: we opened Introduction new service centres in Chile, South Africa and Russia: In the face of the deteriorating global economic and we acquired businesses in Canada and India.
backdrop, Aggreko has proved very resilient, delivering another strong performance in 2008 In last years strategy update, we said that we with sharply increased revenue and pro ts as believed the business could deliver on average double well as improved margins and returns on capital digit revenue and earnings growth over the period employed.
Reported revenue of 946.6 million 2007-2012: as part of this plan, we anticipated spending 2007: 693.2 million was 36.6% higher than 2007 about 1 billion on eet capex over the same timescale.
1 while underlying revenue, in constant currency We still believe this to be a reasonable aspiration, 2 and excluding pass-through fuel, increased by although as we said at the time progress towards this 25.6%.
Pro t before tax increased by 52.9% to objective will not be in a smooth line: inevitably 190.0 million 2007: 124.2 million and earnings there will be peaks and troughs from year to year.
per share increased by 50.9% to 45.77 pence 2007: 2008 was clearly a peak year in terms of growth and 30.33 pence.
Return on average capital employed rate of investment that positions us well for the rest improved by 1.8 percentage points to 28.5%.
Our North American and European businesses We also said that our target was based on the performed well in the face of challenging economic assumption that the macro-economic conditions then conditions, while our Local businesses in the Middle prevailing would continue.
This assumption has been East, Asia, Australasia and Latin America continued to challenged by recent events, and Aggrekos stance deliver good growth.
Our International Power Projects will have to be more cautious as we navigate our way business delivered an exceptional performance during through the uncharted waters of a global economic the year and, in the fourth quarter, put on rent a record crisis.
A number of features of Aggrekos business 300MW of new power projects.
The highlight of model will help us in this task.
the year was the faultless delivery of over 140MW of temporary power and 480 kilometres of cable to First, power and temperature control are utility services, 37 venues for the Beijing Olympics.
This project was without which it is impossible to have any sort of one of the largest temporary power contracts ever developed business or consumer activity: keeping the awarded, with people and equipment being deployed lights on and the wheels of industry and commerce from around the world to support it.
turning is a high priority for our customers.
While lower economic activity may reduce overall demand for power and temperature control, it equally means that investment in new permanent capacity will be reduced.
1 Constant currency takes account of the impact of translational In developing countries in particular, nancing new or exchange movements in respect of our businesses which replacement power generation and transmission capacity operate in currency other than sterling.
has become extremely dif cult.
In the meantime, the 2 Pass-through fuel revenue relates to two contracts in Sri Lanka installed infrastructure continues to age, which will and Uganda in our International Power Projects business where we provide fuel on a pass-through basis.
lead to more frequent breakdowns and blackouts.
14 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Directors Report Secondly, our global distribution allows us to move Employees existing eet and capital investment to wherever Once again I have been extremely impressed by the demand is strongest.
We are not overly dependent commitment and professionalism of all our employees, on any one sector or geographical market.
especially in this challenging economic environment.
On behalf of the Board I would like to thank all our Thirdly, we can ex our eet investment to respond employees for the contribution they have made to to increasing or decreasing levels of demand: we have Aggrekos success in 2008. the nancing in place to invest aggressively if we see opportunities: and equally we have a young and wellBoard Changes and Adjustments maintained eet that we can keep operational with to Regional Structure relatively low levels of investment if demand falls.
Since our last Annual Report we have announced In terms of eet capital expenditure, we expect to the retirement of three members of the Board and invest around 195 million in 2009, which is about the appointment of two new Directors.
60 million less than 2008: due to currency movements, this is 25 million higher than the indication we gave Andrew Salvesen has indicated his desire to step down in our December Trading Statement.
from the Board at the AGM in April 2009.
Andrew joined the Board in 1997, and his wise counsel has Funding made a signi cant contribution to the development Notwithstanding the very substantial increase in capital of the Group.
expenditure in 2008, Aggrekos financial position remains strong with net debt to EBITDA Earnings Roy McGlone retired as a Director on 1 September before Interest Tax Depreciation & Amortisation 2008.
Roy joined the Board in September 2002, and of 1.1 times 2007: 0.9 times at 31 December 2008 was appointed Chairman of the Audit Committee compared to our bank covenant of 3 times.
During his time on the Board, cover, measured on an EBIT Earnings before Interest we have all bene ted from Roys considerable & Tax basis, also remains strong at 13.9 times 2007: business experience.
I am pleased to say that Robert 11.7 times, and well within our covenant of 3 times MacLeod has succeeded him as Chairman of the cover.
We also have plenty of headroom against our Audit Committee.
facilities: net debt at the year end stood at 364.0 million 2007: 202.6 million, against committed bank facilities In October we also announced that Derek Shepherd, of 510.4 million.
Since the year end the Group has aged 66, would retire at the AGM in April 2009. re nanced or replaced 158.9 million of facilities Derek has worked for the company for over 20 years, due to mature in September 2009 with new facilities and has served on the Board since 1997.
For the last totalling 195.0 million, as a result of which the Group 10 years, Derek has been responsible for Aggreko now has ample facilities to support its anticipated International, and, under his leadership, it has become funding requirements.
The next tranche of debt which a major business with revenue rising from 35 million the Group will need to re finance matures in 2011. to over 500 million and operating pro t increasing from 7 million to 130 million.
Dereks contribution Dividend to the success of Aggreko has been considerable and The Board is recommending a final dividend of we wish him a long and happy retirement.
6.28 pence per ordinary share which, when added to the interim dividend of 3.80 pence, gives a total Derek has been succeeded in his role by Kash Pandya, for the year of 10.08 pence, a 25.0% increase on 2007. who joined the Board in 2005 and, over the last three At this level, the dividend would be covered 4.5 times.
years, has led the turnaround in the performance of our Subject to approval by shareholders, the final dividend European Region.
At the same time, Aggreko is taking will be paid on 15 May 2009 to ordinary shareholders steps to rebalance and strengthen the regional structure on the register as at 17 April 2009, with an ex-dividend of the Group.
The Middle East local business, currently date of 15 April 2009. part of Aggreko International, is being merged with our European local business to create a Europe and the Middle East region.
To manage this enlarged region, Bill Caplan joined the Group in November 2008 as Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 15 Chairmans Statement continued Managing Director, Europe and the Middle East, and as It is always dif cult at this early stage to come to an Executive Director.
Bill has spent the last 18 years a fide nitive view of the likely outcome of the year, working for United Parcel Service UPS in Pittsburgh, and never more so than in the current economic London, Shanghai and Singapore.
We have made a very strong start experience managing complex multi-site businesses, to 2009 and expect to make good progress on both operating in an environment where excellence in a headline and constant-currency basis in the first logistics and customer service are essential.
The outlook for the second half is less certain and will depend on how the macro-economic I am also delighted to welcome Russell King, who environment develops over the coming months.
joined the Board as an independent Non-Executive Comparatives will also be tough in the second half, Director on 2 February 2009.
Russell is Chief Strategy as we had the bene t in 2008 of both exceptionally Of cer of Anglo American PLC where he has worked high storm revenues in North America and the since 2001.
Previously, he spent over 20 years in senior Beijing Olympics.
Our current judgement is that, roles at ICI, gaining world-wide experience in its on a constant-currency basis, trading in 2009 should fertiliser, petrochemical and paint businesses.
Given that over 70% of our earnings are in US dollars, if we achieve this trading Outlook for 2009 performance, and if the sterling : US dollar rate stays The Groups performance has been very strong in the at todays level for the rest of the year, reported results first two months of the year, and well ahead of 2008. would show substantial growth over 2008. International Power Projects has nearly 40% more capacity on rent than a year ago, and about 12 months forward order cover at the current revenue run-rate.
Encouragingly, the level of enquiries remains strong: in the period November 2008-January 2009 we quoted Philip G Rogerson for power projects in 40 countries for an aggregate Chairman generating capacity signi cantly higher than in the 5 March 2009 comparable period in the prior year.
We expect, however, that the rate of growth in this business will start to attenuate, if only because of our reduced rate of eet investment.
As always, we are carefully managing the key risks in this business: the current economic circumstances will heighten these risks, and in particularly those related to payment and customer behaviour.
Most of Aggrekos Local businesses have had a good start to the year.
In North America, the Presidential Inauguration and the Super Bowl as well as continued remediation work following last years hurricane season have meant that the business is currently performing well ahead of the prior year.
Revenues in our new Europe and the Middle East region are running slightly above the prior year, in part helped by storms in France and Spain, for which we have deployed over 800 generators to support customers.
While demand in some parts of the Middle East is noticeably weaker, in others it remains strong, and our business in the area is trading ahead of last year.
Our other Local businesses are, in aggregate, trading at similar levels to last year.
16 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008
