x71226 Rhouse front p2 cg:x71226 Rhouse front p2 cg 5 9 08 10:51 Page 4 4 eaga Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Chairmans Statement I am pleased to present this annual report, following completion of eagas first full year as a listed company.
I am pleased to present this annual report, following completion Dividend of eagas first full year as a listed company.
The year has seen eaga The Board has proposed a final dividend of 2p per Ordinary Share, continue its progression as a proven growth business: one built on payable on 14 November 2008 to shareholders on the register at sustainable foundations and firmly established in its key markets, 17 October 2008.
An interim dividend of 1p per Ordinary Share which are driven by climate change and social inclusion.
was paid on 18 March 2008, resulting in a total proposed dividend As the pace of demographic and technological change increases, for the year of 3p per Ordinary Share.
the opportunities for leveraging our knowledge and understanding of the needs of those groups most likely to require additional Strategy support and service are becoming increasingly evident.
Our work eaga provides outsourced services and products that address a wide to eradicate fuel poverty has led to similar activity on water range of environmental and social challenges.
Our broad customer efficiency, and we are now mobilising to ensure that vulnerable base includes central Government, energy suppliers, the BBC and households and families are not left behind in a digital age, as a significant number of local authorities.
In serving this customer evidenced in our successful contract bid to deliver the Digital base, we devise, develop and deliver outsourced solutions that Switchover Help Scheme DSHS.
help households and families deal with many different aspects We are continuing to progress positively towards our longer-term of social, technological, economic and environmental change.
strategic business aims, with major contract wins achieved as part Our strategic aims for the year were: to continue the process of of our ongoing diversification and the reinforcement of a significant diversification in our key areas of operation, by widening our market share within Carbon Emissions Reduction Target CERT.
contract base and broadening our customer relationships: the Importantly, we have driven our successes whilst maintaining our reinforcement of our market position within an expanded CERT: focus on our operating culture, which sets us apart from our competitors.
the expansion of the spread of our service offering into the CERT market and the ongoing development of our geographic footprint.
Results These aims have been progressed through a number of positive developments over the last year: The Groups results for the year to 31 May 2008 show double digit growth in revenues and profits before exceptional charges.
the launch of CERT on 1 April 2008, which is proceeding at double the level of its predecessor, the Energy Efficiency Group revenue in the year to 31 May 2008 increased by 32% Commitment EEC.
We remain a major provider in this to 639.0 million 2007: 482.6 million, and Group earnings 1 market, worth an estimated 2.8bn over the 2008-11 period before interest, taxation, amortisation and exceptional items EBITA grew by 22% to 38.0 million 2007: 31.3 million.
securing the outsourcing contract to deliver DSHS on behalf of Of our 32% revenue growth, 63% was organic and 37% the BBC.
Securing this contract, in respect of which some 500m was delivered through acquisitions.
has been allocated to service provision, clearly demonstrates our ability to compete with established outsource providers at the Our development continues to be based on robust organic highest level revenue growth and targeted acquisitions, funded from our strong operating cash flows.
The Group balance sheet at a renewed commitment to the Warm Front Scheme beyond 31 May 2008 remained net cash positive cash balances exceeding 2010, as part of the Governments ongoing dedication to loans and borrowings.
Our cash generative business model tackling fuel poverty continues to position us well for further expansion, both organic and through acquisition, as the Group moves forward.
1 Based on official estimate contained in the Regulatory Impact Assessment for the Carbon Emissions Reduction Target, laid before Parliament in December 2007 and available at http: www.
pdf x71226 Rhouse front p2 cg:x71226 Rhouse front p2 cg 5 9 08 10:51 Page 5 5 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 eaga we devise, develop and deliver outsourced solutions that help households and families deal with many different aspects of social, technological, economic and environmental change continued diversification of the Groups core business by As a Board and indeed as a wider organisation, we were extremely progressing the evolution of our contract base, reducing reliance saddened by the death of Richard Burns, our Senior Independent Director, on 20 May 2008.
As a former senior partner in the law on any one single contract whilst simultaneously expanding the firm Hammonds LLP, Richard brought immense experience, intellect range of products and services we offer and vision to the Boards work.
He is already hugely missed by his we acquired R G Francis Limited RG Francis in June 2007 friends and colleagues, at eaga and beyond.
We have supported and AFR Limited AFR in September 2007.
Together these the work of the Richard Burns Memorial Trust to help ensure acquisitions largely completed our nationwide delivery platform Richards influence lives on, and will look to continue this and strengthened our presence in Installation Services, relationship.
particularly with regard to our social housing customers Malcolm Simpson has assumed the role of Senior Independent in October 2007 we acquired Horrocks Group plc Horrocks Director on an interim basis.
and George Howe Limited Howe, two of the UKs leading There have been two other changes to the Board, the first of external wall insulation specialists.
These companies position which was the addition of Tracy Clarke as a Non-Executive Director eaga positively in the provision of solid wall insulation: a market in October 2007.
Tracy is Group Head of Human Resources for where some five million homes remain to be treated and one Standard Chartered plc and has already added real value to a that is directly incentivised for growth under CERT highly experienced team.
Michael Roberts OBE, who made such a significant contribution to eagas growth and development, these four acquisitions are being integrated into our Installation retired as planned at the AGM on 22 November 2007.
Services segment to facilitate growth and diversity of our service offering in that segment Outlook People & Culture The drivers within eagas core markets remain positive.
The Climate Change Bill, which legally commits the UK Government eagas continued growth and success is delivered by its people who, to substantial cuts in carbon emissions up to 2050 and beyond: as a co-owned business, we call Partners, and the engagement of set alongside sharp rises in oil prices over the last year and our Partners is underpinned by our values-based business model.
probable further increases in retail energy costs, all highlight the Our values shape all that we do.
They are centred on remaining ongoing importance of the delivery of solutions to climate change: customer focused and professional: on maintaining a clear sense particularly those that are socially focused and equitable in nature.
of urgency, an emphasis on safety and teamwork: and on a need to maintain a positive attitude.
Our approach is to invest in our With the scale of environmental challenges set alongside wider Partners: it is they who deliver success, which is manifested through global economic pressures, advancing technological change and growth, profitability, sustainability and our reputational standing.
growing social need: the opportunities for eaga are both significant and long-term.
An additional 1,069 people became part of eaga during the year, through our acquisitions and organic growth, and I would like to The Board is confident that eaga will continue its growth and make thank each one of our 4,417 Partners for their contributions to substantial progress in the year to 31 May 2009. our continued success.
Charles Berry Chairman The Board I am fortunate to have been able, again, to rely on the invaluable support of my colleagues over the past twelve months.
Their ongoing rigour, commitment and insight have contributed immensely to eagas continued growth and success over the year.
