easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2008 Chairmans statement Svens experience of the French business environment will be invaluable as we develop our operations in France.
Sadly, Dawn Airey will step down from the Board on 31 December 2008.
Dawn has been a member of the Board since 2004 and her skills and experience of the media sector have been invaluable to easyJets development.
Industry regulation The Board is aware of pressures to increase the level of taxation and regulatory charges in the aviation industry.
It is disappointing that at a time when the industry is under considerable pressure new passenger taxes have been introduced in the Netherlands, Belgium and Ireland.
It is disappointing to see that it is passengers who are taxed not aircraft, especially those older models which produce more emissions than from a modern fleet, as we have at easyJet.
The European Union has now finalised the terms of aviations entry into the Emissions Trading Scheme ETS.
This will require us, from 2012, to Sir Colin Chandler hold carbon emission allowances to cover our CO2 emissions.
ETS is a Chairman cap and trade scheme, covering many sectors, and is designed to ensure that carbon emissions in the EU are reduced as efficiently as possible.
easyJet was an active proponent of entry into ETS, which we believe is the most efficient way to ensure that emissions are reduced as efficient short-haul airlines, like easyJet, will face relatively lower costs than inefficient airlines with high emissions.
However, we are concerned that the proportion of permits that will be auctioned against free allocation and thus the cost burden is much higher than was originally proposed.
Turning to airports, we have argued for both the break-up of BAA and the review of airport regulation by the UK Department for Transport.
The challenge now will be to ensure that the forthcoming sale of Gatwick and the Department for Transport review lead to more efficient Resilient business model airport operations.
We were disappointed by the Civil Aviation Authority It is testimony to both the resilience of the easyJet business model and decision to allow significant increases to charges at Gatwick for the the quality of the easyJet people that the business continued to make period to 2012 13, and we are challenging the validity of the CAA progress in an extremely challenging year.
The price of fuel rose to process in the courts.
unprecedented levels and less well positioned competitors struggled to survive resulting in capacity exiting the market.
Looking forward, easyJet will continue to work constructively with key stakeholders to ensure an appropriate structure for regulation and Strong revenue growth has meant that easyJet was able to offset over taxation that improves efficiency across the industry.
half the impact of higher fuel costs and deliver underlying pre tax profits 1 1 of 123 million and underlying return on equity of 7.6%, down from Conclusion 1 13.6% last year.
easyJet is now a truly pan European airline operating the premier European air transport network.
The easyJet brand has a high level of GB Airways was smoothly integrated and as a result easyJet is now the recognition and customer advocacy in all its key markets.
Undoubtedly, leading airline at Gatwick.
easyJet continued its expansion outside the there will be challenges in the coming year as the consumer environment UK, especially in Italy, France and Spain with nearly half of our passengers weakens but easyJet is well positioned and has an experienced and now originating outside the UK.
Our policy will be to be cautious People during this time of uncertainty and to conserve cash as a means of At easyJet we truly believe that people make the difference.
emerging from economic recession in a position of strength.
The commitment and enthusiasm of our crew is a key part of why easyJet ranks ahead of competitors in the perceptions of our customers across Europe and my fellow Directors and I continue to be very grateful for all the efforts of all our people.
The Board Sir Colin Chandler I am delighted that Sven Boinet joined the Board of easyJet this year.
Chairman Sven, a French national, has been the Chief Executive Officer of 17 November 2008 Group Lucien Barrire since 2004.
Sven also held a number of senior management roles over a 15 year period at the French hotels group, Accor and was a Non Executive Director of Lastminute.
Note 1: Underlying financial performance excludes 12.9 million of costs associated with the integration of GB Airways in 2008 and excludes the reversal of the impairment of the investment in The Airline Group of 10.6 million in 2007.
