Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2008 02 Chairmans statement Robert Beeston The strong set of results in 2008 reflects some of the benefits captured through the continuing actions taken by the Board to raise returns across the Group.
The strategic focus of our business is to invest in the growth of our Specialty Products division and a major step forward was made in July 2008 when we completed the purchase of the Deuchem additives business and the Yuhong organoclay plant, thereby significantly expanding our presence in the Asia Pacific region.
In the Chromium business, we took advantage of exceptional and positive market conditions in 2008, which boosted this divisions profitability, but these exceptional market circumstances are not expected to recur in 2009.
Our UK facility is more exposed to a downturn in demand because of evolving competition in its end markets, where it produces less differentiated products than our US business, and its profitability depends heavily on supplying intermediate products to the US business.
As a result, we are currently evaluating the closure of our UK chromium manufacturing facility to rationalise capacity.
The combination of Elementis strong free cash flow, net debt to EBITDA ratio of 1.0 at the 2008 year end and borrowing facilities not expiring until July 2011, provide the Board with the relative comfort, in the face of the current dramatic changes in the global The strong set of results in 2008 economy, to increase the full year dividend by 7 per cent to 2.9 pence per share.
reflects some of the benefits captured through the continuing actions taken by the Board to raise returns across the Group.
group revenue Operating profit from continuing operations 400.5m 52.0m before exceptional items chAirmAns stAtement Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2008 03 Results People 1 Operating profit, before exceptional items, improved by Elementis has made excellent progress in recent years by 36 per cent in 2008 to 52.0 million on sales of 400.5 million, continuously improving operating results and credit for this which is an increase of 34 per cent over 2007 or 17 per cent outstanding performance must go to all of our employees.
excluding currency effects and acquisitions.
Earnings per share, On behalf of the Board I would like to thank them for their before exceptional items, increased by 26 per cent to 9.1 pence.
The Group recorded an impairment charge of 20.5 million in 2008, in relation to the Chromium business UK facility, Outlook and this is shown as an exceptional item in the Income Going forward it is clear that 2009 is going to be a challenging Statement.
After taking account of this, reported earnings year.
Market conditions in the latter half of the fourth quarter per share was 4.5 pence compared to 10.8 pence in the deteriorated significantly and trading in the early part of previous year.
However, the Group is well financed and the investments made in 2008 will further Dividend enhance the growth drivers in our Specialty Products The Board is recommending a final dividend of 1.4 pence, business.
The severe global economic downturn and taking the total return to shareholders for the year to accelerated customer destocking make our performance 2.9 pence, an increase of 7 per cent.
Subject to approval in 2009 difficult to predict, but we expect to continue to at the Annual General Meeting, the dividend will be paid make progress over the medium term.
on 22 May 2009 to members on the register at the close of business on 24 April 2009.
The Board intends to continue to review the dividend policy as earnings performance and debt levels permit.
Health, safety and environment I am happy to report that our activities in this important area of our business have continued to be of a high standard Robert Beeston during 2008 with no significant incidents reported by any of chairman our businesses.
24 February 2009 Elementis has made excellent progress in recent years by continuously improving operating results and credit for this outstanding performance must go to all of our employees.
On behalf of the Board I would like to thank them for their tremendous effort and commitment.
1 Exceptional items are items which, in managements judgement, need to be disclosed separately by virtue of their size or incidence in order for the reader to obtain a proper understanding of the financial information and underlying performance of the Group.
The impact of the exceptional items on operating profit is shown in the operating profit table on page 9.
