10 Filtrona plc Annual Report 2008 Business Review Chairmans Statement Filtrona remains a well managed company intent on constantly improving and innovating the way it does business In 2008, Filtrona reported increases in revenue, adjusted Committee, since the public listing of Filtrona in 2005, and on behalf of the Board I would like to thank him for his invaluable operating profit and earnings, despite the volatile economic conditions experienced globally during the latter part of the contribution.
Under the direction of the Nomination Committee, the recruitment process for Adrians replacement is under way.
year, and the recessionary trends which emerged in some of the Companys markets.
Whilst these improvements The Board held eight scheduled meetings during the year, benefited from movements in currency exchange rates, particularly in the latter part of the year, as sterling weakened together with a day of strategy discussions.
The focus of the Board during 2008 was on seeking to secure key strategic sharply against both the euro and the US dollar, they also reflect the resilience derived from Filtronas strong developments for the Group and a number of additional meetings were arranged during the year to accommodate international market positions.
For the first time, the Board undertook an evaluation of its performance under the direction of an Revenue was up against the prior year by 6.5% at 526.4m 2007: 494.2m and, at constant exchange rates, down 0.9%.
The individual Directors have responded well to address the constructive points arising Adjusted operating profit was up 0.9% to 65.0m 2007: 64.4m, after absorbing 1.8m of restructuring costs, and from that review in seeking to maximise the Boards value for stakeholders both internal and external to the Company.
down 8.1% at constant exchange rates.
The beneficial impact of currency translation during the year was 37.1m on revenue I am pleased to welcome new colleagues to the Group and 6.3m on adjusted operating profit.
A robust profit performance and effective working capital management who have joined during the year, including those from the acquisition of Lendell.
Filtrona values its people highly and helped to maintain a strong adjusted operating cash flow at 65.6m.
their commitment, enthusiasm and professionalism will be key to ensuring Filtronas resilience in the face of demanding The successful completion of the acquisition of the business market conditions.
and assets of Lendell Manufacturing Inc. based in St Charles, Michigan, reflects the Companys strategy of acquiring in the Filtrona remains a strong and well managed company higher growth, higher margin divisions.
The integration of intent on constantly improving and innovating the way it Lendells speciality foam manufacturing, sales and does business.
It is expected that economic conditions will development capabilities into the renamed Porous remain challenging during 2009 but the Board remains Technologies division is proceeding well.
It is anticipated that confident that Filtrona will continue to demonstrate resilience both Lendell and the Fibertec business will secure additional and perform satisfactorily.
growth opportunities through their combination.
Jeff Harris The Board is recommending a final dividend of 5.08p per Chairman share which, if approved at the Annual General Meeting on 26 February 2009 23 April 2009, will make a total dividend of 7.78p per share 2007: 7.6p for the full year.
This represents a 2.4% increase in On 3 March 2009, the Company announced that its subsidiary Filtrona the total dividend.
The final dividend will be paid on 8 May Extrusion Inc. had entered into a conditional agreement for the sale of 2009 to shareholders on the register at 14 April 2009. all the issued and outstanding common stock of the Filtrona Extrusion Holding Companies, which operate the North American Plastic Profile Steve Crummett joined the Board on 19 March 2008 as and Sheet business.
Group Finance Director and his experience and knowledge Completion of the sale is subject to a number of conditions, including have been key in helping to guide Filtrona through the the approval of the Companys shareholders.
It is expected that the challenges presented by the changes in trading and sale will complete towards the end of March 2009.
A circular setting financial market conditions.
out further details of the proposed sale and containing the Notice of a General Meeting of the Company to be held on 19 March 2009 Adrian Auer has confirmed his intention to leave Filtrona as was posted to shareholders on 3 March 2009 and is available on a Nonexecutive Director with effect from 30 June 2009 as he the Companys website at www.
Completion of the focuses on his other interests outside of the Group.
Adrian has sale will be an important step in Filtronas strategic development.
been a Director of the Company, and Chairman of the Audit 11 Filtrona plc Annual Report 2008 Filtrona Mission To focus on the development of innovative and value added products and services To deliver world class quality and service To continue to develop strong relationships with customers, partners and suppliers To continue to reduce product costs To develop a co-operative working environment where employees are committed, involved and recognised for their contribution and thereby grow profitably
