Only use the LF version of Meta for this job : no non-aligned numbers!!
08 ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Chairmans Statement 2008 was an important year for ENRC being the Groups first full year as a listed company.
Our inclusion in the FTSE 100 Index in March 2008 followed from the success of our listing on the London Stock Exchange and was a reflection of the efforts of our management and employees building up to this outcome.
ENRC delivered exceptional results in 2008 with underlying EBITDA of US$4.2 billion 2007: US$1.9 billion and profit after tax of US$2.7 billion 2007: US$0.8 billion.
I would like to thank our employees for all their hard work and dedication that made this performance possible.
However, despite the record result, 2008 was a year of mixed fortunes, with demand and prices very favourable for most of the year followed by a sudden downturn in the autumn.
The Groups management took rapid and decisive action to address the change in market conditions.
The Board feels that it will be some while before the market returns to a better balance of demand and supply but our efforts will concentrate on retaining our position as a low cost producer, taking full advantage of our integrated mining, processing, energy production and logistics operations which are well positioned to serve, in particular, the nearby growth markets of China and Russia.
The Board was largely assembled in the run-up to the Initial Public Offering and one of the key challenges for a new Board in its first year of operation is for the Directors to quickly form a cohesive working unit.
The Board has made great progress during the year and at the end of Sir David Cooksey 2008 we engaged external consultants to undertake a full evaluation of Chairman the Directors and the Boards overall performance.
The findings were positive and have provided us with a firm basis from which to continue to strengthen both our governance processes and the Board as a whole has rapidly coalesced since then.
During the current economic uncertainty it is important that the Board provides robust leadership.
In 2008 the wide range of experience of our Directors has provided a strong platform from which to guide and support the Groups senior management team as it addresses the challenges of managing a public listed company and during a period of major economic turmoil.
2008 demonstrated the strengths of ENRCs low cost, Strategy A key responsibility of the Board is to define the Groups strategy.
Board, in response to the current opportunities available to the Group, has broadened its view on potential value enhancing acquisition We were able to take prospects.
This is made possible by our relatively strong balance sheet advantage of the growth and earnings potential.
The five strategic goals of the Group are: opportunities available in To maintain and improve on our low-cost operations.
the early part of the year and To continue expansion and development of the existing reserves and capacity.
to withstand the sudden To add value and customer diversity by expanding our product portfolio.
deterioration in the market in To expand our asset portfolio and footprint in the natural resources the autumn.
The strength of sector, both within the region and worldwide.
To commit to high standards of corporate responsibility, with our balance sheet gives us particular reference to health and safety.
resilience and provides us with The broadening of our acquisitions strategy results from the attractive a base from which to grow by valuations for natural resources assets offered by the current economic environment.
The Board will carefully assess all opportunities to acquisition.
We will evaluate ensure that they offer value accretion to all shareholders and fully all such opportunities with utilise and broaden the Groups capabilities.
The strategy is a balanced and flexible combination of enhancing existing assets, organic expansion and acquisitions.
The strategy aims to bridge the Groups current position as a leading, diversified natural resource group largely based in the Republic of Kazakhstan, with its aspiration to become a more international mining group.
Within the strategy is an optionality that enables the Group to respond to conditions and opportunities.
Growth in shareholder value is achieved over time by achieving a higher sustained operational growth rate by the businesses which should then be reflected in the share price and dividend, as benchmarked against our peer mining companies.
Management and shareholder interests are aligned through appropriate incentives linked to the delivery of value for shareholders.
DO NOT USE TRACKING ON ANY PART OF THIS JOB!
ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 09 Our aspirations to grow internationally have been reflected in our acquisitions of Serov in Russia and a 50% interest in Tuoli in China, both ferrochrome operations, and a 50% interest in BML, which is developing an iron ore deposit in Brazil.
Since the year end our desire to grow in the Republic of Kazakhstan has been demonstrated by our acquisition of a 25% interest in Shubarkol, a major semi-coke and thermal coal producer and an important supplier to our operations, with an option to purchase the remaining 75%.
The proceeds of our Initial Public Offering and our strong cash flow in 2008 enabled us to plan major capital expenditure and to make acquisitions.
We still enjoy a very strong balance sheet, but our plans will be tempered by market conditions which, while impacting our cash flow on the one hand, should also provide opportunities to make well priced acquisitions on the other.
We will also press hard to achieve cost reductions in our business to keep our competitive edge and to offset the relatively high levels of inflation experienced in the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Corporate governance High standards of corporate governance continue to be a key area of focus for the Board.
We continue to monitor the Groups performance against established standards so as to ensure that the proper level of oversight is provided in order to give the best possible assurances to shareholders and other stakeholders.
We have very good working relationships with our Founder Shareholders and with the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan, both of which are a source of strength for the Group.
In July 2008, the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan replicated the minority ownership model it has in ENRC by acquiring a 15% stake in Kazakhmys in a share swap exchange for 7.7% of ENRC.
Kazakhmys subsequently acquired further shares in the market and is now our largest shareholder with a 26% holding.
However, as a competitor for resources in the Republic of Kazakhstan, we do not believe that it is in the interest of all shareholders that Kazakhmys should have a seat on the Board of ENRC.
Since we run our businesses completely separately Underlying EBITDA Kazakhmys has no significant influence over the ENRC strategic or operating decision making processes.
2008 US$4.2 billion 2007 Succession US$1.9 billion The Board is pleased to announce that Dr Johannes Sittard, Chief Executive Officer of the Group, has agreed to extend his contract Profit after tax of employment and will remain with the Group up to 30 September 2010.
The Board has initiated the process of finding the successor 20 08 US$2.7 billion to Dr Sittard and is seeking to recruit his replacement by the end of 2009 in order to facilitate an orderly handover to the new Chief 2007 US$0.8 billion Executive Officer.
The Board also announces that Mr Miguel Perry, Chief Financial Officer of the Group, has given notice of his intention to leave the Group.
Miguel Perry will step down as Chief Financial Officer and from the Board and will leave the Group with effect from 30 June 2009.
Following the Groups successful Initial Public Offering, in December 2007, and its first full year as a public limited company, Miguel Perry is leaving in order to be able to further develop his career, building on his experience of preparing a company for a public offering and the success he has achieved.
The Board would like to thank Miguel Perry for his valuable contribution to the Company over the last two years.
It is the Boards intention to appoint as his replacement a suitable external candidate for the role of Chief Financial Officer.
The process is well underway and a further announcement is expected to be made in the next few weeks.
Outlook Despite the current uncertainties, we believe that the Group is uniquely well-placed to benefit once stability returns to the global economy.
Our focus for the coming year is to ensure that our strategy continues to deliver value to all our shareholders.
Sir David Cooksey Chairman DO NOT USE TRACKING ON ANY PART OF THIS JOB!
Corporate Information Reserves Financial Statements Corporate Governance Business Review Group Overview
