80766 pre 8 12 08 19:58 Page 2 Chairman's Statement Highlights 2008 2007 change Revenue 332.1m 305.2m 9% Underlying results Adjusted operating profit 81.3m 78.6m 3% Adjusted profit before tax 67.3m 55.5m 21% Adjusted diluted earnings a share 44.4p 35.0p 27% Statutory results Operating profit 61.0m 54.1m 13% Profit before tax 37.4m 41.1m -9% Diluted earnings a share 40.4p 29.9p 35% Dividend 19.25p 19.0p 1% A detailed reconciliation of the group's underlying results is set out in the appendix to the Chairman's statement.
Statutory profit before tax includes a foreign exchange loss on tax equalisation contracts of 12.0 million 2007: 1.8 million.
This is matched by an equal and opposite tax credit and therefore has no effect on earnings a share.
The foreign exchange losses and the tax credit are excluded from underlying profit and the underlying tax expense note 7, 8 and appendix to the Chairman's statement.
It was a year when our strategy paid off, in spite of shocks deliver strong revenues and profits.
The proportion of in the financial and commodities markets.
The increased subscription revenues as a percentage of the total increased reliance on high quality subscription products, a greater from 34% to 37%, contributing strongly to the robustness of push into the emerging economies, continued development our trading, and we expect the proportion to increase.
of the Metal Bulletin acquisition that we completed more than two years ago, stronger legal and telecoms publishing Adjusted profit before tax rose by 21% to 67.3 million in and events, and a continued grip on costs combined to the year to September 30.
Adjusted diluted earnings a share deliver a record year for revenues and profits.
We believe increased by 27% to 44.4p, and the directors recommend that strategy will serve us well in whatever is to come in an unchanged final dividend of 13p a share to be paid to world markets.
New debt facilities are in place for the next five years.
Cash Throughout 2008 the business has demonstrated its resilience generation ran at record levels during the year and continue to in the face of problems in global credit markets, a gloomier do so into the first quarter.
The proposed final dividend is the economic outlook, and more recently the major impact of the same, subject to your approval, and we also propose to offer credit crisis on the worlds leading financial institutions.
shareholders a choice to take the final dividend in shares or cash.
Total revenue increased by 9% to 332.1 million.
Subscription revenues increased by 18% to 123.1 million.
Growth from The new year has begun relatively well.
Some revenue streams emerging markets continued to compensate for weakness in such as advertising and sponsorship, as we expected, have the developed financial markets, and emerging markets now begun to turn down, but many of the businesses, including account for nearly 50% of the groups revenues.
Our strengths those in financial events and publishing outside the main in sectors outside finance, particularly metals, commodities money centres, as well as those outside finance, continue to and energy, is demonstrated by the 16% increase in revenues from business publishing activities, which helped offset the weakness in some financial sectors, particularly structured finance and hedge funds.
The increase in adjusted profit before tax was helped by a 4.5 million reduction in underlying net finance costs, reflecting the strong operating cash flows of the group which increased by 11% to 99.8 million.
Net debt fell to 172.0 million compared with 201.8 million at March 31 and new five-year debt facilities have been agreed.
Strategy The companys strategy over the past five years has been to build a more resilient and better focused business.
This strategy has been executed through increasing the proportion of revenues derived from subscription products: investing in products of the highest quality that customers will value in tough times as well as good: eliminating products with a low margin or too high a dependence on advertising: maintaining 02 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC 80766 pre 8 12 08 19:58 Page 3 revenues, is less than it was and no customer accounts for tight cost control at all times: retaining and fostering an entrepreneurial culture: and making selective acquisitions to more than 1% of group revenues.
Although the group is exposed to the uncertainty of the economic outlook in general, and to the problems in financial The success of this strategy is highlighted by the 2008 results.
Since 2003, revenues have more than doubled.
In the same markets in particular, the increasing diversity of its revenue streams, product offerings and geographic markets provide period, subscription revenues have increased threefold and are now nearly double the level of advertising revenues.
The better protection against market trends.
The demand for quality, hard-to-get information products, particularly those group has also made a successful transition from a predominantly publishing-driven business to one with delivered electronically, should remain robust during difficult times.
And while all revenue streams are subject to the impact significant activities in events and training, and more recently in the provision of electronic information and database of volatility in financial markets, the increased proportion of revenues now derived from high margin subscription products services, which in 2008 accounted for adjusted operating profits of 21.1 million compared to just 2.7 million in 2003. and the reduced exposure to traditionally more volatile advertising revenues should provide some protection against The companys strategy is equally applicable to tough trading the widely expected economic downturn in 2009. conditions and will continue to drive the groups activities in 2009.
Our strong cash generation means we can sustain our Business Review investment in high quality subscription products, new events Financial Publishing: Revenues, which comprise a mix of and the quality of editorial.
We will continue with this strategy, advertising and subscriptions, were unchanged at 84 million even if revenues come under pressure in the short-term as while the adjusted operating margin improved slightly to give customers react to pressure on their own earnings, because adjusted operating profits of 24.5 million.
The performance we believe it will deliver excellent growth in the medium and of the second half mirrored that of the first.
The focus on costs and maintaining margins those titles more reliant on revenues from global financial will increase and while we are comfortable with our level of institutions, or on sectors particularly exposed to the credit debt and associated covenants, we are unlikely to make any crisis such as structured finance and hedge funds.
In contrast, significant acquisitions over the coming 12 months.
those titles with a strong emerging markets exposure held up well: Euromoney, for example, had its best September issue Trading Background ever and increased its advertising revenues for the year by 7%.
The impact of the global credit crisis on the groups results was less severe than expected when problems first surfaced in Meanwhile, investment in new electronic products targeted at 2007.
Growth in advertising and sponsorship revenues slowed niche financial sectors continued, and many of the groups but delegate revenues for conferences and training courses financial titles have now moved successfully from a print-first remained strong and demand for subscription products, to a web-first publishing model.
particularly databases and electronic information services, such as BCAs economic research and ISIs emerging market information, proved resilient.
The groups investment in new products has been targeted at the electronic delivery of niche financial information services with real-time news, unique data and sophisticated search engine technology.
More than 2.4 million was invested in these new products in the year with a view to driving future revenue growth.
In addition, the continued investment in subscription marketing, new events and editorial was a key factor in the growth in subscription and delegate revenues.
The more recent extreme events experienced by financial markets, and in particular the demise of so many leading financial institutions, had no significant effect on the results for the final quarter of 2008, but will obviously have a negative impact on financial activity in 2009.
The priorities of many of the leading global financial institutions remain the raising of finance to secure their futures and determining their strategies for growth once markets improve.
In the short-term, this is likely to lead to further cuts in headcount and marketing spend, particularly once institutions start to focus on their budgets for 2009.
However, the groups dependence on global financial institutions, particularly for advertising Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008 03 80766 pre 8 12 08 19:58 Page 4 Chairman's Statement continued Databases and Information Services: This division largely Business Publishing: The sectors covered by this division metals and commodities, energy, legal and telecoms all comprises businesses which deliver high quality data and information services in electronic-only format, and available continued to perform well, helped by strong commodity markets and high levels of investment in infrastructure, on a subscription-only basis.
Revenues increased by 28% to 66.1 million and adjusted operating profits from 18.7 particularly in emerging markets.
Revenues increased by 16% to 53.1 million with growth from both advertising and million to 21.1 million.
BCA, the independent research business acquired as part of Metal Bulletin, continued to subscription products, and adjusted operating profits improved by 29% to 19.4 million.
Metal Bulletins revenues achieve strong revenue growth on the back of its expansion into new geographic markets and increases in sales resource.
continued to benefit from the increased investment in marketing and technology since its acquisition, while TelCap, ISI, the emerging markets information business, maintained its strong sales performance of the first half and its local currency which publishes Capacity magazine for the wholesale telecoms market, achieved strong growth through the launch subscription revenues increased by 21%.
The decline in of new products.
adjusted operating margin was the result of ISIs continued investment in new products, most notably the expansion Conferences and Seminars: Revenues, which are generated of the CEIC emerging market economic data business into from a mix of sponsored and paid delegate events, continued new regions.
to hold up well in the second half.
Total revenues increased by 8% to 87.9 million while adjusted operating profits for the Financial Review year were unchanged at 23.1 million.
The decline in margin Cash generated from operations increased by 11% to 99.8 largely reflects the impact of the credit crisis on events in the million, and the strong growth in subscription revenues helped structured finance sector, particularly securitisation, and cuts generate an adjusted operating profit to cash conversion rate by global financial institutions in their spend on capital of 123% 2007: 115%.
These strong cash flows helped markets conferences.
In contrast, events in areas outside reduce year end net debt to 172.0 million, compared to finance performed well, particularly those covering the coal 201.8 million at the half year and 204.6 million a year and alternative energy markets under the Coaltrans brand, ago.
Net debt to EBITDA at September 30 was a comfortable and the metals and commodities markets under Metal 2.2 times against 2.8 times at March 31.
In May the group spent 0.6 million on the acquisition of a Training: The revenue growth of the first half continued, 51% interest in the assets of Benchmark Financials Limited, while the steps taken earlier in the year to improve the margin one of the leading providers of company financial data and were successful.
As a result, total training revenues increased analysis for Colombian companies, which is being integrated by 10% to 40.8 million and adjusted operating profits by 2% with ISIs Emerging Markets Information Service.
Training revenues are heavily dependent on investments totalling 6.0 million were made in a number of the headcount and training and travel budgets of financial the groups subsidiaries, all in the first half, while in the second institutions, and to date have held up well despite the cost half disposals of investments and property assets acquired as pressures triggered by the problems in the credit markets.
This part of the Metal Bulletin acquisition generated proceeds of has been achieved through a mix of investment in new course 4.7 million.
content, effective marketing and an ability to roll out successful courses quickly to emerging markets.
The group generates more than 60% of its revenues in US dollars.
The average US dollar exchange rate for the year was 1.97 against 1.96 in 2007.
The group uses forward exchange contracts to hedge its US dollar exposures.
As a result, the profit benefit from the recent strengthening of the US dollar against sterling will largely be delayed until 2010 and beyond.
In contrast, year end net debt was calculated at a US dollar rate of 1.78, and the recent strengthening of the US dollar to rates below 1.60 will have increased the level of net debt by approximately 15 million.
Net finance costs of 23.6 million shown in the statutory results include a charge of 8.6 million 2007: 0.2 million relating to tax equalisation contracts under a foreign currency financing derivative.
This charge is made up of gains on tax equalisation contracts of 3.4 million 2007: 1.6 million and a foreign exchange loss of 12.0 million 2007: 1.8 million which is offset by a matching tax credit.
Underlying net finance costs were 8.9 million compared to 13.4 million in 2007, and the average cost of funding the groups net debt was 5.9% compared to 6.1% for 2007.
04 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC 80766 pre 8 12 08 19:58 Page 5 Capital Appreciation Plan Statutory profit before tax fell by 9% to 37.4 million as a result of the inclusion of the 12.0 million foreign exchange Following the achievement in 2007 of the profit target under the groups Capital Appreciation Plan CAP, the first tranche loss on tax equalisation contracts in net finance costs.
This foreign exchange loss is matched with a corresponding tax of 2.5 million CAP options vested in February 2008, representing 2.4% of the companys share capital.
The 2008 credit so that there is no financial impact on earnings a share.
CAP profit target was also achieved, and will give rise to the vesting of up to 2.5 million CAP options in February 2009.
The The tax credit of 7.3 million shown in the statutory results is stated after recognising the credit of 12.0 million relating to third and final tranche of up to 2.5 million CAP options will vest in February 2010 subject to further performance tests, the tax on foreign exchange losses hedged by the tax equalisation contracts referred to above.
At the half year, the group most important of which requires the groups adjusted profit before tax before CAP option expense to exceed 57 million changed its presentation of the underlying tax rate by removing all deferred tax effects of goodwill and intangibles.
The share option expense was 5.4 million 2007: 10.2 million, the reduction in expense reflecting the This, combined with a reduction in tax rates in the UK and Canada, and a change in the profit mix, means that the accelerated CAP charge incurred in 2007 as a result of the underlying rate of tax rate for 2008 has fallen from 31% CAP profit target being achieved a year earlier than expected.
The board, with the support of the Remuneration Committee, A detailed reconciliation of the groups underlying and has approved the introduction of a second Capital statutory results is set out in the appendix to this statement.
The structure, terms and cost of CAP 2 will be broadly similar to those of the first CAP, except Debt Facilities that CAP 2 will comprise an equal mix of cash and new equity, The groups debt is provided through a dedicated 300 million thereby reducing the dilution effect for existing shareholders three-year multi-currency facility with a subsidiary of its compared to the first CAP which was funded entirely by new majority shareholder, Daily Mail and General Trust plc DMGT.
CAP 2 will commence in the year following the This facility is due to expire in August 2009.
DMGT refinanced satisfaction of the performance tests for the final tranche of its bank facilities, of which the Euromoney dedicated facility the first CAP.
The performance tests for CAP 2 will be set once was part, in August 2008. the profits for the final year of the first CAP are known, and will require above average profit growth over the CAP 2 The board is pleased to announce it has approved a renewal vesting period.
of its facility with DMGT, which is expected to be signed shortly, securing the groups funding until December 2013.
The introduction of CAP 2 will be subject to shareholder The terms of the new facility are broadly similar to those of the approval at the Annual General Meeting on January 28 2009, existing facility, except that the margin over LIBOR is expected and the detailed terms and conditions of CAP 2 will be set out to increase by approximately 120 basis points, reflecting the in a circular to shareholders to be sent out in December 2008. increased cost of credit in these difficult markets.
This will increase the groups net finance costs for 2009 by approximately 2 million.
The size of the facility has been reduced to 250 million to reflect the strong cash flows and reduced funding requirements of the group.
Dividend The board has recommended an unchanged final dividend of 13p, making a total for the year of 19.25p 2007: 19p.
The board has also recommended the introduction of a scrip dividend alternative for shareholders.
The payment of a scrip dividend will be subject to shareholder approval at the Annual General Meeting on January 28 2009, and the detailed terms of the scrip dividend will be set out in a circular to shareholders to be sent out in December 2008.
The groups majority shareholder, Daily Mail and General Trust plc, has indicated its intention to accept the scrip dividend alternative when the final dividend is paid in February 2009.
This will help DMGT to maintain its equity interest in Euromoney in the face of a further dilution to come from the issue of new shares under the companys Capital Appreciation Plans.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008 05 80766 pre 8 12 08 19:58 Page 6 Chairman's Statement continued The trading performance in the second half was similar to that Management Two of the companys non-executive directors, Charles Sinclair of the first but, unsurprisingly, the outlook is more uncertain than six months ago.
Current trading is in line with the boards and Peter Williams of DMGT, stood down from their roles with effect from September 30 2008.
Both have played a expectations, but in such volatile markets it is difficult to predict how well sales will hold up beyond the first quarter.
considerable part in the growth of the company over the past 20 years.
Martin Morgan, who replaced Charles Sinclair as Deferred revenues at September 30 were 89.5 million, an increase of 22% since a year ago.
Octobers revenues were chief executive of DMGT, joined the board with effect from October 1.
In future, Peter Williams will serve as an alternate ahead of last year and forward revenues for the first quarter are ahead of the same time last year.
However, sales for the non-executive director to The Viscount Rothermere.
This reduces the number of DMGT representatives on the past six weeks have shown some signs of weakening in the face of the extreme credit market conditions and continued Euromoney board from three to two and it is the companys intention to appoint a new independent non-executive uncertainty over the economic outlook.
Visibility beyond the director at the Annual General Meeting.
first quarter is very limited, as usual at this time of year, and the recent sales weakness means revenues will come under After nine years of valuable service as an executive director, increasing pressure from the second quarter.
Tom Lamont, editor of Institutional Investors newsletter division, will step down from the board in January 2009, on The board of Euromoney remains committed to its strategy of reaching the normal retirement age for an executive director.
investing to deliver long-term revenue growth from high He will continue to serve as a member of the companys quality products and high margin revenue streams, while using Executive Committee.
its strong cash flows to further reduce its debt levels.
The outlook for trading is inevitably uncertain in these markets, Outlook but the group is better positioned than ever to meet the The record results for 2008 highlight the success of the challenges of this difficult environment.
groups strategy for building a high quality portfolio of leading information brands across a broad, global customer base.
Finally, I thank our colleagues, on your behalf and mine, for all they have done.
The current levels of uncertainty and volatility in global financial markets, and the negative economic outlook, will present greater challenges to this strategy in 2009.
However, the strategy is robust and will not change.
Our strong cash flows will allow us to continue to invest in new subscriptionbased information products, in specialist events, and in Padraic Fallon marketing and editorial.
We will place even more emphasis on Chairman managing costs tightly and maintaining our margins.
We November 12 2008 are unlikely to make any significant acquisitions in the next 12 months and our excess cash flows will be applied to reducing debt levels and maximising returns for shareholders.
