Chairmans statement These have been extraordinary times Experians management was quick to for the banking and financial services identify a range of efficiency measures industry.
Unprecedented losses, huge and to restructure certain parts of the volatility, the dislocation of the interbusiness so that it could better deal bank lending market and subsequent with the prevailing conditions.
This recapitalisation of major banks have will result in significant cost savings, characterised the events of recent as well as delivering operational months.
efficiencies that will benefit us in the longer term.
The extent to which the so-called credit crunch will impact beyond the What this year has really shown is the financial sector remains to be seen, strength of Experians portfolio and but it is clear that this next year will be the many opportunities we have to another challenging one, particularly drive growth.
for companies with exposure to the US and UK markets, where the banks We have, for example, continued to will continue to be cautious lenders.
extend our global reach into new and emerging markets.
Our investment in Within all sectors though, there Serasa, Brazils largest credit bureau, have been companies that have has provided us with a commanding performed well and I am pleased that position in one of the fastest growing Experian is amongst these.
Despite credit markets in the world.
the highly unusual conditions, Experian delivered a solid financial We have developed new and performance and continued to make innovative products for credit strong strategic progress, which is a managers and marketers, as well as remarkable achievement.
for consumers wanting to protect their credit records.
And we have continued to expand into new market sectors, such as government, energy, Experians performance this telecommunications and healthcare.
In the UK alone, we won four year is undoubtedly testimony significant new contracts in the public sector.
to the underlying strength We have also made good progress in the management of our corporate of the business responsibilities and in learning how to embed these within our everyday business processes.
Experian was selected for inclusion in the FTSE4Good index of socially responsible companies and the Dow Jones Sustainability World Index.
Our carbon emissions continued to fall, driven by improved energy efficiency and the use of renewable energy, and we played a leading role in initiatives to reduce the incidence of identity theft in the US and UK.
