Company overview Chairmans and Chief Executive Officers Review Our mining operations also responded well to these high levels of iron ore demand, delivering a strong production performance both in terms of absolute output and in particular the proportion of higher-grade 65% Fe pellets produced.
Our Business Improvement Programme achieved further success in reducing unit costs and increasing operational efficiency.
The fundamental elements of our business all outperformed during 2008, a year in which we were able to maintain high levels of production and use our established marketing strategy to good effect.
This strong operational performance resulted in a record financial performance which enabled the Group to maintain its dividend and also to return further capital to shareholders via the substantial on-market share buyback conducted in September.
In the fourth quarter of the year, both the iron ore market and global economic conditions began to deteriorate.
From the Groups perspective, iron ore demand weakness manifested itself first in the Ukrainian domestic market, followed by suddenly decreased demand in most of our export markets.
This challenging operating environment required prompt action to find alternative markets, limit production and reduce overall costs.
Having reacted flexibly and taken the appropriate measures, we were able to maintain our profitability through the final months of the year.
While November sales were weaker, an outstanding performance by our marketing department and our established status as a reliable supplier enabled us to return to the market quickly and successfully in December.
Ferrexpo had a record year in 2008.
As a result, the Group delivered another strong operational and financial Demand for iron ore was exceptionally performance in this difficult period strong in the first part of the year, and for the year as a whole.
resulting in unprecedented international 2008 Results The Group achieved contract price benchmark price settlements in April.
By increases of more than 90% on average for leveraging our proximity to our major the 2008 2009 contract year through strong customer relationships, value-in-use customers and the strong relationships marketing and our ability to provide small-lot just-in-time deliveries.
This generated a we have with them, our marketing arm 72.3% increase for 2008 on the average was able to achieve long-term contract price achieved in the previous calendar year.
These higher prices together with prices for our products in excess of even the production of larger quantities of our premium 65% Fe grade pellets enabled us these record benchmarks.
to grow both revenues and profits during 2008, despite weakening global demand in the fourth quarter.
04 Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Our strategy explained As a result, revenues for 2008 increased by 60.0% compared to the prior year 2007: US$698.2 million.
Earnings before Conserve cash and protect margins through aggressive cost interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation and capital expenditure reduction, maintaining the cost for the period increased by 104.8% to competitiveness of our existing operations US$503.9 million 2007: US$246.1 million, 1 and pre-tax profit increased by 133.6% to US$375.6 million 2007: US$160.8 million.
Leverage our marketing platform using our strong customer Actions to scale back our production relationships and beneficial location to maintain sales volumes slightly in the final part of the year followed and increase market share in our Traditional Markets a 10 month period of record output.
2 Production for the full year reached the same record levels achieved in 2007 but Retain flexibility to react quickly to changes in the iron ore included a higher ratio of high grade 65% Fe pellets an increase of 8.5% compared market, to manage production and investment in growth to 2007.
Our mining operations again 3 performed well, increasing production efficiency even during the period of reduced output in the fourth quarter.
Pursue best practice in our mining operations, financial and risk management, and corporate governance The Groups C1 costs fell sharply to US$34.7 per tonne in December 2008 4 compared to US$42.3 per tonne for the full year.
We faced significant cost pressures in the first six months of the year, as a result Resume the commercialisation of our extensive undeveloped of high Ukrainian inflation and sharp ore deposits when prudent increases in both cyclically priced and state-controlled inputs.
In the fourth 5 quarter this trend was reversed and our C1 costs have since experienced significant downward pressure due primarily to depreciation of the Ukrainian hryvnia, as In 2008 we continued our strategy of to hold all strategic initiatives in abeyance well as lower oil and steel related costs selling the majority of our production on in the medium term and refocus the and continued Business Improvement long-term contract to our well-established Groups activities on ensuring the Programme results.
Overall our cost of customer base.
The Group remains continuing strength of its existing production ended 2008 at the same level committed to building strong customer operations.
As a result of this change in as the end of 2007, providing a strong relationships, and we used our reliable and the strategic direction of the Group, Mike finish to 2008 and a beneficial starting growing pellet supply to support these Oppenheimer, at the time Chief Executive point for 2009.
Distribution costs also long-standing customers during the period Officer, and Dennis McShane, then rose sharply during 2008, but the rate of high demand.
At the same time we Executive Director Business Development, of increase slowed considerably in the continued to develop new global market informed the Board that they believed final months of the year.
When reduced demand in their roles to have changed from the form the fourth quarter affected our Traditional envisaged previously, and resigned from The Groups full year results exceeded all and Natural Markets we were well placed the Board and left the Group.
to compensate with sales in seaborne like to thank them both for their markets where demand was more resilient contributions to the Group and we wish Marketing and market environment and Ferrexpo had an established presence them well for the future.
Ferrexpo enjoys several unique logistical and reputation.
In addition, by capitalising advantages, the most notable of which is on our proximity to Traditional and Natural Following these developments, the Board our proximity to our key customers.
Our Market customers and our ability to approved Kostyantin Zhevago to lead the operations in central Ukraine are several provide them with continuous small lot Group, and unanimously appointed him times closer to our principal European iron ore deliveries, we are well placed to as Chief Executive Officer.
His role as markets than most of our global increase our share of those markets.
The Chief Executive Officer of Ferrexpo is now competitors, and as a result we are in Group remains the largest exporter of iron Mr Zhevagos principal activity.
many cases the lowest cost supplier to our ore pellets from Ukraine.
The advantage of proximity is The Group has achieved a great deal in enhanced by our location next to a Management and people 2008, despite the final months of the year navigable river, established rail links In late October the Board concluded proving to be a particularly challenging between us and our customers, and our that along with the rest of the industry, period in the industry and globally.
We joint venture bulk seaborne port facility on the Group was likely to face a more employ almost 9,000 management and the Black Sea.
challenging market environment in the staff, and the outstanding results achieved coming months, and as a result it resolved by the Group across its entire business are 05 Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Company overview Chairmans and Chief Executive Officers Review continued a testament to the positive response to strategic location and strong customer these challenges by every one of them.
We relationships to maintain sales and and the Board would like to thank all the production tonnages and to increase management and staff of Ferrexpo for their market share in our Traditional and Natural hard work and dedication.
While focus in 2009 will be firmly conscious of its responsibilities as one of on our existing operations, the Board and the major employers in Ukraine, and management retain the flexibility to resume maintaining the employment of our people investment in our growth projects when the is a priority.
While we will continue to markets recover, and we have now taken actively manage the size of our workforce all the necessary steps to be able to react over time to maximise productivity, we are swiftly when that time comes.
We have proud that we have been able to avoid any demonstrated in 2008 that we have the forced redundancies during this difficult operational, financial and risk management period in the industry.
capabilities required to manage this strategy effectively.
Corporate governance and social responsibility Dividend The Group has high standards of corporate It is the view of the Board that Ferrexpo governance, and the Board reaffirms its should pay modest consistent dividends commitment to these.
based on continuing profitability and that the business has sufficient operational The Boards Corporate Safety and Social flexibility to respond to the demands it will Responsibility CSR Committee face in 2009.
The Group has operations continues to monitor the management of which are cash generative and can the Groups health, safety, environmental both support returns to shareholders and community programmes in line with and form a platform to finance the best practice for mining companies.
CSR development of its significant world remains a priority and we are pursuing class undeveloped reserves.
further initiatives to institutionalise safety conscious behaviour in particular.
The Board believes it is appropriate to continue with a dividend in line with prior Growth projects and strategy years, reflecting the flexibility of the business Significant progress was made with our both to develop its world class undeveloped growth projects in 2008, which concern reserves in normal times and to slow its primarily the increase of output and investment plans and maintain dividends product quality from our existing when there is a more uncertain outlook.
operations and accessing more of the The Directors therefore recommend a Groups substantial ore reserves at the dividend in respect of profits generated for Yeristovskoye and Belanovskoye deposits.
the Group in 2008 of 3.3 US cents per In November the Board suspended capital Ordinary Share for payment on 22 May expenditure on these projects, delaying 2009 to shareholders on the register at the them until the markets stabilise.
These close of business on 17 April 2009.
The projects remain a priority for the Group, dividend will be paid in UK pounds sterling and we aim to resume their development with an election to receive US dollars.
as soon as economic conditions permit.
Outlook In the course of the year our discussions The outlook for the iron ore market remains moved forward with a selection of potential uncertain in the short-term, as the effects strategic investors in regard to partnering of the global economic crisis continue with the Group in some of these growth to be felt in 2009.
Ferrexpo remained cash projects to provide funding and additional flow positive and profitable during project execution capability.
Following the final quarter of 2008, despite weaker the suspension of expansionary capital demand for iron ore and steel worldwide.
expenditure in November, this process Spot prices for iron ore stabilised to some was suspended but will be resumed when extent in December, as production cuts market conditions allow.
throughout the world began to take effect and steel companies began to conclude In 2009 we will focus primarily on cash their destocking exercises.
We aim to increase our been able to take advantage of this trend, cost competitiveness through aggressive using its strong marketing reputation to operating cost reduction, capital offset weaker Traditional and Natural management and continuing efficiency Markets with increased seaborne sales.
improvements, while leveraging our The Group is exposed to the outlook for 06 Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Our year in review iron ore pricing, but because of its specific logistical advantages and customer relationships, the Board believes that it will January 2008 March 2008 be able to access the seaborne market to Chris Mawe joins the Group as Chief The Group announces commitment compensate for weakness in its Traditional Financial Officer.
of a further US$55m of capital Markets and continue to trade profitably.
expenditure on equipment for the Pressure on the Groups margins resulting Yeristovskoye project and a long-term from decreasing iron ore prices is likely contract with a new Natural market to be partially offset by a decline in customer.
production costs throughout the industry, and particularly in Ukraine, given the weakening local currency.
April 2008 June 2008 The Group settles its contract prices for JORC resources associated with the During the course of 2008, volatility in the 2008 2009 contract year at an average GPL mine in the measured, indicated the global economy and changes in the increase of over 90%, exceeding the and inferred categories are increased industrys operating environment reduced increases to the international Benchmark by 127% to 3.4 billion tonnes.
growth expectations for our business in the iron ore pellet price.
In response to these events and at a time of uncertain short-term demand the Board has taken care to ensure that the options to develop our substantial August 2008 September 2008 iron ore reserve base and to increase Proved and probable JORC reserves The Group conducts an on-market share production and product quality at our associated with the GPL mine are buyback, repurchasing 25.3 million of its existing operation are preserved, whilst increased by 95% to 955 million tonnes.
own shares for US$77.3 million.
We expect these actions to underpin the businesss sustainable performance and protect shareholder value now and in the longerterm.
We remain focused on building our organisation, adding capability in project October 2008 execution and consolidating our strengths The first signs of serious demand weakness in the in best practice mining and marketing in Ukrainian steel market lead to deferred deliveries by our preparation for the resumption of growth.
single Ukrainian contract customer early in the month.
Despite spot prices falling as much as Deferrals from contract customers in all markets in late 70% from their peaks earlier in 2008, iron October as global steel and iron ore demand continues to ore was one of the better-performing fall, and spot market activity in China slows markedly commodities over the year.
We remain fide-stocking by steel mills globally commences.
of the view that notwithstanding the current instability in world markets, the RPG Industries SE purchases shares representing 20.8% of fundamentals of steel demand remain the voting rights in Ferrexpo plc from the Groups majority strong in the medium and long-term, shareholder.
RPG Industries SE then purchases shares driven by growth from developing and representing a further 4.2% of the Groups voting rights industrialising nations.
on the market, leaving it with 25% less two shares.
Ferrexpo was able to maintain positive Following a strategic review by the Groups Board, Mike margins during the first two months of Oppenheimer and Dennis McShane step down from the 2009, despite ongoing weakness in the Board.
Kostyantin Zhevago is appointed CEO of the global iron ore market.
The substitution of Group by a unanimous decision of the Board.
additional seaborne spot sales for weaker contract volumes in our Traditional Markets enabled the Group to continue to trade profitably during the period, and November 2008 December 2008 we are well placed to increase market Weak demand from contract customers Some resumption in demand is evident, share in 2009. and the spot market continues.
The Group particularly on the spot market, where cuts production rapidly in response.
Importantly, Michael Abrahams CBE DL the Groups production costs decline Chairman markedly in December as lower oil and steel prices take effect and the Ukrainian Kostyantin Zhevago Hryvnia declines in response to high Chief Executive Officer Ukrainian inflation.
This provides a lower initial cost base for 2009.
07 Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008
