Chairmans Statement spread into customers pockets affecting their The financial year ended 31 March payment behaviour and resulting in an increase in bad 2008 has been a positive year for debt.
It is for this reason that we issued our trading statement on 17 April 2008. your company with overall sales from continuing operations and benchmark Collection rates for April have followed the same pattern to those of prior years with the pronounced profit before tax higher at 634.0m peak in March reducing by the same rate as in previous 2007: 546.0m and 57.0m years.
In other words, we are not seeing a continuing 2007: 55.9m respectively.
We are modifying our recruitment strategy this year to guard against a recurrence of result of recent corporate activity, this issue in the current economic climate.
integration and development, the group has incurred a number of Exceptional Charges 2007 08 has been a year of consolidation with one-off costs and as such statutory significant integration and restructuring projects profit before tax for the year was across the group.
Although these actions have been 34.0m 2007: 16.4m.
Benchmark at a cost with exceptional charges incurred of 15.9m, the infrastructure we are building will earnings per share were 48.72p substantially benefit the group in future years.
2007: 50.05p, the prior year having The exceptional charges relate in part to the benefited from a lower tax charge.
integration of the businesses acquired in 2007.
The Basic earnings per share were up two key integration exercises have been to move Kleeneze into our Accrington warehouse and to bring 57% to 28.42p 2007: 18.06p.
together our direct brands under Findel Direct.
Both of these actions have been successfully completed The group has made good progress during the year with service levels improving and cost savings in even though the final result was disappointing in light excess of 3m per annum.
of our previous expectations and it is this that I would like to address first.
The balance of the exceptional charges relate to the redevelopment of our Hyde site which will include the When we issued our year end closing update on construction of a custom built new office for the 2 April 2008 we anticipated that our results would Education Division and the commercial development of be within the range of market expectations albeit at the remainder of the site.
the lower end due to a higher interest charge.
Such a result would have produced a good increase in profit year on year.
Home Shopping Sales from ongoing businesses in our Home Shopping However, in early April, it became clear that collection division increased by 22% to 403.5m rates and hence the level of bad debt in our credit 2007: 330.7m with benchmark operating profit Home Shopping business for the month of March increasing to 50.3m 2007: 47.6m.
The Home would materially impact on the results for the year.
Shopping division now comprises a number of leading Whilst we had seen in February that collection rates brands, each with its own unique appeal and market.
were slightly down we were comfortable with this as Statutory sales for the Home Shopping division were in any single month we do see fluctuations both up 409.8m 2007: 368.3m with statutory operating and down and the financial effect at that time was profit of 41.0m 2007: 19.2m.
However the figures that were reported for March showed that the actual collection rates 2007 08 was the first full trading year for our cash were much worse than predicted.
As a result the year with order division in which it generated 137.5m in on year bad debt charge was automatically increased.
sales with net operating margins of 7%.
We experienced strong sales growth from Kitbag as it The seasonality of our Home Shopping credit launched three more Premier League football club business is such that customers shop in the run up sites and moved into cricket, rugby, motorsport and to Christmas and then start paying down their credit tennis.
We also benefited from a particularly good from February onwards.
Collection rates in March profit performance from Kleeneze following its tend to worsen due to the credit performance of new integration into our Accrington site.
recruits who are shopping with us for the first time.
In any year, new recruits make up a third of our The main feature in the year for the cash with order customer base.
This March we suffered from a brands was their relocation and integration.
This was sudden increase in default rates particularly from this a huge undertaking and inevitably created some group as the economic effects of the credit crunch distraction, although we are pleased with the results.
2 Findel Directs brands are Kitbag.
com, I Want One of changed following the introduction of three year Those.
com, Letterbox, The Cotswold Company and financial budgets for schools.
Combined, these brands have a customer purchasing behaviour, particularly in the last quarter base of over 1 million and in excess of 70% of their of the financial year and has led to some margin sales are transacted over the Internet.
Now that the erosion resulting from the need for increased hard work of centralising the brands has taken place promotional activity.
the focus is to achieve profitable growth.
In January 2008, the Education Division went live on The plans for these direct brands will be greatly a new CRM and warehouse management system.
The assisted by the introduction of a common IT system is a significant investment which has taken infrastructure.
We have committed to investing over almost two years to implement at a cost of 4m.
3m this year to achieve this.
Once fully This investment will enable the Education Division to implemented, the new infrastructure will enable us to capitalise on its market leading position and gain a interact with our credit brands so that the group can larger share of the pedagogic toy and educational capitalise on the considerable marketing and cross resources market in the UK and overseas.
selling opportunities our combined Home Shopping The Division saw particularly strong growth in the customer base of over 2.5 million present.
core Primary School sector reflecting an increase in The Home Shopping credit business has made Government funding by just over 6% and the results progress in the year despite the necessity for an of our focused product development in that area.
Overall sales have Sales to Primary Schools now account for over 30% increased by just over 5% to 245.1m and benchmark of the Divisions sales.
Export sales have also been an operating profit has increased by 3% to 42.8m.
area of progress where a focused approach to countries with high economic growth has helped The credit business continues to grow online which increase these sales by 8%.
now accounts for over 40% of sales.
36% of new first orders are being placed over the internet.
The Domestically the Project division is benefiting from customer base has grown to 1.53 million with the building schools for the future initiative with all retention rates of 70%.
BSF project work delivered on time and to budget.
Although there have been some delays in the BSF roll I believe that our integrated product and credit model out, the Division is well placed to be a beneficiary of it aimed at a predominately lower demographic has much over the next 7 to 10 years.
to commend it in times of economic uncertainty where banks have retrenched from providing unsecured We continue to run the Active Kids campaign for personal lending.
However, we also recognise that J. Sainsburys plc and have just successfully such economic conditions bring with them a higher completed the first year of a three year contract risk of default, particularly from customers who do not with a wider product offering than ever before.
have a trading history with us.
In recognition of this, Our product mix is broadly spread and covers virtually a core part of our strategy this year is to re-direct the full range of schools requirements.
We continue a proportion of our recruitment marketing spend to to focus strongly on own developed products which encourage larger and more frequent orders from our we produce following extensive consultation with established customer base.
The significant levels of teachers and having regard to changes in the detailed historical transactional data we have in National Curriculum such as Mod Pods, the Mosi relation to our established customers is of material science kit and our own developed first full colour assistance to us in managing their credit.
Sales for the first six weeks of this financial year in Sales in the first six weeks of the new financial year the credit business are up 5% on the prior period in the Education Division are 5% up on the same which is an encouraging start.
Overall Home Shopping division sales are up 6% against the same period last year.
Healthcare NRS our Healthcare business has had a strong year Educational Supplies with both revenues and benchmark operating profit The Educational Supplies division had a strong year improving materially.
Sales were up by 14% to with sales from ongoing businesses increasing by 5% 55.8m 2007: 48.8m and benchmark operating to 174.7m 2007: 166.5m and benchmark profit was up 66% at 3.1m 2007: 1.8m.
statutory operating loss was 0.3m 2007: profit of Statutory sales were 179.4m 2007: 169.6m 1.0m with a goodwill impairment charge of 3.0m with statutory operating profit of 16.2m 2007: in the current year relating to the decision not to 16.4m.
This was at a time when trading patterns renew certain historic contracts.
co. uk 3 This performance belies the state of flux of the Dividends largest market in our Healthcare division, the running The directors are recommending a final dividend of of Integrated Community Equipment Supply contracts 17.5p per share 2007: 15.6p a 12% increase over for Primary Care Trusts and Local Authorities.
Subject to approval, this will be paid on reported previously the government is currently 8 July 2008 to shareholders on the register on undertaking a review of this market and a change is 6 June 2008.
This would make a total dividend for expected in the short to medium term in the way the year of 22.2p 2007: 19.8p an increase of 12%.
that patients are provided with support and services on hospital discharge.
Employees We will continue to focus on maximising performance The progress the company has made during the year from our existing contracts since we do not believe would not have been possible without the continued many new tenders will be issued in the foreseeable determination and support of all our employees.
The increased performance from these behalf of the board and the shareholders I would like contracts has been the primary drivers of growth in to express my sincere appreciation.
Board changes In addition, we have also relaunched our Primary Care On 2 October 2007 I welcomed Chris Hinton to business with a new catalogue and fully transactional the board as Group Finance Director.
This has been a great success with strong Chartered Accountant and was previously Group sales in the last quarter of the year which have Finance Director of Lorien plc with responsibility continued into the start of this year.
Although for all aspects of Finance, IT and HR and has a the Primary Care business is a small component background in corporate finance.
of the Healthcare Division we are encouraged by its performance and believe that it has an exciting future.
At the same time, David Dutton, who served the group for 21 years retired from the board.
David had Sales in the new financial year have continued to given many years valuable service to the group and improve and in the first six weeks of the new financial left with the boards thanks and best wishes for the year are 5% ahead of last year.
Cash Flow Prospects The groups net cash flow from operating activities The group remains focused on achieving growth in all was an outflow of 4.4m compared to an inflow of its businesses.
All divisions have made positive sales 17.5m in 2007.
The major contributor of the progress in the first six weeks of the new financial increase was the additional working capital required year with overall sales some 5% ahead.
I believe that to fund the growth in the business over the year.
the considerable investments we have made and Net cash used in investing activities was 50.1m continue to make in the groups businesses together 2007: 54.4m.
The most significant factor within with a focused and determined management team will the current year was the funding of 34m, advanced deliver long term growth.
to our associate company Webb Ivory in support of its purchase of Choices UK and the development of the enlarged group.
Webb management will refinance the new Webb Choices group when the integration of the businesses has been completed.
Burley House Bradford Road Balance Sheet BurleyinWharfedale Keith Chapman West Yorkshire Overall net assets increased by 8.1m, the uplift Chairman LS29 7DZ reflecting the groups statutory profit before taxation less dividends paid in the year.
Benchmark results are stated excluding the results of The principal movements during the year reflect the businesses sold or terminated in the period, amortisation transactions with the Webb Group referred to of acquired intangibles, net restructuring charges, elsewhere in this report, which have resulted in an exceptional items, profits and losses on sale of investments, increase in trade and other receivables offset by profits and losses on sale of businesses, goodwill higher borrowings.
impairment, gain from negative goodwill, share-based payment expenses and net fair value remeasurement, This increase in borrowings resulted in gearing at the adjustments to financial instruments but includes interest year-end of 298% of net assets compared to 259% received from associates.
Interest cover on benchmark operating profit was 3.6x 2007:4.3x, comfortably within our banking covenant.
