Operating and financial review Chairmans statement I am delighted to report another successful year for the Group.
Our strategy is to provide safe, high quality and reliable services and to deliver increased value for shareholders through profitable growth in our core markets.
This has been a very busy and exciting period The achievements of the Group are realised Looking ahead we are well placed to benefit for the Group.
During the year we completed only by the dedication and hard work of our from the many exciting opportunities for the the $3.5bn including transaction costs workforce made up of 137,000 employees.
Our balanced portfolio of businesses acquisition of Laidlaw International, Inc.
This has been a year of considerable change continues to generate strong operating cash In bringing together FirstGroup America for the Group, particularly in North America flows and good opportunities for future and Laidlaw we have created a stronger, as we integrate former Laidlaw businesses growth.
Approximately 50% of Group more robust business operating in a vast, and employees into FirstGroup America revenues are secured under medium-term highly fragmented marketplace with clear operations.
I would like to extend a warm contracts.
The Groups contracts with opportunities for growth.
Our strategy is to welcome to those employees who joined government agencies and other large create value through leveraging scale and to the Company during the year.
On behalf of organisations in the UK and North America increase earnings through improved operating the Board I would like to thank all of our represent a robust annual revenue stream efficiencies and the delivery of substantial staff across the Group for their continued worth 2.8bn.
The Board is confident about synergies.
We have created a strong platform commitment in delivering another successful the prospects for the business and the to significantly improve our offering to new year of trading.
and existing customers through the provision of a high quality operation, a greater range of I am delighted with the progress we have services, operational and cost synergies and made in delivering our clear strategy for scale economies.
profitable growth in our core markets.
We are Martin Gilbert well advanced with integrating the business During the year we joined the FTSE 100 index we acquired in North America.
In the UK we Chairman in the UK.
This significant achievement are focused on delivering a consistently high recognises the considerable strength of the level of service to our customers and continue Group, which has grown to become a market to invest in our employees and services to leader in the UK and North America in less support this aim.
Our strong portfolio of than 20 years.
operations provides us with a unique opportunity to share best practice across the Across our business trading has been strong.
We strive to lead the industry with our Adjusted basic earnings per share increased safety programmes and we continuously seek by 21.4% to 40.9p 2007: 33.7p.
The Board ways in which we can achieve the highest is recommending a final dividend, subject to possible standards.
We are committed to approval by shareholders, of 11.55p making achieving world-class safety and customer a full year payment of 17.05p, an increase of service levels throughout all of our operations.
It will be paid on 22 August 2008 to shareholders on the register on 18 July 2008.
The Boards commitment to increase dividends by at least 10% per annum is underpinned by our confidence of the Groups prospects.
Operating profit referred to throughout this document refers to operating profit before amortisation charges, non-recurring bid costs, other non-recurring items and profit loss on disposal of properties.
FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2008 3
