Dear Shareholders, I am honoured to present the first annual report of Fresnillo plc as a public company.
Our May 2008 debut on the London Stock Exchange marks the beginning of a new chapter in the Groups history.
After decades of profitable growth, this milestone represents an opportunity to share our experiMr Alberto Baillres ence and expertise in value-creation with a new group Chairman of the Board of stakeholders, and to benefit from the enhanced international profile and oversight that such a listing brings.
SURPASSING OUR COMMITMENTS We made a number of commitments at the time of the IPO in regard to 2008 performance, and I am pleased to report that production volumes, expansion of ore resources, progress at development sites and initiatives to control costs were all on target for the year.
Indeed, growth in reserves and resources and attributable silver production reached record levels in 2008.
We also expanded the Groups growth platform and consolidated our mining districts with a joint venture exploration agreement and the acquisition of a further gold project, bolstering our exceptional asset base.
We were successful in meeting these objectives despite the rapidly changing economic environment in the latter half of the year.
At the time of the IPO in May 2008, precious metal prices were still on the rise and few foresaw that the collapse of the U. S. credit market would spread so widely and rapidly, stoking recessionary fears around the world.
Fresnillo plc, like many companies in our industry and the equity markets as a whole, faced declining valuations due to the negative economic outlook and the overwhelming need for investors to raise cash.
LOOKING BEYOND CURRENT MARKET CONDITIONS Market conditions have disappointed since the IPO.
I believe the global economy is ultimately cyclical and should rebound with properly structured government support, an improved regulatory environment, and the return of confidence.
The long-term outlook for our industry remains positive due to the underlying trends that have driven its growth: global industrial development and expanding demand from emerging economies, combined with perennial interest in precious metals as a hedge against macroeconomic instability and currency fluctuation.
2 LETTER FROM THE CHAIRMAN The fundamentals of the Company are strong.
The exceptional as its capital requirements and cashflows, whilst maintaining an quality of our assets, located in an attractive country environappropriate level of dividend cover.
ment: low-cost production capabilities and cash generating capacity: and a highly experienced management team that has been BOARD through numerous economic cycles and understands how to fideAfter the end of the year we were informed that Hctor Rangel, an liver optimal results.
independent non-executive director, had resigned from the Board in order to take up a new appointment as General Director of NaCREATING VALUE cional Financiera and of the Banco Nacional fide Comercio Exterior, The Fresnillo Group seeks to create value across precious metals a state-owned development bank and a national import-export cycles through operational excellence, ore reserve replacement bank, a position that precludes him from holding board positions and exploration, and a strong commitment to disciplined and susin public companies.
I am grateful to Mr Rangel for the valuable tainable growth.
Within that context, our goal is to maintain the support and outstanding contributions he has given to the Board during these early stages of our Companys listing on the London Groups position as the worlds largest primary silver producer, with the aim of approximately doubling gold and silver producStock Exchange.
To do so, we will: I am pleased to announce that the Board has appointed Mr Fero Maximise the potential of our existing operations nando Solana, who has had a distinguished career in government, o Deliver growth through the Saucito and Soledad-Dipolos fidediplomacy and banking, as a new independent non-executive divelopments and further exploration of our prospects.
rector to replace Mr Rangel.
o Seek additional opportunities to expand our resource base principally via ventures controlled by Group companies, OUTLOOK 2009 continued exploration, and selective acquisitions in Mexico Looking ahead at 2009, we recognise that Fresnillo plc will be and potentially elsewhere in Latin America.
impacted by the same factors as the industry as a whole.
In light o Ensure the sustainability of our operations by acting responof economic conditions, our focus will be on critical capex and sibly towards employees, the environment and local comintermediate and advanced exploration projects, ensuring that the Groups shortto medium-term targets are met.
Nonetheless, munities where we operate.
our strong financial position will allow us to pursue acquisition The Board closely monitors the implementation of this strategy opportunities, should they arise, of high quality assets that will to ensure that performance is on track.
The Groups financial recontinue to expand our growth platform.
sults depend on metal prices but we look at other factors to measure the effectiveness of our strategy, such as growth in reserves We are confident that despite the cyclical challenges facing our and resources and efficiency in consumption of key inputs, along industry, the Fresnillo Group can optimise short-term results and with traditional measures of performance.
We also use a number deliver on long-term commitments.
We will continue to benefit of sustainability indicators to monitor and enhance our perforfrom low-cost production, a robust resource base, a strong balmance in that area.
Full details of our Key Performance Indicators ance sheet and a highly experienced management team for whose are set out in the Business Review on pages 10-11. leadership and commitment to excellence we are grateful.
I also want to thank my fellow Board members for the judgement, inDIVIDEND sight and broad perspectives they bring.
Together, we are working to ensure that this new chapter of our Groups history has only Based on the Groups 2008 performance, the Directors have recommended a final dividend of 7.7 US cents per Ordinary Share, just begun.
which will be paid on 29 May 2009 to shareholders on the register on 8 May 2009.
The dividend will be paid in UK pounds sterling unless shareholders elect to be paid in US dollars.
The Companys dividend policy takes into account the profitability of the busiAlberto Baillres ness and underlying growth in earnings of the Company, as well Non-executive Chairman 2008 ANNUAL REPORT 3 FRESNILLO PLC
