Overview Chairmans statement Results They had 49 tenanted and leased pubs mostly I am delighted that we have managed to located in the north east, and have brought extend an unbroken run in earnings growth us much better representation in that part that stretches back over 40 years.
increase in operating profit, up by 8% over 2006 07 to 236.2m, combined with effective Board balance sheet management, has driven our Howard Phillips will be retiring at our AGM profit before tax and exceptional items up in September.
He has served as a non-executive by 2% to 142.0m and our earnings per share director for ten years and I would like to thank up by 14% to 74.0p.
him for the experience and good sense he has brought to the board over that time.
Dividend The results have led the board to recommend People a final dividend payment of 18.7p which will These results are particularly encouraging in produce a total dividend of 26.0p for the year, view of the tough trading environment in which an increase of 14% on last year.
If approved, we nd ourselves.
They have been achieved the final dividend will be paid on 8 September through the dedication, passion and enthusiasm to those shareholders on the register at the of our employees and our partners in the close of business on 8 August.
I would like to express my thanks to all of you for the part you have Acquisitions and disposals played in producing such a strong set of gures.
The company has been transformed in the last two decades into a significant national player I also welcome those who have joined us in the British eating and drinking out market.
through our acquisitions, bringing fresh ideas We have added acquisitions to organic and valuable experience to our business.
growth to extend our product offer and our For all of us, the crucial attributes of hard work geographical spread, and have made asset and skill will be all the more important in the disposals to improve the average quality difficult times ahead and I am confident that of our estate.
we have a great team to handle that challenge.
This year we acquired Loch Fyne Restaurants in August 2007 for 64.2m.
They had 36 outlets at the time, and now have 41, and the acquisition marks an important further step forward in the development of our Tim Bridge food retailing.
We also acquired New Chairman Century Inns for 32.8m in November 2007.
2 July 2008 GREENE KING PLC 4 ANNUAL REPORT 2007 08
