DIRECTORS REPORT Chairmans statement We enter the new year in good shape, continuing to see organic and acquisitive growth opportunities Halma: what we do and our strategy Our business is to produce products which protect lives and improve the quality of life for people worldwide.
We do this through continuous innovation in market-leading products, which meet the increasing demands for improvements to health, safety and the environment.
We build strong positions in markets where the demand is global.
Our businesses are autonomous and highly entrepreneurial.
Strategically we aim to grow profit and revenue in excess of 5% p. a. organically, to have Return on sales in the region of 18% or above and generate post-tax Return on total invested capital of more than 12%.
As a result we are highly cash generative and re-invest back into our businesses through people, product and market development, continue to acquire more companies with like characteristics, and strive to give annual dividend growth of 5% or more to our shareholders.
The latter we have achieved for 29 consecutive years.
Results Once again, we have seen good progress over the last financial year.
Revenue from continuing operations increased 13% to 395.1m 2007: 351.1m with underlying organic growth of 8.0% despite adverse currency effects of 1.4%, i. e. 9.4% at constant currency.
profit before tax and Geoff Unwin amortisation of acquired intangibles on continuing operations was 72.8m 2007: 65.6m an Chairman increase of 11%, organic growth was 6.7%: 7.6% at constant currency.
Statutory profit before tax increased 9% to 68.0m.
The Board is recommending a final dividend of 4.55p per share, an increase of 5.1%.
Our dividend cover has increased to 1.83 times 2007: 1.74 times.
Return on total invested capital was 14.1% 2007: 14.0%.
Acquisitions and disposals During the year we acquired Sonar Research & Development SRD for 2.6m which now operates as part of Tritech in the Industrial Safety sector and Riester manufacturer of small medical and ophthalmic diagnostic devices for 55m 40m in our Health and Analysis sector.
In Infrastructure Sensors we concluded a joint venture agreement with a leading Chinese re detector supplier which will result in an investment of approximately 2.5m in 2008 09.
We disposed of Post Glover Lifelink for US$6m 3m.
Market development We expanded our banking facilities in February 2008 with a new five-year 165m syndicated revolving credit facility, replacing our existing 60m facility on similar attractive terms.
This increases our repower to acquire more first-class companies that t our strategic direction.
We have allocated increased management resource to seek out and evaluate potential opportunities and the pipeline is improving.
Progress in China has been solid thanks to the investment we have made in our China hubs which are there to help our subsidiaries set up direct operations.
Sales increased by 19% to 9m and the number of Group companies with in-country operations since we established the hubs has increased from 3 to 16.
We are now setting up a similar hub in India, which will assist Group companies in developing operations there.
These investments are in line with our strategy of devoting more resources to the faster growing economies.
Governance At the beginning of the year we announced the appointment of Jane Aikman to the Board.
Jane is the Financial Director of Innis Limited the UKs largest purely renewable energy generator and she brings extensive financial and East Asia experience to the Board.
com BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS At the end of the year we announced that Keith Roy had given notice that he would retire and RETURN ON TOTAL INVESTED CAPITAL resign as a Director with effect from 31 July 2008.
Keiths contribution as an executive Director has been immense.
Among the many qualities that Keith demonstrates, his mentoring and people development skills are outstanding.
Many managers and directors within the Group owe their strong development to encouragement and advice from Keith.
On behalf of the Board I would like to thank him and wish him well in the next stage of his life.
% In April we appointed Adam Meyers as an executive Director to the Board.
He is responsible 14.1 for the Health Optics and Photonics division within Halmas Health and Analysis sector.
His knowledge of many of our Health and Analysis markets, particularly in the USA, brings an added dimension to the Board.
DIVIDEND INCREASE People We owe these results to the quality of people within Halma, to their continued innovation and their dedication to our customers.
A sincere thank you to them all.
We continue to invest in the development of our people, in particular through our management % training programmes.
It is encouraging to see an increasing number of internal promotions within the Group, particularly cross-company promotions.
5 Summary Another year of strong progress.
We enter the new year in good shape, continuing to see organic and acquisitive growth opportunities and this gives us confidence for the future.
Geoff Unwin Chairman See Financial highlights 2008 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY ACHIEVEMENTS What we said What weve achieved 1.
Measurement and reporting of our carbon footprint Halmas carbon policy was approved by the Board at the beginning of the year and calls for a 10% reduction in the carbon footprint by 2010.
Halma conducts an annual survey of its employees to assess how 2.
Establishment of non-financial KPI in respect of the workplace well the Groups values are aligned with its employees and how well the Group communicates its values to employees.
The Halma Executive Development Programme has been 3.
Continuing development of our people supplemented with a Management Development Programme aimed at middle-managers and the necessary skills they need in their current and future roles.
At the beginning of the year, the Group formally adopted Group-wide 4.
Emphasis on business ethics policies on human rights and business practices to reinforce the strong ethical culture already prevalent throughout the Group.
The Board lled the non-executive Director vacancy during the year 5.
Maintenance of the composition and balance of the Board thereby restoring its optimum composition.
The Board also identied an internal successor for a retiring executive Director.
Halma p. l. c. Annual report and accounts 2008 7
