Chairmans Statement Potential for Growth I am pleased to report that 2008 was another year of very strong progress for Heritage both operationally and in terms of positioning the Company for steady nearand long-term growth in shareholder value.
Our strategy of seeking out and investing reported that the exploration success rate in in exploration and early development Iraq has historically averaged over 80%.
opportunities with high-impact potential, while Heritage has been active in Kurdistan since also expanding our exposure to European 2004 and we are strongly committed to the capital markets and the international oil and region.
We were the second of 21 companies gas sector, is proving to be effective.
that have been awarded Production Sharing Contracts PSCs by the Kurdistan Regional Operations Government KRG since their petroleum law was passed in August 2007.
Operating highlights include world-class discoveries in the Albert Basin, Uganda, and On 25 March 2009 we announced drilling commencement of drilling of the Miran West-1 well in the Kurdistan Region of Iraq, which is now of the Miran West-1 well had completed and had reached a total depth of 2,935 metres.
in the process of being tested.
The well encountered oil shows over an interval of 1,100 metres with excellent oil shows in Our considerable achievements in Uganda include continued drilling success in Block 3A, the three principal known productive reservoir formations in the region.
We are in the process highlighted by Kingfisher-2 testing at a combined rate of 14,364 bopd, and successful of undertaking a series of drill stem tests over a gross interval of approximately 500 metres.
Our discovery of the Michael J. Hibberd Buffalo-Giraffe field in Block 1, Uganda, is We believe our operations in this region also Chairman have the potential to transform the Company.
believed, by management, to be the largest onshore oil field discovered in Sub-Saharan Our commitment and enthusiasm for the Kurdistan Region of Iraq is reflected in the Africa in the last 20 years.
Exceptional results from Uganda drilling have established a gross acceleration of our programmes.
resource of approximately 600 million barrels.
This is above the volume considered necessary London Listing for major infrastructure development for the Our most significant corporate achievement Albert Basin.
Our Albert Basin results indicate of 2008 was the primary listing of our shares the outstanding potential of this region.
This on the Main Market of the London Stock could transform the Company, especially as Exchange, which was completed at the end we continue with further exploration and of March, a move that was overwhelmingly development.
Having operated in Uganda since supported by our shareholders.
This 1997, Heritage, as operator with a 50% equity listing initiative was undertaken to increase interest in Blocks 1 and 3A, is strongly liquidity, unlock additional value creation positioned to be a major participant in the for shareholders and also to enhance the future development of this world-class resource.
Companys status and profile among European investors and within the international oil and Another notable highlight of 2008 was the gas sector as a whole.
excellent progress made in the Kurdistan Region of Iraq, a highly prospective, and as The London listing, which was followed by yet under-developed, oil-prone region.
The the Companys inclusion as a member of the undiscovered potential of the region has been prestigious FTSE 250 Index, was accompanied estimated at 40 billion barrels of oil and 60 by a reorganisation that saw the establishment trillion cubic feet of natural gas, ranking it as of a new parent company, Heritage Oil Limited, one of the most highly prospective untapped in Jersey.
Given the geographic spread of energy resource regions in the world.
It is Heritages operational activities and licences, 02 Heritage Oil Limited Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Workers at the Miran West-1 well, in the Kurdistan Region of Iraq 2008 was a year of exceptional progress for Heritage, and the outlook for 2009 and beyond is very encouraging.
we believed that it was appropriate for the to undertake similar projects in our other Milestones Company to be domiciled in the British Isles, core interest areas as our operational April 2009 Sale of Oman holdings where a substantial number of investors activities expand.
and the Companys management reside.
April 2009 Commenced testing the Miran West-1 well in the Kurdistan Region Board of Directors Also, as part of the corporate reorganisation, During 2008 we were delighted to welcome of Iraq the Companys shares were effectively split Salim Hassan Macki and General Sir Michael April 2009 Termination of a refinery on a ten-for-one basis.
This was designed to Wilkes KCB, CBE to the Group as Noncommitment in the Kurdistan Region further enhance trading volumes and liquidity Executive Directors.
Both appointments are of Iraq of our shares for the benefit of all shareholders.
outstanding additions to the Board and both January 2009 Successful completion are already making valuable contributions to of the Kingfisher-3A well, Uganda Financial the Company.
January 2009 Successful Giraffe-1 After the Companys success in raising exploration well in Block 1, Uganda significant amounts of capital in 2007, no Outlook a world class discovery additional financing was required in 2008.
As always, I am very grateful to our talented December 2008 Commenced drilling Heritage finished the year with a strong balance management team and employees for their the Miran West-1 well in the Kurdistan sheet and cash to finance planned operations dedication and contribution to the remarkable Region of Iraq in 2009.
Nevertheless, our recent exceptional growth Heritage has enjoyed this past year.
December 2008 Successful success means that we now intend to 2008 was a year of exceptional progress completion of the Kingfisher-3 well accelerate work programmes in Uganda and for Heritage and the outlook for 2009 and Kurdistan.
With this in mind, we made a beyond is highly encouraging.
Operations in December 2008 Successful Buffalo-1 decision to dispose of our non-core interests in Uganda and the Kurdistan Region of Iraq are well in Block 1, Uganda Oman.
Oman disposal proceeds of $28 million, particularly promising and we continue to look October 2008 Successful Warthog-1 plus $400,000 in working capital adjustments, for further strong results from investments and exploration well in Block 1, Uganda are to be used to fund accelerated programmes activities in other operating areas.
I would add September 2008 Commenced three in our core areas.
In regard to financing that in the future, as in the past, our overriding well exploration programme in Block 1, large-scale infrastructure programmes in objective is to create real and lasting value for Uganda Uganda, I am pleased to report that we have our shareholders.
September 2008 Commenced drilling been approached by a number of parties.
Initial Kingfisher-3 and -3A wells in Block 3A, proposals involve terms that would significantly Uganda reduce our financing requirements.
September 2008 Obtained Social Responsibility government approval and completed farm-in documentation in Tanzania As a company that operates in remote and comparatively undeveloped regions of the Michael J. Hibberd August 2008 Reported record test world, we recognise that our responsibilities to Chairman results in Uganda with the Kingfisher-2 well local communities go beyond simply providing June 2008 FTSE 250 Index Inclusion funds and local employment.
We are committed April 2008 Commenced drilling the to implementing community programmes Kingfisher-2 well in Uganda in health, education, public facility and March 2008 Dealings commenced environmental awareness, and we work actively on the London Stock Exchange with local communities to secure trust and February 2008 Completion of the Mali mutual co-operation.
Over the course of the last farm-in documentation for two licences 18 months we have undertaken a significant investment in the Carl Nefdt Memorial Primary February 2008 Announced corporate School, in Block 3A, Uganda.
We intend reorganisation Heritage Oil Limited Annual Report & Accounts 2008 03
