Chairmans statement Recognising the structural changes taking place in our markets, we now have a clear vision of how to grow in new channels and exploit alternative formats to re-balance our business.
2 HMV Group plc Annual report and accounts 2008 In March 2007, we began the journey to transform When I became Chairman at the start of 2006, the performance of the Group, and outlined a there were three formidable challenges facing three-year plan to accomplish this.
I am pleased to the Group: nding and installing new executive report that, at the end of the year, very good progress leadership, improving the effectiveness of the has been made in our efforts to protect and grow Board, and reversing the decline in our businesses.
the businesses, while saving significant costs.
Almost three years on, I am very pleased with our Our main focus in 2007 08 has been the revitalisation achievements.
We have an executive leadership of our stores business.
A year ago I stated that our team which is not only capable of developing brands would strengthen their market positions, creative ways to meet the needs of our markets, and this is being achieved emphatically as trading but is relentless in executing those plans: has materially improved.
We have also made good the Group Board is more effective in its role of progress with our online initiatives.
Recognising overseeing the implementation of strategic initiatives the structural changes taking place in our markets, and monitoring the performance of our businesses: we now have a clear vision of how to grow in and the numbers tell the story of the substantial new channels and exploit alternative formats turnaround underway in the performance of both to re-balance our business.
In addition, we have businesses, in absolute as well as relative terms.
exploited Group synergies and begun to deliver As the foundations are rmly in place, it is an ideal the cost savings that underpin our medium-term time for me to pursue new interests.
So, I will be financial aspirations.
stepping down as Chairman of the Group at the Our strong cash generation during the year, AGM on 5 September 2008.
The Board is in combined with the disposal of HMV Japan the process of searching for my successor and for 70.6m, equivalent to 9.0x 2007 EBITDA, an announcement will be made in due course.
The sale of HMV The Group and its businesses are in capable Japan has simplied the Group, enabling us to hands, and I have confidence that they will continue focus our efforts on those markets where we to deliver on their plans.
Carl Symon Chairman Results for the Group for the year ended 26 April 30 June 2008 2008 saw an increase in profit before tax from continuing operations of 11.4m to 56.6m, on revenue which grew by 11.3% to 1,874.9m.
As a result of strong cash generation, we virtually eliminated our year end net debt by 130.4m to 0.2m.
Our earnings per share rose by 22.8% to 10.1p and the Board has recommended a final dividend of 5.6p per Ordinary Share.
Together with the interim dividend of 1.8p per share, the total dividend for the year is 7.4p, the same as last year.
We have added to the capability of the Group Board by introducing new talent.
This year we appointed Gerry Johnson, Managing Director of Waterstones, who brings his retailing experience, as an Executive Director.
Philip Rowley, a former Chairman and CEO of AOL Europe, was appointed as a Non-Executive Director in September 2007, and has a combination of skills and experiences which are aligned with our technology initiatives.
3 HMV Group plc Annual report and accounts 2008
