Overview Business review Chairmans Governance Financial statements statement Further information The measures we swiftly implemented at the end of last year ensure that we are in a sound financial position and well placed to deliver our long-term growth strategy.
The global impairment of $34.7 million relating economy was heavily impacted by the to fixed assets Selene, Moris and financial crisis in 2008 and many San Felipe.
Whilst Attributable silver equivalent the economic turmoil was certainly We continue to enjoy a healthy balance ounces produced in 2008. negative for Hochschild in the short-term, sheet with a year end cash balance of it also gave us the opportunity to focus $116.1 million.
This, in conjunction with on what has always been our priority - to cash generated from our operations and produce profitable ounces.
more stable inflows guaranteed by our short-term forward sales, will allow us to Precious metals prices, particularly silver, pursue our growth strategy: maximising fell sharply during the second half of the profit through organic growth, exploration year.
While other mining companies were and carefully selected acquisitions.
waiting for prices to adjust, we were aggressively making plans to prepare the Organic growth business for future challenges.
In I am very proud to say that we have November, we announced a number of delivered on all our production targets measures to ensure that we continued to since our IPO in 2006.
We produced 26.1 mine profitable ounces, including: 150 million silver equivalent ounces in 2008 redundancies, a freeze on non-essential and we are now the worlds third largest capex, cuts in our exploration budget primary silver producer.
and the delay of San Felipe, our zinc project in northern Mexico.
At the end of Our 2008 production target was set at a 2008 and in the first three months of challenging level and meeting it has not 2009, we sold forward 10.7 million ounces been an easy feat in a year when we of our 2009 silver equivalent production were also expanding three of our six comprised of 8.9 million ounces of silver operations Arcata 46%, Selene and 30 thousand ounces of gold to 50% and San Jos 100%.
All our ensure a more stable cash flow which plant expansions were successfully will fund operating capex and future completed on time and since the IPO, M&A initiatives.
overall production capacity has more than doubled.
Including Moris, our only In our forty years as underground miners, open pit mine, production capacity has this is not the first time that we have increased by 264%.
needed to react to volatile precious metals prices.
The speed at which we As industry costs increased, we had to be implemented these changes shows particularly vigilant with regard to unit that we are well prepared to address cost per tonne inflation, which was price volatility.
In 2009, prices have contained at an increase of 14.3%.
readjusted and we are now a leaner, Including Moris, unit cost per tonne was fitter company, benefiting from an flat year-on-year.
This has been achieved improving price environment.
through a mix of strong operational management, sound planning and Revenue for the year increased by 42% to efficient procurement.
$433.8 million whilst operating profit decreased by 17% to $86.3 million, mostly Exploration growth due to lower realisable silver prices, the In addition to the exploration success anticipated decline in average grades at achieved at our existing operations, we Ares and Selene, cost inflation and are also confident about a number of higher treatment charges.
As a projects in our pipeline which are consequence, pre-exceptional EPS has delivering positive results.
Since January decreased from $0.27 to $0.08.
Our results 2008, our exploration efforts have been were also significantly impacted by $45 led by Raymond Jannas, the new Vice million of exceptional items, including an President of Exploration & Geology who 04 Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 has over 30 years experience in this field In June 2008, the Group acquired 100% mainly working in the Americas.
of the San Felipe project, our advanced Raymond is responsible for driving development project in northern Mexico, forward the exploration effort for the for $51.5 million.
As a result of declining Group and developing our pipeline for zinc prices in the second half of the year future growth.
and our commitment to reduce capex, in November we decided to delay the Azuca development of this project.
However, we remain confident about the long-term Azuca is a 100% owned project located in southern Peru, in close proximity to our potential of San Felipe and will continue to review the timing of the project.
In 2008 we identified two laterally extensive mineralised vein In Peru, we purchased 50% of Liam, a systems which have resulted in the development of a significant inferred joint venture JV with Southwestern Resources Corporation Southwestern.
resource totalling 1.8 million metric tonnes at 327 g t Ag and 1.34 g t Au, containing Southwestern is a Canadian listed mineral exploration company with a 23.3 million silver equivalent ounces.
Drilling extensions at the Azuca and number of gold, silver and base metals projects in southern Peru.
The Liam JV Canela veins look very promising and we believe that there is a high probability comprises a 282,000 hectare land package in very close proximity to our that an additional resource will be defined in 2009. four existing operations.
In 2009, we entered into a binding agreement to Encrucijada acquire the remaining 50% of the Liam JV through the purchase of 100% of Encrucijada, which is located in Chile, is a joint venture project with Andina Southwestern, for a total cash consideration of $17.5 million.
The Minerals Inc, in which we can earn a 60% 2008 interest.
In 2008 we achieved some acquisition, which is subject to the Commitments Progress approval of Southwesterns shareholders, particularly encouraging results as a result of a first-pass core drilling consolidates our position in one of our key operational clusters and enables us programme.
The most promising vein Production target intercepts include: 1.4mt at 3.87 g t Au, to leverage our existing infrastructure and knowledge of the regional geology.
344 g t Ag 538 g t Ag equivalent : 1.6mt Expansions at 2.47 g t Au, 85 g t Ag 209 g t Ag Arcata 46% equivalent, 0.2mt at 0.9 g t gold and 2,378 g t silver 2,422 g t silver-equivalent San Jos 100% in separate drill holes.
In 2009, we plan to Selene 50% expand our drilling programme to evaluate two new targets.
M&A growth In 2008, we continued to execute our cluster consolidation strategy by securing bolt-on acquisitions, joint ventures and strategic investments in a number of key mining districts, investing a total of $254 million during the year.
Our 40% investment in Lake Shore Gold is an example of this strategy, providing us with a phased, low-risk exposure to highgrade gold deposits in a mineral rich region of Canada and adding a new cluster to our portfolio.
05 Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Overview Business review Chairmans Governance Financial statements statement continued Further information In Mexico, we entered into a strategic The impact of market conditions on our M&A highlights: alliance with Gold Resource Corporation full year results means that the 8% profit Remaining 30% of San Felipe GRC and after the year end, we sharing that our Peruvian employees are 40% of Lake Shore Gold increased our ownership interest in GRC entitled to under Peruvian law will be 50% of Liam JV from 5% to 15%.
GRC is a precious metals lower and this is creating a challenge for 15% of GRC mining company with a number of high us.
As announced on 23 March 2009, 100% of Southwestern grade development and exploration mining industry workers in Peru in general Resources projects in southern Mexico, including El are expecting profit sharing to remain at Aguila which is scheduled to begin similar levels to previous years and, as a production in 2009. result, there has been industrial action at our four Peruvian operations.
The 10% of GRC was acquired on 26 February We also made an offer to acquire Minera stoppage is not currently impacting our 2009.
Andes or its stake in the San Jos project, full year production target and we Agreement signed on 23 March 2009 and is in order to ensure that the project would remain confident that a negotiated subject to the approval of Southwesterns be fully financed.
Although our offer was solution can be reached.
not accepted, Minera Andes was able to meet its obligations at San Jos by other Update: means.
We look forward to working with I am pleased to say that the Minera Andes to continue to develop the industrial action in Peru was swiftly operation and realise its full potential.
resolved after four days of negotiations and did not impact our full year With a solid balance sheet, we are well production target.
The end of the positioned to benefit from current market industrial action was announced opportunities and looking forward, we to the market on 27 March 2009. expect to continue growing through carefully selected M&A.
Board changes Responsible mining During the year, we announced the Efficient operations can only be achieved appointments of Miguel Arambur, CEO through good community support and and Ignacio Rosado, CFO to the Board of we are dedicated to maintaining the Directors.
I would like to thank them and highest standards of corporate and all our employees for the hard work that social responsibility.
We are committed to has enabled Hochschild Mining to the safety of all our employees and have progress on its strategic goals.
made significant progress over the past year.
In 2008, we reduced our accident I would also like to take this opportunity to frequency rate by 24% compared to 2007. thank Alberto Beeck, who stepped down Nonetheless, it is with deep regret that I from the Board of Directors in September report one mine fatality in 2008.
We are 2008, for his significant contribution to addressing the underlying safety the Group.
deficiencies that led to the occurrence of this tragic event.
06 Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Dividend care and maintenance mines that are Despite the cashflow generated by the considered uneconomic.
Company, the board has agreed that $0.04 in the current climate, it is sensible to The financial crisis continues to have an Proposed total dividend conserve cash and ensure that the impact on the sector and we believe that business is well funded to further its this creates interesting opportunities for a growth strategy.
It has therefore company with Hochschilds financial concluded that a reduced dividend of strength and established record as a $0.02 per Ordinary Share is proposed for partner of choice in the Americas.
We will the six months to 31 December 2008, continue to take a disciplined approach resulting in a total dividend for the year to M&A, focusing on mid-sized, of $0.04 per Ordinary Share.
We will underground precious metals projects in keep dividend policy under review to the Americas, preferably located around ensure that we manage the business existing clusters.
in a way that maximises long-term shareholder return.
In order to ensure more stable cashflow to fund operating capex and future Outlook M&A, we sold forward 10.7 million ounces Going into 2009, Hochschild is a leaner, of our 2009 silver equivalent production fitter company that is well positioned to during late 2008 and early 2009.
The face the challenges ahead, with a firm fundamentals for silver and gold are focus on producing profitable ounces.
strong and we therefore remain extremely positive about the long-term prospects Our attributable production target for for precious metals and have not sold 2009 is 28 million silver equivalent ounces forward any of our 2010 production.
At at the Companys current conversion this time we do not plan to undertake ratio of 60:1, comprising approximately any further forward sales contracts for 19.1 million ounces of silver and 148.2 2009 production.
thousand ounces of gold, representing a year-on-year increase of 7%.
In addition, The measures we swiftly implemented at Lake Shore Gold is targeting 30,000 the end of last year ensure that we are in ounces of gold in 2009 which would a sound financial position and well equate to 0.72 million attributable silver placed to deliver our long-term growth equivalent ounces.
Our focus will continue to be on optimistic about Lake Shore Golds producing profitable ounces and growth profile.
expanding the business through appropriate investment and acquisition.
We expect unit cost per tonne to With our solid assets, excellent project decrease due to expansions and lower pipeline and professional and dedicated projected input prices.
We will continue management team, we are well to responsibly manage our operations positioned for the coming year.
and will not hesitate to close or put into Eduardo Hochschild Executive Chairman 24 March 2009 07 Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008
