THE GROUP REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS MORE INFORMATION REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS GROUP Growth through extending and exploiting multiGrowth through expanding the store networks Factors affecting performance channel leadership Opening approximately 30 Argos stores Driving incremental sales growth over per year and above that achieved through new Opening approximately 10 Homebase stores store openings per year.
Applying a customer-focused, fully-integrated approach to ensure that whether customers Both Argos and Homebase regularly review their shop with Argos in-store, online or over the extent of chain across the UK and Irish markets and Consumer spending Home Retail Groups position phone, they are able to nd, order and receive will continue their new store opening programmes The biggest factor affecting the Groups short-term The Groups key strengths mean we are well equipped goods seamlessly across the different channels of around 30 Argos stores and 10 Homebase stores performance is likely to be UK consumer spending.
Con dence in the Argos opening programme Leveraging Group skills, scale and infrastructure Retail market conditions are likely to be challengOur strong retail brands, multi-channel and comes, in particular, because of its increased product to support the Homebase proposition.
The rising costs of essential multi-format offering, extensive product choice and choice that captures a wider share of customer household bills, driven by inflationary pressures, competitive pricing, mean we are well positioned spend in a catchment and its success in both high The leadership of Argos in fully integrated multimean that discretionary spending will be squeezed.
to trade through any downturn and bene t from street and out-of-town locations.
Con dence in channel convenience continues to build, demonThe current instability in the credit markets is also renewed consumer con dence through the cycle.
the Homebase opening programme comes from strated by 37% of its sales now being transacted likely to constrain consumer spending and confiWe have leading positions in multiple product its now broader home enhancement offer and its across more than one channel.
In particular, Argos dence, which may affect bigger ticket, home-related markets yet with substantial headroom for growth successful smaller store format which allows it to Check & Reserve is unique in its functionality, scale purchases in particular.
Fragmented markets provide enter smaller catchments and frequently be the and ef ciency.
With its online presence being well However, while volume and value growth rates growth opportunities and we expect to take market leading customer offer in categories including core established, well invested and generating 900m of are likely to be impacted in most product markets, share from weaker competitors and to bene t from DIY, garden and showroom.
Growth is also expected sales in the last year, Argos sees the internet as a further consumers will still want new products as tastes any market consolidation that ensues.
to be achieved from continuing to develop formats key growth opportunity and one that is signi cantly and technology change, or they need to replace Our retail brands are well established but continue and store presentations to meet the changing enhanced by its physical store presence for additional many existing household items.
to evolve to meet changing customer preferences.
Our product range is constantly expanding.
Our supply Homebase has embarked on further multiMarket growth chain is highly ef cient and cost effective.
channel opportunities and continues to bene t Although retail conditions are likely to be challenging With all the key determinants for success in place, from the scale and expertise of Argos.
Homebase in the short term, the longer-term outlook for market we expect to emerge in the long run as a stronger utilises the in-house cost advantage of Argos Direct, growth is positive.
We expect continued growth in competitor in a more consolidated market.
the UKs largest home deliverer of bulky products.
Its the general merchandise and home enhancement recently relaunched website will also provide custommarket due to the following factors: ers with expanded choice and improved information Population growth and an increasing number and functionality, while the Furniture and Home of households catalogue, which brings together many of the key elements of the Homebase customer proposition, Rising overall household disposable income was rolled out to all stores in January 2008.
Technology change and new product development.
Market consolidation Groups key strengths: The UK retail market is undergoing significant change.
This is in part driven by the slowdown in 1.
The market leader Both Argos and Homebase will consumer spending but is underpinned by an overall structural shift in favour of more general and large 2.
Two strong retail brands scale retailers like Home Retail Group.
continue to extend their multi-channel 3.
Great choice and value The market remains competitive.
In the current trading conditions, factors such as scale, value and 4.
Integrated multi-channel capability routes to market by increasing sales cost management are likely to be some of the key determinants of long-term success.
Purchasing, sourcing and supply chain strength Where product markets are fragmented, an via the internet and catalogues.
Shared infrastructure and logistics expertise element of consolidation is inevitable.
The most successful retailers will be those who can offer 7.
A winning team the consumer a differentiated service or shopping experience at a competitive price.
20 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2008 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2008 21
