a n n u a l r e p o r t & a c c o u n t s 2 0 0 8 Chairmans Statement I am pleased to report another year of successful results for the Company.
Profit before tax from continuing operations and before exceptional items in 2008 was 58.9m 2007 47.3m, a 25% increase.
Profit before tax from continuing operations was 8.0m 2007 45.0m.
During the year we focused the Company more directly on the upstream energy services market by disposing of our large Canadian midstream business, Gibson Energy.
Profit for the year, disclosed as discontinued operations, from Gibsons operations was 38.2m 2007 35.4m.
Proceeds of some 517.1m from that sale, including the warrant, completed in December 2008, have eliminated the Companys net borrowings and are expected to be used to make earnings enhancing acquisitions in the upstream arena.
Our markets have seen extraordinary turmoil during the past few months, with a ramp up in oil prices to unprecedented heights in mid 2008, followed by an even more precipitate fall.
The underlying causes are well understood, with the credit crunch leading to strong recessionary falls in demand for energy as well as for other commodities.
In the short term, most of the Companys continuing operations order books remain strong but we will be affected by the reduction in capital expenditure budgets announced by several major industry customers.
We occupy an important niche in the energy production equation, and the current oversupply of crude oil is likely to be a brief phenomenon which will inevitably be replaced by future shortages and higher prices.
The Company is in a strong position to take advantage of this environment, with our significant cash reserves and extensive range of products and services.
Overall, Hunting Energy Services exceeded its 2007 performance.
Well Construction profits increased by 63% due mainly to continued drilling by our customers for oil and gas in shale deposits in the United States and as a result of additional capital expenditure within the division.
Well Completion reports a modest reduction over the previous year with contract timing issues in Aberdeen in the early months but a fine run at the end.
Our Exploration and Production activities in the southern United States did well thanks to high commodity prices for most of the year.
London-based Gibson Shipbrokers performed well, more than doubling its result over last year with high market rates in summer and autumn producing excellent income.
Earnings per share for continuing operations before exceptional items were 27.5p, an increase of 49% on the previous year.
We are recommending a final dividend of 7p per share, giving a total of 9.9p for the year, a 20% increase.
Peter Rose became Finance Director at the AGM in April 2008, succeeding Dennis Clark in that position.
Peter joined the Company in July 1997, initially as Group Financial Controller, and has also been Company Secretary since August 2004.
Dennis Clark retired from the Board and from Hunting PLC at the 2008 AGM.
He joined the Group in 1972 and had been Finance Director of the Company since 1989.
My colleagues and I are grateful for all that he did and wish him a long and happy retirement.
I would like to thank all the directors and staff of Gibson Energy for their dedication, enterprise and fine work ever since that companys formation, by Hunting, in 1953, and wish them well under their new ownership.
With the sale, Terry Gomke left Hunting PLC and we thank him for his service on the Board.
Your Company has once again had an excellent year.
The world economic storm surrounds us and makes a forward view in the short term particularly difficult.
Nevertheless, we are well placed to survive the buffeting.
Strategic focus on proprietary technology, market share leadership, global footprint and concentration on the vertical pipeline will ensure our position in a recovering market.
I thank all our staff for enabling the Company to produce another Richard Hunting, Chairman fine performance in challenging times.
