OVERVIEW Chairmans Statement The past year has again demonstrated the success of our strategy with positive progress across the enlarged Group.
Iain Napier, Chairman Delivering value across the Group In what was a year of significant The enlarged Group has around 40,000 With our achievement for Imperial Tobacco employees, 58 manufacturing sites, an enhanced we delivered another good operational extended geographic reach and a more and financial performance.
geographic versatile brand and product portfolio, including international strength in cigarette and brand Earnings and Dividends and world leadership in ne cut tobacco, Our adjusted earnings per share have prole we cigars and rolling papers.
We now also risen by 15 per cent to 136.9 pence.
look to the have a leading logistics platform in Europe.
Basic earnings per share were 50.6 pence 2007: 116.7 pence, adjusted future with As part of the integration process we for the bonus element of the rights issue announced a number of European confidence.
in June 2008, primarily impacted by restructuring projects in June which will restructuring costs, fair value movements enable us to strengthen our competitive on derivatives, amortisation of acquired position and deliver the previously intangibles and one-off acquisition announced annual operating efficiencies accounting adjustments, partially offset of approximately 300 million by the end by brand divestment gains.
of the financial year ending 30 September Adjusted attributable earnings grew 2010, rising to approximately 400 million by 26 per cent to a little under by the end of the financial year ending 1.2 billion.
In line with our policy, the 30 September 2012.
The estimated Board is proposing to pay out half of one-off cash cost of achieving these this as ordinary dividends.
The Board efficiencies is approximately 600 million.
recommends a final dividend of Regrettably, these projects are impacting 42.2 pence per share, bringing the our workforce and we are committed total for the year to 63.1 pence to providing a comprehensive range 2007: 60.4 pence, adjusted for the of support measures to assist bonus element of the rights issue in 1 affected employees.
Driving Operational Performance Altadis Altadis and integration have been On 25 January 2008 we completed the acquisition of Altadis, significantly key priorities during the year but enhancing our business prole.
We we have also remained focused on have a strong track record in acquisitions driving the operational performance and a reputation for integrating new of the enlarged business, which included businesses efficiently.
an eight month contribution from 1 If approved by shareholders the dividend will be paid on 20 February 2009 to those shareholders on the register at the close of business on 23 January 2009. www.
com 3 OVERVIEW Chairmans Statement continued Altadis and the first full year contribution Corporate Governance and their knowledge of the tobacco from Commonwealth Brands.
As a major international company we industry will be invaluable in ensuring that seek to act in a fair and responsible we maximise the significant opportunities Whilst building on our strong profit base manner towards all stakeholders.
in mature markets we pursue growth in emerging markets and this year we made It is the Boards duty to review and In conclusion, I would like to thank our excellent progress in Eastern Europe, approve our Companys policies in this employees for their contribution to another Africa and the Middle East.
We have in place processes which successful year.
Imperial Tobacco and enable us to meet the high standards Altadis employees have developed strong The USA is another important growth of conduct expected of our Company.
working relationships and their combined market and one where our cigarette skills and expertise will enable us to create and ne cut tobacco shares further In September, we delisted from the further sustainable value for our increased in the year.
New York Stock Exchange as part shareholders.
of our ongoing programme of business These positive operational developments simplication.
This will not compromise The turbulent economic conditions are are underpinned by our ongoing focus the integrity of our Corporate Governance unlikely to change in the short term but on reducing costs and effectively and internal control procedures and we we are resilient and highly cash generative.
will continue to communicate regularly With our enhanced geographic and brand The Rights Issue with our investors based in the USA.
prole, and strong business fundamentals, From the outset, we said that the we can look to the future with confidence.
Board Changes acquisition of Altadis would be David Cresswell, Manufacturing Director part funded by a rights issue.
and Anthony Alexander, Vice Chairman, At our half-yearly results in May we retired during the year and I would like announced a 1 for 2 rights issue at a to express my sincere thanks to them share price of 1475 pence per share to for their contribution to the Company.
The rights issue was Iain Napier There have been several new additions sized at the minimum level required to Chairman to the Imperial Tobacco Board during maintain our investment grade credit the year.
rating, to which we remain committed.
We were delighted to welcome JeanGiven the uncertainties affecting the capital Dominique Comolli, former Chairman markets this year, it was gratifying to see that the take-up rate was 97.2 per cent of Altadis, to the role of Non-Executive Deputy Chairman.
We also welcomed and the remainder of the shares were successfully sold in the market.
Bruno Bich and Berge Setrakian, both former board members of Altadis, to Following the success of the rights our Board as Non-Executive Directors.
issue and two bond issues in September, we are comfortable with our current All have a tremendous wealth of nancing position.
international business experience Total Shareholder Return Over the past five years our total shareholder return was 151 per cent and we have outperformed the FTSE All-Share Index by 106 per cent.
350 300 250 200 150 100 Sep 03 Sep 04 Sep 05 Sep 06 Sep 07 Sep 08 Imperial Tobacco FTSE All-Share Index 4 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2008 In this section: Chief Executives Review 6 Financial Review 8 Where We Operate 12 Focus on the Future 14 World Tobacco Market 15 Our Strategy 16 Key Performance Indicators 17 Case Study: United States of America 18 Case Study: Africa and the Middle East 20 Principal Risks and Operating Environment 22 Strategic and Financial Review
