4 4 Business review Chairmans statement Despite the weakening trading conditions in many markets around the world, we are pleased to report results for 2008 in line with our expectations, reecting the progress we have made against our growth strategy and the benets of excellent portfolio diversication.
Performance Group sales have increased by 3.4% to 6.3bn for the full year to 31 December 2008, benefiting from strategic and focused acquisitions and from organic sales growth in most of our markets.
On a like for like, constant currency basis, sales fell by 4.3% reecting the impact of an unprecedented and rapid downturn that started to affect our industry in the second half of 2008. profit before tax and exceptional items of 190.7m was 18.9% lower than 2007 and adjusted earnings per share fell 18.9% to 30p.
On a statutory basis, which includes exceptional items, profit before tax of 108.2m was 54.9% below 2007 and earnings per share fell 70.5% to 11.2p.
We responded swiftly to the market decline by reducing our cost base, closing 24 less Peter Johnson profitable sites, reducing our workforce by Chairman more than 2,000 people and implementing other restructuring measures which are expected to generate an annualised saving Inchcape has a proven of approximately 58m at 2009 exchange rates.
These actions have resulted in an exceptional charge in 2008 of 28.3m and resilient business together with a charge of 54.2m for goodwill impairment largely due to the downturn in Latvia.
The industry When reviewing the performance of our business units, trading profit is a key faces an unprecedented measure and is dened as operating profit excluding the impact of exceptional items and unallocated central costs.
downturn but we will In our Distribution businesses we grew sales by 5.8% despite challenging trading remain solid by focusing conditions.
We primarily benefited from strong performances in Singapore, where we outperformed the market with new on our core activities.
model launches and strong commercial vehicle sales resulting in a trading profit growth of 23.9%, in Hong Kong with a trading profit growth of 17.7% and in the Rest of World with trading profit growth of 23.2%.
We retained market share as well as market leadership in Greece and sales in Belgium grew 0.2% on 2007 under very difficult conditions.
In Australia, whilst new models helped to improve market share by 10bp, the market decline resulted in a trading profit decrease of 3.7%.
The UK eet management business, Inchcape Fleet Solutions, suffered from a residual value provision increase of 8.5m.
Inchcape plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008Inchcape plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 01-37 38-57 58-120 Inside back cover 5 Sales in our Retail businesses grew by 1.6% We currently do not expect to recommend will increase headroom and delay the in 2008, benefiting from our acquisitions in any dividend for the financial year ending renancing of existing facilities.
In the longer Russia, 9.3% growth in Australia and a new 31 December 2009. term, we expect that strengthening the Lexus retail centre in China.
Across Europe, Groups balance sheet through this We intend to return to our stated aim of sales grew 3.0% as a result of strong Rights Issue together with the action maintaining a progressive dividend policy performance in Greece and Finland.
In the we have taken to lower our cost base, as soon as trading conditions allow.
UK we outperformed the market with like for our geographic spread and diversied like sales falling 5.4% in a market which fell Share buy back revenue streams, will better position us 11.3%.
In the Russia and Emerging Markets The Group purchased 16.0m of its shares to take advantage of market recovery.
in 2008 through the acquisition of 4.5m segment, trading profits increased by 40.9% Outlook largely as a result of our acquisitions in shares, now held as Treasury shares at Although the Group expects trading Russia and growth in Poland.
an average price of 3.59 per share.
conditions to remain extremely challenging Approach to governance and Acquisition and disposal summary throughout 2009 and the actual results for We made further progress in our UK disposal management January and February were well below last We continue to focus on the importance programme in accordance with our strategy year, they have exceeded managements of good governance and observe the to streamline the business following the expectations in difficult markets, due to a acquisition of European Motor Holdings plc in Combined Code and other relevant good start to the year in Singapore and guidance for listed companies in our global 2007.
We sold our Vauxhall business and the a stabilisation of UK used car margins.
Integrating socially responsible majority of our Volvo retail outlets for a total Currently, March order levels for the Groups behaviour into every aspect of how we consideration of 17.0m.
These transactions UK operations are in line with our revised operate and define ourselves remains high followed the disposals of Inchcape expectations.
The fundamentals of the on our agenda.
In 2008 we have built on Automotive, Wilcomatic, and the Bentley, Group remain solid and our strategic the foundations of a global approach to Ferrari and Maserati retail outlets in 2007. direction is clear.
We have responded Corporate Responsibility CR that is making quickly and decisively to global economic We have reinvested the proceeds from responsible economic, environmental and conditions.
Our experienced management these disposals into our Russia and Emerging social behaviour intrinsic to the way we work.
teams, our track record of operational Markets segment, announcing in March the excellence, our focus on superior customer People acquisition of the remaining 24.9% stake in service and the strength of our relationships Our people strategy is to have engaged our St Petersburg business for a total cash with our brand partners give us confidence people in winning teams, creating the consideration of 28.5m.
This gave the Group ultimate customer experience for our brand that we will successfully weather the current full ownership of its operations in St Petersburg storm in our industry and emerge stronger.
On behalf of the Board, I wish to and was another step in the implementation express thanks to our colleagues across the of the Groups multi-brand Retail footprint, Board change Group for their commitment and spirit in providing broad segment coverage in what As previously announced, I will be delivering these results for 2008. is expected to be one of the fastest growing retiring from the position of Non-executive markets in the world.
I would like to make special mention of William Chairman in May 2009, following 14 years Tsui, Chairman of Inchcape Asia-Pacic who with the Company, six years as Group Chief In April, we announced further expansion in sadly passed away in February 2009, after 18 Executive and three years as Chairman.
this market with the acquisition of an initial years with the Group.
Under his leadership, our I am delighted that Ken Hanna, who has 75.1% shareholding in Musa Motors group, businesses in Hong Kong, Macau, Singapore, been a Non-executive Director of Inchcape one of Russias largest car retailing groups, Brunei, Guam and Saipan consolidated their for six years, is to be appointed Non-executive giving Inchcape a significant scale position market leading positions.
Latterly William Chairman of the Group with effect from in Moscow through 16 sites with key global spearheaded our entry into China.
Ken has considerable skills brand partners.
The initial consideration will be remembered for his passion for the and expertise with a proven track record was 100.3m see note 27 for details.
This motor industry and our customers and for both at a financial and operational level acquisition has positioned Inchcape with his truly inspirational leadership.
and as a Non-executive Director, as well as one of the largest networks of premium direct experience of operating businesses brands in Moscow.
Strengthening our capital structure in emerging and developed markets.
The Group has historically maintained what In May we announced another landmark was considered to be an appropriate level I have thoroughly enjoyed my years with in our expansion into the Chinese market of borrowings given the prevailing economic Inchcape, especially working with so many with the ofcial opening of our wholly environment.
Given the prospect of a difficult owned Lexus retail centre in Shaoxing.
talented colleagues both on the Board and trading environment in 2009 and beyond, in the business and I know that I am leaving During the year we also sold our French we intend to continue our actions to reduce the Group in very good hands.
operation to its management team for a net debt.
In order to further strengthen the consideration of 7.6m.
position of the Group, the Board believes it is both appropriate and in the best interests Dividend of its shareholders to raise net proceeds The Board is not recommending the of approximately 232m in equity via a payment of a final ordinary dividend for the Rights Issue which we announced on year in light of the current deterioration of 19 March 2009. trading conditions 2007 10.5p.
The Board recommended a half year dividend for 2008 We intend to use the net proceeds of 5.46p which reected a 4.0% increase on Peter Johnson of this Rights Issue to reduce the level the half year 2007 dividend.
of indebtedness which in the short term Chairman www.
