Chairmans statement 2 International Power Annual Report 2008 Chairmans statement At International Power, we deliver a service that remains key to the normal functioning of every economy and every household.
Electricity is and will remain essential day and night.
I am pleased to report a strong performance from International Powers financial position remains the Group in 2008 where Profit From Operations strong, with good liquidity, committed corporate PFO rose 16% to 1,050 million and Earnings Per bank facilities and strong free cash flow generation.
Share EPS increased 20% to 32.4 pence from Our business is capital-intensive but we have a 27.1 pence in 2007. robust capital structure and one that, through the use of non-recourse debt, allows us to maintain 2008 again demonstrated the strength of our appropriate levels of debt in a relatively low risk portfolio.
PFO was up in all regions with particularly manner.
Through our broad geographic spread and strong growth in Australia and North America.
our regional knowledge, we continue to have access Good performance from the European assets, to good growth opportunities.
However, the value principally First Hydro, helped to offset the impact of financial prudence in the current economic of the unplanned outage at Rugeley.
Our plants in environment is clear and accordingly we will invest the Middle East and Asia operated well delivering our capital very carefully.
During 2008 we welcomed Ranald Spiers to We also achieved further growth across the the Board as the Executive Director responsible portfolio with the acquisition of 2,437MW net for the Middle East and Asia.
Ranald has led the of capacity in the US, Europe and Asia and the growth that has been achieved in our Middle East announcement of future greenfield capacity region over the last eight years, and his project additions in Europe of 555MW net.
Four out of development skills will be important as we seek the five of these new investment opportunities to grow our business further, particularly in Asia.
arose from our existing assets and these four all have long-term power offtake contracts.
These I am pleased to report that the Board has developments are particularly noteworthy as established a Health, Safety and Environment they were achieved against a backdrop of the HS&E Committee under the Chairmanship of credit crisis and a tight equipment supply market.
The Committee meets at least twice a year, at different The turmoil in global financial markets and power stations across the portfolio and, through its economic slowdown in major economies has, in advisory role, reinforces the fact that these matters one way or another, impacted the demand for many are as important to the Board as they are to our staff products and affected many businesses around the at power plants, development sites and offices world.
At International Power we deliver a service around the world.
that remains key to the normal functioning of every economy and every household.
Electricity is and will Staff commitment to our in-house behavioural remain essential day and night.
The need for our safety programme, known as Fresh Eyes, along service, together with our international footprint, with improved management of health and safety diversified fuel base and the balance of contract issues, particularly during maintenance outages types long-term and short-term, across developed at our plants, delivered a further 25% reduction and developing markets, offers good security for in the Groups Accident Frequency Rate AFR.
our business and its future in these uncertain times.
All references to PFO and EPS in the Chairmans statement are before exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements.
Business overview 3 On the environmental front we track very carefully We were able to deliver growth in earnings and proposed legislation which targets reduced generating capacity around the world in 2008, Carbon Dioxide CO emissions in our markets.
The dedication displayed 2 We support these initiatives in principle, and we are by our teams across the business was a key factor actively involved in dialogue with governments and in our success, which would not have been possible regulators to ensure a balanced outcome for our without their commitment.
On behalf of the Board, business.
We will apply the experience gained from I would like to thank all our staff for the vital role operating within the European Union Emissions that they play in the growth of our Company.
Trading Scheme EUETS to any new scheme in our Looking forward to 2009, we have a well established other markets, and will invest in renewables and portfolio of long-term contracted assets which other economically viable opportunities aimed continues to perform well.
We are also well positioned at reducing carbon emissions from our plants.
in our key merchant markets, although forward Aside from managing carbon emissions, the pricing in the UK and the US does not reflect installation of Flue Gas Desulphurisation FGD the attractive long-term market fundamentals.
equipment at Rugeley in the UK, and at our Pego In the absence of a significant improvement in plant in Portugal, where Selective Catalytic pricing in these two markets, it is likely that Group Reduction SCR technology has also been fitted, profitability in 2009 will be lower than in 2008. will make a significant contribution to reducing However, our assets are well placed to capture atmospheric emissions.
value, from both market recovery and short-term pricing volatility.
In August last year, the Board announced an interim dividend of 3.56 pence per share 35% of the The financial position of the Group remains strong, previous years full-year dividend.
The Board is with good corporate liquidity and no material proposing a final dividend of 8.59 pence per share refinancings in 2009.
We expect to continue for the year which, including the interim dividend, to deliver strong free cash flow in 2009. will take the total for 2008 to 12.15 pence per share.
This represents an increase of 20% on 2007 and an EPS pay-out ratio of 37.5%.
