Martin Jay Chairman CHAIRMANS STATEMENT reached a series of agreements following extensive negotiations We have improved our operational and over several months whereby we have been adequately financial performance, with each of our compensated for a reduction in the scope of our work.
three major businesses now reporting We continued to shape our portfolio of businesses with the double digit operating margins.
disposals of some non-core businesses and made the first acquisition by the Group for several years.
We sold APV, our food manufacturing project and equipment business, to SPX I am very pleased to report that Invensys has continued the Corporation for 250 million and also three of our smaller considerable progress of recent years with another year of high businesses, namely Safety and Reversing Valves in Controls activity and significant achievement.
We have improved our and the North American logistics business Burco in Rail Group.
operational and financial performance, with each of our three major businesses now reporting double digit operating margins.
Building upon the success of the 2006 Refinancing, the financial We have also substantially improved the strength of our balance transformation of the Group has also continued.
By March 2008, sheet through a good operating cash performance and disposals we had built up sufficient cash resources to enable us to redeem of some noncore businesses for good value, and are now in the the remaining High Yield Bonds, further reducing our finance advantageous position of having net cash on the balance sheet.
Since the year end, we have repaid the Term Loans, which has left us effectively debt free, and we have a significant cash A year of further progress position.
In each of the five years that I have been Chairman, Invensys has been an extremely busy place, demonstrating the level of Our strategy, which was explained in last years Annual report, is demands that we place upon our people in order to achieve a unchanged and the Board is pleased with the success being made turnaround in our performance, and this year was no exception.
We now have a strong financial position with significant net cash on the balance sheet, a considerable We produced another increase in profits with each of our change from the heavily indebted position that I inherited when three major businesses, Process Systems, Rail Group and I became Chairman in 2003.
I am particularly pleased that we were able to deal effectively with the problems We have continued to improve our environmental, health and created by the entrance into administration of Metronet, the safety performance across the Group as demonstrated by the company responsible for two thirds of London Undergrounds quantitative disclosures in the corporate social responsibility infrastructure, which raised concerns over the largest contract the report on page 35.
The Board is committed to ensuring that Group has ever signed.
As explained in the Rail Group review, we Invensys acts as a good corporate citizen across the world.
12 Invensys plc Annual report accounts 2008 Overall, we expect the Group to make further progress in the new financial year.
Future reporting Dividend The redemption of the remaining High Yield Bonds on 17 March The Group is taking the necessary actions to enable the Board, at 2008 has removed the requirement to announce detailed the end of 2008 09 and in suitable circumstances, to recommend quarterly results.
The Group will continue to publish detailed half the payment of a dividend.
For the year ended 31 March 2008, the year and full year results announcements and, instead of first and Board is not recommending the payment of a dividend 2007: nil.
third quarter results announcements, the Board has decided to publish interim management statements.
These statements will Outlook update shareholders on any significant changes to the operational Overall, we expect the Group to make further progress in the new performance or financial position of Invensys, and the first such financial year.
The global energy and infrastructure markets for statement will be issued prior to the opening of business on Friday, Process Systems and Rail Group remain strong and we expect them 18 July 2008, the day of our 2008 Annual General Meeting.
At Controls, we expect at least to maintain its operating profit and cash flow performance despite continued The Board and our people softness in some of its markets.
There have been no changes to the membership of the Board since the publication of last years Annual report and accounts.
The Board and some of its committees have had to meet on several ad hoc occasions during the year in addition to our scheduled meetings and I would like to thank each member of the Board for their commitment.
Martin Jay Chairman I have informed the other members of the Board that I am intending to retire as Chairman and a director of the Company at the 2009 Annual General Meeting.
By then, I will have been Chairman for six years and I believe that it will be an appropriate time to hand over to my successor.
I have made my intentions clear now so that the Board can put in place a thorough and orderly process to appoint a new Chairman and ensure that a smooth transfer of responsibilities can take place.
I would like to thank everyone across Invensys for their contribution to another very successful year.
The achievements of the year would not have happened without their considerable efforts.
Invensys plc Annual report accounts 2008 13
