14 Overview Chairmans statement Group performance ITE Group plc has produced another strong set of financial results for the year ending 30 September 2008.
In the lesser year of our biennial pattern, revenues increased by 11% to 110.1 million 2007: 99.1 million.
Headline pre-tax pro t increased by 5% to 37.1 million and reported Pro t before tax has increased to 34.5 million 2007: 33.7 million.
Fully diluted earnings per share have increased to 9.3p per share 2007: 9.0p per share.
These results have been achieved alongside mixed trading conditions in some of our markets and are a good indication of the resilience of the Groups business model.
The Group generated cash ow from operations of 52.9 million in the year, from which it applied 13.5 million to investment in new businesses, 12.1 million to dividends and 15.9 million to share buy backs.
The Groups cash balances at the year end were 29.1 million 2007: 26.7million.
Strategic progress The Groups primary strategy over the past few years has been to maximise the organic growth opportunities available through its strong market positions in Russia and Central Asia.
The Group has an established management structure and a business model which is capable of The Board remains replication both in our existing markets and in other emerging market countries.
The Group continues with con dent that ITE with its strategy of seeking opportunities for ITE to leverage its international sales network onto local products.
its advance bookings, strong cash ow, leading In Russia and in Central Asia, ITE has the unique assets of strong local infrastructure and an e ective international exhibition brands and sales network.
The Group has recently made good progress in expanding its international sales reach by experienced management opening o ces in China, and more recently Spain, Dubai and Malaysia.
Progress has also been made this year team is well positioned to expand the Groups product range by acquiring the Interstroyexpo construction event in St Petersburg, the for the future.
S tex security event in St Petersburg and a complete portfolio of exhibitions in Novosibirsk, Siberia.
The businesses are performing to plan and the bene t of these acquisitions will have their first impact on our pro ts in 2009.
Iain Paterson Chairman ITE Group plc Annual Report 2008 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements 15 We continue to maintain excellent relationships with Dividend our venue partners.
In Kazakhstan we have agreed to The Board is recommending to shareholders a final support the Almaty venue in its plans to expand the total dividend of 3.7p per share 2007: 3.2p, making a total 2 gross exhibition space by 20,000m.
In Baku, Azerbaijan, dividend for the year of 5.3p per share 2007: 4.5p.
2 construction has started on a new 28,000m exhibition The dividend for the year represents an increase of 18% centre where ITE will become the anchor tenant in over last years dividend, re ecting both the strong cash a country whose economy is still showing robust growth.
position of the Group and the Boards con dence in its positioning and future.
The recent change in the world economic climate will present new and fresh challenges for the Group in the Outlook markets in which it operates.
We are well positioned ITEs current bookings indicate that like-for-like volume to bene t from the changed circumstances having sales will show little or no growth in 2009, but overall 29.1 million of cash on the balance sheet, low operational volumes will be improved by non-annual events and the gearing and continuing strong cash generation.
We are acquisitions made in this year.
Revenue growth is expected able to take advantage of any opportunities that will to be positive re ecting pricing policy, mix and the help us to achieve our strategy as and when they arise.
bene cial e ect of exchange rates on reported revenues.
At 28 November 2008 like-for-like bookings are for Board and management volume sales slightly down on last year but for revenue There have been a number of changes to the Board.
growth in excess of 10% over last year.
Advance bookings Russell Taylor was appointed as Acting Chief Executive already made for this financial year are 75 million in addition to his existing duties as Finance Director, 2007: 61 million at the same date.
following the departure of Bill Dye in January.
The Board were pleased to con rm Russells appointment The global economy is experiencing uncertain and as Chief Executive in May.
Neil Jones joined the Board di cult times and we continue to monitor local market as Finance Director on 4 November 2008.
Currently the principal economies previously the Finance Director at Tarsus Group plc, a UK in which ITE operates in Russia and Central Asia are still listed international exhibition company.
He brings to the expected to grow, albeit at lower levels than previously Board experience of making acquisitions in new emerging forecast.
Our strong exhibition brands enjoy leading market territories and extensive knowledge of the positions in their markets and access a broad customer exhibition industry outside Russia and the CIS.
base across international and local markets.
Accordingly we expect our exhibitions will prove to be resilient in Sir Jeremy Hanley stepped down from the Board at the this testing environment.
The Board remains con dent AGM in March after having served as a non-executive that ITE with its advance bookings, strong cash ow, Director for nine years from the otation of the Group leading exhibition brands and experienced management as a listed company.
The Board is deeply grateful for his team is well positioned for the future.
wise counsel and commitment during the years of the development of ITE.
Neil England was appointed a non-executive Director in March.
Neil has first-hand Iain Paterson experience of managing businesses in Russia and the Chairman CIS and brings valuable perspectives to bear on our 1 December 2008 current business.
Michael Hartley has been appointed the Senior Independent Director and has replaced Sir Jeremy as Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Malcolm Wall has become Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
ITE Group plc Annual Report 2008
