ITV plc Report and accounts 2008 01 Executive Chairmans statement Current conditions in television advertising are the most challenging I have experienced in over 30 years in UK broadcasting.
Our priorities have changed to reflect that.
Michael Grade Executive Chairman Our financial results for 2008 reflect the impact Given our high operational gearing, any reduction of the economic slowdown over the second half in revenues has a significant impact on profits and, of the year.
Market conditions have deteriorated even in the best of times, our advertising revenue further in 2009.
Indeed, it is no exaggeration to say visibility is limited.
that current conditions in the television advertising During 2008, via additional financing and a market are the most challenging I have experienced new bond issue, we secured over 300 million in over 30 years in UK broadcasting.
In February The Board remains confident in the long-term 2009 we secured a further 50 million of ten-year course for the business set by our content-led covenant-free financing potentially rising to strategy.
However, our immediate priorities 200 million.
The Company repaid a 250 million need to adapt to reflect the very different bond on 2 March 2009 and our next scheduled economic circumstances in which we are bond repayment is not until October 2011. operating.
The Boards focus is on ensuring The Board will continue to evaluate all options the Company is adequately funded to to improve the strength of the balance sheet.
The ITV senior Dividend management team is focused on our core At the half year, the Board reduced the interim business, on costs and on cash generation.
dividend to 0.675 pence per share.
Given the Since this downturn began, the Board and current economic context and the deterioration management have sought to anticipate and in prospects for advertising, the Board proposes address the challenges it poses for ITV as early as that no final dividend should be paid.
Given our reliance on advertiser funding, decision that has been taken lightly.
As is detailed we cannot fully mitigate the impact of the below, we have explored all avenues for maximising recession on the business.
But I am confident that cash generation and we are taking comprehensive the determined and concerted action we are taking action, including with respect to our staff numbers, will best position the Company beyond the current our cost base and our assets.
cyclical downturn, however deep and extended it Cost review may turn out to be.
Against this backdrop, it is imperative that every Results penny of our shareholders investment is deployed Revenues in 2008 were 2.0 billion, down 3% on to deliver maximum return.
To this end, during the previous year, with strong growth in our Global the year, we undertook a comprehensive review of Content business offsetting a reduction in television our costs and investment right across the Company.
Adjusted operating earnings That review is now complete.
As a result, we will before interest, tax, impairments and amortisation reduce costs by 155 million in 2009, rising were down 32% to 211 million, reflecting the to 245 million in 2011, compared to 2008. gearing of our profits to the UK television Cost savings will come from a new efficiency advertising market.
programme, regional news savings and from more efficiency in our network programme investment.
Earnings were impacted by an impairment charge of 2.7 billion.
As is explained in detail in the notes Ensuring our cost base is as efficient as possible to the accounts, this non-cash charge reflects is essential.
In 2008, we completed a three-year advertising market decline and the uncertain programme reducing costs across the business outlook for 2009 and beyond.
Operating by 41 million per annum.
In 2009, we will deliver exceptional items were 97 million, including a 40 million in savings in our regional services.
provision for onerous contracts of 50 million, We have now identified a further 50 million in reflecting the impact of the television advertising non-programming savings that will be delivered downturn on the value of our sports commitments.
ITV will Adjusted for exceptional items and amortisation, become a leaner, fitter and simpler business.
earnings per share were down 46% at 2.7 pence.
ITV plc Report and accounts 2008 Executive Chairmans statement 02 In 2008 we invested more than 50% of our total the BBC and BT to develop a new standard for revenues in programming, with the majority of delivering itv.
com and other online video services this investment focused on ITVs unique selling to the television.
We secured deals to provide ITV point, original UK production.
Calibrating our programmes to a number of open and closed Video investment in network programming at the right on Demand VoD platforms.
level is critical to maintaining our market-leading Regulation position.
We are determined to improve the We have long argued that ITV labours under an efficiency of our programming spend to deliver over-burdensome regulatory regime.
In essence, ITV an increased return on our investment.
In 2009, is paying substantially more for its licence in cash our network programme investment will be reduced and programming kind than is economically by 65 million year-on-year, with a focus on existing justified.
With the onset of recession, there is some programming stock to limit our cash spend.
evidence that Government and regulator accept Beyond the 2010 World Cup year, with a reduced this and there have been some significant positive level of committed programming, we will deliver a developments.
further reduction in schedule costs of 70 million.
The Office of Fair Trading is expected to make We will still be investing around 1 billion in its final recommendation to the Competition programming in 2009, more than our two nearest Commission on possible reform of Contract Rights commercial competitors combined.
Our audience Renewal in the spring.
Our expectation is that this share target will not change: we are seeking to process should complete ahead of the next trading maintain a share of commercial impacts across round for 2010 contracts.
Ofcoms second public our channels of at least 38.5% through to 2012. service broadcasting review has confirmed approval The schedule for 2009 is a strong one, including for modernising ITVs regional services, with Britains Got Talent, Coronation Street, Im A Government considering proposals for further Celebrity, The X Factor, Law & Order: UK, Dancing reform beyond 2010.
On Ice, Emmerdale, Wild at Heart, live Champions League, FA Cup and England football matches and In January 2009, the Competition Commission many more returning series and new programmes.
blocked Project Kangaroo, the proposed online To date in 2009, we are delivering 5% more archive service which ITV, BBC Worldwide and commercial impacts year on year across our Channel 4 had jointly developed.
We were channels with our share running above 40%.
disappointed that we could not launch a service which promised considerable benefits to online Progress in 2008 users and increased competition with the In a difficult market, there were significant substantial established online players in this new developments in each of our main business market.
However, we do not want there to be any segments during the year.
As well as holding their further delay in exploiting the ITV archive online via audience once again, ITV channels held their share itv.
com and we will not be appealing the decision.
of UK television advertising revenues for the first time in over 25 years.
Our Global Content business As UK households have migrated to digital, there delivered strong revenue growth outside ITV in the has been a massive influx into the market of digital UK and internationally.
Online, our average unique advertising impacts.
Add to this the continuing users were up by 30% and itv.
com secured 86 regulatory restrictions governing the commercial million video views.
television market and the result has been significant deflation in airtime pricing, which the economic We also made significant progress on a number downturn has exacerbated.
Uncorrected, the risk is of important strategic initiatives.
We successfully that high levels of investment in UK originated launched Freesat with the BBC, which included a content may become unsustainable in the high definition ITV service.
We have partnered with commercial sector.
ITV plc Report and accounts 2008 Executive Chairmans statement 03 Inevitably in a tough market, the focus is on the road immediately ahead.
However, we are not losing sight of the prize of returning ITV to long-term growth.
The financial disparity between the three free-to-air Despite the challenging market, we will continue to commercial public service broadcasters ITV1, seek growth in our Global Content and core Online Channel 4 and five versus the publicly-funded revenues.
However, the revenue targets previously BBC and the dominant subscription player, Sky, is set for 2012, which assumed modest, but positive increasingly stark and the political and regulatory growth in UK television advertising, are no longer debate around the future provision of public service appropriate.
We will maximise value for our broadcasting needs to move on urgently to shareholders by focusing on our cost saving practical solutions.
programme and cash generation as we await an economic upturn.
Targets The weakening of the television advertising The Board market makes the case for building our business We have further strengthened the Board and the beyond Broadcasting even more compelling.
management team during the year, with Andy Our content-led strategy remains right for ITV.
Haste joining as a non-executive director in August and Ian Griffiths joining the Company as Group However, we must align our objectives to the Finance Director in September.
Sir Brian Pitman market conditions in which we are now operating.
retired from the Board in May 2008, having served Across ITV we are focusing on our core assets and as a director of ITV plc from its creation, including capabilities, on costs and on cash.
In Global Content a period as Chairman.
I would like to record my and Online in particular this shift in emphasis has thanks to Sir Brian for his contribution to the implications in terms of our strategic targets.
In Global Content, we entered into a number of Summary small-scale production acquisitions, investments These are tough times for the UK economy and and partnerships during 2008.
We are tackling the dual challenge of the not judged it prudent to pursue the further transition to digital and a substantial deterioration substantial production acquisitions we envisaged in the economic outlook.
This means reshaping in our 2007 strategic plan.
The outlook for organic the Company, taking costs out and, in the process, revenue and profit growth has also become more reducing staff numbers significantly.
However challenging, as the commissioning budgets of painful that process is, it is essential for ITVs ITV and other advertising-funded broadcasting long-term health.
I would like to thank all those customers worldwide come under pressure.
affected for their efforts on behalf of the Company.
Online, given the rapid progress itv.
com has made, Inevitably in a tough market, the focus is on we are confident that by focusing on delivery of the road immediately ahead and ensuring that ITV content online we can become a market leader the Company is strong enough to endure the in long-form broadband video.
We are therefore short-term challenges it faces.
However, we are targeting our online investment and resources on not losing sight of the prize of returning ITV to delivering ITV programmes via itv.
We need to continue with the Friends Reunited remains a highly profitable and good progress we have been making in our core successful online business, but our new strategic broadcasting business, delivering a high quality focus on streamed video does not play to its schedule attractive to UK audiences and advertisers.
strengths and we will look to dispose of the We need to strengthen further our position in business when the time and the price are right.
I am confident we will then ITV Local will be closed as a stand-alone business be well positioned to take full advantage of the and we will seek to dispose of the associated economic upturn when it comes.
