qxd 26 3 09 5:38 pm Page 4 James Fisher and Sons Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Tim Harris Chairmans Statement An excellent year forJames Fisher Highlights 2008 proved to be an excellent year for James Fisher.
Group revenue and The key to the strong profit performance was organic growth in the profit from operations were both up by over 28%, profit from continuing marine support divisions of Offshore Oil, Specialist Technical Services activities before tax by 23% and adjusted earnings per share by 16%.
As flagged at the half-year, the Marine Oil divisions results Cash flow was again strong and the year-end gearing was 94% of were disappointing, the result primarily of operational problems relating which 19% related to the working capital absorbed by the Singaporean to the introduction of new tonnage rather than a shortfall in demand.
Submarine Rescue Service which will be recovered on its commissioning into service in the first half of 2009.
Recognising last years strong performance and reflecting the ongoing prospects for the Company, the board proposes to pay a final dividend of 8.65 pence per share, an increase of 15% payable on 15 May 2009 to the shareholders on the register at 17 April 2009.
Divisional operating profit Divisional growth, organic and operating profit Growth acquisition growth split 2008 2007 m m % change organic acquisition Offshore Oil 12.702 9.213 37.9% 74% 26% Specialist Technical Services 9.598 5.614 71.0% 90% 10% Defence 4.484 3.002 49.4% 100% Marine Oil 5.982 8.605 - 30.5% n a n a 32.766 26.434 24.0% Organic growth is the difference between actual profits earned and profits earned by the entity in the corresponding period prior to acquisition.
qxd 26 3 09 5:39 pm Page 5 James Fisher and Sons Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Company strategy in the credit crunch This is partly offset by the internal hedge of Marine Oils US Dollar James Fishers consistent strategy since 2002 has been to use its core bareboat charters and its crewing, about half of which is in Euros.
expertise of marine operational and engineering skills based on its Marine In short, a weak pound is positive news for the marine support divisions Oil division, to invest in and then generate organic growth from niche but this is tempered to some extent by a negative impact on Marine Oil.
service businesses in the marine sector.
The marine support businesses These factors confirm that the Companys existing strategy is still valid in typically enjoy strong market positions providing specialist engineering the present credit crunch and gives it a good degree of resilience in an based services, with margins over 10%, pre tax returns on capital economic downturn.
employed of over 15% and good cash generating ability.
This strategy has proved to be most successful in the favourable trading conditions Offshore Oil experienced since 2002 this section considers its resilience to the 2008 Divisional Result 12.7 million 2007 9.2 million more challenging trading conditions prevailing today.
Divisional profits grew by 37.9% over last year with organic growth accounting for 74% of the increase and the 2007 acquisitions of Pump In a credit crunch it is appropriate to start with cash and liquidity.
Tools Limited and Buchan Technical Services Limited responsible for the The Company enjoys good, long-term relationships with a wide range remaining 26%.
Divisional margins were 26.3% in 2008 compared with of British banks and it has recently finalised a new facility with Barclays 30.4% in 2007, the reduction reflecting the relative increase in non hire Bank PLC for 25 million which will allow it to pursue further expansion revenue rather than any deterioration in underlying margins.
It has strong credit lines and plenty of headroom on its return on capital employed including goodwill improved to 16.4% from banking covenants.
As already indicated, the delivery of the Singaporean 15.8% in 2007 despite the investment in new premises in both Scotland Submarine Rescue Service in the first half of 2009 which we have funded and Norway.
during its construction, will have a materially positive effect on reported gearing.
In real terms, the most negative effect of the present economic Both James Fisher Offshore Aberdeen and Scan Tech AS Norway had problems has been to create or increase pension fund deficits, the successful years supplying lifting, compressor and other specialist quantification of which is made volatile under international accounting equipment to their respective sectors of the North Sea and increasingly rules.
It is worth noting that their main effect is on reported gearing using their North Sea skills further afield in the new oil regions of the not liquidity itself.
Typically, they provide specialist equipment which is customised for particular purposes, often with personnel to support its operation.
In assessing resilience to recessionary pressures, it should be emphasised A new sector entered by James Fisher Offshore in 2008 was the provision that James Fisher is a service business and as such far less exposed to of heavy lifting equipment for the installation of wind farms.
the swings in asset values which have created adverse headlines about the international shipping and offshore markets, where both ship and The downhole cluster which was formed by the merger of existing rig values have dropped dramatically.
In contrast it earns its living by business Remote Marine Services with Pump Tools Limited, after its providing specialist services to shipping rather than ship trading and acquisition in October 2007, creating RMS Pumptools, had a particularly from the oil that its customers continue to produce.
As a specialist niche successful year in 2008.
It designs, produces and sells worldwide services provider there is also much greater protection against price specialist electrical submersible pump equipment which improves erosion than in a commoditised market.
the productivity of oil wells.
The Groups business is broadly based both by activity and geographically.
We continue to support the good organic growth record of this division For example, its offshore businesses are more focused on production and by investment in new equipment and new facilities, particularly in Norway maintenance than exploration.
It has significant North Sea activities but where we are halfway through the construction in Stavanger of a new works now earns much of its profit from elsewhere in Asia and Africa.
It has into which will be consolidated all of our Norwegian operations.
In March very little direct exposure to North America or Russia.
2009 part of the Reanco Team AS business which was focused on the fabrication of offshore rig living quarters was sold for 1.2 million, the book Finally, a weak pound is of overall benefit to James Fisher because a large value, as it did not represent a core interest.
We continue to look for boltpart of the revenue of its Offshore and Specialist Technical divisions is on acquisitions to supplement or strengthen further our market position.
expressed in US Dollars or Norwegian Kroner.
Trading and the immediate outlook to date remain largely unaffected by the present uncertain economic climate.
qxd 26 3 09 5:39 pm Page 6 James Fisher and Sons Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Chairmans Statement continued The marine support businesses typically enjoy strong market positions providing specialist engineering based services.
Specialist Technical The Korean submarine vessel was completed on time and within budget 2008 Divisional Result 9.6 million 2007 5.6 million and commissioned into service in Korea just before the year end.
This division consists of three clusters FenderCare, Strainstall and A 4% final instalment remains to be received pending the completion Nuclear.
It produced particularly good results in 2008 with the divisional of training and the final delivery of spares.
profit 71% up over that for the previous year.
Strong organic growth accounted for 90% of this uplift with acquisition growth responsible for The Singaporean submarine vessel has also been completed and is in the remaining 10%.
Margins improved to 12.8% in 2008 from 9.1% in the Singapore where she has successfully completed her initial sea trials.
previous year, with the stronger US Dollar helping in the second half of It remains for her to be installed on the mother ship, Swift Rescue, which is 2008.
The divisions return on capital improved to 16.9% in 2008 from nearing completion by our Singaporean partners, Singapore Technologies 13.2% in the previous year.
Marine Ltd, prior to delivery of the fully integrated rescue service.
The FenderCare cluster provides a full range of mooring equipment for ships On commissioning by the Singaporean Navy, the integrated rescue service and submarines.
It is also the global market leader in providing ship to ship will be operated by a joint venture company, First Response Marine Pte oil transfer services.
FenderCares strong growth was the result of three Ltd, owned equally by Singapore Technologies Marine Ltd and ourselves main factors - increased market share, a growth of its global activities and will receive an annual service payment until 2029 for the operation particularly in the Middle East and Asia and the stronger US Dollar.
In addition, on commissioning which is anticipated before 30 June 2009, we shall receive payment for the submarine rescue vessel Strainstalls core expertise is the design, production and application itself.
At 31 December 2008, the carrying cost of 14.4 million for this of strain and similar gauges.
It produced a strong result in 2008 both vessel, including profit taken to date of 0.8 million is included in net from organic growth and its JCM Scotload Limited acquisition in February current assets.
Furthermore under the fair value rules, 4.6 million 2008, which has settled in well.
Overall Strainstalls market position has has been charged directly against reserves representing a fair value similarities to FenderCares it is a market leader in the fields in which it adjustment arising from covering the Singaporean Dollar for the vessel operates and it is expanding in the Middle Eastern and Asian markets.
This will reverse on delivery.
Overall, these two too benefits from a stronger US Dollar.
factors were responsible for some 19% of the Groups 94% of financial gearing at the year end.
The Nuclear cluster produced a more positive result in 2008 with an improvement in both the general decommissioning climate and its own The efficient and early construction of the two rescue vessels has performance.
JFIMS, the inspection and measurement start-up, again confirmed the Defence divisions global market leadership in this most performed well.
This cluster is better poised for a growth in profitability specialist of markets.
This has stimulated enquiries for related services and value creation than for some time.
and we have recently entered a contract with the Royal Australian Navy to provide standby submarine rescue services using the former UK Overall, the Specialist Technical division continues to perform very well.
Submarine Rescue equipment which we are buying from the Ministry We shall invest further both in working capital and long-term capital of Defence for 1 million.
assets to support its excellent growth record.
We shall also continue to seek further bolt-on acquisitions.
Trading to date and the immediate There were no major new developments relating to the surface ship outlook remain largely unaffected by the generally unfavourable cluster which is responsible for the Companys 25% holding in Foreland economic climate.
Shipping, the management of the five vessels for International Nuclear Services and the three Corvettes built by BAE Systems for the Brunei Defence Navy which are in lay-up pending sale.
2008 Divisional Result 4.5 million 2007 3.0 million The divisions result was dominated in 2008 by the Korean and Marine Oil Singaporean Submarine Rescue Service contracts which were the main 2008 Divisional Result 6.0 million 2007 8.6 million reasons for the 49.4% increase in profit, apparent diminution in margin to As was flagged at the half year, the result for the Marine Oil division was 15.3% and a small decline in the return on capital employed to 20.2%, well down on 2007 with a divisional profit of 6.0 million against 8.6 compared with 22.7% in 2007. million last time despite an increase in revenue of 6% from 75.9 million in 2007 to 80.8 million in 2008.
qxd 26 3 09 5:39 pm Page 7 James Fisher and Sons Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Margins were consequently down from 11.3% in 2007 to 7.4% in 2008. company such as James Fisher focused on the shipping, ports and The return on capital performance was significantly less affected at offshore oil sectors.
8.8% in 2008 against 11.9% in 2007, reflecting the benefit of ship sales However the immediate outlook for the divisions has not changed releasing capital.
from last year and the Company in 2009 is trading to management Operational problems rather than a lack of demand were the cause of expectations.
The consistent strategy of investment in niche operating the disappointing result.
These were explained in detail in the half year businesses has ensured that the Companys operations are well balanced results but, in summary, the two most important were phasing problems and sufficiently diversified: concerning the fleet renewal programme and issues relating to the The Offshore Oil division has a broad base both geographically and new European Maritime Safety Agency EMSA contract.
Although by activity supplying services to operations and maintenance and now resolved, these continued in the second half of 2008 and were should therefore be able to surmount the predicted cutbacks in exacerbated when Svithoid Tankers AB, the Swedish owner of two of exploration activity.
our bareboat charters, went into receivership.
The FenderCare and Strainstall clusters have strong market positions The fall in the value of Sterling, although of benefit to the Group overall, with excellent growth records.
Their competitiveness has been had a significantly adverse effect on the Marine Oil result in the second increased internationally by the fall in the value of Sterling.
The half as its bareboat charters and half of its payroll are in either US Dollars Nuclear cluster is better placed than for some time for both external or Euros.
Marine Oil acts as a useful internal hedge to some of the Groups and internal reasons.
growing US Dollar exposure but receives no compensation for this role in the divisional results.
The imminent commissioning of the Singaporean Submarine Rescue Service is of major importance to the Defence division as well as the Despite the operational problems, revenues held up well in 2008 and there Company, not least because it will reduce gearing so significantly.
The has been no slackening in demand for our services to date.
Marine Oil successful completion of both the Korean and Singaporean systems remains a steady, if slow growing, division with proven cash generating on time and budget has considerably strengthened Defences already capabilities which has been most useful in recent years for investment in strong market position and is already stimulating new enquiries.
The UK demand for petrol and heating oil is the key driver for the Directors and employees Marine Oil divisions services and this is likely to fall in line with GDP The Company has benefited from a stable and unchanged board and in a recession.
However, James Fisher Everard enjoys a strong market senior management in the main clusters in 2008 and this is reflected position with contract of affreightment cover for most of its tonnage.
The Companys philosophy is to give senior cluster It is unlikely that a drop in demand in line with GDP would have management as much responsibility as possible in a flat framework seriously detrimental results.
where the centre provides commercial guidance and financial support and control.
The Companys pay policies are focused on results where The strong US Dollar and reduced rates are also positive factors.
the interests of executives and shareholders are closely aligned.
The economic downturn should also make acquisition prices more reasonable.
2008 has been a most successful year for James Fisher and I would like to thank all of our staff for their contribution.
Their support and continued On present evidence the Company is well placed with a proven hard work in 2009 will be critical for success in a commercial environment track record to continue to produce good growth and further which threatens to be more challenging than for many years.
Outlook It is difficult to comment too definitively in an economic climate which is changing rapidly and mainly for the worse.
Furthermore it would be foolhardy to pretend that a deep economic downturn would not have a detrimental effect on the Companys performance.
Timothy C. Harris Clearly, if world trade shrinks and oil production falls over a prolonged Chairman period, then there will in time be adverse consequences for a service 7
