Chair Chairman mans statement and operating r s statement and operating re evie view w The year under review is the first following the smoking ban in England in July 2007.
Total sales increased by 19.0 million to 907.5 million, a rise of 2% 2007: 5%.
We achieved an increase in LFL food sales up 8% combined with an anticipated decline in LFL bar sales down by 4%, resulting in an overall LFL sales decline of 1%.
Including those bar purchases made in association with table meals, diners now account for approximately two-thirds of sales.
A consequence of this shift in sales towards food was a During the year the company financed cash dividend payments of 17.4 million, share buybacks of slight decline in operating margin, from 10.3% in the previous year to 9.6%, resulting from food margins being 12.0 million and expenditure of 48.6 million on new pubs and site acquisitions, with net borrowings lower than bar margins and higher labour costs.
Operating profit decreased by 4% to 87.2 million increasing slightly by 5.8 million to 439.6 million 2007: 433.8m.
Profit before tax excluding a non-cash mark to market loss, in respect of interest rate swaps of Property 0.8m decreased by 11% to 55.0 million 2007: 62.0m.
Earnings per share decreased by 9% to The company opened 23 pubs during the year, compared with 18 in the previous year, resulting in a 25.7p 2007: 28.1p, excluding the mark to market loss and the benefit resulting from the change in corporation total estate of 694.
We currently intend to open around 30 pubs in the year ending July 2009 and anticipate tax rates last year.
having sufficient properties in the course of acquisition and development to be able to continue this rate of Net interest excluding the fair value loss on derivatives was covered 2.7 times 2007: 3.1 times by operating expansion in future.
Free cash flow, after payments of tax, interest, share purchases under the companys share plans and Property prices and rent-review settlements appear to have declined significantly in the course of the year.
These capital investment of 12.3 million in existing pubs 2007: 24.0m, was 71.7 million 2007: 52.4m, reasonable property prices will clearly create opportunities for profitable investment by Wetherspoon in the future.
resulting in record free cash flow per share of 50.7p 2007: 35.6p.
Capital expenditure in the year under Dividends, return of capital review was lower, since the previous year saw higher investment in gardens and kitchens in anticipation of the The board proposes, subject to shareholders consent, to pay a final dividend of 7.6p per share, on smoking ban.
In addition, the working capital movement improved by 10 million in the year.
21 November 2008, to those shareholders on the register on 24 October 2008, giving an unchanged total dividend for the year of 12.0p per share.
Dividend is covered 2.1 times 2007: 2.3 times excluding the one-off benefit to tax change by earnings per share.
We achieved an increase During the year 3,835,000 shares representing in LFL food sales approximately 2.7% of the issued share capital were purchased by the company for cancellation, at a cost up 7.9% of 12.0 million, representing an average cost per share of 314p.
2 J D WETHERSPOON PLC Chairmans statement and operating review Taxation We introduced Coors Light, which is now our third best The overall tax charge for the year is 34.4% selling lager, and have become the largest retailer of this 2007: 33.3% comparable basis adjusted for change in product in the UK.
This helped return draught lager the deferred tax rate from 30% to 28%.
The increase sales, adversely affected by the smoking ban, to growth is largely due to a reduced tax credit from employee in the 4th quarter, demonstrating the companys share schemes.
capability in terms of nationwide product launches, following similar successes with Kopparberg cider, Finance Pimms and Lavazza coffee, for example.
The company had 82.6 million 2007: 88.4m of unutilised banking facilities and cash balances as at Food accounted for 29% of our sales during the year, 27 July 2008, with total facilities of 522.2 million compared with 27% in the previous year, 17% 11 years 2007: 522.2m.
The years capital expenditure on new ago, and 5% at flotation in 1992.
Including those bar pub developments was more than covered by free cash purchases made in association with table meals, diners flow.
The company remains in a sound financial position.
now account for approximately two-thirds of sales.
Food sales per pub, per week, for the year were 8,800 incl.
In the light of our competitive As indicated in previous years, our approach is to try to prices, we believe that we sell more meals per pub, per make lots of small improvements in diverse areas of the week, than any other substantial pub company.
business, creating momentum in the services and facilities offered to customers, as well as sales and Coffee and tea sales continue to increase, up 6.6% in financial momentum for the company.
total to average 443,000 servings per week.
We are now the worlds number-one seller of Tierra, Lavazzas In the area of real ale, we stock over 600 guest beers sustainable coffee from Rainforest Alliance.
throughout the year, from breweries across the UK, Ireland and other countries.
We are in the course of We also won Eat Out magazines winner of training more than 1,500 staff, in association with local MenuMasters 2008 Best Kids Menu award, recognising breweries and Cask Marque, in order to continue sales the work which we have carried out to increase organic growth in this area.
Currently, 131 of our pubs are and free range products on the menu.
recommended in the CAMRA Good Beer Guide 2007 more pubs, and a higher percentage of the estate, than In both food and bar sales, it remains our aim to any other substantial company.
We ran the biggest real-ale continue to provide the highest-quality products at festival in the world during April 2008, selling competitive prices, and to introduce a limited range of 2.5 million pints over 18 days an increase in LFL new brands, in association with our suppliers, in the volumes of over 7%, compared with the same festival course of future months and years.
Recycling We continue to concentrate on recycling and believe We ran the biggest real-ale that we recycle more than any other pub company.
In 2007 08, we recycled 5,281 tonnes of waste an increase festival in the world during of 4%, including 3,136 tonnes of cardboard, 1,616 tonnes of cooking oil, 95 tonnes of plastic, 19 tonnes of April 2008 aluminium and 415 tonnes of paper.
Pubs recycling has exceeded 16,000 tonnes over the last four years.
We also ran a wine festival during May and June, selling over 495,000 equivalent bottles of wine an increase of Glass-recycling has been given greater emphasis: 20% on the same period last year.
During the festival, we together with our partner, Biffa, we successfully recycled broke the Guinness world record for the largest multiple- 5,000 tonnes in 2007 08, representing over 23% of the location wine tasting event, with over 17,500 participants.
glass waste which we generate.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008 3 Chairmans statement and operating review We were recognised for our efforts in recycling and We encourage internal promotion, with many pub received the High Street Recycling Champion award managers starting as bar staff and many area managers 2007 from letsrecycle.
being promoted from pub manager.
Outstanding examples are Su Cacioppo, our personnel and legal Government taxation and regulation director, having started her career as a trainee pub The pub industry, in common with many businesses, has manager 17 years ago, and John Hutson, our chief been strongly affected by increases in taxation and executive, who started as an area manager around regulation in recent years.
In the current financial year, the same time.
we continue to estimate that increases in excise duty on alcoholic drinks, minimum wage related costs and In addition, we provide monthly bonuses for all of our increased statutory holiday entitlements will amount to pub staff, whatever their length of service in the 16 million.
Energy increases, which clearly have an company.
In the year under review, we spent a total of inflationary effect, receive widespread attention from 16 million on bonuses and share awards for employees.
It is interesting to note that the effects of government legislation on our business I would like to thank our employees, partners and have a far greater impact, and are, therefore, more suppliers, once again, for their excellent work in the inflationary than energy increases.
Licensing Current trading and outlook It is the companys policy to work closely with a variety In the five weeks to 31 August 2008, LFL sales increased of organisations, including local authorities and the police, by 1.1% and total sales by 5.5%, making this August our to improve behaviour in association with pub visits.
strongly support Pubwatch, an organisation bringing together licensees and the police, which has been In common with many pub and restaurant businesses, extremely successful in improving standards of behaviour we continue to expect a considerable increase in the in many town and city centres.
As a company, we are also current year in expenditure relating to energy, food, a member of National Pubwatch and The Drinkaware labour and tax.
We hope to offset this by improvements Trust, and support the activities of the Portman Group.
in every area of the business and by increases in sales.
In order to achieve a similar trading performance this We operate the Challenge 21 policy in all of our pubs.
year we currently estimate we would need LFL sales of In order to ensure effective implementation of this around 3%.
campaign we provide support and training to all of our staff and carry out regular audits of our performance.
In a traumatic year for the pub industry following the smoking ban, Wetherspoon has again demonstrated that People concentrating on customer service, standards, and placing The most important factor in successful pubs is good emphasis on staff training and incentives, are the key customer service.
Wetherspoon continues to provide a ingredients to long term success, especially during a comprehensive employee training system which has won downturn in the general economy.
many awards, over the years, from the relevant training bodies.
This year our National Diploma in Leisure Retail As a result of our strong cash flow, our dedicated Management Course, operated in conjunction with management team and our efforts to improve every area Nottingham Trent University, won an award as part of the of the business, we remain confident of our prospects.
National Innkeeping Training Awards and we featured in Britains Top 100 Employers handbook, as published by The Guardian, for the fifth consecutive year.
Tim Martin Chairman 5 September 2008 4 J D WETHERSPOON PLC
