6 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report 2008 Operational review Chairmans statement 2008 was a very successful year for Wood Group with record revenue of 1 $5.2bn and record EBITA of $441m.
This excellent performance means that over the last four years we have delivered compound annual growth in adjusted diluted earnings per Sir Ian Wood, 4 share in excess of 40%.
Chairman 2008 2007 2008 Group performance $m $m Change Revenue 5,243.1 4,432.7 18% 1 EBITA 441.0 318.4 39% EBITA margin 8.4% 7.2% Profit before tax 384.1 259.9 48% Basic EPS 49.6c 33.0c 50% 4 Adjusted diluted EPS 52.1c 36.9c 41% Total dividend 9.0c 7.0c 29% 2 ROCE 33.3% 28.3% Reflecting the strength of our performance and continuing confidence in our long term growth, we are proposing a final dividend of 6.2c, taking the total dividend for the year to 9.0c, up 29% on last year.
Markets We used the strength of our oil & gas and power markets in 2008 to enhance our differentiation and further develop and internationalise our activities, and won a number of important new contracts.
Engineering & Production Facilities strengthened its position in both its traditional markets, and in some new international markets.
Well Support continued to increase revenue and margins in a competitive marketplace, develop new products and services, and increase the efficiency of its manufacturing operations.
Gas Turbine Services continued its programme of developing the technology and engineering of new spare parts for the overhaul and repair of additional engine types, thus enhancing our differentiation and developing our market For more detail about positions in both the oil & gas and power markets.
our financial performance turn to page 26.
The world recession, volatile financial markets and exchange rates, and much lower oil and gas prices are expected to lead to For more detail about a 10-15% reduction in global E&P expenditure and a decrease in corporate governance service company activity.
This, along with the impact of the stronger turn to page 45.
For footnotes turn to page 29.
Energy Supporting Energy Operational review At a glance Governance Financial statements go online at www.
com annualreport2008 7 : People dollar on our non US dollar earning stream, will affect our shorter We continue to make real progress in our objective of being an term reported performance to some extent.
However, there are employer of choice for quality people, providing them with a opportunities and we are working with a number of customers on challenging and interesting work environment in which no one will be cost reduction and efficiency improvements, areas in which Wood hurt.
We are a global company with a global employment strategy Group has great experience and strength.
Larger customers appear and policies, and our focus is on employing, encouraging, training, to be continuing to make major project investment decisions based developing and supporting the best quality people, working in a safe on the strongly prevailing view that oil and gas prices will increase environment, around the world.
significantly in the medium term.
Operators around the world are finding it difficult to grow their reserves with ageing reservoirs, I believe we significantly achieve this and would like to thank, on high depletion rates and the growing complexity and cost of new behalf of the Board, all our people whose skills, commitment and developments.
These reserves are often located in countries with enthusiasm continue to drive our success and give us confidence higher levels of political and economic uncertainty and we have in our future.
I would also like to extend my personal thanks to my a long track record of managing operations in such countries.
Board, and to Allister Langlands and his executive management The International Energy Agency IEA is forecasting $8 trillion team who have led the company very successfully in 2008 and in oil & gas exploration investment between now and 2030.
A have the skills, commitment and expertise to ensure we continue to significant proportion of this will be in large deepwater and subsea perform in the current more challenging environment.
developments, areas in which Wood Group is a world leader.
We also believe we can use our growing knowledge and expertise Outlook in both carbon capture and storage and renewables to help our Wood Groups strong order book, our focus on production support, customers meet their growing environmental and climate change our good international spread and our high quality customer base objectives.
all stand us in good stead in these more challenging markets.
The a current market provides opportunities as well as challenges and we Overall, around 55% of our business is linked to supporting are focused on delivering innovative and creative solutions to achieve production and operations which is less sensitive to lower oil prices.
cost reduction and efficiency improvements for our customers.
The current market provides opportunities as well as challenges.
Longer term, we believe the fundamentals for oil & gas services Through innovative and creative solutions, we are working with our remain strong and we are well positioned to capitalise on our high customers to meet the challenge of much lower commodity prices differentiation and market leading positions to deliver good growth.
in the short term and, at the same time, will be very well placed to support the significant investment that will be applied as commodity prices strengthen.
Strategy Our strategy is to achieve long term sustainable growth by adding value to our customers operations with world leading, highly differentiated products and services.
Our strategy has four strands which are: to maintain a good balance between field developments and later cycle production support Sir Ian Wood, Chairman to grow and maintain market leading positions based on 2 March 2009 differentiated know-how to develop longer term customer relationships, often through performance based contracts, and to extend our services and broaden our international presence.
We believe this strategy positions us well through the oil & gas cycle, with good defensive qualities well balanced with opportunities for growth.
Our strong balance sheet position and recently extended bank facilities will enable us to continue to make value enhancing acquisitions and organic investments in order to emerge stronger from the downturn.
a The split of Wood Group revenue between customers capital expenditure capex and operating expenditure opex is based on management estimates and assumptions.
The estimates are subject to variations from year to year dependent on activity in the periods.
