Directors Report: Business Review Chairmans Statement Vladimir Kim Chairman 2008 was a solid operational year for the Group.
Production of copper, at 343 kt of copper cathode equivalent from our own mines, was slightly above 2007 and the target we set at the start of the year.
Our growth and diversification initiatives included the acquisition of Ekibastuz GRES-1, the largest power plant in Kazakhstan, and an increase in our holding in ENRC PLC to 26.0% 6 Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Directors Report: Business Review 2008 summary Our strategy 2008 was a solid operational year for the Group.
Our growth and diversication initiatives included Our long-term strategy remains the acquisition of Ekibastuz GRES-1, the largest power plant in unchanged: Kazakhstan, and an increase in our holding in ENRC PLC to 26.0%.
Good progress was made on the pre-feasibility studies at our major growth projects.
to optimise the performance External conditions changed signicantly during the year as the of our assets: problems that started in the financial markets spread to the wider economy.
These changes were seen in the copper price, which started the year at $6,666 per tonne, before reaching a high of to deliver our growth projects: $8,985 per tonne at the beginning of July.
Copper nished the year at $2,902 per tonne.
Despite solid production and sales, the to take advantage of natural reduction in price had a direct impact on revenues.
Volatile input prices also served to squeeze profit margins.
resource opportunities in Central Asia.
Strategy Our long-term strategy remains the same as that set at our Listing in 2005 to optimise the performance of our assets, For 2009 our primary focus is on deliver our growth projects and to take advantage of natural resource opportunities in Central Asia.
The strategy is being asset optimisation.
applied exibly, to take account of current conditions.
During 2009 the primary focus will be on the first part of our strategy, asset optimisation.
The aim is to conserve cash and ensure we believe that this holding diversies our earnings and presents the long-term growth and success of the Group.
We will reduce our capital expenditure in 2009 and will cut back In May 2008 we completed the purchase of the Ekibastuz GRES-1 or suspend production at operations where margins do not justify power station.
Combined with our three existing power plants, extraction of resources in the current price environment.
This will we are now the largest power provider in Kazakhstan, with over reduce copper output in 2009 but help maintain profit margins 20% of the countrys generating capacity.
Lower economic activity and preserve our resources.
We have begun a change management may impact demand in the Kazakh power market in 2009, but the programme within our Copper Division.
This programme will aim power market is typically more stable than commodity markets to further improve production techniques and reduce costs in and our low-cost position is attractive.
Longer term, we believe addition to those reductions already identied.
that the power sector has significant potential, with the need for higher tariffs to allow capital investment in power plants and Funding infrastructure.
Ekibastuz, with its significant dormant capacity, Balance sheet strength and credit availability have become areas is central to the future growth of the Kazakh power market.
of focus across stock markets.
At the end of the year, we reported In October 2008 we announced that we had signed a cash and deposits of $572 million plus an undrawn committed memorandum of understanding with Samruk-Energy JSC, the credit facility of $200 million.
Net debt was $1,628 million at Government investment company which invests in energy related the year end.
The intention is to consider a strategic partnership and 8.5 kt of copper product has been hedged for each month in joint ownership of Ekibastuz.
Such a partnership could bring benets 2009.
This is an action that the Group has not previously taken.
of access to additional coal resources and greater integration with These transactions will offset the negative impact if copper prices Kazakhstans energy development and transmission programmes.
fall below $3,000 per tonne, at the cost of sacrificing upside Should any agreement be reached, it will be subject to appropriate should the price rise above $4,000 per tonne.
Growth projects and diversication 2009 sales The major copper growth projects, at Aktogay and Boschekul, In 2009 our contracted sales of copper cathode, our principal have made good progress over the year, supported by Fluor product, should again be evenly split between Chinese and as consulting engineers.
Both projects will complete their European markets.
The successful completion in January 2009 pre-feasibility studies in the first half of 2009, at which point of the annual sales contracts with our customers, for material to they will be evaluated by the Board.
Neither project will incur be delivered in 2009, indicates that there is still demand for our significant cash expenditure in the current year.
products even in the current slow economic environment.
These contracts account for around 80% of anticipated production and We increased our holding in ENRC PLC and are now their largest are backed by some key long-term relationships.
I should like shareholder with a 26.0% stake compared to 14.6% at the start to thank our customers for their continued support.
Most of the increase resulted from a share swap with the Government of Kazakhstan, resulting in the Government Corporate and social responsibility becoming a shareholder of Kazakhmys, with an interest of 15%.
The success of our Group is principally due to the efforts of our ENRC is a major mining company, listed in London, but operating employees and on behalf of the Board I would again like to thank in Kazakhstan.
They have a different suite of metals from us, them for their support over the year.
In this challenging environment producing iron ore, aluminium and ferrochrome.
Longer term we have agreed with the Government of Kazakhstan to try to limit www.
com 7 Directors Report: Business Review Chairmans Statement continued redundancies that might arise from production cutbacks.
We Outlook believe this is in the best interests, and long-term success, We believe that the long-term outlook for copper is positive.
of the Group and will help social stability.
A significant number of new projects around the world are now unlikely to be delivered, which will reduce future supply and put It is disappointing to report that there has been an increase to 32 upward pressure on prices.
On the demand side, the wide range fatalities in 2008, compared to 23 in 2007.
2009 has had a poor of uses for copper gives it a strong base for long-term growth.
start to the year, with 8 fatalities to date.
Several initiatives are The Power Division also has excellent potential, with a clear need being developed, including the completion of the training school for capacity and tariffs to rise in Kazakhstan.
Our strategy remains in Satpayev and the appointment of several new specialists.
unchanged and Kazakhstan and Central Asia continue to offer Health and safety remains a key area of concern for the Board.
exceptional opportunities in the development of resources.
We continue to play a major role in the communities around us 2009 will undoubtedly be a challenging year and in the current and in 2008 spent $121 million on community related projects.
environment we are committed to pursuing our strategy and We have also carried out some major environmental initiatives, business management in a prudent manner, to conserve cash including the commissioning of an acid plant in Balkhash, which and to ensure that we are positioned to deliver value to all will reduce emissions.
At Ekibastuz we will be investing around of our stakeholders in the future.
$160 million on precipitators at the eight turbines, which again will improve air quality.
The Board In November we announced the appointment of Daulet Yergozhin to the Board, as a representative of the Government, following the share swap mentioned above.
In December we sadly announced the death of Jim Rutland, our Senior Independent Director and chairman of the Audit Committee.
Jim played a vital part in helping to prepare Kazakhmys for its IPO and, since Listing, in ensuring the Groups compliance with International Financial Reporting Standards and with the Combined Code on Corporate Governance.
On 5 March 2009 we announced the appointment of Peter Hickson as a non-executive Director and we will appoint a further non-executive Director in due course, to maintain the balance of the Board.
Share price and dividends As noted above, metal prices were higher in the first part of the year and this was reected in a dividend paid at the half year of 14.0 US cents per share.
Given the subsequent reduction in prices, the continued market uncertainty and the emphasis on conserving cash, the Board does not recommend the payment of a final dividend.
This is in keeping with the dividend policy set at the time of Listing, to take account of the profitability of the business and cash requirements.
Since Listing we have returned $1,349 million to shareholders, including a special dividend of $235 million and a share buy-back programme of $391 million commenced in 2007, when metal prices were higher.
The share price followed the trends in the copper price over the year, which is to be expected, as 98% of EBITDA from managed businesses excluding special items came from the Copper Division.
The share price was 231 pence at the end of 2008, compared to a high of 1,943 pence on 19 May 2008.
At 27 March 2009, our holding in ENRC PLC was worth $2.17 billion representing 73% of our total market capitalisation.
8 Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2008
