CHAIRMANS STATEMENT DR MICHAEL WEST I am pleased to report an excellent set of results for 2008 and to set out how the Group is responding to the current global recession.
Results Group revenue from continuing operations rose by 25% to 1,196.6m 2007: 955.1m, whilst our operating margin on the same basis was slightly down at 10.0% from the previous years all-time high of 11.2%, resulting in an operating profit of 119.4m 2007: 107.4m.
On a constant currency basis, revenue increased by 14% and operating profit was broadly flat.
Profit before tax from continuing operations was up 10% to 113.2m 2007: 103.2m and earnings per share from continuing operations grew by 14% to 111.1p 2007: 97.6p.
Cash flow and net debt Cash generated from operations was 138.4m 2007: 117.2m and cash conversion from continuing operations was 99% of EBITDA.
After net spend of 65.2m With our strong balance sheet, our broad on capital expenditure 2007: 47.1m and geographic spread and our reputation for safe, a total of 31.6m on acquisitions and share repurchases, net debt at the end of the reliable and profitable work, we are well placed year stood at 84.6m 2007: 54.5m.
The increase in capital expenditure enabled Dr Michael West, Chairman us to make further progress in improving the efficiency of our equipment fleets and extending our heavy foundations operations in Eastern Europe and the Middle East.
The Group has 225m of committed facilities which expire between 2010 and 2014 and we are operating very comfortably within all of the associated financial covenants.
Despite this strong financial position, cash management is a clear priority for the Group: we expect to reduce capital expenditure substantially in 2009 and we will continue our focus on careful management of working capital.
Dividends In February 2007, following a review of the Groups dividend policy, we indicated that we would increase the dividend by 15% per annum for the foreseeable future, subject to maintaining three times dividend cover.
The Board is therefore recommending a final dividend of 13.8p per share 2007: 12.0p which, together with the interim dividend paid of 6.9p 2007: 6.0p, brings the total dividend for the year to 20.7p, an increase of 15% on the previous years 18.0p.
Dividend cover for the year is 5.4x based 8 Keller Group plc Chairmans Statement on earnings per share from continuing 60 years, which may yet prove to be Our markets and competition operations 2007: 5.4x.
The final optimistic, with most of the countries in Local dividend will be paid on 29 May 2009 to which we operate being in recession.
At this Competition shareholders on the register at 1 May 2009. early stage in the year, it is difficult to predict Local competition is highly fragmented the severity of the impact which the global comprising many small businesses, often Strategy economic downturn will have on the Group.
family-owned, with limited equipment We remain focused on our strategy: to To a large extent, it will depend on the capacity and few or single product lines.
extend further our global leadership in success of the stimulus measures that have specialist ground engineering through both been taken by governments around the Types of project organic growth and targeted acquisitions.
world to assist construction markets by both Standard foundations for small to medium The successful implementation of this accelerating public infrastructure programmes structures, where ground conditions are strategy has delivered significant and unclogging credit markets so that relatively straightforward.
shareholder value over a number of years.
privately-financed projects can be resumed.
Kellers advantage in this segment Our regional structure and flexible The strong like-for-like organic growth of We are certainly encountering tougher organisation enables us to compete with 12% in 2008 was achieved by our dual conditions in almost all our markets and local players for small to medium sized approach: firstly, growing within our current we expect this to continue for some time.
We undertook around 8,000 geographic regions through the introduction We have also experienced a shift towards contracts last year, of which 85% had of new technologies and methods: and more publicly-financed projects, with private a value of less than 250,000. secondly, expanding into new geographic funding becoming increasingly scarce regions.
The first of these was achieved and, in general, we are seeing lead times National regional in larger countries through our continued investment in the between contract tender and award being such as US, Australia fastest-growing operations of the Group extended.
In this environment, we will Competition where we have successfully broadened our inevitably see a significant reduction in In Europe, competition is often owned product offering.
The second was reflected revenue in some countries although, at by general contractors.
In the US and Australia, these services are usually in delivering good reference projects and current exchange rates, currency translation outsourced.
Independent national building a reputation in our newest markets, benefits are likely to broadly offset the competitors tend to be privately owned.
such as Brazil, Greece and Romania.
decrease in local currency revenue.
Lower volumes, however, will inevitably lead to Types of project During the year, we made two further further pressure on margins.
As local markets, plus foundations for acquisitions: Olden in the US and Boreta larger structures and complex solutions for in the Czech Republic.
The acquisition On a constant currency basis, order intake more difficult ground conditions.
of Olden, with its specialist soil nailing in the last six months has been down by expertise, affords us the opportunity to around 20% on the previous six months.
Kellers advantage in this segment develop this product further in the US.
The The impact of this on the Group order book, We have a wide network of subsidiary Boreta acquisition adds heavy foundation however, has been substantially mitigated companies and branch offices employing products which complement the ground by the weakening of sterling over this local people with knowledge of: national building codes improvement and specialty grouting period.
Accordingly, at the end of January, local language and business culture techniques offered by our existing Czech our order book was around 10% below its local ground conditions.
business, representing another step in the January 2008 level on a constant currency development of our heavy foundations basis, but slightly ahead in sterling terms.
International business in Eastern Europe.
Competition In response to the tougher market Few competitors can claim to have a truly Our employees conditions, we have already reduced our global capability, strong financial credentials These excellent results would not have cost base in those parts of the Group and the ability to offer a full product range.
been possible without the hard work and which have been most affected.
We will skill of our employees, to whom I extend continue to take actions as necessary and Types of project the Boards thanks.
It is easy to say that our to focus on cash generation.
With our Very large scale, requiring capacity or people are our key asset.
Our commitment strong balance sheet, our broad geographic expertise which may not be available in-country.
Often direct foreign investment, is to match these words with action, by spread and our reputation for safe, where funders or clients choose to use maintaining a working environment in which reliable and profitable work, we are contractors with whom they have worked our employees are well respected, their well placed to weather the storm.
in other parts of the world.
talents can be nurtured and they have an opportunity to influence our future.
Dr Michael West Kellers advantage in this segment 2 March 2009 Largest independent operator with a Outlook global presence.
Able to follow known Global GDP growth is projected to fall customers into new geographic markets.
1 1 IMF, World Economic Outlook, January 2009 to just 0.5% in 2009, its lowest rate in Can pool resources and expertise from around the globe.
Chairmans Statement Keller Group plc 9
