CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Sir Ian Robinson Chairman tailoring regional sportsbook content in addition to launching the OddsOn!
loyalty Dear shareholder, In a year of difficult and deteriorating for example in the Nordic region.
card, delivered control of costs well within guidance.
The 2008 brand awareness poll economic conditions we are pleased to report We have sought to broaden the business a set of strong results in our core businesses.
suggests Ladbrokes continues to have outside Great Britain, with shop acquisitions the highest spontaneous brand awareness.
A huge amount of effort has gone into making in Northern Ireland and Italy, and we have the most of the businesses in our portfolio The introduction of our loyalty card is taken our first organic steps into Italy and designed to further improve this position.
and, as I explain in the strategy section below, Spain.
The focus in 2009 shall be about we have carefully gone about building these proving the concept before growing the Financially, we have given ourselves greater businesses for the longer term.
businesses further in those countries.
flexibility by taking early action in 2008 to sign an additional 185 million of committed Strategy Within the rest of the Group the focus is bank facilities, and to extend the duration upon operational efficiency and a key area for Our strategy remains broadly unchanged from of certain facilities to ensure a well-spread last year with the emphasis on creating longus remains costs.
In this regard we have debt maturity profile.
We remain in a strong made good progress, particularly in the UK.
term value across the Group.
For the UK estate we have expanded As an industry leader in betting and gaming, we also continue to focus on ensuring that our focus, from maximising the benefit of the operational changes introduced following commercial success is achieved in a socially In uncertain times like these, the responsible fashion and thus both Corporate the implementation of the Gambling Act importance of the governance in September 2007 e. g. extended winter Responsibility and governance issues are of the Group is elevated.
With given full consideration by the Board when evening opening, changes to machine over 100 years of plc board content and advertising, to encouraging defining strategy.
Our efforts in this area experience, more than 80 years have again been recognised by the growth in OTC staking through the launch of bookmaking experience of our loyalty card OddsOn!
This is a first Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes and FTSE4Good Indices.
and a full range of skills, I think in the industry and provides not only a way to promote brand loyalty and incentivise the Ladbrokes Board is well Performance customers but is also a tool for capturing equipped to steer the Group This year, in spite of the deteriorating economic data to allow us to better understand our through turbulent times.
climate, Group gross win, excluding High customers needs.
Rollers, increased by 11.1% to 1,143.9 million In eGaming we are successfully 1 with operating profit, excluding High Rollers, implementing our strategy of investment of 243.8 million, up 0.9% from 2007.
Whilst into new customer acquisition through, less than last year, profits from the High for example, television advertising in Rollers business of 80.1 million are a material the UK for Ladbrokesbingo.
com and 1 Profit before tax, finance costs and non-trading items source of cash flow to the Group.
com, growing our bettingfor continuing operations.
eGaming initiatives have performed, overall, 2 UK Gaming index includes Ladbrokes, William Hill, Rank, in-play offering and where appropriate as expected, whilst our UK Retail business, PartyGaming and 888.
06 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT In a year of difficult and deteriorating economic conditions we are pleased to report a set of strong results in our core businesses.
A huge amount of effort has gone into making the most of the businesses in our portfolio and, as I explain in the strategy section below, we have carefully gone about building these businesses for the longer term.
Shareholder returns a number of initiatives to ensure the UK Retail Overall Group gross win, excluding High The deteriorating economic conditions have business continues to perform well in what Rollers, has risen 1% in the first six weeks.
resulted in a decline in the equity markets.
He has High Rollers have also contributed 24 million There have, in general, been additional market senior executive experience in retail of operating profit in the year to date.
concerns over consumer-facing companies, management and brings to the Board The prevailing economic conditions are with betting and gaming companies subject considerable expertise.
expected to remain challenging throughout to such sentiment.
Our total shareholder After 38 years with the Company Alan Ross, 2009 and the Board remains vigilant for return TSR performance over 2008 -40% Corporate Development Director, will not signs of any impact.
2 was in line with the UK Gaming index -41%.
be standing for re-election to the Board For the five year historical TSR performance at the AGM and will retire from the Company The Ladbrokes team on 19 July 2009.
We thank him for his major The Group has changed markedly during against the FTSE250 see page 39. contribution over the years.
Alan will continue my eight years as Chairman, the most notable This year the Board has recommended to act as a consultant to the Group sharing event being the reunification of the Hilton a final dividend of 9.05 pence per share, his extensive knowledge of the industry.
International business with Hilton Hotels payable on 1 June 2009 to shareholders Corporation and the resultant capital return The Company complied throughout the year on the register on 27 February 2009. of 4.2 billion to our shareholders.
I have The final dividend, together with the interim with all the provisions set out in the Combined witnessed the Ladbrokes business grow from Code on corporate governance.
In uncertain dividend of 5.10 pence per share, gives being simply a division within the Group, with a total dividend of 14.15 pence per share.
times like these, the importance of the gross win of approximately 500 million, to its governance of the Group is elevated.
With current stand alone plc status with 1.2 billion Governance over 100 years of plc board experience, more of gross win.
It has extended its retail Following the AGM in May 2009 I shall be than 80 years of bookmaking experience and presence in Ireland, Italy and Spain and has stepping down from the Board.
Peter Erskine, a full range of skills, I think the Ladbrokes established itself as a world-leading provider former Chief Executive of O2 plc and board Board is well equipped to steer the Group of online betting and gaming services.
This member of Telefnica SA, joined the Ladbrokes through turbulent times.
performance is testament to the continued Board as a non-executive director in January effort of Chris Bell, the Executive team and Current trading and outlook 2009 and will take over as Chairman on my all our employees I would like to thank retirement.
Peter has an extensive international In the first six weeks of 2009 the UK and Irish them all for their skill and hard work.
Retail estates have inevitably been af marketing background, experience of building fected brand-led businesses and a deserved by the unusually high number of horserace reputation for creating shareholder value, abandonments.
In addition the OTC margin which is welcomed by the Board.
was one percentage point lower than 2008. eGaming has made a good start to the year In January 2009 we welcomed Richard Ames, with continuing growth in net gaming revenue Managing Director, UK & Ireland Retail to and the successful migration onto the the Board.
Richard joined the Company Microgaming poker network last week.
19 February 2009 in January 2005 and since that time has led Annual Report and Accounts 2008 07
