Governance Chairmans statement Another important feature this year has been Dear Shareholder, our determination to re finance our outstanding 2008 was a year marked with borrowings as promptly as possible, given change, both at Logica and in the restricted availability of funds as a result the external environment we of the credit crunch.
Following our successful re nancing of 500 million of debt in faced as a company.
November 2008, we had a dialogue with our At Logica, Andy Green became CEO largest shareholders directly in December and in January 2008, and has made some were very pleased by their positive and rapid major changes to the business.
He has response, which led to our raising 90 million introduced a new strategy for the Group, of new equity.
reinvigorated the top management team, At the same time, in order to underpin our enhanced the morale of our employees balance sheet, we proposed a rebasing of and given our customers reasons for the dividend to a lower level of around 3.0p additional con dence in Logica.
In addition, per share for both 2008 and 2009 compared financial performance has improved with to 5.8p in 2007.
This will conserve around revenue growth up 5%, and adjusted 56 million in cash over the course of 2009. operating margin up from 6.9% in 2007 We expect to return the Company to a to 7.5% in 2008. progressive dividend policy thereafter.
David Tyler I would like to thank all our employees for The AGM in April will mark the retirement Chairman, Logica their contribution to our progress this year.
from the Board of Non-Executive Directors In the face of the economic downturn, Wim Dik and Grard Philippot.
I would like to the IT services market is becoming tougher.
thank them very much for their wise counsel However, we see evidence that European over their many years in the Company and Dividend companies and governments will continue particularly for their assistance in the last to need the IT skills we bring to them.
18 months in building one united Logica.
We aim to make Logica a stronger European I am delighted that Sergio Giacoletto and company which creates innovative and Frdric Rose have agreed to join the Logica practical solutions tailored to the needs Board to replace Wim and Grard.
These new of our customers and responsive to the Directors, whose biographies are on page 37, 3.
We believe we are deepen our focus on our European 2007: 5.8p capable of competing effectively against geographies, customers and partners.
They will also bring signi cant strategic and We want to create a partnership style commercial experience to the Board based culture among the senior management group on many years in senior executive positions at Logica.
This is designed to ensure that this in innovative services businesses.
critical group of people take full responsibility Developments in early 2009 have for running the business on behalf of shareholders demonstrated the importance shareholders and to align their rewards accordingly.
The place on strong governance and on introduction of the concept of Logica Partners companies that continue to look ahead and affects both the way careers are managed respond to a changing environment.
These and the way Partners are paid through a remain our guiding principles at Logica for Partners Incentive Plan and a Performance 2009 and beyond.
Out of our 40,000 employees, we have now chosen some 200 to be Partners including 25 Managing and Executive Partners.
They are all eligible to participate in the Partners Incentive Plan, which was established with effect from January 2008.
David Tyler An integral part of the Partners Incentive Plan Chairman is the Performance Multiplier Plan which will provide additional awards to Managing and Executive Partners for the achievement of ambitious EPS targets.
We will be seeking formal approval for the Performance Multiplier Plan at the AGM in April.
See page 23 for fide nitions.
