02 Chairmans Statement Dear Shareholders, Ian has overseen an initial review of the operations I am writing to you against a backdrop of extraordinary focusing on improving performance and maximising conditions in both the credit and commodity markets, value for Lonmin shareholders.
This review has which have created exceptional challenges for the identified a number of opportunities, which are being mining industry.
energetically pursued, for reducing our cost base and rationalising our operations.
This will ensure that we Market Overview are only mining ounces which are profitable and that Along with other commodities, the pricing environment our cost base is right-sized accordingly.
Ian has also for PGMs has changed dramatically during the year.
streamlined our management structure to give greater In the early part of the year, Platinum pricing focus to the operational areas and ensure that the peaked at around US$2,200 in March 2008, mainly operations have much greater control over and as a result of supply side challenges arising from the accountability for central services.
In his first Chief on-going power supply concerns and the growing Executives Review in this Annual Report, Ian has number of industry safety stoppages, alongside a outlined the actions he is taking to re-establish strong demand environment.
However, the Platinum Lonmins credibility through delivery of its production price declined significantly from its peak to around commitments.
US$1,000 per ounce at the end of September 2008 I would like to take this opportunity to express and has since fallen to much lower levels.
This steep my gratitude to Brad Mills for his contribution to the fall in prices was, we believe, mainly a result of the Company since 2004.
During this period, we were increasingly negative outlook for the automotive sector awarded our New Order Mining Licence for our and the forced liquidation of investment holdings.
Marikana operations, we achieved and maintained a Whilst we expect the pricing environment to continue world class safety record and significantly advanced to be unpredictable in the short term, we are confident our sustainability credentials.
that the positive balance between supply and demand in the PGM sector will return in due course.
Xstrata plc The cost situation in South Africa continued to Towards the end of the financial year Xstrata plc worsen during the year, with inflation in the mining announced a proposed pre-conditional offer for sector for both operating costs and capital projects Lonmin.
However, Xstrata later withdrew its proposal, continuing to accelerate.
Lonmin remains one of the citing uncertainty in the financial markets.
Consequently, lowest cost producers of PGMs and we are focusing despite the material distraction caused to the business on both productivity and cost saving initiatives to as a result of this situation, no offer capable of ensure we retain this low cost advantage against the acceptance was put to Lonmins Board or shareholders.
backdrop of short term weak metal prices.
Dividend Although we have reported significant profits for Board Changes At the end of the financial year, Ian Farmer was 2008, our profitability and cash flows are highly geared to PGM prices and we enter 2009 with prices appointed as Lonmins new Chief Executive Officer.
Ian has been with the Company for over 20 years and of PGMs considerably below those prevailing during 2008.
As a result, our profitability and cash flows will has extensive knowledge of the Platinum industry, as well as significant experience within the South African come under pressure despite the Company taking environment.
The Board is confident that Ian is the immediate measures to address its cost base.
right person to lead Lonmin through the next stage Our balance sheet remains strong and our lines of our development.
Our confidence in the longer term potential of Lonmin, the quality of its assets and the excellent fundamentals of the PGM industry remains unchanged.
The main focus of the Lonmin management team has been on starting to address the operational challenges which have impacted our ability to deliver our targeted production.
Overview Review of Operations Financial Review Sustainable Development Review Governance Accounts Operating Statistics Sir John Craven Chairman The long term demand 03 fundamentals for Platinum and other PGMs remain attractive and the Boards primary focus continues to be on delivering value for all our shareholders.
However, the Board has reviewed the final For the 2009 financial year, we are targeting dividend for the 2008 financial year and, given the Platinum sales to be broadly in line with that achieved continuing difficulties in both the PGM and credit in the 2008 financial year.
We are targeting our Randmarkets, it is right that a conservative stance is taken.
based gross operating costs for the year to increase In light of this and, despite our sound financial at a rate well below South African inflation and capital position, a decision has been taken to pass the final spend of $250 million for the financial year.
An interim dividend for 2008 of 59 cents per The long term demand fundamentals for Platinum share was paid on 8 August 2008 which, with no final and other PGMs remain attractive and the Boards dividend, will become the total dividend for the year.
key priority continues to be delivering value for all our The Board will review this matter and will resume shareholders, through improving our operational dividend payments as soon as conditions allow.
performance and creating a culture of delivery.
Our policy remains that dividend distributions are Employees Partners based on the reported earnings for the year, but I would like to thank the management and employees take into account the projected cash requirements of Lonmin for their hard work and dedication during of the business.
what has been an exceptionally challenging twelve Outlook months.
Recent unprecedented developments in world Finally, we look forward to continuing to work financial and economic markets have had a closely with Incwala Resources, our Black Economic substantial impact on PGM and other commodity Empowerment partner, in which we hold a 24% stake.
prices and we expect these volatile conditions to continue in the short term.
However, the Board is confident that Lonmin, with its high quality asset base, low cost position and strong balance sheet, will be able to withstand Sir John Craven these short term pressures.
Our liquidity position is Chairman sound, our gearing is 12% and our banking relationships remain strong and secure.
In addition, 17 November 2008 the action plans we are implementing will ensure the Company will be in a strong position when the PGM markets recover.
