C H A I R M A N S S TAT E M E N T During 2008, Anglo Platinum made good progress in building the teams and systems it needs to address operational challenges and the challenges presented by the current global economic crisis.
In taking action, we have addressed shortFred Phaswana term issues while remaining mindful of the long-term strategy.
Highlights during this turbulent year included a marked improvement in employee safety, record profits, the appointment of our new CEO and the implementation of a unique employee shareAnglo Platinum total ownership scheme.
rened platinum production 000 oz 3,000 2,500 Anglo Platinums record financial performance in 2008, for the third consecutive year, was chiefly the result of exceptionally high platinum group metal prices in the first half of the year.
The global 2,000 economic crisis followed a period of high demand and had a major impact on the platinum business.
1,500 At the beginning of the year, the price of platinum rose to over US$2,300 per ounce: within six months, it had dropped to below US$800 per ounce.
1,000 500 Anglo Platinum has responded to the reduction in short-term demand and will maintain production production in 2009 at the same level as that in 2008.
We have also adapted to the low price 0 04 05 06 07 08 environment and have slowed down our capital projects to limit our capital expenditure: and focused on managing our costs and improving our productivity so as to reduce operating costs.
Management is implementing a wide range of retrenchment avoidance measures that, we believe, will enable us to avoid retrenchment of our full-time employees.
However, should economic conditions deteriorate further such action may be unavoidable.
ANGLO PLATINUM LIMITED 2 0 0 8 4 I am pleased to note the ongoing cooperation between Anglo Platinum and the Department of Minerals and Energy and the progress made in 2008 towards completing the mineral rights conversion process.
An important milestone was the implementation of an innovative broad-based share participation scheme for employees.
The cooperation between employer, employees and unions in reaching agreement on the terms of the scheme was evidence of the Companys efforts to enhance stakeholder relationships at every level.
SAFETY PERFORMANCE Regrettably 17 employees died at Anglo Platinum operations during 2008.
I extend the Boards condolences to the families, friends and colleagues of the deceased.
The number of deaths in 2008 is significantly lower than that in 2007, when 25 employees lost their lives, but remains far from our goal of zero fatalities.
The Board fully supports the safety initiatives in place to achieve zero harm in every Anglo Platinum workplace.
The launch of our new values and culture project will address the link between attitude and safe or unsafe acts, and will increase mutual care and respect in the workplace.
We are encouraged by the material reduction in 2008, in the rate at which injuries occurred.
I believe that the executive team is well placed to enhance further the excellent initiatives already under way.
Anglo Platinum actively participates in safety programmes within the Anglo American group and benefits from the extensive sharing of knowledge associated with this.
OUR LEADERSHIP In 2008, Anglo Platinum welcomed Neville Nicolau as the new CEO.
I wish to take this opportunity to thank Norman Mbazima and Duncan Wanblad for their fine stewardship of the company while we searched for a new CEO.
We are confident that Nevilles experience in mining operations, and his focus on safety, will position the company for solid performance in the future.
There were several changes in the membership of Anglo Platinums Board in 2008.
Norman Mbazima and Duncan Wanblad resigned following the successful completion of their terms as acting co-chief executives.
Philip Baum resigned in September 2008, and Anthony Redman retired at the end of the year.
We also welcomed new members to the Board.
Kuseni Dlamini, Head of Anglo American South Africa, joined the board as a non-executive director in September 2008.
Mohammed Valli Moosa and Sonja Sebotsa were appointed independent, non-executive directors in January.
Bongani Nqwababa, the new Executive Director: Finance of Anglo Platinum, joined the board on 1 January 2009.
The global economy and the markets The global economic downturn in 2008 has had a profoundly negative impact on our business.
Amid the current global uncertainty, it is worth reflecting on the unique attributes of the platinum business and how these have influenced the steps taken by the Board and by management towards the end of 2008.
ANGLO PLATINUM LIMITED 2 0 0 8 5 C H A I R M A N S S TAT E M E N T Global platinum production is derived primarily from underground hard-rock mining, with lead times of several years from investment to platinum production.
Beyond short-term concerns, it remains necessary to manage the business with regard to long-term demand expectations.
Platinum remains a strategic industrial and premier jewellery metal and the long-term fundamentals of the platinum industry remain sound.
However, the short-term decline in demand required action.
Maintaining flat production in 2009, at the 2008 level of 2.4 million ounces, is expected to result in supply that is more in line with near-term demand levels.
Together with mediumto long-term productivity improvements, short-term cost reduction and capital management are essential in keeping the business sound, particularly in the current environment.
STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT AND CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP The Board believes that stakeholder engagement, and particularly community engagement, is critical to business success.
The risk of strained community relations is to be expected during the process of community resettlement, and the Motlhotlo resettlement has been no exception.
Overall, the planned resettlement has progressed well, with 883 of 956 families over 90% successfully resettled.
However, a small number of community members, with the support of an NGO, made a number of unfounded accusations against Anglo Platinum, which led to an investigation by the South African Human Rights Commission.
Although the commission found that there had been no violations of human rights on the part of the Company, Anglo Platinum nevertheless used the process to re-examine and enhance aspects of its policies and practices for community engagement.
IN CLOSING Global economic uncertainty and its associated impacts on the platinum business are likely to prevail in the near term.
Management and the Board will face tough decisions as they strive to ensure that the business adapts to the current environment but, at the same time, remains able to maximise the value of Anglo Platinums excellent assets.
We will intensify our efforts to put measures in place to achieve zero harm.
In this regard, we have improved our safety, health and environmental policy after an extensive review, and will re-launch it early in 2009.
With a new CEO at the helm, a solid leadership team in place, and high quality staff throughout the organisation focused on safety and productivity, I am confident that Anglo Platinum will be able to weather this current crisis and retain its position as the worlds leading platinum producer Fred Phaswana Chairman Johannesburg 5 February 2009 ANGLO PLATINUM LIMITED 2 0 0 8 6 Construction of the tank house at RBMR.
