4 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC Chairmans foreword Your dividend 22.5p 8.3p 14.2p Total dividend Interim dividend Final dividend Lord Burns This is my final report to you as Chairman, and Im pleased to report that while the market has become tougher in the second half, it has been a good year for M&S.
profits are up: our plan remains rmly on track: and we end 2007 08 as a stronger, more competitive business than for many years.
As a result, we report an increase in your dividend of 23% to 22.5p and an increase in adjusted earnings per share EPS of 7.9% to 43.6p.
The work done over the last four years in getting the basics independent Deputy Chairman and the search for a new right has enabled us to deliver good results despite difficult independent non-executive director is underway.
However, the trading environment remains introduced annual voting for Stuarts reappointment starting uncertain and we need the right management in place to this year, and are also considering recruiting a further new take us forward.
To see a copy of this letter go to marksandspencer.
com thecompany For these reasons, the Board concluded that it would be in the best interests of the business to retain Sir Stuart Rose You may notice certain changes to this years report, resulting in a leadership role until 2011.
We also wanted to prepare for from the new Companies Act 2006.
Shareholders were given a smooth transition to a new Chief Executive before Stuarts a choice of formats in which to receive our report, and we were eventual departure, and more generally, to ensure continuity pleased that so many have opted to read it online, enabling in a business that has experienced a great deal of change in us to reduce our environmental impact.
With greater emphasis recent years.
on online reporting, weve created a much improved website, which you can see at We decided that these objectives could best be achieved marksandspencer.
com annualreport08 by Stuart taking up the position of Executive Chairman.
He explains on page 6 how this will enable him to continue to I have enjoyed my time with M&S.
significant progress has drive the business forward, while giving others greater scope been made as the business has continued to be transformed to demonstrate their talents and leadership ability.
in the eyes of customers, employees and the wider world.
I am confident that our strong Board, and plan for long-term Although the decision to retain Stuart until 2011 has growth, puts M&S on course for a successful future.
received widespread support, there has been some criticism of combining the roles of Chairman and Chief Executive.
We remain strongly of the view that this was the only practical way to secure his extended term, and is the right decision for M&S.
As I explained in detail in the letter sent to all shareholders on 3 April 2008, we have put in place a number of safeguards to mitigate the governance concerns arising from Stuarts new Lord Burns role.
These include the appointment of Sir David Michels as Chairman
