46 MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 Corporate governance report continued LEADERSHIP Our governance framework as at 31 December 2014: Board of directors Sir Colin Terry Chairman Three executive directors Six independent non-executive directors Creating and delivering sustainable shareholder value Board committees Remuneration Audit Nominations Six independent Six independent Chairman, Chief Executive and six non-executive directors non-executive directors independent non-executive directors Determines the reward strategy for the Monitors the integrity of the Groups Ensures the Board and senior management executive directors and senior financial statements and the effectiveness team have the appropriate skills, knowledge management, to align their interests with of the external and internal auditors and experience to operate effectively and to those of the shareholders deliver the Groups strategy Ethics and trade compliance Finance Chairman Succession Chairman, one non-executive director Three executive directors This committee existed during 2014 and three executive directors and Chief Operating Officer but not at the year end Independent non-executive directors Ensures the implementation and application Approves treasury-related activity, Select and interview candidates and of the Ethics and Business Conduct and insurance, and other matters delegated to recommend candidate to the Board Trade Compliance policies and programmes it by the Board Management committees Executive Board Operations Board Commercial Committee Three executive directors, the Chief The Chief Operating Officer Three executive directors, Chief Operating Officer and four senior and five divisional presidents Operating Officer and two Executive functional executives Board members Assists the Chief Executive with the Assists the Chief Operating Officer to Reviews approves bids and proposals development and implementation of the manage the Groups operations and and any other commercial activity Groups strategy, the management of the discharge the responsibilities delegated business and the discharge of by the Executive Board responsibilities delegated by the Board 93987 p46-54.
indd 46 04 03 2015 17:02 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 47 The role of the Board executive directors.
The Chairman holds meetings with other The Board retains full and effective control of the Group and non-executive directors without executive directors present.
is collectively responsible for its success.
It sets the Groups The Chairman is responsible for ensuring directors receive strategy, ensures appropriate resources are in place to achieve accurate, timely and clear information and is satisfied that the Groups objectives and reviews performance regularly.
effective communication, principally by the Chief Executive The Board is responsible for setting the Groups values and and Chief Financial Officer, is undertaken with shareholders.
standards and for ensuring obligations to shareholders, The Chairman agrees a personalised approach to the training employees and other stakeholders are met.
and development of each director and reviews this regularly.
A Schedule of Matters Reserved for the Board updated in 2012 sets out the matters on which the Board must make the final Senior Independent Director decisions.
These include, for example, changes to the Groups The role of Mr Williams, as Senior Independent Director, is to: capital structure and capital allocation policy, acquisitions and Make himself available to shareholders if they have concerns disposals above a certain threshold and approval of results that cannot be resolved through normal channels: announcements, annual reports and dividends.
If a decision is Chair the Nominations Committee when it is considering the not reserved for the Board, authority lies, in accordance with Chairman of the Boards succession, however Mr Williams authorisation policies and terms of reference, with a Board didnot Chair the Nominations Committee for the recent committee, a management committee, the Chief Executive or Chairman succession process because he was a candidate other executive director, Chief Operating Officer, divisional forthe role.
The chairman selection process employed in 2014 president or site director.
is outlined in more detail on page 54: and Board membership and attendance during 2014 Meet with the non-executive directors at least once a year The Board met eight times in 2014, attendance for which is to appraise the Chairmans performance.
Non-executive directors Meetings The non-executive directors play a full part by challenging eligible Meetings executive management and contributing to the development Name Title to attend attended ofthe Groups strategy.
Sir Colin Terry Chairman 8 8 Mr G S Berruyer Non-executive director 8 8 The non-executive directors scrutinise the performance 1 Mr P G Cox Non-executive director 8 8 ofexecutive management and monitor the reporting of the 2 Ms A J P Goligher Non-executive director 2 2 Groups performance, the integrity of financial information Mr P E Green Corporate Affairs Director 8 8 and the effectiveness of financial controls and risk management systems.
Mr P Heiden Non-executive director 8 8 Ms B L Reichelderfer Non-executive director 8 8 The non-executive directors are responsible for determining 3 Mr D A Robins Non-executive director 2 2 appropriate levels of remuneration for executive directors and Mr D R Webb Chief Financial Officer 8 8 participating in the selection and recruitment of new directors Mr D M Williams Non-executive director 8 8 and succession planning.
Mr S G Young Chief Executive 8 8 The terms and conditions of appointment of non-executive 1 Resigned 31 January 2015 directors are available for inspection at the Companys 2 Appointed 30 October 2014 registered office during normal business hours.
3 Resigned 7 May 2014 Chairman Company Secretary Sir Colin Terry met the independence criteria on appointment The appointment and removal of the Company Secretary as Chairman on 1 July 2004.
Sir Nigel Rudd will join the Board isamatter for the Board.
on 1 March 2015, initially as a non-executive director and Deputy Chairman, becoming Chairman at the end of the The work of the Board in 2014 Annual General Meeting AGM on 23 April 2015 upon Sir Colin The Board approved the appointment of Ms Goligher as anonTerrys retirement from the Board and as Chairman.
Sir Nigel executive director and Sir Nigel Rudd as non-executive director Rudd will meet the independence criteria on appointment and Deputy Chairman to become Chairman at the conclusion of asChairman.
The Board visited several facilities and received regular reports from executive management on The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive are separate strategy and business performance, financial performance and a clear division of responsibilities has been approved including treasury activity and corporate affairs including andagreed in writing by the Board.
These were reviewed risk, legal and compliance.
andupdated by the Board in 2013.
The Board implemented enhancements to its 2014 The Chairman is responsible for i setting the Boards programmeas a result of the evaluation of the Board agenda: ii ensuring that adequate time is available for undertakenin 2013, including: discussion of agenda items, including strategic issues: iii leading the Board: and iv ensuring its effectiveness.
An update and Board discussion on Group strategy, focusing The Chairman facilitates the contribution of non-executive on technology, aftermarket and operations: directors and oversees the relationship between them and the 93987 p46-54.
indd 47 04 03 2015 17:02 48 MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 Corporate governance report continued Greater focus on risk, including a session to review and Each of these Committees written terms of reference were approve the Groups risk appetite.
reviewed and updated in 2014 by the Board.
These are available on our website.
All Committee chairmen report orally on the The Board received and discussed: proceedings of their Committees at the next meeting of the The Groups budget for 2015: Board.
Where appropriate, the Committee chairmen make recommendations to the Board on appropriate matters, for Business unit and functional updates and presentations example, the fairness, balance and understandability of the onsenior executive succession, operations, IT security, Annual Report.
Further details of the composition and operation andinvestor relations: of these Committees are set out in the Audit Committee, Reports on internal control, risk management and Nominations Committee and Directors remuneration reports.
goingconcern: and Appointments to the Board Reports on the activities of its committees.
There is a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the The Board reviewed and approved: appointment of new directors.
Full details of the process for appointments made during the year are available in the The 2013 Annual Report and Accounts, the 2013 full-year Nominations Committee report set out on page 54. results announcement and the 2014 interim results announcement: Commitment Interim management statements released in May The letters of appointment for the Chairman and non-executive andNovember 2014: directors set out the expected time commitment required of them and are available for inspection during normal business Recommendations to shareholders on the final dividend hours at the Companys registered office and at the AGM.
payment for the year ended 31 December 2013 and Othersignificant commitments of the Chairman and nonapproved the interim dividend payment for the year executive directors are disclosed on appointment and ended31December 2014: requireapproval thereafter.
The Groups risk appetite and risk register: In 2014, the Chairman became a non-executive director of The appointment of a second corporate broker: Aveillant Limited.
Sir Colin confirmed that he continues to have sufficient time to discharge his role as Chairman of the Board.
The decision to commence a share buyback programme: Mr Philip Cox was appointed as non-executive director and Fees payable to the Groups auditors and a recommendation chairman designate of Drax Group plc with effect from 1 January to shareholders on their reappointment: 2015 and, as a result of the additional time commitments required, resigned as a non-executive director of the Company Amended terms of reference for all Board committees: and with effect from 31 January 2015.
Revisions to the Groups share dealing rules, health and safetyand trade compliance policies.
Development The Board is supplied with the information it needs to discharge Since the year-end, up to the date of the Annual Report, the its duties.
Board has approved the 2014 Annual Report and Accounts, the2014 full-year results announcement and the proposed In 2014, Ms Alison Goligher joined the Board and has since had finaldividend for the year ended 31 December 2014. meetings with other directors, senior management, auditors, brokers and other professional advisors, as well as site visits and During the year, no unresolved concerns were recorded in the a comprehensive induction pack.
Sir Nigel Rudd will commence a Boards minutes.
similar induction process in March 2015 following his appointment to the Board.
The Board will continue to enhance Effectiveness the induction process as feedback is received and incorporated from the recently recruited directors.
The Company Secretary Composition facilitates the induction of new directors and assists with The Board considers it has a good balance of executive professional development where required.
and non-executive directors, is of an appropriate size and includes the independence, skills, experience and knowledge Directors are encouraged to update their skills regularly and to enable the directors to discharge their respective duties and their training needs are assessed as part of the Board evaluation responsibilities effectively.
Their knowledge and familiarity with the Group is are considered independent under the Code.
facilitated by access to senior management, reports on the business and site visits.
Resources are available to all directors All non-executive directors other than the Chairman are for the purposes of developing and updating their knowledge members of the Audit and Remuneration Committees on andcapabilities.
All non-executive directors are asked to join the Nominations Committee on appointment.
Chairmanship of Information and support Committees is considered during discussions on composition and The Chairman is responsible for ensuring the directors receive succession.
No one other than Committee chairmen and accurate, timely and clear information.
The Company Secretary members are entitled to attend the meetings, although others can is responsible for ensuring good information flows within the be invited.
Committee chairmen, members and regular meeting Board and Committees and between senior management and invitees are noted in the respective Committee reports below.
The Board members have regular 93987 p46-54.
indd 48 04 03 2015 17:02 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 49 discussions about their information and support requirements, Process controlsfor example financial controls including and are involved in setting the annual Board schedule.
the Group Financial Policies and Procedures Manual, bid approvals, programme management and execution, The Board and its Committees have been provided with sufficient ITsecurity and risk management.
The risk management resources to undertake their duties.
All directors have had process enables the Group to identify, evaluate and manage access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary the principal risks faced by the Group and this process was who is responsible to the Board for advising on all governance inplace for 2014 and up to the date of approval of the Annual matters.
The Board allows all directors to take external Report and has been regularly reviewed by the Board: and independent professional advice at the Groups expense.
The forecasting, budget and strategic plan processes.
Board performance evaluation The Group has programmes for insurance and business In 2014, the Board evaluated its own effectiveness, together continuity which form part of the risk management and with the effectiveness of the Chairman, individual directors, its internalcontrol framework.
Committees, auditors and remuneration advisers and agreed its objectives for 2015.
The effectiveness reviews covered The following features of the internal control framework allow strategy, risk management, the annual Board schedule, the Group to monitor the effective implementation of policy and composition, succession, the appointment process, diversity, process controls by business units: remuneration, audit and open channels of communication.
A business performance review process including financial, operational and compliance performance : The 2014 evaluation of the Board and its Committees was undertaken internally, using questionnaires and group and Annual business unit and divisional sign-off of compliance individual discussions.
The Board continues to be thoroughly with Group policies and processes: engaged with the review process, and the main findings and Compliance programmes and external audits including trade recommendations of the 2014 evaluation relate to further compliance, ethics, anti-corruption, health, safety and developing our succession planning and administrative matters environmental : relating to the issue of papers.
The Board noted that progress had been made in areas selected for improvement in 2013.
An effective internal audit function which, primarily, performs business unit reviews by rotation including finance, IT, HR, It is anticipated that the 2015 evaluation will be ethics and the bid process : and .
A whistleblowing line to enable employees to raise concerns.
Accountability The Board and Audit Committee applied the following processesin 2014 and up to the date of approval of the Annual Financial and business reporting Report in order to review the effectiveness of the system The financial statements contain an explanation of the directors ofinternal controls: responsibilities in preparing the Annual Report and the financial statements pages 78 to 79 and a statement by the auditors Reviews of the risk management process, risk register concerning their responsibilities page 84.
The directors also andrisk appetite: report that the business is a going concern page 37 and detail Written and verbal reports to the Audit Committee from how the Group generates and preserves value over the longer internal and external audit on progress with internal term the business model and the Groups strategy for delivering controlactivities, including: its objectives in the Strategic report pages 1 to 41. reviews of business processes and activities, including Risk management and internal control action plans to address any identified control weaknesses The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal and recommendations for improvements to controls control and for maintaining and reviewing its financial and orprocesses: operational effectiveness.
The Board has taken into account the the results of internal audits: guidance provided by the FRC on Risk Management, Internal internal control recommendations made by the Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting in 2014 in externalauditors: and reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups risk management and follow-up actions from previous internal control internal control systems.
The system of internal control is recommendations: designed to manage, but not to eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and to provide reasonable, but not Regular compliance reports from the Corporate Affairs absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Director: Regular reports on the state of the business fromthe Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer: The Groups functions are responsible for determining Group A presentation on IT security activities and plans: policies and processes, and businesses are responsible for implementing them, with internal and or external audits to Strategy reviews, review of the ten year financial plan confirm business unit compliance.
The key features of the risk andreview and approval of the 2015 budget: management and internal control system are described below, Written report to the Ethics and Trade Compliance Committee including those relating to the financial reporting process, as on the effectiveness of whistleblowing procedures: and required under the Disclosure and Transparency Rules: Reports on insurance coverage and uninsured risks.
Group policieskey policies are approved by the Board and most other policies are approved by Group functions: 93987 p46-54.
indd 49 04 03 2015 17:02 50 MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 Corporate governance report continued The risk management and internal control systems have been in Constructive use of the Annual General Meeting place for the year under review and up to the date of approval of The Board uses the AGM to communicate with its shareholders.
the Annual Report, and are regularly reviewed by the Board.
Proxy appointment forms for each resolution provide The Board monitors executive managements action plans to shareholders with the option to direct their proxy to vote for or implement improvements in internal controls that have been against resolutions or to withhold their vote.
All proxy votes for, identified following the above-mentioned reviews and reports.
against and withheld are counted by the Companys Registrars The Board confirms that it has not been advised of any significant and the level of voting for, against and withheld on each failings or weaknesses in the Groups internal controls.
resolution is made available after the meeting and on the Groups website.
The proxy form and the voting results announcement make it clear that a vote withheld is not a vote in law and will not Remuneration be counted in the calculation of the proportion of votes for and The Directors remuneration report is set out on pages 55 to 75 against the resolution.
and provides details of our remuneration policy which was approved at our AGM in 2014, and how it has been implemented Separate resolutions are proposed at the AGM on substantially in 2014, together with the activities of the Remuneration separate issues and there is a resolution relating to the financial Committee.
The Notice of AGM and related papers are sent to shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
Relations with shareholders Meggitt encourages shareholders to vote at the AGM and The Group values its dialogue with institutional and private provides a facility for electronic proxy voting.
are not CREST members can vote online on resolutions proposed at the AGM via our website, after voting has opened.
Proxy cards The Board communicates with private investors via direct contain further details on how and when to vote and further communication with our Group Head of Investor Relations and information for CREST members.
the Company Secretary, material distributed or made available on the investor relations section of our website and at the AGM The respective Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and see below.
Nominations Committees are available at the AGM to respond to questions.
It is usual for all other directors to also attend.
Effective communication with fund managers, institutional investors and analysts about the Groups strategy, performance At the AGM to be held on 23 April 2015, shareholders consent and policies is promoted by meetings involving, principally, the will be sought on the following item of special business, in Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer.
The Board receives addition to the routine business: on the authority to convene reports from the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer general meetings on 14 clear days notice in accordance with the and the Head of Investor Relations on the views of shareholders, Articles on the terms set out in the Notice of Meeting.
All directors are subject to election by shareholders at the first The Chairman and other non-executive directors are available AGM after their appointment and have been subject to re-election to attend meetings with shareholders, and a specific letter was annually since 2012 in compliance with the Code.
All directors in issued to major shareholders after the AGM in 2014, offering a office at the date of the AGM 23 April 2015 will be subject to meeting with the Chairman and Senior Independent Director.
A election or re-election except for Sir Colin Terry, who will retire number of such meetings on corporate governance took place in from the Board as Chairman and non-executive director at the 2014.
We also received a number of requests from shareholders conclusion of the AGM.
to have meetings with the Chairman Succession sub-committee, which were held before and after the announcement of our By order of the Board chosen candidate.
Directors understanding of major shareholders views is enhanced by reports from the Head of Investor Relations, our brokers and attending analysts briefings.
Analysts notes on the Group are made available to all directors.
We provide annual reports and other documents to shareholders M L Thomas in their elected format under the electronic communications Company Secretary provisions, which were approved by shareholders at our AGM in 23 February 2015 2007.
Electronic copies of this Annual Report and Accounts 2014 and the Notice of AGM will be posted on our website, where our announcements, press releases and other investor information are also available.
An analysis of ordinary shareholders by size of holdings and shareholder type is also available on our website.
