44 44 M MEG EGG GI IT TT T P PLC LC REP REPO OR RT T A AND ND A ACCO CCOU UN NT TS S 2 20 014 14 B Boa oar rd d of of d diir re e c cto to rr ss Meggitts Board is characterised by world-class experience of UK, mainland European and North American businesses spanning multiple sectorsmany with global reach.
Stephen Young Alison Goligher Sir Colin Terry Guy Berruyer Philip Green Sir Colin Terry KBE CB DL FREng Stephen Young Alison Goligher OBE Non-Executive Chairman Chief Executive Non-Executive Director Appointed: 2004 | Nationality: British Appointed: 2013 | Nationality: British Appointed: 2014 | Nationality: British Retiring at the conclusion of the 2015 AGM Appointed to the Board as Group Finance Director in 2004, prior to appointment as Chief Executive Skills and experience Skills and experience MEng Petroleum Engineering.
Brings specific oil and Chartered engineer with extensive civil and military Skills and experience gas experience to the Board, including technology aerospace, logistics and industrial experience.
Chartered management accountant with wide management expertise and experience running Qualified military and civilian pilot.
experience in all financial disciplines gained from diverse functions and businesses within globally national and multi-national businesses across significant energy corporations.
Chairman of the UK Military Aviation Authority Current appointments Safety Advisory Committee, Non-Executive Director Current appointments Joined Royal Dutch Shell in 2006: appointed and Chairman of the Audit Committee of Fox Non-Executive Director, Audit Committee Chairman Executive Vice President, Upstream International MarbleHoldings PLC, Non-Executive Chairman of and member of Risk and Remuneration committees Unconventionals in 2013.
AviaMedia Tech Limited and Non-Executive Director of Derwent London plc.
Previous appointments and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Previous appointments 17 years at Schlumberger, a leading supplier of ofAveillant Limited.
Senior financial positions held previously include technology, integrated project management and President of Soldiers, Sailors, Airmen and Families Group Finance Director, Thistle Hotels plc and information solutions to oil and gas customers Association in Buckinghamshire, of which he is Group Finance Director of the Automobile worldwide.
Philip Green Previous appointments Guy Berruyer Group Corporate Affairs Director 37 years in Royal Air Force, reaching rank of Non-Executive Director Appointed: 2001 | Nationality: British AirMarshal, where he was Chief Engineer RAF, Appointed: 2012 | Nationality: French aCommander in Chief and the Air Force Board Skills and experience Member for Logistics.
Since retiring from the Skills and experience Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Secretaries regular RAF, was Group Managing Director of Inflite Trained as electrical engineer at the cole and Administrators, with significant legal and Engineering Services, Chairman of the Engineering Polytechnique Fdrale fide Lausanne and holds compliance experience.
Council UK, President of the Royal Aeronautical Harvard Business School MBA.
Brings significant Society and the Council of European Aerospace Current Appointments experience to the Board as a recently serving Societies.
Served for several years as an RAF Member of the GC100 and the Dorset Employment FTSE-100 Chief Executive.
To be appointed as Non-Executive Current appointments Director of Poole Hospital NHS Foundation Trust None.
Previous appointments Previous appointments Group Chief Executive of The Sage Group plc until Meggitts Company Secretary from 1994 to 2006, 5 November 2014.
Chief Executive of Sage Group after 14 years at British Aerospace in company Committee membership plcs Europe and Asia division.
Early career spent secretarial roles.
Audit Committee with software and hardware vendors in French Nominations Committee and European management roles.
Remuneration Committee Ethics and Trade Compliance Committee Finance Committee 93987 p42-45.
indd 44 11 03 2015 10:34 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 45 Paul Heiden Doug Webb Brenda Reichelderfer David Williams Sir Nigel Rudd Paul Heiden Doug Webb Sir Nigel Rudd DL Non-Executive Director Chief Financial Officer To be appointed as Non-Executive Director and Appointed: 2010 | Nationality: British Appointed: 2013 | Nationality: British Deputy Chairman on 1 March 2015 Assuming the role of Non-Executive Chairman Skills and experience Skills and experience atthe conclusion of the AGM on 23 April 2015 | Chartered accountant, with considerable experience Chartered accountant who has held senior Nationality: British in senior executive and financial roles in aerospace.
international financial positions in defence, aerospace, engineering, technology and Skills and experience Current appointments financialservices.
Chartered accountant with extensive Board Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Audit experience spanning multiple sectors including Committee of London Stock Exchange Group plc Current appointments aerospace, retail and financial services.
and Chairman of Intelligent Energy Holdings plc.
Non-Executive Director of SEGRO Plc and Chairman of their Audit Committee and member Current appointments Previous appointments ofthe Hundred Group of Financial Directors.
Non-Executive Chairman of BBA Aviation plc and Chief Executive of FKI Plc from 2003 to 2008, senior Heathrow Airport Holdings Limited, Chairman of positions, including Director, Industrial Business Previous appointments Aquarius Platinum Ltd, Non-Executive Director of and Finance Director of Rolls-Royce plc and senior Chief Financial Officer, London Stock Exchange Sappi Limited and Chancellor of Loughborough financial positions with Peat Marwick, Mitchell and Group Plc, Chief Financial Officer, QinetiQ Group Plc University.
Co, Hanson Plc and Mercury Communications.
and various senior financial roles in the UK and US Non-Executive Director of UU Plc, Bunzl plc, for Logica now CGI.
Previous appointments Essentra PLC formerly Filtrona PLC and Chief Executive of Williams Holdings plc.
Chairman Chairman of Talaris Topco Limited.
David Williams of Kidde plc, BAA Limited, The Boots Company, Non-Executive Director Pilkington PLC, Pendragon PLC and Invensys plc.
Brenda Reichelderfer Senior Independent Director Deputy Chairman of Barclays PLC and Non-Executive Director Appointed: 2006 | Nationality: British Non-Executive Director of BAE Systems plc.
Appointed: 2011 | Nationality: American Skills and experience Skills and experience Chartered accountant with significant experience Skilled engineer and business leader in senior financial roles.
withconsiderable US aerospace and Current appointments industrialexperience.
Joint Chairman of Mondi plc and Mondi Limited.
Current appointments Senior Vice President and Managing Director Previous appointments ofprivate equity sector consulting firm TriVista Senior financial roles including 15 years as Finance andNon-Executive Director of Federal Director of Bunzl plc.
Audit Committee Chairman of Tullow Oil plc until May 2012.
Non-Executive Director and Audit Previous appointments Committee Chairman of DP World Limited until Senior roles at ITT Industries Corporation including hisretirement in April 2014.
Senior Vice President, Director of Engineering, Chief Technology Officer and Group President oftwo operating divisions.
Non-Executive Director of Wencor Aerospace.
