54 MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 Nominations Committee report Chairmans introduction Sub-Committee of the Board be formed, for the purpose of The Nominations Committee plays a leading role in assessing running the Chairman selection process.
Sir Colin Terry was not the balance of skills and experience on the Board and the involved in the selection of his successor and Ms Reichelderfer Groups principal committees.
The Committee identifies the chaired the Sub-Committee, which was formed entirely of roles and capabilities required to meet the demands of the non-executive directors.
Advisers including Russell Reynolds business and, with due regard to diversity, ensures that a Associates acting as search adviser, the Chief Executive and succession plan is in place.
Candidates continue to be considered other executive directors were consulted during the process.
on merit against specific criteria determined by the Committee.
The role of Chairman was defined in writing and approved by the David Robins retired from the Board at the end of the 2014 AGM.
The selection process for the role included consideration Following a rigorous search process using search firm Zygos of prior successful FTSE 100 chair experience, solid experience Associates, a number of candidates for the position of nonin aerospace and defence or engineering industrial, as well as executive director were interviewed by the Board.
The broad international experience, time availability and preferably Nominations Committee recommended the appointment of previous experience of being a Chief Executive.
Just over 30 Ms Alison Goligher as a non-executive director, as her career in candidate profiles were initially reviewed in the long list, from the energy sector in a wide range of functional and operational which a short list was identified and around ten candidates roles would be of great value to Meggitts energy businesses.
including external and internal were interviewed.
In December 2014, we announced the appointment of Sir Nigel Taking into account the requirements of the role and the Rudd as a non-executive director and Deputy Chairman effective structure, size and composition including the skills, knowledge, from 1 March 2015 becoming Chairman at the conclusion of the experience and diversity of the Board, the Chairman Succession AGM in April 2015.
He is a highly experienced and successful Sub-Committee decided to recommend to the Board that director and chairman and with his prior role as a non-executive Sir Nigel Rudd be appointed as Chairman.
It was the view of the director of BAE Systems, and current exposure to the industry at Board who approved his appointment, that Meggitt would benefit BBA Aviation, Sir Nigel has exceptional knowledge of the from the counsel and governance of Sir Nigel Rudd, a seasoned aerospace sector.
His experience across a wide range of chairman with extensive international business experience businesses and expertise will be of significant benefit to the spanning many industries, including aerospace.
Group and make him ideally positioned to be the next Chairman of Meggitt PLC.
Board diversity The Board confirms a strong commitment to diversity including, We announced in December 2014 that Mr Philip Cox has resigned but not limited to, gender diversity at all levels of the Group.
The from the Board to concentrate on his new role as non-executive Boards policy on diversity commits Meggitt to: director and chairman designate of Drax Group plc.
Ensuring the selection and appointment process for In 2015, the Committee will continue to review the composition of employees and directors includes a diverse range of the Board and succession plans for executive and non-executive candidates: directors, and is considering succession plans for Mr David Disclosing statistics on gender diversity in every Annual Williams as he approaches his ninth year as a non-executive Report see page 41 : and director during 2016.
Reviewing this policy from time to time and continuing to disclose this policy in the Annual Report.
Committee membership and attendance during 2014 Based on the current size and composition of the Board and Meetings Meetings Name eligible to attend attended taking into account current succession plans, the Board has determined that there should be a minimum of two female Sir Colin Terry Chairman 3 3 directors, which is currently the case for gender diversity Mr S G Young 3 3 statistics, see page 41.
The Board remains committed to Mr G S Berruyer 3 3 ensuring that the directors bring a wide range of skills, Mr P G Cox 3 3 knowledge, experience, backgrounds and perspectives.
Our Ms A J P Goligher 1 1 directors are from the UK, US and France, and have a range of Mr P Heiden 3 3 different skills and experience, from energy to aerospace, Ms B L Reichelderfer 3 3 financial and technology backgrounds to an electrical engineer.
Mr D M Williams 3 3 External search consultancies Terms of reference During 2014, the Committee used Russell Reynolds Associates The Committee operates within agreed Terms of Reference to assist in the search for the Chairman and assist the Group which were reviewed and updated in 2014 and are on our website.
with searches for other senior management posts from time to time.
Zygos Associates were used to assist in the search for the Responsibilities non-executive director.
Neither Russell Reynolds Associates nor The Committee reviews the structure, size and composition Zygos Associates have any other connection with the Group.
including the skills, knowledge, experience and diversity of the Board and, in consultation with the directors, makes On behalf of the Nominations Committee recommendations to the Board on any proposed changes.
Decisions on Board changes are taken by the Board as a whole.
In performing its duties, the Committee has access to the services of the Company Secretary and may seek external professional advice at the Groups expense.
Sir Colin Terry Chairman Succession Sub-Committee of the Board Chairman of the Nominations Committee In 2014, after a number of internal applications were received for 23 February 2015 the role of Chairman, it was agreed that a Chairman Succession 93987 p46-54.
