STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 51 Audit Committee report policies and the methods used to account for significant or unusual transactions: ii whether appropriate accounting standards have been followed: iii whether appropriate estimates and judgements have been made, taking into account the views of the external auditor: and iv the clarity and completeness of disclosure in the Groups financial reports and the context in which the statements are made: Reviewing the content of the annual report and advising the Board on whether, taken as a whole, it is fair, balanced and understandable: Reviewing the adequacy and effectiveness of the Groups Chairmans introduction internal financial controls and financial risk management system, reviewing and approving the statements to be I am pleased to present the report of the Audit Committee for 2014. included in the annual report concerning internal financial I chair the Audit Committee and as a Fellow of the ICAEW, former controls and financial risk management and reviewing the Audit Committee Chairman of DP World Limited and Finance Groups procedures for detecting fraud: Director at Bunzl plc, I bring recent and relevant financial Overseeing the internal audit function, including assessing experience to the Committee.
My fellow committee members the annual work plan, receiving reports on a periodic basis throughout 2014 were Guy Berruyer, Philip Cox, Paul Heiden and and monitoring the effectiveness of the internal audit function: Brenda Reichelderfer, who attended all three Committee meetings during the year.
Alison Goligher joined the Committee for her first Overseeing the relationship with the external auditor, meeting in December 2014 which was the last meeting for Philip including the decision to tender external audit services, the Cox before stepping down from the Board in January 2015.
By approval of fees paid to external auditors and their terms of invitation, there were a number of other regular attendees engagement, and recommending to the Board, to be put to including the Chief Financial Officer, the Group Financial Controller shareholders for approval at the AGM, the appointment, and the internal and external auditors.
The Chairman of the Board, re-appointment and removal of the external auditor: and the Chief Executive, the Corporate Affairs Director and David Reviewing the Committees own effectiveness.
Robins for the February 2014 meeting also attended by invitation.
The key role of the Audit Committee is to provide confidence in Work of the committee the integrity of our processes and procedures relating to internal The Audit Committee reviewed: financial control and corporate reporting.
The Board relies on The financial information contained in the 2013 Annual Report the Committee to review financial reporting and to appoint and and 2013 full-year and 2014 interim results announcements oversee the work of the internal and external auditors.
and recommended them to the Board for approval: The work of the Committee in 2014 is described below in detail 2014 external audit fees, and recommended them to the and included providing advice to the Board on whether these Board for approval: accounts are fair, balanced and understandable.
The external audit strategy memorandum and interim audit Committee membership and attendance clearance report for 2014: Meetings Meetings The independence, effectiveness and reappointment of the Name eligible to attend attended external auditors: 3 3 Mr D M Williams Committee chairman Mr G S Berruyer 3 3 The internal audit plan for 2015 and regular update reports: 3 3 Mr P G Cox Their own terms of reference and agreed to transfer the 1 1 Ms A J P Goligher responsibility for reviewing whistleblowing procedures to the 3 3 Mr P Heiden Ethics and Trade Compliance Committee: 3 3 Ms B L Reichelderfer Technical accounting and governance updates provided by Terms of Reference theGroup Financial Controller, Company Secretary and the The Committee operates within agreed terms of reference, which external auditors: were updated in 2014 and are available on our website.
A treasury update from the Head of Tax and Treasury: and Responsibilities The effectiveness of the Committee and internal audit.
The responsibilities of the Audit Committee include: Monitoring the integrity of the financial statements of the Since the year end, the Committee has approved the 2014 Annual Group, including its annual and half-yearly reports, and any Report and Accounts and full-year results announcement and other formal announcement relating to its financial recommended them to the Board for approval and provided advice performance, reviewing and reporting to the Board on to the Board that the 2014 Annual Report and Accounts, taken as significant financial reporting issues and judgements having awhole, is fair, balanced and understandable.
TheCommittee regard to matters communicated to it by the external auditor: provided this advice having approved and monitored an enhanced review and verification process of the Annual Report undertaken Reviewing and challenging where necessary: i the bymanagement and provided confirmation to the Board that this consistency ofand any changes to significant accounting process was both followed and effective.
indd 51 04 03 2015 17:02 52 MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 Audit Committee report continued Significant judgements relating to the financial statements The table below summarises the significant judgements reviewed by the Committee in respect of the Groups financial statements: Significant judgements Action Goodwill and other The principal judgements are managements determination of the level at which impairment testing intangible assets arising should be performed, the achievability of CGU business plans and therefore future cash flows and on an acquisition the appropriateness of the discount rates applied to future cash flows.
The Committee addressed this through consideration of a report from management setting out the basis for the assumptions, confirmation that the cash flows used were derived from the 2015 budget and strategic plan which intheir role as members of the Board, committee members had previously reviewed, a sensitivity analysis on key assumptions and an analysis of the headroom for each CGU.
The Committee agreed the assumptions made by management were appropriate and that no impairment was required.
Development costs The Committee considered the method of testing for potential impairment used by management, the and programme reasonableness of assumptions used on specific programmes with limited headroom, the aggregation participation costs of related intangible assets at an aircraft platform level and the appropriateness of the estimated useful lives assigned to the assets.
The Committee addressed this through consideration of a report from management covering these areas, exposure to different platforms and a sensitivity analysis onspecific programmes.
The Committee concluded that the assumptions made by management were reasonable and the carrying value and estimated useful lives of the assets appropriate.
Provision for environmental The Committee considered a report from management setting out the basis for the judgements matters relating to made and the extent to which these were supported by third party specialist advice.
The Committee historicsites discussed with management, the sensitivity of the estimates to increases in cost estimates and changes in discount rates applied to future cash flows.
The Committee agreed with the judgementsmade by management.
Provision for onerous The key areas reviewed by the Committee were the provision held for the supply from a vendor of contracts and other matters non-conforming raw material identified in the prior year, judgements made by management relating to selling prices, product quantities and unit costs on a small number of onerous production contracts and the impact of Heatrics local content provider in Brazil having filed for creditor protection.
TheCommittee considered a report from management setting out the bases for the judgements madeon each of these items.
The Committee agreed with the accounting treatment adopted.
Retirement benefit Assumptions on mortality, inflation and the rates at which scheme liabilities are discounted can have obligations a significant impact on the value at which retirement benefit obligations are included in the financial statements.
The Committee considered a report from management setting out the basis on which the 2014 assumptions had been determined, including the revised mortality tables used for the Groups US schemes.
Additionally, the Committee reviewed a benchmarking, they had requested, of the Groups assumptions used in the 2013 consolidated financial statements against those disclosed by other large corporate entities.
The Committee concluded that the assumptions recommended, whichwere supported by third party actuarial advice, were appropriate.
Income taxes Judgements have to be made by management on the tax treatment of a number of transactions in advance of the ultimate tax determination being known.
In determining the appropriateness of the estimates made, the Committee considered a report from management setting out the basis for thejudgements.
The Committee concluded that the position taken was appropriate.
Contract accounting revenue The Committee considered a report from management setting out the key judgements made by management in recognising revenue under contract accounting principles, focusing on the process by which amounts recognised were determined using estimates of total contract costs and the historical reliability of such estimates.
The Committee concluded that the basis of revenue .
Treatment of exceptional The Committee discussed the treatment and disclosure of items included within exceptional operating operating items items.
The Committee noted items were treated appropriately and consistently year on year.
The Committee also discussed each of the above judgements with the external auditors in reaching their conclusions.
indd 52 04 03 2015 17:02 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 53 On balance, the Committee is satisfied that the overall levels of Key areas of oversight audit-related and non-audit fees are not material relative to the External audit income of the office of PwC conducting the audit or PwC as a The external auditors are  LLP PwC whole and therefore the objectivity and independence of the who were appointed as Group auditors for the financial year external auditors was not compromised.
commencing 1 January 2003 on 2 October 2003 after a competitive tender.
There are no contractual obligations Internal audit restricting the Committees choice of external auditors.
The Committee agrees the annual internal audit plan which is developed according to a risk assessment process and ensures The lead audit partner is Mr Paynter whose appointment in that adequate resources are available to execute the plan.
thisrole commenced with the audit for the financial year ended In2014, the risk assessment process was reviewed.
Mr Paynter has had no previous involvement agreed that businesses would be split into three tiers based on with the Group in any capacity.
their significance to the Groups results, prior year audit findings, The Committee assessed the effectiveness of PwC and aself-assessment questionnaire and discussions with key the external audit process using a questionnaire and stakeholders throughout the Group.
Tier 1 businesses are visited aCommittee discussion on the responses to the questionnaire.
annually, with Tier 2 businesses visited every other year and TheCommittee was satisfied with PwCs performance Tier3 every third year.
and the external audit process and that they had employed At each meeting, the Committee receives a status update on the an appropriate level of professional challenge in fulfilling audit programme and reviews, discusses and challenges any their role.
The Committee has determined, on the basis significant issues arising and monitors implementation by the of the satisfactory outcome of the evaluation, that the business of the recommendations made.
In 2014, internal audits external audit will not be subject to tender in 2015.
It has were carried out at a number of Group sites, including post-SAP recommended that the Board submit the re-appointment implementation audits and the annual audit of the finance shared of PwC to shareholders for approval at the AGM in 2015. service centres.
The Committee has reviewed the tendering and rotation IT was added to the scope of internal audit in 2014, using the provisions from the EU, Competition and Markets Authority services of Grant Thornton UK LLP.
The 2014 IT audit scope CMA and those contained in the UK Corporate Governance included reviews of IT strategy and risk management, IT security, Code.
The Committee does not expect to put the external audit a data centre which has been established in the UK, and the services out for tender before the end of the current audit global template utilised on SAP, our ERP system.
partner rotation period i. e. after the audit for the financial year ending 31 December 2017.
This is subject to i any clarifications The Committee routinely meet internal audit without executive or changes issued by the CMA relating to their transitional management present.
No concerns were raised at the meeting provisions: ii the detailed implementation of the EU auditor and it was confirmed that internal audit had been able to carry rotation rules in UK law, scheduled for later in 2015: iii any other out their work and offer constructive challenge to executive changes to the regulatory regime: and iv the Committee management during the year.
The Committee considered continuing to be satisfied with the effectiveness of the auditors the effectiveness of internal audit and confirmed that they which is considered annually.
The Committee routinely meet with PwC without executive Whistleblowing management present and there were no concerns raised at that During the year, the Committee transferred responsibility meeting.
It was confirmed that the external auditors had been forreviewing the process for handling allegations from able to offer rigorous and constructive challenge to executive whistleblowers to the Ethics and Trade Compliance Committee.
In January 2015, the Ethics and Trade Compliance Committee confirmed that it was satisfied with the Groups process for Non-audit services handling whistleblowing allegations.
Whistleblowing is covered The Group places great importance on the independence of its under our Ethics and Business Conduct Policy and Code of external auditors and is careful to ensure their objectivity is not Conduct, which are available on our website.
The Committee agrees the fees paid to external an independently operated and monitored Ethics Line, enabling auditors for their services as auditors and is required to approve, in employees to report concerns about possible misconduct, with advance, any fees to the external auditors for non-audit services in proportionate and independent investigation and appropriate excess of 0.1 million.
Whistleblowing reports are reviewed regularly Details of the fees paid for audit services, audit-related services by the Ethics and Trade Compliance Committee of the Board.
and non-audit services can be found in note 7 to the financial statements.
The fees paid for non-audit services in 2014 were less On behalf of the Audit Committee than 0.1 million Nil% of the total audit fee and the average fees paid for non-audit services for the last three years to 2014 was 0.1 million 4% of the total audit fee over that period.
Fees paid in prior years related to services permitted to be provided by PwC under the Groups policy on non-audit services.
David Williams The Groups policy on non-audit services covers which services Chairman of the Audit Committee can be provided and which generally cannot be provided for 23 February 2015 example internal audit services and tax planning.
The full policy is disclosed on our website.
