Melrose Industries PLC 76 Annual Report 2014 Governance Nomination Committee report Liz Hewitt Melrose is a meritocracy and individual Nomination Committee Chairman performance is the key determinant in any appointment, irrespective of ethnicity, gender or other characteristic, trait or orientation.
Committee responsibilities The Nomination Committee has The Nomination Committee the Committee discharges these responsibilities through: overall responsibility for making regular review of the size, structure and composition of the Board recommendations to the Board on and by providing recommendations to the Board of any all new appointments to the Board adjustments that may be necessary from time to time: and for ensuring that the Board and giving full consideration to succession planning in order to ensure an optimum balance of executive and non-executive Directors in its Committees have the appropriate terms of skills, experience and diversity: balance of skills, experience, keeping under review the leadership needs of the business: and independence, diversity and knowledge keeping up to date and fully informed about strategic issues and of the Company to enable them to commercial changes affecting the Company and the markets in which it operates.
discharge their respective duties and The Committee is expected to meet not less than twice a year responsibilities effectively.
and during 2014 the Committee met twice.
The attendance of its members at these Committee meetings is shown above.
of meetings 1 The Committees terms of reference were reviewed and revised Liz Hewitt Chairman 2 2 in August 2014.
Full terms of reference are available to view on Perry Crosthwaite 1 2 the Companys website at: www.
net about-us Justin Dowley 2 2 governance nomination-committee John Grant 2 2 Christopher Miller 2 2 Further details regarding the composition, diversity policy and the 2 Miles Templeman 2014 activities of the Committee are shown below.
Composition 1 Appointed Chairman with effect from the conclusion of the AGM on 13 May 2014.
In compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, the 2 Retired as Chairman with effect from the conclusion of the AGM on 13 May 2014. majority of the members of the Committee were independent non-executive Directors throughout 2014.
The Committee was chaired by Miles Templeman until his retirement from the Board following the conclusion of the 2014 AGM on 13 May 2014.
Miles Templeman was succeeded as chairman by Liz Hewitt.
Perry Crosthwaite, John Grant and Justin Dowley also served on the Committee throughout the year.
Christopher Miller, Executive Chairman of the Board, was also a member of the Committee throughout the year.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee.
On occasion, the Committee invites the Chief Executive, the Vice-Chairman and the Group Finance Director to attend discussions where their input is required.
Directors remuneration report More information p78 Governance Melrose Industries PLC 77 Annual Report 2014 Governance Diversity What the Committee did in 2014 Melrose is a meritocracy and individual performance is the The principal focus of the Committee during 2014 has been to key determinant in any appointment, irrespective of ethnicity, consider the items set out below: gender or other characteristic, trait or orientation.
The Board The Committee considered the composition and balance of recognises the importance of diversity throughout the workforce, the Board and the timing of future Board changes and reviewed be it geographical, cultural or market aligned and encompassing the succession plans in place in respect of key executives gender, race, sexual orientation and disability, and it is committed in conjunction with the provisions of the UK Corporate to equality of opportunity for all employees.
For example, Melrose is Governance Code: proud to support the Business Disability Forum, a body committed to understanding the changes required in the workplace so that The existing time commitment of Melrose non-executive disabled people are treated fairly and they can contribute to Directors was reviewed and confirmed as appropriate: business success, to society and to economic growth.
The Committee membership was reviewed and a The Committee currently takes into account a variety of factors recommendation made to the Board that no changes should be before recommending any new appointments to the Board, made in 2015: including relevant skills to perform the role, experience, The independence of each non-executive Director was reviewed knowledge, ethnicity and gender.
The most important priority and a recommendation made to the Board supporting the of the Committee, however, has been and will continue to be Boards determination of non-executive Director independence: ensuring that the best candidate is selected to join the Board and this approach will remain in place going forward.
Consideration was given to the re-appointment of the Directors before making a recommendation to the Board regarding each The Committee will endeavour to pursue diversity, including Directors re-election at the 2015 AGM: gender diversity, throughout the Melrose Group and notes the recommendations of Lord Davies review, Women A review of the leadership requirements of Melrose, both on Boards.
However, given the Companys strategic business executive and non-executive, was undertaken and this model and the frequent turnover of businesses, the Committee confirmed that the existing management team is appropriate does not think that setting and committing to specific diversity for the Group.
This review also demonstrated that appropriate targets in relation to the composition of the Board, and the and effective leadership is in place within the business units workforce in the wider businesses within the Group, is correct and that processes are in place to ensure that performance for Melrose.
is reviewed regularly against operational and financial criteria: The Committee examined the career planning and talent management programmes in operation across the Group and concluded that these were appropriate for the needs of the business: The Committee reviewed and re-affirmed the principles underlying the Companys diversity policy: and The Committees terms of reference were revised during the year to ensure that these remain in line with best practice.
Liz Hewitt Chairman, Nomination Committee 4 March 2015
