Melrose Industries PLC 62 Annual Report 2014 Governance Board of Directors Christopher Miller David Roper Executive Chairman Executive Vice-Chairman Year appointed Year appointed Appointed as Executive Chairman on Appointed as Executive Vice-Chairman on 29 May 2003.
9 May 2012, having previously been Chief Executive from May 2003.
Skills and experience Christopher brings to the Board a wealth of experience gained from Skills and experience his involvement in manufacturing industries and private investment.
David provides experience gained from his roles in corporate finance, management of manufacturing industries and private investment.
A chartered accountant, Christopher qualified with Coopers & Lybrand, following which he was an Associate Director of Hanson plc.
In A chartered accountant, David qualified with Peat Marwick Mitchell, September 1988, Christopher joined the board of Wassall PLC as its following which he worked in the corporate finance divisions of S. G. Chief Executive.
Between October 2000 and May 2003, Christopher Warburg & Co. Limited, BZW and Dillon Read.
In September 1988, was involved in private investment activities.
David was appointed to the board of Wassall PLC and became its deputy Chief Executive in 1993.
Between October 2000 and May Board meetings attended 2003, David was involved in private investment activities and served 4 4 as a non-executive Director on the boards of two companies.
Other appointments Board meetings attended 4 4 Committee membership Other appointments Nomination Independent Committee membership Not applicable Independent Not applicable Simon Peckham Geoffrey Martin Chief Executive Group Finance Director Year appointed Year appointed Appointed as Chief Executive on 9 May 2012, Appointed as Group Finance Director on having previously served as Chief Operating 7 July 2005.
Skills and experience Skills and experience Geoffrey provides expertise in corporate finance, management and Simon provides expertise in equity finance, corporate transactions and corporate restructuring.
A chartered accountant, Geoffrey qualified with Coopers & Lybrand, Simon qualified as a solicitor in 1986, following which, in 1990, he where he worked within the corporate finance and audit departments.
joined Wassall PLC, where he became an executive Director in 1999.
In 1996, Geoffrey joined Royal Doulton PLC and was Group Finance From October 2000 until May 2003, Simon worked for the equity Director from October 2000 until June 2005, which was a period of finance division of The Royal Bank of Scotland and was also involved significant restructuring for the company.
in several high profile transactions.
Board meetings attended Board meetings attended 4 4 4 4 Other appointments Other appointments Committee membership Committee membership Independent Independent Not applicable Not applicable Governance Melrose Industries PLC 63 Annual Report 2014 Governance Perry Crosthwaite John Grant 1 Senior non-executive Director Non-executive Director Year appointed Year appointed Appointed as a non-executive Director on Appointed as a non-executive Director on 26 July 2005.
Skills and experience Skills and experience Perry has financial expertise gained through a distinguished career in John brings financial expertise and global executive experience gained investment banking with over 30 years experience as a Director in the from a variety of senior roles within the automotive industry and other City of London.
Perry was a founding Director of Henderson Crosthwaite Institutional John was Chief Executive of Ascot Plc between 1997 and 2000.
Brokers Limited, serving on the board until its acquisition by Investec Prior to that, he was Group Finance Director of Lucas Industries Plc Bank in 1998.
He became a Director of Investec Bank UK Limited and subsequently LucasVarity Plc between 1992 and 1996.
He also Chairman of the Investment Banking division until his retirement in 2004. previously held several senior strategy and finance positions with Ford Motor Company in Europe and the US.
Board meetings attended 4 4 Board meetings attended 4 4 Other appointments Chairman of Jupiter Green Investment Trust PLC Other appointments Non-executive Director of Investec Limited and Investec plc Non-executive Director of MHP S. A. and Pace plc Chairman of The British Racing Drivers Club Limited Committee membership Audit Committee membership Nomination Audit Chairman 1 Remuneration Nomination Remuneration Independent Yes Independent Yes Justin Dowley Liz Hewitt Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Year appointed Year appointed Appointed as a non-executive Director on Appointed as a non-executive Director on 1 September 2011.
Skills and experience Skills and experience Justin has extensive experience within the banking, investment and Liz has extensive business and financial experience gained from senior asset management sector.
A chartered accountant, Justin qualified with Price Waterhouse and A chartered accountant, Liz qualified with Arthur Andersen & Co, was latterly Vice Chairman of EMEA Investment Banking, a division following which she held a variety of senior positions within Gartmore of Nomura International plc.
He was also a founder partner of Tricorn Investment Management, CVC and 3i Group plc.
Between 2004 Partners, Head of Investment Banking at Merrill Lynch Europe and a and 2011, she was Group Director of Corporate Affairs for Smith Director of Morgan Grenfell.
Board meetings attended Board meetings attended 4 4 4 4 Other appointments Other appointments Chairman of Intermediate Capital Group plc a specialist investment Non-executive Director of Novo Nordisk A S and Savills plc and asset management company Committee membership Non-executive Director of a number of private companies including Audit Ascot Authority Holdings Limited 3 Nomination Chairman Non-executive Director of the National Crime Agency Remuneration Committee membership Independent Audit Yes Nomination 2 Remuneration Chairman Independent Yes 1 Perry Crosthwaite assumed the position of Senior non-executive Director at the conclusion of the 2014 AGM and resigned as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
2 Justin Dowley became Chairman of the Remuneration Committee at the conclusion of the 2014 AGM.
3 Liz Hewitt became Chairman of the Nomination Committee at the conclusion of the 2014 AGM.
