Melrose Industries PLC 72 Annual Report 2014 Governance Audit Committee report John Grant Composition Audit Committee Chairman Each member of the Committee is deemed to be independent by the Company and brings recent and relevant financial experience from senior executive and non-executive positions as described in their biographies on pages 62 and 63.
Miles Templeman stepped down from the Committee following his retirement from the Board at the conclusion of the AGM on 13 May 2014.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee.
The Committee invites the Group Finance Director, the Head of Financial Reporting and senior representatives of the external and internal auditors to attend meetings where appropriate to the business being considered.
The Committee has the right to invite The Board has delegated to the Audit any other Directors and or employees to attend meetings where this is considered appropriate.
In addition, the Committee meets Committee responsibility for overseeing at least once per year with both the external and internal auditors the financial reporting and internal control without management present.
review and reporting and for making Summary of meetings in the year The Committee is expected to meet not less than three times recommendations to the Board in relation a year.
In 2014, the Committee met in March, August and to the appointment of the Companys November.
The scheduling of these meetings is designed to be aligned with the financial reporting timetable thereby enabling the internal and external auditors.
Committee to review the Annual Report and financial statements, the interim financial report and the audit plan ahead of the year Member No.
of meetings end audit and maintaining a view of the internal controls and John Grant Chairman 3 3 processes throughout the year.
Perry Crosthwaite 3 3 Justin Dowley 3 3 The attendance of its members at these meetings is shown above.
Liz Hewitt 3 3 Significant issues related to the financial statements 1 Miles Templeman 1 1 In discharging its duties under its terms of reference, the 1 Retired from the Board at the conclusion of the AGM on 13 May 2014.
Committee undertook the following recurring activities that receive annual scrutiny: Role and responsibilities reviewed the Annual Report and financial statements and interim The Audit Committees the Committee role and responsibilities are financial report.
As part of this review the Committee received a set out in its terms of reference.
These were updated in August 2014 in report from the external auditor on their audit of the Annual Report line with best practice and are available on the Companys website and and the financial statements and review of the interim report: from the Company Secretary at the Registered Office.
In discharging its duties, the Committee embraces its role of protecting the interests considered the processes in place to generate forecasts of of shareholders with respect to the integrity of financial information cash flows and accounting valuation information, including published by the Company and the effectiveness of the audit.
the reasonableness and consistent use of assumptions: Specifically, the Committee is responsible for: reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups internal controls and reviewing and monitoring the integrity of the financial statements disclosures made in the Annual Report and financial statements of the Group, including the Annual Report and interim report: on this matter: keeping under review the effectiveness of the Groups financial considered the Annual Report and financial statements in the reporting, internal audit and controls, risk management systems context of being fair, balanced and understandable and reviewed and compliance controls: the content of a paper prepared by management with regard to this principle in relation to the 2014 Annual Report and financial focusing and challenging the consistency of accounting policies, statements.
Advised the Board that in its view, the 2014 Annual methods used to account for significant or unusual transactions Report and financial statements when taken as a whole is fair, and compliance with accounting standards: balanced and understandable and provides the information reviewing the Groups arrangements for its employees to raise necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, concerns in confidence about possible wrongdoing in financial business model and strategy: and reporting, in accordance with the Companys whistleblowing policy: reviewed and agreed the scope of the audit work to be developing, implementing and monitoring the Groups policy on undertaken by the auditor.
external audit and for overseeing the objectivity and effectiveness of the auditor: and reviewing and considering the Annual Report and financial statements to ensure that it is fair, balanced and understandable and advising the Board that it can state that this is the case.
Governance Melrose Industries PLC 73 Annual Report 2014 Governance In addition to these matters, the Committee considered the following significant issues in relation to the financial statements during the year: The Audit Committees activities during 2014 Significant issue considered by the Audit Committee How the issue was addressed by the Audit Committee Provisions for legal and environmental claims and other The Committee considered managements proposed provisioning in provisions respect of these legal and environmental claims and other provisions The level of provisioning for legal and environmental claims and including the key judgements made and relevant legal advice.
other provisions require significant judgement.
The external auditor also reported on all material provisions to Although provisions are reviewed on a regular basis and adjusted the Committee.
for managements best current estimates, the judgemental nature of Having considered the matter and sought guidance from the external these items means that future amounts settled may be different from auditor, the Committee concluded that managements proposed those provided.
provisioning and the associated disclosures in the Annual Report Refer to notes 3 and 20 were appropriate.
Classification of exceptional items The Committee considered the nature, classification and consistency The reporting, classification and consistency of exceptional items, of exceptional items.
These items were detailed in the external specifically restructuring, were an area of focus for the Committee.
auditors paper to the Committee.
The Committee considered this issue and concluded that these exceptional items were appropriately Refer to note 6 captured and disclosed.
Taxation risks and recognition of deferred tax assets Managements taxation judgements, accounting treatment and the Judgement is required in determining the Groups provision for income appropriateness of tax disclosures have been reviewed by the Committee.
taxes including estimating tax provisions where additional current The Committee considered whether, from an accounting perspective, tax may become payable in the future following the audit by the tax an update was required to the tax provisions previously recorded in authorities of previously filed tax returns.
Judgement is also required respect of specific exposures identified.
In addition, the Committee as to whether a deferred tax asset should be recognised based on reviewed the tax implications of corporate transactions undertaken the availability of future taxable profits.
The Committee debated whether additional deferred Refer to notes 3, 8 and 21 tax assets should be brought onto the Balance Sheet as a consequence of, for example, the expected timing of future corporate transactions.
Having taken input from the external auditor, the Committee agreed with managements proposed treatment of tax risks and deferred tax assets.
Impairment of goodwill, intangible assets and other fixed assets Business plans prepared by management supporting future The judgements in relation to goodwill impairment testing relate performance expectations used in the calculation were approved to the assumptions applied in calculating the value in use of the by the Board.
The Committee received a detailed report on the cash-generating units being tested for impairment.
The key outcome of the impairment review performed by management.
assumptions applied in the calculation relate to the future The impairment review was also an area of focus for the external performance expectations of the cash-generating units.
auditor, who reported their findings to the Committee.
The Committee has also considered the related disclosures The Committee considered managements approach, the within the financial statements.
assumptions applied in relation to the impairment of goodwill, intangible assets and other fixed assets and related disclosures Refer to notes 3 and 12 and, having taken input from the external auditor, agreed with managements assessment that there were no indicators of impairment for any of the Groups business units during the year.
External auditor rotation The Committee considered papers which highlighted the developing The Group is required to comply with developing regulatory regulatory and governance framework and which highlighted the requirements in respect of external auditor rotation.
expected timeline and relevant impact on the Group.
As noted below, the external auditor is required to rotate the During 2014, the Committee considered a number of potential audit signing partner every five years.
The Groups current audit candidates for the role of new audit signing partner.
A suitable candidate signing partner is due to be replaced in the financial year ending was selected and was formally introduced to the Committee.
The new 31 December 2015. audit signing partner will take office following the conclusion of the audit process in respect of the financial year ended 31 December 2014.
Non-audit fees The Committee considered papers detailing the new rules and With effect from the 2017 financial year, the Group will be required to highlighting the impact on the Group.
A policy on the engagement comply with new rules governing the level of non-audit services that of the external auditor for the supply of non-audit services is in place may be awarded to the external auditor.
and, in line with best practice, is subject to regular review.
The Company is committed to complying with the rules and regulations governing the payment of non-audit fees.
Melrose Industries PLC 74 Annual Report 2014 Governance Audit Committee report continued External audit Audit tendering Appointment, re-appointment and assessment The Committee is mindful of the recommendations of the UK of effectiveness Corporate Governance Code that the external audit should be The Committee reviews and makes recommendations with regard put out to tender every 10 years.
The Company intends to comply to the re-appointment of the external auditors.
In making these with the order issued by the Competition & Markets Authority recommendations, the Committee considers auditor effectiveness relating to the statutory audit market for FTSE 350 companies, and independence, partner rotation and any other factors which which came into effect on 1 January 2015, and will apply to may impact the external auditors re-appointment.
financial years commencing on or after 1 January 2015.
The current audit engagement partners rotation is due in the year The external auditor is required to rotate the audit signing partner ending 31 December 2015.
It is the Committees understanding every five years.
The Groups audit signing partner changed as that under the EU rules, a formal tender process will be required part of that rotation process in 2010 and therefore partner rotation to be held no later than two years from the end of the current is due in the financial year ending 31 December 2015. rotation and that a rotation of external audit firm will be required The Committee has reviewed the external auditors performance by 2023.
This matter will be kept under review.
For 2014, the Company engaged the services Non-audit services of Lintstock Limited, an independent corporate governance Under new EU and Competition Commission rules, effective from specialist, to support the assessment of Deloitte LLPs the 2017 financial year, the level of non-audit services awarded to effectiveness and performance.
Lintstock worked with the the external auditor will need to be capped at 70% of the average Chairman of the Committee and the Company Secretary to audit fee for the previous three years.
develop a series of questions covering the key areas of the audit process that the Committee is expected to have an The Company is committed to complying with the rules and opinion over, including: regulations governing non-audit services.
A policy on the engagement of the external auditor for the supply of non-audit the calibre, continuity, experience, resources and technical services is in place to ensure that the provision of non-audit and industry knowledge of the external audit team: services does not impair the external auditors independence the planning and execution of the audit process: or objectivity.
In accordance with best practice FRC guidelines, the Company policy in relation to non-audit services is kept under the quality and timeliness of communications from the regular review it was re-examined during 2014 : the policy outlines external auditor: which non-audit services are pre-approved being those which the support provided to the Committee by the external audit are routine in nature, with a fee that is not significant in the context partner: and of the audit or audit-related services, which services require the prior approval of the Committee and which services the auditor the external auditors independence and objectivity.
The general principle is that the audit The Committee, along with relevant members of the management firm should not be requested to carry out non-audit services on team, were requested to complete an online questionnaire any activity of the Company where they may, in the future, be containing these questions.
Lintstock subsequently produced required to give an audit opinion.
Based on this report, During 2014, the main non-audit services provided by Deloitte the Committee concluded that the quality of the external audit LLP were in relation to taxation advisory, compliance and team remains very high, the external audit process is operating planning services.
effectively and Deloitte LLP continues to prove effective in its role as external auditor.
As detailed below, the Committee An analysis of the fees earned by the external auditors for audit regularly monitors the objectivity and independence of the and non-audit services can be found in note 7 to the consolidated external auditor.
Deloitte LLP was appointed in 2003 when the Company commenced trading and the external audit has not been formally tendered since then.
The Committee is satisfied that the effectiveness and independence of the external auditor is not impaired in any way.
There are no legal or contractual obligations that restrict the Groups capacity to recommend a particular firm for appointment as auditor and therefore a resolution proposing the reappointment of Deloitte LLP as external auditors will be put to the shareholders at the 2015 Annual General Meeting.
Governance Melrose Industries PLC 75 Annual Report 2014 Governance Auditor objectivity and independence The Committee carries out regular reviews to ensure that auditor objectivity and independence is maintained at all times.
A different senior partner oversees the taxation audit of the Company compared to those working on the non-audit taxation services.
No fees were paid to Deloitte LLP on a contingent basis.
Based on these strict procedures the Committee remains confident that auditor objectivity and independence have been maintained but accepts that non-audit work should be controlled to ensure that it does not compromise the auditors position.
At each year end, Deloitte LLP submits a letter setting out how it believes its independence and objectivity have been maintained.
As noted above, they are also required to rotate the audit partner responsible for the Group audit every five years and significant subsidiary audits every seven years.
Internal audit Due to the size and complexity of the Group, it is appropriate for an internal audit programme to be used within the business.
BM Howarth, an external firm, provides internal audit services to the Group.
A rotation programme is in place, such that every business unit will have an internal audit at least once every three years, with the largest sites being reviewed at least once every two years.
The rotation programme allows divisional managements actions and responses to be followed up on a timely basis.
The internal audit programme of planned visits is discussed and agreed with the Committee during the year.
The internal auditors remit includes assessment of the effectiveness of internal control systems, compliance with the Groups Policies and Procedures Manual and a review of the businesses Balance Sheets.
A report of key findings and recommendations is presented to the Group Finance Director, the Head of Financial Reporting and, where considered necessary, the Group Operations Controller, followed by a meeting to discuss these key findings and to agree on resulting actions.
BM Howarth present their key findings to the Committee twice during the year.
These presentations include details of the site coverage for the previous year and an outline of the planned visits for the current year.
A review of the internal audit process and scope of work covered by the internal auditor is the responsibility of the Committee, to ensure their objectives, level of authority and resources are appropriate for the nature of the businesses under review.
The Committee also reviews BM Howarths performance against the agreed internal audit programme.
A report of significant findings is presented by the internal auditor to the Committee at each meeting and implementation of recommendations by the Board is followed up at the subsequent Committee meeting.
John Grant Chairman, Audit Committee 4 March 2015
