Melrose Industries PLC 68 Annual Report 2014 Governance Corporate Governance report Statement of compliance The Company Secretary is responsible for advising and The Company is required to make certain statements relating supporting the Chairman and the Board on corporate governance to the way it is governed as laid down in the UK Code.
The matters as well as ensuring a smooth flow of information to enable remainder of this Corporate Governance report describes the effective decision making.
All Directors have access to the advice way in which the Company has applied and complied with the and services of the Company Secretary and, through him, have Main Principles, the Supporting Principles and the respective access to independent professional advice in respect of their related provisions of governance set out in the UK Code.
duties, at the Companys expense.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Board, the Audit Committee, the Nomination The Board is accountable to the Companys shareholders for Committee and the Remuneration Committee.
Throughout the year ended 31 December 2014, the Company applied and complied with the Main In addition, Business Review meetings are held between Principles, the Supporting Principles and the respective related scheduled Board meetings.
These meetings are critical to provisions of the UK Code, with the exception of a specific providing the Directors with a comprehensive understanding element of Schedule A, which recommends that grants under of the current performance and the key issues affecting Group executive share options and long-term incentive plans should businesses, without the formality or rigidity of a Board meeting.
normally be phased, rather than awarded in one block.
Under Chief executives and other senior management from the Melrose the 2012 Incentive Plan, details of which are provided on pages businesses are periodically invited to attend and present to these 81 and 82 of the Directors remuneration report, entitlements meetings, providing the Directors with an opportunity to meet to executive Directors were awarded in one block, rather than and engage with existing and emerging talent from across phased.
The 2012 Incentive Plan was recommended as being the organisation.
in the best interests of shareholders as a whole by the Board In accordance with its Articles and in compliance with the of Directors and was approved by shareholders at a general Companies Act 2006, the Company has granted a qualifying meeting held on 11 April 2012.
With regard to all other aspects third party indemnity to each Director.
The Company also of executive Directors remuneration, the Companys policies maintains Directors and Officers liability insurance.
fully comply with the provisions of Schedule A of the UK Code.
Chairman, Vice-Chairman and Chief Executive The Audit Committee report, Nomination Committee report and The roles of Chairman and Vice-Chairman are, and will remain, Directors remuneration report also form part of this Corporate separate to that of the Chief Executive of the Company, Governance report.
in accordance with best practice and Board policy.
Main Principle A: Leadership The Chairman, with the assistance of the Vice-Chairman, is The Board responsible for leadership of the Board.
The Chairman sets Details of the structure of the Board and its key responsibilities the Board agenda and ensures that adequate time is given to are shown on pages 60 and 61. the discussion of issues, particularly those of a strategic nature.
Board responsibilities are discharged in conjunction with senior Responsibility for ensuring effective communications with management, who in turn are responsible for the day-to-day shareholders rests with the Chairman, Vice-Chairman and the conduct of the Groups operations and for reporting to the Board two other executive Directors.
on items of significance and progress against objectives.
The During 2014, the non-executive Directors, led by the current Board meets regularly during the year as well as on an ad-hoc Senior non-executive Director, Perry Crosthwaite, held meetings basis as required by time-critical business needs.
to discuss and appraise the performance of the Chairman.
There were four, formally scheduled Board meetings held during The Chief Executive is responsible for strategic direction and the year and the attendance of each Director at these meetings decisions involving the day-to-day management of the Company.
In addition, a number of unscheduled Board meetings were held during the year in connection with corporate Main Principle B: Effectiveness transactions, for example, business acquisitions and divestments Board composition and, since the year end, the Return of Capital to shareholders and As at 4 March 2015, the Board comprised an executive Chairman, associated share capital consolidation.
three other executive Directors and four non-executive Directors, all of whom the Board considers to be independent.
The Board A pack of briefing papers and an agenda are provided to each believes that the Directors possess diverse business experience Director in advance of each Board, Committee or Business Review in areas complementary to the activities of the Company.
The Directors are able to seek further clarification and Biographies of the Directors are shown on pages 62 and 63 and information on any matter from any other Director, the Company on the Companys corporate website at www.
Secretary or any other employee of the Group whenever These biographies identify any other appointments held by the necessary.
Decisions are taken by the Board in conjunction with non-executive Directors.
None of the executive Directors hold the recommendations of its Committees and advice from external non-executive positions outside the Company.
consultants, advisers and senior management.
Non-executive Director independence The Board has a fully encrypted electronic board portal system, In accordance with the provisions of the UK Code, consideration enabling Board and Committee papers to be delivered securely has been given to the independence of all non-executive to Directors.
This facilitates a faster and more secure distribution Directors.
The Board considers all of the non-executive Directors of information, accessed using electronic tablets, and reduced to be independent.
Governance Melrose Industries PLC 69 Annual Report 2014 Governance The Board notes that Perry Crosthwaite, who was appointed Board evaluation as a non-executive Director on the Melrose Board in July 2005 Evaluation approach and process and first elected at the 2006 AGM, will have served three terms During 2014, the Chairman held meetings with each of the totalling nine years at the time of the 2015 AGM.
However, Directors, including the Senior non-executive Director, Perry the Board is of the opinion that, due to his invaluable experience Crosthwaite, to discuss the performance of individual executive in financial and other corporate matters, Perry Crosthwaite Directors and the Board as a whole.
Following positive feedback continues to maintain both his effectiveness and his from Directors over the process adopted for the 2013 evaluation independence.
The Board will continue to monitor this exercise, the Board decided once again to engage Lintstock position but feels at the present time that Perry Crosthwaite Limited to undertake an independent evaluation of Board and continues to make an important contribution to the Company.
Board Committee performance and to identify areas where performance and procedures might be further improved.
The non-executive Directors are not entitled to any cash bonus Lintstock is a specialist corporate governance consultancy or shares under the 2012 Incentive Plan.
and, other than supporting the Audit Committee in its assessment Board induction, training and support of the effectiveness of the external auditor, has no commercial A full and formal induction programme tailored to the needs dealings or other connection with the Melrose Group.
of individual Directors is provided for new Directors joining The first stage of the evaluation involved a review by the Board of the Board.
The primary aim of the induction programme is what had been delivered in 2014 against the outputs and actions to introduce new Directors to, and educate new Directors agreed from the 2013 evaluation exercise.
about, the Groups businesses, its operations and its governance arrangements.
Individual induction requirements are monitored Actions agreed from What we delivered the 2013 evaluation in 2014 by the Chairman and the Company Secretary to ensure that new To incorporate into the Board In October 2014, the Board visited Directors gain sufficient knowledge to enable them to contribute schedule visits to major the award winning class leading Elster to the Boards deliberations as quickly as possible.
operating businesses and Gas factory in Osnabrck, Germany periodic sessions with senior see above.
One of the outputs from the 2013 Board evaluation exercise, management from those see below, was a desire for the Board as a whole to gain greater business units.
visibility of and connection with the Groups business operations.
To increase the frequency of In addition to a series of presentations Following this feedback, a visit was organised to the Elster Gas management presentations delivered by the Elster Gas management operations in Germany see below.
team during the Boards site visit to Osnabrck, the Board also received a Board visit comprehensive business briefing from In October 2014, the Board visited Elster Gas in Lotte, near the leadership team of Elster Electricity.
Osnabrck, Germany, which in 2012 had received the German To devote further Board Executive and non-executive Director Global Excellence in Operations award.
Meetings were held time to discussions on talent succession planning, talent management with senior management from across the Elster Gas business management and executive and senior executive career planning were and a tour of the production facility was complemented by and non-executive Director considered by the Board at a dedicated presentations covering: succession planning.
It is intended that these issues remain a core the history of Elster Gas, the scope of its operations and the focus for the Board and that they be global product range: reviewed on an annual basis.
To further enhance the At the Boards instruction, an audit was the business transformation post-acquisition by Melrose: Boards understanding undertaken of the risk management of risk identification and processes in operation across the the future strategy of Elster Gas: and management.
Following this audit, a new human resource management across the business unit.
risk management framework is being developed and will be implemented throughout the Group during 2015 see pages 36 to 37.
The second stage of the 2014 evaluation involved Lintstock engaging with the Chairman and the Company Secretary to discuss and agree the scope of the proposed evaluation and to develop a series of questionnaires tailored to the specific circumstances of Melrose.
The Board was requested to complete online questionnaires addressing the composition and performance of the Board and its Committees, and the performance of the Chairman and the Senior non-executive Director.
The anonymity of all respondents was ensured throughout the process in order to promote the open and frank exchange of views.
Melrose Industries PLC 70 Annual Report 2014 Governance Corporate Governance report continued Lintstock subsequently produced a report which addressed the Annual re-election of Directors following areas: In accordance with the provisions of the UK Code, all of the Directors stood for re-election at the 2014 Annual General Meeting.
The The composition of the Board, its expertise and dynamics: Articles of the Company require the Directors to stand for annual The performance of the Board since the last evaluation exercise: re-election, thus ensuring continued compliance with the UK Code.
As such, all Directors will offer themselves for re-election at the 2015 The Boards time management, the annual cycle of work and the Annual General Meeting, to be held on 14 May 2015. support afforded to the Board: Following the formal performance evaluations of each of the The performance of the Board Committees and of the Chairman Directors and having carefully considered the commitments and Senior non-executive Director: required and the contribution made by each Director, the Chairman The Boards oversight of strategy, its understanding of the is of the opinion that each Directors performance continues to be Companys performance relative to its competitors and the key effective and continues to demonstrate commitment to the role.
strategic issues facing the Group over the next three to five years: Attendance of Directors at meetings The Boards oversight and management of risk and internal The following table shows the attendance of each of the Directors at control: and the scheduled meetings of the Board and its Committees held during the year.
The quorum necessary for the transaction of business by The succession planning for the executive Directors and for the Board and each of its Committees is two.
Briefing papers and senior management at the level below the Board and the Boards meeting agendas are provided to each Director in advance of each visibility of potential successors from within the business.
Decisions are taken by the Board in conjunction with the At a dedicated Board session, a report of the findings of the recommendations of its Committees and advice from external advisers evaluation and its recommendations was discussed and specific and senior management as appropriate.
The representations of any actions agreed.
Director, who is unable to attend a meeting of the Board or a standing Committee, are duly considered by those Directors in attendance.
Outputs of the evaluation The Board recognises the benefits of a thorough Board The table also shows attendance at Business Review meetings and Committee evaluation process.
Overall, the evaluation held between scheduled Board meetings.
demonstrated that the composition and performance of Attendance of Directors the Board and its Committees and the performance of the Business Chairman and the Senior non-executive Director continued Board Audit Nomination Remuneration Review to be very effective.
1 Number of meetings 4 3 2 3 3 Christopher Miller 4 2 3 As a result of the review, amongst other things, the Board agreed: David Roper 4 3 On the importance of planning for executive Director succession Simon Peckham 4 3 and managing the succession of non-executive Directors: 2 Geoffrey Martin 4 3 3 To continue its focus on risk management and internal control Perry Crosthwaite 4 3 1 3 3 and to clearly delineate accountabilities for risk management John Grant 4 3 2 3 3 between the Board and the Audit Committee: Justin Dowley 4 3 2 3 2 Liz Hewitt 4 3 2 3 2 That it should continue with its visits to major operating units 3 Miles Templeman 1 1 2 2 to ensure that it develops and maintains a sound knowledge of the businesses, is visible to the operations and has access to 1 I n addition, ad-hoc meetings are held from time to time which are attended by a quorum of a broad group of executives and employees: Directors and are convened to deal with specific items of business.
2 Geoffrey Martin attends by invitation.
To increase the frequency of management presentations so 3 Retired from the Board at the conclusion of the AGM on 13 May 2014. that the Chief Executive of each business reports to the Board Main Principle C: Accountability annually: and Objectives and policy That the format and content of the management information The objectives of the Directors and senior management are to provided to the Board should be reviewed.
Increased market safeguard and increase the value of the business and assets of information and intelligence was also requested.
the Group for the benefit of its shareholders.
Achievement of their objectives requires the development of policies and appropriate internal In accordance with the provisions of the UK Code, it is anticipated control frameworks to ensure the Groups resources are managed that externally facilitated Board evaluations will be carried out properly and any key risks are identified and mitigated where possible.
In years when an external evaluation is not carried out, the Board will continue to complete internal The Board is ultimately responsible for the development of the performance-based questionnaires, with the process managed Groups overall risk management policies and system of internal by the Company Secretary.
The scope for each subsequent control frameworks and for reviewing their respective effectiveness, evaluation will be designed to build upon learning gained in the while the role of management is to implement these policies and previous year to ensure that the recommendations agreed in the frameworks across the Groups business operations.
The Directors evaluations are implemented and that year-on-year progress is recognise that the systems and processes established by the measured and reported upon.
Board are designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and cannot provide absolute assurance against material financial misstatement or loss.
Governance Melrose Industries PLC 71 Annual Report 2014 Governance The Board is committed to satisfying the internal control guidance been visited by internal audit since the acquisition.
The Directors are for Directors set out in the revised version of the Turnbull pleased to report that there were no material deficiencies: the majority Guidance on Internal Control.
In accordance with this guidance, of the recommendations presented in the internal audit reports have there is an ongoing process, regularly reviewed by the Directors, now been, or are in the process of being, implemented.
Of the 37 for identifying, evaluating, managing and mitigating where sites visited in 2014, four sites have been chosen for re-visits in 2015 possible the significant risks faced by the Group.
This process to ensure that the agreed improvements to systems and processes for reviewing the Groups internal controls is consistent with prior have been implemented.
During 2014, initial fair value audit visits were years and has been in place throughout the 2014 financial year also completed on all Eclipse sites acquired during the year.
and up to the date of approval of this Annual Report.
The Board confirms that, from the review of internal controls, it A separate Audit Committee report is set out on pages 72 to 75 has not determined any significant failings or weaknesses that it and provides details of the role and activities of the Committee considers require remedial action.
The Board also confirms that it and its relationship with the internal and external auditors.
has not been advised of any material weaknesses in the internal control systems that relate to financial reporting.
Managing and controlling risk The Group has policies and internal control frameworks which Whistleblowing, anti-bribery and corruption policies address a number of key business risks, including strategic, The Company takes very seriously its responsibilities under the operational, compliance, ethical and financial risks.
A summary Bribery Act 2010 and has in place appropriate measures to of the principal risks and uncertainties that could impact upon ensure compliance.
Policies in place within each business apply the Groups performance is set out on pages 38 to 41. to all Directors, employees whether permanent, fixed-term, or temporary, pension trustees, consultants and other business The Groups financial risk management objectives and policies are advisers, contractors, trainees, volunteers, business agents, also described in the Finance Directors review on pages 42 to 49. distributors, joint venture partners, or any other person working for The Group operates on a fide-centralised basis and the Board or performing a service on behalf of the Company, its subsidiaries has established an organisational structure with clear reporting and associated companies in which it has a majority interest.
procedures, lines of responsibility and delegated authority.
During 2014, the Company updated its compliance policies and Divisional senior management, operational managers and financial these are now in the process of being implemented across the controllers have been delegated responsibility by the Board for Group.
As part of these ongoing improvements, NAVEX Global the establishment and implementation of detailed control systems was engaged to provide an externally facilitated whistleblowing as appropriate for their business.
hotline which is being made available during 2015.
An established programme of regular review is in place at Main Principle D: Remuneration the businesses and a culture of continuous improvement is Following changes to the Companies Act 2006 and in line with encouraged by the Board through regular meetings with senior new regulations which came into effect on 1 October 2013, details management, review of operating performance and progress around Directors remuneration, both generally and as it relates to against business plans.
The ongoing process of review provides the UK Code, are set out in the Directors remuneration report and assurance that the control environment is operating as intended.
are now presented in the following three sections: The Audit Committee also monitors the effectiveness of the the annual statement from the Chairman of the Remuneration internal control process implemented across the Group through Committee, which can be found on pages 78 to 80: a review of the key findings presented by the external and internal auditors.
Management is responsible for ensuring that the Audit the Annual Report on Remuneration, which can be found on Committees recommendations in respect of internal controls pages 81 to 88: and and risk management are implemented.
a summary of the Directors remuneration policy, which can be Internal financial controls and reporting found on pages 88 to 95.
The Group has a comprehensive system for assessing the Main Principle E: Relations with shareholders effectiveness of the Groups internal controls, including strategic The Company seeks to build on a mutual understanding of business planning and regular monitoring and reporting of financial objectives with its institutional shareholders, via the executive performance.
A detailed annual budget is prepared by senior Directors, through regular meetings and presentations following management and thereafter is reviewed and formally adopted by announcements of its annual and interim results.
The budget and other targets are regularly updated via Directors are available to meet institutional shareholders should a rolling forecast process and regular business review meetings are there be unresolved matters they wish to bring to their attention.
held involving senior management to assess performance.
The results The views of key analysts and shareholders generally are fed back of these reviews are in turn reported to and discussed by the Board to the Board directly by individual Directors, or via the Companys at each meeting.
As discussed in the Audit Committee report on brokers.
This helps to ensure that all members of the Board pages 72 to 75, BM Howarth is the Groups internal auditor: they also develop an understanding of the views of major shareholders.
assumed internal audit responsibility for the Elster businesses from acquisition in August 2012 onwards.
A total of 37 internal audit visits, The Board welcomes the attendance of shareholders at the covering 43% of Group turnover, were completed during 2014.
The results of the voting on each of the resolutions proposed will be announced shortly after the Annual These visits include 30 Elster reporting units which, combined with General Meeting has concluded, via the Melrose corporate the visits completed in 2013 and the planned visits for the first quarter website at www.
of 2015, will ensure that 93% of the continuing Elster units will have
