Melrose Industries PLC 64 Annual Report 2014 Governance Directors report The Directors of Melrose Industries PLC Shares pursuant to this authority.
The resolutions being proposed at this years AGM include a resolution to renew this authority.
the Company present their Annual Insurance and indemnities Report and audited financial statements The Directors have the benefit of an indemnity from the Company of the Group for the year ended in respect of their liabilities incurred as a result of their office.
This indemnity is provided under the Companys Articles and satisfies 31 December 2014. the indemnity provisions of the Act.
The Corporate Governance report set out on pages 68 to 71, The Company has taken out an insurance policy in respect of the Finance Directors review on pages 42 to 49 and the Corporate those liabilities for which the Directors may not be indemnified.
and Social Responsibility section of the Performance Review Neither the indemnity nor the insurance provides cover in the on pages 50 to 57, are each incorporated by reference into this event that a Director is proved to have acted dishonestly or Directors report.
Disclosures elsewhere in the Annual Report fraudulently.
are cross-referenced where appropriate: taken together, they AGM fulfil the combined requirements of the Companies Act 2006 The AGM of the Company will be held at Barber-Surgeons the Act and of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules the Hall, Monkwell Square, Wood Street, London, EC2Y 5BL at DTRs and the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority.
The notice convening the meeting Details of significant events since the Balance Sheet date are is shown on pages 156 to 161 and includes full details of the contained in note 29 to the financial statements.
An indication resolutions to be proposed, together with explanatory notes of likely future developments in Group businesses is included in relation to such resolutions.
Post Balance Sheet events Directors In November 2014, the Company completed the disposal of The Directors of the Company as at the date of this report, together its Bridon business for an enterprise value of 365 million see with their biographical details, are given on pages 62 and 63. note 9 to the financial statements for further details, representing the latest step in realising value for the FKI businesses acquired Changes to the Board during the year are set out in the Corporate by Melrose in 2008.
In accordance with its strategy, the Board Governance report on pages 68 to 71.
Details of Directors service decided to use part of the net proceeds of the disposal to return contracts are set out in the Directors remuneration report on 200 million in cash to shareholders the Return of Capital.
At the time of such decision, this return was equivalent to 18.7 The Statement of Directors responsibilities in relation to the pence per existing Ordinary Share of 13 110 pence nominal consolidated financial statements is set out on page 96. value each in the capital of the Company in issue at that time the Existing Ordinary Shares.
Appointment and removal of Directors and their powers The Companys articles of association Articles give the The Return of Capital was approved by shareholders at a general Directors the power to appoint and replace other Directors.
meeting of the Company held on 20 February 2015, using a Under the terms of reference of the Nomination Committee, redeemable share scheme in this case involving B Shares and or any appointment must be recommended by the Nomination C Shares and was structured with the objective of enabling Committee for approval by the Board.
shareholders, subject to restrictions in respect of certain overseas shareholders, to elect to receive their cash proceeds With effect from the 2012 Annual General Meeting AGM, of 18.7 pence per Existing Ordinary Share as: the Board determined that all Directors of the Company should stand for re-election on an annual basis, in compliance with the an income payment the Income Option : or provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code, and this a capital payment the Capital Option, collectively the requirement is contained in the Articles.
Therefore, all Directors Share Alternatives.
will offer themselves for re-election at the AGM to be held on 14 May 2015.
Shareholders were also offered a mix and match facility, such that they could choose to receive the cash proceeds through The Directors are responsible for managing the business of the a combination of the Share Alternatives.
Company and exercise their powers in accordance with the Articles, directions given by special resolution and any relevant Only shareholders who were on the register of members at statutes and regulations.
Specific powers relating to the allotment 5.00 pm on 20 February 2015 the B C Share Record Date and issuance of shares and the ability of the Company to were entitled to participate in the Return of Capital, and the purchase its own shares are also included within the Articles deadline for shareholders making their elections in respect and such authorities are submitted for approval by the of the Share Alternatives was 4.30 pm on 27 February 2015. shareholders at the AGM each year.
Pursuant to sections 693 and 701 of the Act and a special resolution passed at the AGM in 2014, the Company was authorised to purchase its own shares, limited to an aggregate maximum number equal to 10% of the issued share capital of the Company.
The Company did not purchase any Ordinary Governance Melrose Industries PLC 65 Annual Report 2014 Governance Further details of the Share Alternatives are listed in the table below, together with details of the number of Existing Ordinary Shares in respect of which each Share Alternative was chosen by shareholders.
Number of Existing Ordinary Shares in respect of which Share Alternative 1 Share Alternative Details of Share Alternative chosen Income Option Relevant shareholders received one C Share, with a nominal value of 0.00001 pence, for every 687,786,937 Existing Ordinary Share held at the B C Share Record Date, and a single C Share dividend of 18.7 pence per C Share held.
The single C Share dividend became due and payable on 2 March 2015 and, thereafter, the C Shares were automatically converted into C Deferred Shares with a nominal value of 0.00001 pence each.
Proceeds in respect of the Income Option will be paid to relevant shareholders and the C Deferred Shares will be automatically redeemed by the Company on 16 March 2015.
Capital Option Relevant shareholders received one B Share, with a nominal value of 18.7 pence, for every 383,974,411 Existing Ordinary Share held at the B C Share Record Date, and had such B Share s redeemed by the Company on 2 March 2015.
Proceeds in respect of the Capital Option will be paid to relevant shareholders on 16 March 2015.
1 T he Capital Option was not made available to any shareholders with a registered address in, or who were resident or located in, Australia, Canada, Japan, New Zealand, the Republic of South Africa, United States, and any other territory where the invitation to participate in the Return of Capital proposals and any election for the Capital Option in respect of all or some of such shareholders entitlement to the Return of Capital would violate the laws of that jurisdiction or would require the registration of the B Shares, C Shares and or C Deferred Shares, and all such shareholders were automatically deemed to have elected for the Income Option.
Associated with the Return of Capital, an Ordinary Share capital Capital structure consolidation was approved by shareholders at the general The table below shows details of the Companys issued share meeting of the Company held on 20 February 2015, in the ratio capital as at 31 December 2013, 31 December 2014 and of 13 for 14 the Share Capital Consolidation, and the record immediately following the Share Capital Consolidation becoming date for the Share Capital Consolidation was 6.00 pm on the effective on 23 February 2015. same day the Share Capital Consolidation Record Date.
23 February 2015 post the The aim of the Share Capital Consolidation was to ensure, so 31 December 31 December Share Capital Share class 2013 2014 Consolidation far as possible, that the market price of an Ordinary Share remained approximately the same before and after the Return Former Ordinary 1,266,627,036 Nil Nil Shares of 0.1 of Capital and, so far as possible, to maintain comparability of pence each historical and future per share data.
1 Existing Ordinary Nil 1,071,761,339 Nil The Share Capital Consolidation was effected by the sub-division Shares of 13 110 of every Existing Ordinary Share into 13 shares of 1 110 pence pence each 2 each in the capital of the Company and, forthwith upon such New Ordinary Nil Nil 995,206,966 sub-division, the consolidation of every 14 shares of 1 110 Shares of 7 55 pence each pence each in the capital of the Company resulting from such sub-division into one new ordinary share of 7 55 pence in the 1 Fractional entitlements resulting from the Share Capital Consolidation effective on capital of the Company the New Ordinary Shares.
10 February 2014 were aggregated and sold in the market on shareholders behalf.
In order to ensure that the aggregate of all fractional entitlements to be sold in the market added up to a whole number of New Ordinary Shares, between the B C Share Record Date and the Details of the structure of the Companys share capital both Share Capital Consolidation Record Date, one Ordinary Share was allotted fully paid up for before and after the Share Capital Consolidation, together with cash to Investec Bank plc at a price which was equal to the closing middle-market price of an Existing Ordinary Share on 7 February 2014, less 47 pence.
This Ordinary Share was the rights attached to each of the share classes in issue as at not entitled to participate in the Return of Capital, but was subject to the Share Capital 31 December 2013, 31 December 2014 and immediately following Consolidation in the ratio of 11 for 13 approved by shareholders at the general meeting of the Company held on 7 February 2014. the Share Capital Consolidation on 20 February 2015, are set 2 Fractional entitlements resulting from the Share Capital Consolidation effective on out within the sections below.
Shareholders continued to own 23 February 2015 were aggregated and sold in the market.
The aggregated proceeds of sale, net of commission, were donated to a charity nominated by the Board, the Rainbow approximately the same proportion of the Company after the Trust.
In order to ensure that the aggregate of all fractional entitlements to be sold in the market added up to a whole number of New Ordinary Shares, Nine Existing Ordinary Shares Share Capital Consolidation as they did before, subject to were allotted and issued to Investec Bank plc on 3 February 2015 at 266.8 pence per share, fractional entitlements.
being the closing middle-market price of an Existing Ordinary Share on 2 February 2015.
These Ordinary Shares were subject to the Share Capital Consolidation and were entitled to participate in the Return of Capital.
Only the New Ordinary Shares are traded on the London Stock Exchange.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders that restrict the transfer of New Ordinary Shares or that restrict voting rights attached to the New Ordinary Shares.
Details of the 2012 Incentive Share Plan are set out on pages 81 to 82 of the Directors remuneration report and note 22 to the financial statements.
Melrose Industries PLC 66 Annual Report 2014 Governance Directors report continued Shareholders voting rights Shareholder dividend Only the New Ordinary Shares have voting rights attached.
In The Directors are pleased to recommend the payment of a final a general meeting of the Company, subject to the provisions of dividend of 5.3p per share 2013: 5.0p on 18 May 2015 to the current Articles and to any special rights or restrictions as to Ordinary shareholders on the register of members of the voting attached to any other class of shares in the Company from Company at the close of business on 17 April 2015.
This dividend time to time: recommendation will be put to shareholders at the forthcoming AGM of the Company, to be held on 14 May 2015.
Subject to on a show of hands, every member who is present in person shareholder approval being obtained at the AGM for the final or by proxy shall have one vote: and dividend, this will mean a full year 2014 dividend of 8.1p per share on a poll, every member who is present in person or by proxy 2013: 7.75p.
shall have one vote for every share they hold.
In November 2014, the Company completed the disposal of If any call or other sum payable by a holder of New Ordinary its Bridon business for an enterprise value of 365 million see Shares remains unpaid, they shall not be entitled to vote at a note 9 to the financial statements for further details, representing general meeting or class meeting in respect of any shares held the latest step in realising value for the FKI businesses acquired by them.
Currently, all New Ordinary Shares are fully paid.
In accordance with its strategy, the Board decided to use part of the net proceeds of the disposal to return Articles of association 200 million in cash to shareholders, by way of the Return of The Companys Articles were amended pursuant to a special Capital proposals described earlier in this Directors report.
The resolution approved at the general meeting of the Company Return of Capital was approved by shareholders at the general held on 20 February 2015, in order to reflect the rights and meeting of the Company held on 20 February 2015.
This return restrictions attaching to the B Shares, the C Shares and the to shareholders is not included in the full year dividend figure C Deferred Shares, and certain other changes required in relation stated above.
to the Share Capital Consolidation.
The rights and restrictions attaching to the New Ordinary Shares following the Share Capital It is the intention of the Board to continue to pursue a progressive Consolidation remained exactly the same as those attaching to dividend policy, where appropriate.
the Existing Ordinary Shares immediately prior to the Share The Company offers a Dividend Reinvestment Plan DRIP which Capital Consolidation.
gives shareholders the opportunity to use their dividend payments Substantial shareholdings to purchase further Ordinary Shares in Melrose Industries PLC.
As at 31 December 2014, the following voting interests in the Further details about the DRIP and its terms and conditions can Ordinary Share capital of the Company, disclosable under DTR 5, be found within the Investors section on the Companys website had been notified to the Directors: at www.
To the extent that shareholders chose the Income Option in respect of all or some of their entitlement to % of Ordinary the Return of Capital, the DRIP could not be used in relation to the Shareholder Shareholding Share capital single C Share dividend paid to such shareholders in respect of BlackRock, Inc. 104,103,286 9.71 their holdings of such C Shares.
Schroders plc 59,672,074 5.57 Legal & General Group Plc 53,881,949 5.02 Financial instruments Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited 53,456,498 4.99 The disclosures required in relation to the use of financial instruments by the Company, including the financial risk Between 1 January 2015 and 3 March 2015, the following voting management objectives and policies of the Company and interests in the Ordinary Share capital, disclosable under DTR 5, the exposure of the Company to credit risk, liquidity risk, cash were notified to the Directors: flow risk, exchange rate risk, contract and warranty risk and commodity cost risk, can be found in the Finance Directors % of Ordinary Shareholder Shareholding Share capital review on pages 42 to 49, which is incorporated by reference into Schroders plc 46,308,210 4.32 this Directors report, and in note 24 to the financial statements.
Research and development activities Melrose Group businesses are encouraged to focus on research and development and to ensure that new and innovative product lines continue to be developed.
During 2014, investment continued and several new product launches were either realised during 2014, or planned for 2015.
This Group strategy helps to ensure that each business can remain at the forefront of technological advances within defined market sectors and be able to meet specific customer demands.
Some examples of the types of new products being launched within the various markets are discussed within the business reviews on pages 28 to 35 of the Performance Review.
Governance Melrose Industries PLC 67 Annual Report 2014 Governance Employees Auditor Further details in relation to employment policies, employee So far as each Director is aware, there is no relevant audit involvement, consultation and development, together with details of information of which the Companys auditor is unaware and the some of the human resource improvement initiatives implemented Directors have taken all the steps which they ought to have taken during 2014 are shown on pages 51 and 52 of the Corporate Social as Directors to make themselves aware of any relevant audit Responsibility section of the Performance Review, which is information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware incorporated by reference into this Directors report.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of section 418 Environmental of the Companies Act 2006.
The Directors of the Company fully understand the importance of the Groups environmental responsibilities.
Each of the Companys On behalf of the Board, the Audit Committee has reviewed the businesses is committed to ensuring that their operations have effectiveness, performance, independence and objectivity of a minimum adverse effect on the environment and that ongoing the existing external auditor, Deloitte LLP, for the year ended reductions in both energy usage and CO emissions are achieved, 31 December 2014 and concluded that the external auditor was 2 wherever practicable.
Deloitte LLP has expressed its willingness to continue in office as auditor.
Accordingly, resolutions will be Further details in relation to the various environmental initiatives proposed at the AGM of the Company to re-appoint Deloitte LLP that are ongoing within some of the Groups businesses and as auditor of the Company and to authorise the Audit Committee statistics showing greenhouse gas emissions data are shown to determine their remuneration.
on pages 55 and 56 of the Corporate Social Responsibility section of the Performance Review, which is incorporated by Approved by the Board of Directors and signed on its behalf by: reference into this Directors report.
Political donations The Companys policy is not to make any political donations and there were no political donations made during the year ended 31 December 2014 2013: nil.
Adam Westley Disclosures required under Listing Rule 9.8.
4R Company Secretary No information is required to be disclosed by the Company in 4 March 2015 respect of Listing Rules 9.8.
Significant agreements and change of control With the exception of the Groups banking facilities, the 2012 Incentive Plan including the options over 2012 Incentive Shares and the divisional management long-term incentive plans, there are no other agreements that would have a significant effect upon a change of control of Melrose Industries PLC as at 4 March 2015.
In June 2012, as part of the process to acquire Elster, the Group agreed a 1.5 billion five year multi-currency, committed bank facility, which was subsequently amended in July 2014 and extended for five years from that date.
This states that in the event of a change of control of the Company following a takeover bid, the Company and lenders under this facility are obliged to enter into negotiations to determine whether and, if so, how to continue with the facility.
There is no obligation for the lenders to continue to make the facility available for more than 30 days beyond any change of control.
Failure to reach agreement with parties on revised terms could require an acquirer to put in place replacement facilities.
In the event of a takeover of the Company, options over the 2012 Incentive Shares would be exercised and any 2012 Incentive Shares resulting from such exercise, or that have previously been issued, would convert into Ordinary Shares of 7 55 pence or an entitlement to a dividend paid in cash, the rate of conversion being based upon the offer price of the Companys Ordinary Shares as calculated on the date of the change of control of the Company.
If part or the entire offer price is not in cash, the Remuneration Committee will determine the value of the non-cash element, having been advised by an investment bank of repute that such valuation is fair and reasonable.
