Consolidated financial statements Company financial statements Additional information and notes and notes Management structure Shareholder relations A clearly defined organizational structure exists within which individual The Company values the views of shareholders and recognizes their responsibilities are identified and can be monitored.
The management interests in the Groups strategy and performance.
of the Group as a whole is delegated to the Executive Chairman and the executive committee.
The Company reports formally to shareholders four times a year, around June preliminary announcement of annual results and The executive committee meets regularly to agree strategy, monitor December interim statement and the Company also publishes interim performance and consider key business issues.
As part of its review, management statements in or around August and February each year.
it considers the risks associated with the delivery of strategy and The annual report is expected to be mailed to shareholders at least important governance issues within operating companies.
20 business days before the AGM.
Separate announcements of all material events are made as necessary.
Regular communications are There are a number of Group administrative functions such as Group maintained with institutional shareholders and presentations are given Finance, Treasury, Corporate Communications and Legal.
These to shareholders when the half year and full year financial results are functions report to the board through the executive committee.
announced and at other times.
In addition to the Executive Chairman and Chief Financial Officer, who have regular contact with investors, A number of Group-wide policies, issued and administered centrally, David Maloney the Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent have been set to ensure compliance with key governance standards.
Director and the other non-executive directors are available to meet These policies cover areas such as finance, contract approvals, data with shareholders as and when required in order to develop a protection, share dealing and anti-bribery.
balanced understanding of the issues and concerns particularly of major shareholders.
The whole board is kept up to date at its regular The conduct of Micro Focus individual businesses is delegated to meetings with the views of shareholders and analysts.
External local and regional executive management teams subject to a chart analysts reports are also circulated to directors.
of approvals policy which is communicated to all employees in the Group.
These teams are accountable for the conduct and The Companys website www.
com provides an overview performance of their businesses within the agreed business strategy.
of the business including its strategy, products and objectives.
Announcements All Group announcements are available on the Companys website All major announcements are approved by the executive directors and new announcements are published without delay.
The terms of and circulated to the board for approval prior to issue.
reference of each of the boards three committees and other important corporate governance documents are available on the website and The Group also has internal and external checks to guard against from the Company Secretary.
Additionally, the Executive Chairman, unauthorised release of information.
Chief Financial Officer and Head of Investor Relations provide focal points for shareholders enquiries and dialogue throughout the year.
Budgetary process A comprehensive budgeting system allows managers to submit AGM detailed budgets which are reviewed and amended by executive The Companys AGM, which will be held on 25 September 2014 at directors prior to submission to the board for approval.
9am UK time, will provide an opportunity for the board to meet with all shareholders and the participation of shareholders is encouraged.
Insurance At the meeting, in addition to the statutory business, the board will The Group keeps under review its portfolio of insurance policies be available for questions from shareholders.
with its insurance brokers to ensure that the policies are appropriate to the Groups activities and exposure.
In accordance with the Corporate Governance Code recommendations, the Company will count all proxy votes and will indicate the level of proxies lodged, the number of proxy votes for and against each such resolution and the number of votes withheld.
A resolution will be proposed for each substantive issue and the chairs of the audit, remuneration and nomination committees will attend to answer questions.
Information on share capital and other matters The information about share capital required to be included in this statement can be found on page 59 of the directors report and in note 23 to the financial statements.
Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 31
