Overview Strategic report Corporate governance Directors Remuneration report Directors Remuneration Policy continued Provision Detailed terms Appointment of interim executive directors The committee also recognizes that there may be times when it is Termination payment Payment in lieu of notice equal to: appropriate to appoint an interim executive director or in exceptional A maximum of 12 months base salary: circumstance require that a non-executive director takes on an Pension supplement: and executive function on a short-term basis.
Remuneration for interim Cash supplement in lieu of other benefits.
executive directors will be determined within the existing remuneration Restrictive covenants During employment and for a maximum of policy.
The committee retains the discretion to make appropriate 12 months after leaving.
one-off remuneration arrangements for non-executive directors, including a non-executive Chairman, outside of the standard policy at these times.
Any such arrangements will be detailed in the Executive Director Date of service contract relevant years Annual Report on Remuneration.
Kevin Loosemore 14 April 2011 Executive directors appointed as a result of mergers Mike Phillips 7 September 2010 and acquisitions Stephen Murdoch 16 April 2014 As merger and acquisition activity is part of the Companys strategy, the committee recognizes that such activity may give rise to situations If an executive director commits a material breach of their service where there are exceptional circumstances in relation to executive contract, any crime, or act of gross misconduct or dishonesty, the directors and certain senior management.
Should it be necessary Company is entitled to summarily terminate the service contract without to match compensation in an acquired company and or adjust notice or payment in lieu of notice or other compensation.
Such a compensation of existing management to deliver significant contract term cannot however, as a rule of law, affect the executive shareholder benefits then the Company may offer awards of variable directors statutory rights such as rights in respect of unfair dismissal.
remuneration in excess of the maximum stated in the policy table.
All of the executive directors service contracts were entered into Executive directors service agreements before 27 June 2012 with the exception of Stephen Murdoch The Companys policy is that executive directors service agreements appointed 16 April 2014, and have not been modified or renewed normally continue until the directors agreed retirement date or such following their execution.
As such, remuneration payments or other date as the parties agree are terminable on no more than payments for loss of office that are required to be made under one years notice and provide no entitlement to the payment of them are not required to be consistent with the policy.
a pre-determined amount on termination of employment in any circumstances.
In addition, in some limited cases, career counselling Loss of office payments may be provided after the cessation of employment for a Except for Kevin Loosemore, there are no pre-determined special defined period.
provisions for directors with regard to compensation in the event of loss of office: compensation is based on what would be earned by way The table below provides details of the main terms of the executive of salary, pension entitlement and other contractual benefits over the directors service contracts and termination payments not otherwise notice period.
In the event that a contract is to be terminated, and a set out in this report.
payment in lieu of notice made, payments to the executive director may be staged over the notice period, at the same interval as salary Provision Detailed terms would have been paid.
Normal remuneration Base salary, pension and benefits: arrangements Company car or cash allowance: In respect of Kevin Loosemore, his loss of office compensation is equal Private health insurance: to 150% of his basic pay to reflect the value of salary and benefits.
Life assurance: 25 days paid annual leave: During that period the executive director must take all reasonable Participation in annual bonus plan, subject steps to obtain alternative employment and payments to the executive to plan rules: and director by the Company will be reduced to reflect payments received Participation in LTIP, subject to plan rules.
in respect of that alternative employment.
Change of control No special contractual provisions apply in There is no automatic entitlement to annual bonus.
Where an the event of a Change of Control.
Details executive director leaves by reason of death, disability, ill-heath or any of the treatment of LTIP awards is provided other reason at the committees discretion they may receive a pro-rata on page 47. bonus for the year of cessation, paid on the normal payment date Notice period A maximum of 12 months notice from the with committee discretion to accelerate, based on performance Company or the director.
against pre-determined targets and time served during the year.
46 Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
