Overview Strategic report Corporate governance Corporate governance Board of directors 1.
Stephen Murdoch, 47 Executive Chairman Chief Financial Officer Chief Operating Officer Kevin was previously non-executive Chairman Mike joined Micro Focus on 7 September As Chief Operating Officer, Stephen is of Morse plc, a non-executive director of 2010 and was previously Chief Executive responsible for the day to day execution of Nationwide Building Society and a nonOfficer at Morse plc, following his initial role Micro Focus operations.
Stephen has a 25 executive director of the Big Food Group plc.
Mike left Morse plc year track record of success in the IT industry His most recent executive roles were as Chief in July 2010 following the turnaround and spanning hardware, software and services.
He Operating Officer of Cable & Wireless plc, successful corporate sale to 2e2 in June 2010. has held senior executive positions in general President of Motorola Europe, Middle East From 1998 to 2007, Mike was Group Finance management, sales and strategy with IBM and and Africa and before that, he was Chief Director at Microgen plc and played a lead Dell.
Most recently, Stephen was the General Executive of IBM UK Limited.
Kevin was role in the transformation of the company Manager of Europe, Middle East and Africa appointed non-executive Chairman of the to an international software and services for Dells Public Sector and Large Commercial Company in 2005 and Executive Chairman business with sustainable and profitable Enterprise business unit.
Stephen joined Micro in April 2011.
He has a degree in politics growth.
Earlier roles include seven years Focus on 5 November 2012 as General and economics from Oxford University.
corporate finance work at Smith & Manager of Products and Marketing Strategy Williamson, as well as two years at and became a director on 16 April 2014.
 LLP where he led the UK technology team, reporting to the 4.
David Maloney, 58 global Head of Corporate Finance for the Senior independent non-executive Technology Sector.
Mike began his career director and Deputy Chairman at Peat Marwick Mitchell & Co now KPMG.
David is also the senior independent nonexecutive director of Cineworld Group plc, Enterprise Inns plc and Stock Spirits Group plc.
In addition he is Chairman of the board of Trustees of Make-a-Wish Foundation UK Limited, Brandon Hire Group Holdings Limited and Reed & Mackay, a business travel management company.
David was previously a non-executive director of Carillion plc and Ludorum plc and Chairman of Hoseasons Holdings Ltd. His most recent executive role was as Chief Financial Officer of the global hotel group Le Meridien Hotels and Resorts.
Prior to that he was Chief Financial Officer of Thomson Travel Group and Preussag Airlines and Group Finance Director of Avis Europe plc.
David was appointed non-executive senior independent director in 2005 and Deputy Chairman in April 2011.
David is a fellow of the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants and has a degree in economics from Heriot-Watt University, Edinburgh.
26 Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Consolidated financial statements Company financial statements Additional information and notes and notes 5.
Tom Virden, 56 Non-executive director Non-executive director Non-executive director Karen is Chair of Volex plc, The Foundry, a Richard is currently a non-executive director Tom is a non-executive director of Atari SA.
leading special effects software company, of Aon UK Limited and Chairman of Acora publicly traded on the French stock exchange e-conomic international, a SaaS based Limited, Entanet International Limited, and technology start-up Sweetbeam.
He accounting software provider, and also a Sub 10 Systems Limited and Miles 33 Limited.
began his career at Apple Inc and held a range non-executive director at Cambridge He was previously a non-executive director of leadership roles in market development and Broadband Networks Ltd and Intelliflo Ltd. at Compel plc, Morse plc, Global Crossing product marketing, including the leadership of Prior to her current board responsibilities, she UK Telecommunications Ltd, Global Crossing the companys introduction to Small Business has held various roles at board level since UK Finance plc and Message Labs Ltd. and the Music industry.
More recently, Tom 2001 at a range of technology companies, He was previously non-executive Chairman was International Business Development including Portwise AB, Via Networks, Inc. of TripleArc plc, Easynet and 7City.
He has Director at lastminute.
com with responsibility Compel Group plc, HAL Knowledge Systems spent the majority of his career within the IT for International Strategy for the company and and Stepstone ASA.
Karen began her career industry, most recently at IBM Global Services, launching subsidiaries and fully localised sites at ICL before spending 20 years at Hewlett where he held a number of senior general in France, Germany, Sweden, Italy, Spain, Packard, where in 2000 she became Vice management positions.
In 1991 as Finance Netherlands, Australia and Ireland.
Prior to President and General Manager Worldwide Director he led the MBO of Data Services Ltd that, he was Vice President, Marketing at Sales & Marketing for the Business Customer from Thorn EMI plc before managing its Digidesign, a California company that Organisation, responsible for sales of all acquisition by IBM in 1996.
Richard qualified brought digital multitrack recording and Hewlett Packards products, services and as a Chartered Accountant with Ernst & editing to personal computers.
Tom has also software to business customers globally.
He was appointed as a non-executive started and led a number of technology Karen holds a BA Honours degree in director of Micro Focus on 16 April 2014. companies including Katz Media SARL, European Studies from Bath University Virtual European Office VEO, and most and a Diploma in Marketing.
com, the worlds Non-executive director largest online yacht charter site, with 8,000 Tom is Chief Executive Officer of Foundation yachts worldwide.
Tom holds a Bachelor Radiology Group and a founding member of of Arts, Double Major in Psychology and Confluence Medical Systems, a healthcare and Economics from Stanford University in the US.
Previously, Audit committee he served as Chief Executive Officer for Misys Remuneration committee Healthcare Systems from January 2002 until Nomination committee March 2007 and as a director of Misys plc.
Prior to that, he was Chief Executive Officer of Medic Computer Systems, a US-based software company focused on the healthcare information technology market.
He earned his BSBA from Robert Morris University, Pittsburgh, PA. Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 27
