Overview Strategic report Corporate governance Corporate governance Audit committee Chairmans introduction Committee responsibilities The committee is responsible for reviewing the Groups annual Dear fellow shareholders, accounts and interim reports prior to submission to the full board for approval.
The committee also monitors the Groups accounting I am pleased to report on the activities of the audit committee policies, internal financial control systems and financial reporting the committee during the year ended 30 April 2014, a year that procedures.
The committee provides a forum through which the has seen a number of regulatory changes which have reinforced Groups external and internal auditors report to the board.
The the role of the committee, on behalf of the board, in ensuring that auditors are invited to attend meetings of the committee on a regular the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced basis and have the opportunity to meet privately with committee and understandable.
members in the absence of executive management.
The committee oversees the relationship with the external auditors, including the In this report I have detailed how the committee has discharged its independence and objectivity of the auditors taking into account UK responsibilities in relation to the three areas highlighted in the recently professional and regulatory requirements and the relationship with the revised Corporate Governance Code, being audit firm as a whole and the consideration of audit fees and fees for non-audit work.
The committees terms of reference include a process Addressing significant financial statement reporting issues: for employees of the Company to raise, in confidence, concerns about possible impropriety in matters of financial reporting or other matters.
Assessing external audit effectiveness: and The written terms of reference of the committee are reviewed annually Appointing the external auditors and safeguards on non-audit and have been updated to reflect recent changes to the UK Corporate services.
Governance Code 2012 requiring a determination as to whether the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and Composition of the committee understandable.
The committee is satisfied that the terms of reference The committee was chaired during the year by myself with the other enable it to fulfil its responsibilities.
The terms of reference include, non-executive directors, Karen Slatford, Tom Skelton, Tom Virden among other things, the following responsibilities: and Richard Atkins from his appointment on 16 April 2014 being members of the committee.
By virtue of my former executive and To report to the board on its proceedings, identifying any matters current non-executive responsibilities full details of which are set in respect of which it considers that action or improvement is out on page 28 the board considers that I have recent and relevant needed and making recommendations as to the steps to be taken: financial experience and that all members of the committee are independent.
To monitor the integrity of the financial statements of the Company and ensure that the interests of shareholders are properly protected Following the annual cycle of work of the audit committee, the in relation to financial reporting and internal control: committee concluded that sound risk management and internal control systems had been maintained during the year.
With respect To keep under review the effectiveness of the Companys internal to risk management, the committee was satisfied that there was controls and risk management systems: a high level of assurance provided by the internal auditors, KPMG Audit PLC KPMG, the external audit review conducted by To review the Companys procedures for preventing and detecting  LLP PwC at the half-year and full year fraud, the Companys systems and controls for the prevention of and the information provided by the senior management.
The bribery, the adequacy and effectiveness of the Companys anti committee was satisfied that the annual report and accounts taken money laundering systems and the Companys arrangements as a whole, provides a fair, balanced and understandable assessment for its employees to raise concerns about possible wrongdoing of the Companys position at 30 April 2014 and the information in financial reporting or other matters: necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
To monitor and review the need for, and the effectiveness of, the Companys internal audit function in the context of the Companys overall risk management system: and To oversee the relationship with the Companys auditors, ensuring the independence and objectivity of the auditors, considering audit fees and fees for non-audit work and making recommendations to the board in relation to the appointment, reappointment and removal of the Companys external auditor.
The audit committees terms of reference can be found on the Companys website at www.
32 Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
