Consolidated financial statements Company financial statements Additional information and notes and notes What the committee did during the year ended 30 April 2014 Reviewed the committees composition and confirmed that there is The committee met four times during the financial year, during sufficient expertise and resource for us to fulfil our responsibilities which time, in addition to standing items on the agenda, we: effectively: and Reviewed the interim and year end results and preliminary Reviewed the committees terms of reference: and carried out an announcements: annual review of the committees performance.
Received and considered, as part of the review of interim and In carrying this out, the committee considered the work and annual financial statements, reports from the external auditor in recommendations of the Group Finance Team, executive management respect of the auditors review of the interim results, the audit plan and their own understanding of the business.
In addition, the for the year and the results of the annual audit.
These reports committee received reports from the external auditors setting out included the scope of the interim review and annual audit, the their view on the accounting treatments and judgments included in approach to be adopted by the auditors to address and conclude the financial statements.
The external auditors reports are based on upon key estimates and other key audit areas, the basis on which a full audit of the annual financial statements and a review of the the auditors assess materiality, the terms of engagement for the interim financial statements.
auditors and an on-going assessment of the impact of future accounting developments for the Group: The Chairman of the committee has regular contact outside the formal meetings with the partners responsible for external and internal audit Considered the Annual Report and Accounts in the context of fair, and tax advice.
balanced and understandable and reviewed the content of a paper prepared by management with regard to this principle in relation Significant issues considered in relation to the to the 2014 Annual Report and Accounts.
This provided us with financial statements the supporting detail to ensure that we were in a position to During the year the committee in conjunction with management and report to the board that the 2014 Annual Report and Accounts the external auditors considered and concluded on what the significant when taken as a whole were fair, balanced and understandable issues were in relation to the financial statements and how these on the basis that the description of the business agrees with our would be addressed.
own understanding, the risks reflect the issues that concern us, appropriate weight has been given to the good and bad news, Revenue recognition the discussion of performance properly reflects the story of the The Group has a detailed policy on revenue recognition for each year and that there is a clear and well-articulated link between all category of revenue: Licence, Maintenance and Consultancy.
This areas of disclosure: includes the application of rules relating to the allocation of fair values between these categories in accordance with the policy and the timing Reviewed a report from the internal auditors KPMG on the of their recognition.
As is the case with many technology companies investigation into the misstatement of revenues in the Groups the profile of sales is weighted to the end of the financial quarter.
Indian Sales Channel and recommended to the board how the Other than in the case of subscription Licence, Maintenance and restatement of revenues should be explained and concluded that Consultancy revenue the impact on recognized revenue is also the monies received should be returned to the appropriate parties: weighted to the end of each financial quarter.
This can lead to the risk of misstatement of revenues from one period to the next.
In addition, Considered the effectiveness and independence of the external the key guidance measure that management provide to the market is audit and recommended to the board the re-appointment of PwC constant currency revenue growth which at the beginning of the year as external auditors: was a range of 5% and at the Interims was narrowed to a 3% range.
This equates to a range of $20m reducing to a range of $12m.
Received reports from management concerning various historical taxation issues: The committee received a paper from management on revenue recognition methodology and the appropriateness of allocation of Considered and agreed the annual internal audit plan and reviewed fair values between Licence, Maintenance and Consulting as presented reports of the work done by internal audit in respect of those plans: in the financial statements, which concluded that no change to the allocation of fair values was necessary.
The committee also considered Considered the review of material business risks, including the controls that management has in place to ensure that the fair value reviewing internal control processes used to identify and monitor allocation of revenue is appropriate.
The external auditors reported principal risks and uncertainties: that they target tested in detail all larger deals above a certain threshold and had not identified any exceptions.
This testing covered Reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups whistleblowing policy: 28% of Licence revenue in the year.
They had also tested a sample of transactions from the remaining population and tested the operation of certain key controls over fair value allocation and found these to be operating satisfactorily.
Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 33
