Overview Strategic report Corporate governance Corporate governance Introduction The principal corporate governance guidance that applies to David Maloney chairs the nomination committee and is therefore companies listed with the UK Listing Authority during the year responsible for succession planning.
Also, in his role as Deputy reported on is contained in the Financial Reporting Councils UK Chairman and senior independent director, David Maloney leads on Corporate Governance Code 2012 the Corporate Governance Code, governance issues, including the annual review of board effectiveness, which is available at www.
and acts as an intermediary, if necessary, between non-executive directors and the Executive Chairman and between the Company and Compliance statement shareholders, providing a point of contact for those shareholders who The directors are committed to ensuring that the Company works wish to raise issues with the board, other than through the Executive towards compliance with the main principles of the Corporate Chairman.
In addition, the non-executive directors have met without Governance Code and throughout the year reported on the Company the Executive Chairman present to appraise the Executive Chairmans has been in compliance except for the following: performance.
The meeting was chaired by the Deputy Chairman and senior independent director, David Maloney.
The board also has a clear A.
2.1 Chairman and Chief Executive The Corporate Governance majority of independent directors, with five out of eight directors Code requires that the roles of Chairman and Chief Executive should being fully independent.
not be exercised by the same individual.
Kevin Loosemore formerly non-executive Chairman was appointed to the role of Executive David Maloney will retire from the board at the AGM in September Chairman on 14 April 2011.
The nomination committee and the 2014 having served for nine years and Karen Slatford will assume the board considered that the combined role is in the interests of role of senior independent director at the AGM and assume the duties shareholders in order to utilise the proven leadership qualities and fulfilled by David Maloney as Deputy Chairman to the point where the significant experience of Kevin Loosemore through a challenging Chairman and Chief Executive Officer roles are split.
Richard Atkins has period for the Company and to ensure the on-going commercial been appointed as a non-executive director during the year and will success of the Company.
Furthermore, Kevin Loosemore has been replace David Maloney as chairman of the audit committee following with the Company since its flotation in 2005 and has therefore the sign-off of the 30 April 2014 Annual Report and Accounts on provided stability and continuity through his detailed understanding 18 June 2014. of the Groups operations and the markets in which it operates.
In order to mitigate any potential concerns over the combined role, The principles set out in the Corporate Governance Code cover five David Maloney was also appointed as Deputy Chairman on 14 April areas: leadership, effectiveness, accountability, remuneration and 2011 and continues to perform his role as non-executive senior relations with shareholders.
With the exception of remuneration independent director.
On 15 April 2014 the Company announced that which is dealt with separately in the remuneration report on pages the board plans to separate the roles of Chairman and Chief Executive 38 to 57 the following section sets out how the board has applied over the coming 12 to 24 months.
This will include the evaluation of these principles.
internal and external candidates for the role of Chief Executive whilst at all times aiming to ensure continued focus on performance.
The board The Group is controlled by the board, which is responsible for the Following Kevin Loosemores appointment as Executive Chairman Groups system of corporate governance.
The biographies of each and David Maloneys appointment as Deputy Chairman, the terms of director can be found on pages 26 and 27.
As at 30 April 2014, the reference for each role were agreed by the board and can be viewed board comprised eight directors: on http: investors.
Kevin Loosemore leads the board and the Company in its relationships with Kevin Loosemore Executive Chairman all stakeholders and customers.
He is responsible for all aspects of Mike Phillips Chief Financial Officer executive management including business strategy and its successful Stephen Murdoch Chief Operating Officer appointed 16 April 2014 achievement.
He is also responsible for chairing board and general David Maloney Non-executive senior independent director and meetings, facilitating the effective contribution of non-executive Deputy Chairman directors, ensuring effective communication with shareholders Tom Skelton Non-executive director and upholding the highest standards of integrity and probity.
Karen Slatford Non-executive director Tom Virden Non-executive director Richard Atkins Non-executive director appointed 16 April 2014 28 Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Consolidated financial statements Company financial statements Additional information and notes and notes The role of the non-executive directors is to ensure that independent While the board retains overall responsibility for, and control of the judgement is brought to board deliberations and decisions.
Company, day-to-day management of the business is conducted by the executive directors.
Review of the Groups principal business The non-executive directors possess a wide range of skills and activities is the responsibility of the executive committee.
The executive experience, relevant to the development of the Company, which committee comprises the executive directors and other senior complement those of the executive directors.
managers reporting to the executives.
David Maloney, the non-executive senior independent director and As part of its leadership and control of the Company, the board has Deputy Chairman, Tom Skelton, Karen Slatford, Tom Virden and agreed a list of items that are specifically reserved for its consideration.
Richard Atkins, each a non-executive director, are considered by These include business strategy, financing arrangements, material the board to be independent.
acquisitions and divestments, approval of the annual budget, major capital expenditure projects, risk management, treasury policies and In accordance with the Corporate Governance Code, all directors establishing and monitoring internal controls.
At each meeting, the are subject to election by the shareholders at the first AGM of the board reviews progress of the Group towards its objectives and Company after their appointment and to re-election by the receives papers on key subjects in advance of each board meeting.
shareholders on an annual basis at the AGM.
Therefore all directors These typically cover: will retire at the forthcoming AGM.
Non-executive directors are appointed for specific terms.
Full terms of their appointment are to be Strategy and budgets: found in the remuneration report.
The letters of appointment for the non-executive directors are available for inspection by any person at Business and financial performance: the Companys registered office during normal business hours and at the AGM during, and for fifteen minutes prior to, the meeting.
Product plans and development: For the year ended 30 April 2015, the board has scheduled meetings Corporate activities: on a regular basis approximately every one to two months, with additional meetings when circumstances and business dictate.
In Human resources: and months in which the board does not meet update calls are scheduled to review progress.
All directors receive an agenda and board papers Investor relations.
in advance of meetings to help them make an effective contribution at the meetings.
The board makes full use of appropriate technology as The board has agreed procedures for directors to follow if they believe a means of updating and informing all its members.
Board papers are they require independent professional advice in the furtherance of circulated electronically to a tablet device, allowing directors to access their duties and these procedures allow the directors to take such documentation more easily and securely.
The executive directors advice at the Companys expense.
In addition, all directors have ensure regular informal contact is maintained with non-executive direct access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary.
directors who are invited to accompany the executive directors when The Company Secretary is accountable to the board through the visiting the Groups offices.
Executive Chairman to whom she reports.
It is the responsibility of the Company Secretary to ensure that board procedures are followed In the year under review, the board met formally on seven occasions.
and all rules and regulations are complied with.
The Company The board also met on a further five occasions to receive interim Secretarys responsibilities include facilitating the induction and updates or consider matters arising between formal meetings.
professional development of directors and ensuring the smooth flow of information between board members, between the board and its committees and between non-executive directors and senior management.
Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 29
