Consolidated financial statements Company financial statements Additional information and notes and notes Nomination committee The nomination committee the committee is comprised of David The committees terms of reference can be found on the Companys Maloney non-executive senior independent director and Deputy website: www.
Chairman who chairs the committee, Kevin Loosemore Executive Chairman and Tom Skelton non-executive director.
The committee During the year the committee was responsible for the search and met five times during the financial year.
The committee will meet at selection process for a new non-executive director.
This was led by least twice during the coming financial year.
the Deputy Chairman and the committee appointed Odgers Berndtson to assist.
The committee discussed and agreed a detailed specification The committee is responsible to the full board for proposing which was provided to Odgers Berndtson who do not have any other candidates to the board, having regard to the balance and structure connection with the Company.
This took account of the existing of the board and takes into consideration the benefits of diversity directors skill sets and experience as well as the overall diversity of in terms of both gender and ethnicity.
The committee uses the board.
Odgers Berndtson were specifically asked to present a consultants to identify suitable candidates where a position is minimum of one third female candidates.
Following an initial search identified and diversity is included in the criteria set for selecting and preliminary interviews by the chairs of both the nomination and appropriate candidates.
remuneration committees, a shortlist was recommended to the committee and subsequently the board.
All qualified female candidates The board has considered diversity in broader terms than just gender approached to join the shortlist expressed a preference to seek and believes it is also important to reach the correct balance of skills, positions in FTSE100 companies.
The process culminated in the experience, independence and knowledge on the board.
All board appointment of Richard Atkins as an independent non-executive appointments will be made on merit based on the aim of achieving director with effect from 16 April 2014.
In addition the committee a correct balance.
The board intends to move in the medium-term reviewed the board succession plan.
to a composition where in excess of 25% of members are female provided the above principle is not compromised.
The Group has The committee also recommended the appointment of Stephen formal policies to promote equality of opportunity, across the whole Murdoch as Chief Operating Officer and as an executive director of organization.
Currently, the board comprises seven men 87.5% and the Company.
In addition the committee discussed and revised the one woman 12.5% and the Company Secretary who is also a woman.
succession plans and individual plans for the executive committee As opportunities arise the board will seek to increase the presence and the top talent critical employees within the Group.
of women on the board consistent with the above policy.
The terms of reference of the committee include, among other matters, the following responsibilities: To review the structure, size and composition including the skills, knowledge, experience and diversity required of the board and make recommendations to the board with regard to any changes: To identify and nominate, for the approval of the board, candidates to fill board vacancies as and when they arise: To give full consideration to succession planning for directors and other senior executives: To keep under review the leadership needs of the Group, both executive and non-executive, with a view to ensuring the continued ability of the Group to compete effectively in the marketplace: and To review annually the time required from non-executives, evaluating whether they are spending enough time to fulfil their duties.
Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 37
