Overview Strategic report Corporate governance Corporate governance Introduction continued Each new director receives a comprehensive, formal and tailored Directors are normally provided with the agenda and supporting induction into the Companys operations.
The directors can request papers for board and committee meetings in the week prior to the that appropriate training is available as required.
If unable to attend a meeting a director will provide feedback inductions include briefings on the Companys business, strategy, to the Executive Chairman, the chair of the committee or the Company constitution and decision making process, the roles and responsibilities Secretary and their comments are then communicated at the meeting.
of a director and the legislative framework.
New directors also meet with the Groups senior product and other managers and with Conflicts of interest shareholders at the AGM.
In accordance with the Companies Act 2006, the Company has put in place procedures to deal with conflicts of interests, which have In 2012 the board commissioned leading search company, Russell operated effectively.
The board is aware of the other commitments of Reynolds, to conduct a detailed evaluation of the board and its its directors and is satisfied that these do not conflict with their duties committees as required by Corporate Governance Code provisions as directors of the Company.
Any changes to these commitments are B6.1 and B6.2.
Russell Reynolds has no other connection with the reported to the board.
Last year and during the year under review, the evaluation of the board was conducted internally and took the form of surveys Board committees completed by members of the board with respect to the performance In accordance with best practice, the Company has established audit, of the board and each of its committees, as well as individual director nomination and remuneration committees, with written terms of surveys.
The surveys included assessment of the effectiveness of the reference for each that deal with their respective authorities and performance of the board and its committees and compliance with duties.
The full terms of reference of all the committees are available corporate governance principles.
A summary of the results of the from the Company Secretary or can be viewed on the Companys evaluation was discussed by each of the committees and by the board.
The evaluation found the performance of each director to be effective, The Company is aware that the Executive Chairman is not regarded that each director had demonstrated commitment to the role and that as independent for the purposes of the Corporate Governance Code.
the board had provided effective leadership and control.
The evaluation established that the board had a good balance of skills and personalities Remuneration committee and continued to operate in a culture of openness and mutual respect.
Details of the remuneration committee are described in the The results of the evaluation are used to assist the board in developing remuneration report on pages 38 to 57. its approach going forward and included recommendations to continue refining the succession planning and developing and retaining executive Accountability and audit talent, which are being implemented.
The board is responsible for the preparation of the annual report and accounts.
The board considers the annual report and accounts, taken An external evaluation will be conducted in 2015. as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys Attendance at meetings performance, business model and strategy.
The number of board meetings and committee meetings attended by each director in the year ended 30 April 2014 was as follows: This responsibility is administered primarily by the audit committee and details of how this was done are described in the audit committee Audit Remuneration Nomination report on pages 32 to 36.
Board committee committee committee Held Attended Held Attended Held Attended Held Attended Human resources The Group endeavours to appoint employees with appropriate skills, Kevin knowledge and experience for the roles they undertake.
Loosemore 7 7 5 5 Mike Phillips 7 7 The Group has a range of policies which are aimed at retaining and Stephen 1 providing incentives for key staff.
Objectives are set for departments Murdoch 1 1 and employees that are derived from the Groups business objectives David and performance is formally measured against these objectives twice Maloney 7 7 4 4 5 5 5 5 each year.
The Group has a clear and well-understood organizational Tom Skelton 7 7 4 4 5 5 5 5 structure and each employee knows his or her line of accountability.
Karen Slatford 7 6 4 4 5 5 Tom Virden 7 7 4 4 5 5 Richard 1 Atkins 1 1 1 1 During period of appointment Notes: 1 Stephen Murdoch and Richard Atkins were appointed on 16 April 2014.
30 Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
