Strategic report Governance Financial statements Further information Overview 51 Audit & Risk Committee Report KPMG have been the Companys Our objectives Dear Shareholders, auditors since listing on the London The key objective of the Committee Stock Exchange in 1996: Following my appointment as an throughout the year has remained the independent Non-Executive Director and there has been no tender since that provision of effective governance over the Chairman of the Audit & Risk Committee date: appropriateness of the Groups financial in December 2014, I immediately started reporting including the adequacy of related under the current transitional rules familiarising myself with the business, disclosures, the performance of both the the latest year in which KPMG would with a specific focus on the risks facing internal audit function and the external be able to undertake an audit of the the Company and its internal controls.
auditor, and the oversight of the Groups Company is to 31 December 2022: Ihave read and considered the minutes systems of internal control, business risks and papers from each of the Committees Steve Masters, the senior statutory and related compliance activities.
meetings in 2014 prior to my appointment auditor will rotate out of that role, and discussed relevant matters with our having completed his five year cycle finance function, our Head of Internal Our members following the signing in early 2016 of Audit, our senior statutory auditor and our the 2015 full year results: The Board believes that amongst the brokers.
I have also visited the Groups there are no contractual obligations members of the Committee they have hotels in London and New York and that would restrict the selection of a suitable broad commercial knowledge and discussed operational matters with local different auditor or the re-tendering significant business experience.
process taking place in the current has determined that Gervase MacGregor year should the Committee consider, has recent and relevant financial During 2015, I intend to meet with key having regard amongst other things experience as required by the provisions stakeholders and will be working closely to KPMGs continued effectiveness, of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
with my fellow Committee members, the and that it would be in the Companys Head of Internal Audit and our external interest to do so: The Group Chief Executive Officer, senior auditors, KPMG.
My aim is that we have a finance managers, Company Secretary robust review body that assists the Board the Committee needs to take the lead and Head of Internal Audit, although not in monitoring the integrity of the Groups in any tender process and as chair of members of the Committee, also attend financial reporting and ensuring that the Committee, I require sufficient the meetings, as does the senior statutory sound systems of internal control and risk time to formulate the programme for auditor from our external auditor, who is management are in place.
any tender: and not present when we discuss the auditors other changes in senior management As a chartered accountant in public performance and or remuneration.
at the Company including the Group practice I am fully aware of the debate Chief Executive Officer and senior over competition and reform in the market As part of this process of working with finance personnel would make a tender for audit services.
This has been led by the Board and to maximise effectiveness, distracting and challenging this year.
the competition authorities in the UK and meetings of the Committee generally the European Union.
This continues with take place just prior to a Company Taking all of the above into account the recent EU Audit Directive and the Board meeting.
The Chairman of the the Committee does not believe an consultation papers issued by DBIS and Committee reports to the Board as part of effective tender process can be run and the FRC.
a separate agenda item, on the activity of completed in the current year, and it is the Committee and matters of particular the Committees intention to not put A key part of this debate is the length of relevance to the Board in the conduct of the external audit contract out to tender time for which audit firms should provide their work.
Initial investigations into the audit services and the requirements for process will begin this Spring.
We will companies periodically to re-tender the continue, however, with the annual review Our role provision of those services.
of the performance of the external auditor The Committees terms of reference are and act accordingly.
The Financial Reporting Councils revisions available from the Groups website at to the UK Corporate Governance Code Finally, I would like to record my thanks to www.
com corporate and its Guidance for Audit Committees Sean Collins for his assistance during the investors.
were both issued in this context and they handover in roles and his work leading the provide for the tendering for the external Committee throughout the majority of the audit contract at least every 10 years.
The Committee has discussed these Gervase MacGregor developments and we have noted Chairman of the Audit & Risk Committee the following relevant to our own 9 February 2015 circumstances.
Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Annual report and accounts 2014 52 Governance Audit & Risk Committee Report continued impairment review.
Financial performance During the year, the Committee examined Main activities of the Committee during the year and sensitivity of the valuation models managements recommendations in to the other key inputs means that the respect to the classification and valuation During the year, the Committee has valuation remains inherently subjective.
of investment properties and agreed that: performed the following: The property, plant and equipment assets are carried at historical cost, which there was appropriate classification of members of the Committee have mitigates the risk of impairment of these asset as investment properties: visited operations in Singapore, assets.
the US and the UK to improve their there was appropriate use of third understanding of the business and party valuation expertise: During the year, the Committee examined assess the management of risks: managements recommendations in sufficient robust challenge was given reviewed IT strategy, with particular respect of the valuation of the Groups to management by the external focus on technology-led improvements: hotel and property portfolio and agreed auditors: that: monitored tax policy, impairment policy, material judgemental assumptions going concern reports, together with the that were used in the valuations were the selection of assets to be tested interim results and full-year annual report within reasonable parameters: and was done appropriately, taking into and accounts: and account indicators of impairment risk conclusions have been appropriately monitored related party charges and materiality: drawn.
between the Group and its majority there was the appropriate use of third shareholder.
IFRS 10 consolidation accounting party valuation expertise: As described in Note 2.2 to the Financial reporting sufficient robust challenge was given consolidated financial statements, the to management by the external The Committee monitors the integrity, Group adopted IFRS 10 Consolidated auditors: prior to submission to theBoard, of Financial Statements from 1 January periodic financial statements, annual material judgemental assumptions 2014.
As a result of the adoption of this accounts, reports to shareholders and any that were used in the valuations were new accounting standard, the Group other public announcement concerning within reasonable parameters: and consolidated the results of CDLHT which the Groups financial position, corporate was previously equity accounted for as an conclusions have been appropriately governance statements and statements associate.
on the Groups system of internal controls and reports its views to the Board to The Committee assessed the relationship Valuation & classification of investment assist in its approval of the results between the Group and CDLHT to properties announcements and the determine whether, under IFRS 10, the annual report.
In general, the carrying amount of Group should consolidate CDLHT even investment properties is the fair value though it owns less than 50% of its of the properties as determined by units.
That assessment is subjective and Significant financial statement a registered independent appraiser.
involves a review of both the financial and reporting issues Fair values were determined having business relationships.
Following discussion with both regard to recent market transactions for management and KPMG LLP, the similar properties in the same location The Committee examined managements Committee determined that the key as the Groups investment properties.
recommendations in respect to the significant financial reporting issues are Where a fair value cannot be reasonably adoption of IFRS 10 and agreed that: related to the valuation of hotel assets, determined, the property is held at cost.
classification and valuation of investment there was sufficient justification to properties and IFRS 10 consolidation Classification of an asset as investment support the existence of control by the accounting.
property requires judgement, and is Group over CDLHT: determined by reference to future there was agreement from the external intentions and the Groups business Impairment of hotel assets auditor with the treatment: model.
Note 12 to the consolidated financial previous years balances were statements states that the carrying The total carrying amount of investment reasonably restated: and amount of assets as at 31 December properties as at 31 December 2014 conclusions have been appropriately 2014 is 2,753m.
The Group continues is 479m as shown in Note 14 to the drawn.
to engage external valuation experts to consolidated financial statements.
assist with the valuation exercise and Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Further information Overview 53 and considers managements response misstatements.
Internal controls and risks to any major finding, providing support, The Committee is responsible if necessary, for any follow-up action Meetings are also held with the external for reviewing, and conducting an required and ensures that the function auditor without the presence of any annualreview of the effectiveness of the obtains free and unrestricted access to member of executive management.
Groups system of internal control and risk all Group activities, records, property management procedures.
and personnel necessary to fulfil its External audit effectiveness agreedobjectives.
Accepting that risk is an inherent part of The Committee places great importance doing business, the Committee reviewed The Head of Internal Audit produces a risk on ensuring there are high standards of the Groups risk management strategy based GlobalInternal Audit work plan of quality and effectiveness in the external toensure that any required remedial hotel audits and function by region and audit process.
action on any identified weaknesses is reports on regional and global patterns taken.
This includes a regular review of the that affect the Group as well as specific The key measures which the Committee risk register which contains the significant issues of interest in relation to systems focused on are: risks faced by the Group and identifies and controls.
their potential impact and likelihood.
the level of challenge to management, particularly on matters of significant External audit Where specific actions are agreed judgement: to mitigate risks to a level deemed During the year, KPMG Audit Plc appropriate scoping, methodology acceptable, these are agreed with specific conducted an orderly wind down of its and cost effectiveness of KPMG LLPs timeframes for delivery and are monitored business and ceased to be the Companys audit process: and closely until fully implemented.
KPMG LLP was appointed at the the appropriate quality and experience annual general meeting in 2014.
The system of internal controls audited of senior audit team members in the by Internal Audit and commented on by Prior to making a recommendation Groups operating regions.
the external auditor from time to time on the appointment of KPMG LLP for The Committee measures KPMG LLPs encompasses all controls including those shareholders to consider at the annual audit quality and effectiveness throughout relating to financial reporting processes, general meeting the Committee reviewed the year, by means of, but not limited to: operational and compliance controls both their terms of appointment and fees.
and those relating to risk management review of strategy and planning for the processes.
The Committee reviewed and agreed with audit cycle, to ensure relevance to the the external auditor, KPMG LLP, its annual Groups evolving business: The Committee ensures that strategy and plan for the audit prior to the review of the quality, relevance and arrangements are in place for employees commencement of the work.
additional value given to the Group by to raise concerns, in confidence, about the audit findings: The plan includes: possible fraud risk or wrong-doing in financial reporting or other matters.
a view of the current and future risks monitor the independence of the audit Where a whistleblowing incident occurs, of the business: and compliance with the Groups nonthis is investigated by Internal Audit on a audit fee policies: the overall strategy and scoping: confidential basis and in a proportionate feedback from management on the manner.
Appropriate actions are the approach to the significant risks auditors performance: and recommended and undertaken which and areas of focus to be addressed in are reported to the Committee which review of the Financial Reporting the audit: then reviews the recommendations and Councils Audit Quality Review AQR focuses on possible trends and potential the approach to materiality: reports for KPMG LLP and other audit systematic weaknesses.
an explanation of developments in the regulatory landscape: and Auditor appointment Internal audit details of matters that need to be discussed with the Committee.
Given the auditors continuing objectivity The Committee monitors and reviews and independence, ongoing performance the effectiveness of the internal audit The auditors also reported to us the and the cost effectiveness of the function: agrees its annual work plan misstatements that they had found in service provided, the Committee has and reviewswhether the function has the course of the audit and we have recommended to the Board that the the proper resources to enable it to confirmed that the financial statements auditor be reappointed for 2015. satisfactorily complete such work plans.
It did not contain any unadjusted material reviews status reports from Internal Audit Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Annual report and accounts 2014 54 Governance Audit & Risk Committee Report continued The majority of non-audit work Safeguards on non-audit services Governance and compliance undertaken by KPMG LLP during the The use of KPMG LLP for non-audit The Committee carried out its annual year was for tax and acquisition related services is governed by a Group policy, review of the Groups ethics and services where the Committee concluded which sets out clear parameters as to whistleblowing policies and reviewed that it is more cost effective to utilise their what KPMG LLP are permitted to do, and the process for, and the effectiveness services.
what level of fees they are permitted to of, our whistleblowing procedures.
was decided that Internal Audit should The Committee is satisfied that there continue to monitor and action emails and were safeguards in place to protect the calls which will be reviewed on a regular All non-audit fees from KPMG LLP require objectivity and independence of the authority of the Finance department, and basis.
all fees over a certain specified threshold require direct authorisation by the The Committees performance is A copy of the policy on the provision reviewed annually through a facilitated Committee.
of non-audit services by the auditor is evaluation conducted by Lintstock available from the Groups website at Limited, the results of which showed that The Committee requires clear efficiencies www.
and value added benefits to the Group the Committee was effective in terms of expertise and use of time.
A number to exist for the auditor to be awarded Details of the fees for non-audit services any non-audit services.
The Committee of areas of improvement were identified are provided in Note 6 to the consolidated including improved access to regional receives a schedule of both non-audit financial statements.
fees incurred and forecast non-audit fees management.
We have agreed the yet to be incurred, at every meeting, so following priorities for 2015: The Committee has noted recent that it can closely monitor the fees and developments in the regulatory more engagement with non-financial type of work being performed.
restrictions on non-audit services senior management, both at the provided by the Groups external auditor.
corporate and regional levels: In addition to this, confirmation of The Committee will continue to monitor independence is sought at every increased focus on IT risk and this area closely.
reporting date from KPMG LLP.
technological improvement: and assess financial returns for newlyrefurbished hotels.
Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Annual report and accounts 2014
