Strategic report Governance Financial statements Further information Overview 47 Corporate Governance Report all been involved in the change in Board Compliance Dear Shareholders, membership that we have announced.
Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc is the You will find more on the work of the I am pleased to confirm once again that listed holding company for the Millennium the Company has fully complied with the committees in their individual reports.
& Copthorne Hotels group of companies provisions and applied the main principles the Group : its shares are listed on the of UK Corporate Governance Code, as We have engaged with our shareholders London Stock Exchange and it is therefore regularly and welcome their feedback on revised by the Financial Reporting Council subject to the Code.
The Code sets out in 2012 the Code.
The Board remains our approach to governance and what they standards of good practice in relation expect from us.
An example of this is the committed to ensuring that good practice to board leadership and effectiveness, in corporate governance is observed clarification issued by the Remuneration remuneration, accountability and relations Committee in April 2014 regarding the throughout the Group and it therefore with shareholders, and a copy is available continues to be the responsibility of the discretional use of Listing Rule 9.4.
2 2 from the Financial Reporting Council and its use in the recruitment of a new whole Board.
The Board is also committed at www.
to maintaining the highest standards of Executive Director.
This came about through consideration of guidance from business integrity and professionalism The Strategic Report on pages 20 to 40 in all its activities.
and engagement with investors on their provides information about the Groups expectations for executive remuneration.
strategy and outlook, its businesses, We continually review developments in the financial and operating performance corporate governance, both in the UK and Pages 48 to 50 describe our corporate during the year, the principal risks and internationally.
Following the amendments governance framework in more detail and uncertainties and corporate social to the UKLA Listing Rules the Company how governance is applied on a day-to-day responsibility.
A description of the Groups revised its relationship agreement with basis.
I hope you will find this helpful business model is included on page 20 its parent company, City Developments in understanding our commitment as required by provision C. 1.2 of the Code.
Limited, to take account of new to good governance.
Kwek Leng Beng The role of the Board and its I personally encourage the adoption Chairman committees of emerging practice where it has the The Board provides leadership to the potential to enhance and improve our 9 February 2015 Group.
It sets the strategy and oversees business performance over the long term.
its implementation, ensuring that acceptable risks are taken.
It ensures that Our Board committees have continued adequate resources are in place in order to perform effectively in what has been to deliver long-term value to shareholders an extremely busy year for them.
They and benefits to the wider community.
have each faced considerable challenges and, in one way or another, they have Board and Committee Structure Board of Directors Audit & Risk Nominations Remuneration Global Management Committee Committee Committee Committee Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Annual report and accounts 2014 48 Governance Corporate Governance Report continued Board and committee attendance The activities of our Audit & Risk, mentor the Group Chief Executive Nominations and Remuneration Officer as and when required: The Board meets up to ten times a year Committees are set out in the reports and has a schedule of matters reserved balance the interests of management of each committees chairman which are for its attention.
Certain matters which and the Board as well as the needs of deemed to be part of this report.
The are reserved for the Board have been shareholders and management: Company Secretary acts as secretary delegated to its standing committees to all standing committees of the Board.
act as a liaison between management with specific delegated authority.
and the Board as well as between Reserved matters which require the Company and its shareholders: The scheduled number of Board and Board approval include: Committee meetings held during the year manage communications and is shown below together with attendance information dissemination processes Ethics, group-wide business policies and practices details of each Director.
The Board also between the Company and its Strategy, management and long-term plans held one ad hoc meeting in the year.
shareholders and work closely with the Annual budgets Capital expenditure, acquisitions, significant Audit & Risk Nominations Remuneration Board Committee Committee Committee property transactions and investments Major contracts and transactions Kwek Leng Beng 8 8 3 3 Wong Hong Ren 8 8 Internal control systems, corporate governance, Shaukat Aziz 7 8 3 3 5 5 compliance and communication 1 Sean Collins 8 8 6 6 3 3 5 5 Susan Farr 7 8 3 3 5 5 The Global Management Committee is Nicholas George 8 8 6 6 5 5 responsible to the Board for the Groups Kwek Leng Peck 5 8 3 3 operational performance including: Kwek Eik Sheng 8 8 implementing the Group strategy as Alexander Waugh 8 8 6 6 3 3 5 5 determined by the Board: maintaining adequate internal control systems and 1 Sean Collins stepped do wn from the Board on 11December 2014. risk management processes: monitoring Companys public relations team 2 Ian B atey left the Company on 20February 2014 and did operational performance against plans not attend any meetings in 2014. to achieve this objective: and targets and reporting to the Board 3 T here have been no meetings since Gervase MacGregor establish the agenda and manage any significant variances: maintaining was appointed to the Board on 11December 2014.
Board meetings: an effective management team and The maximum number of scheduled succession planning.
offer advice and tap the collective meetings held during the year that each A written statement defining the wisdom and experience of Board Director could have attended is shown respective responsibilities of the Chairman members: in brackets.
and Group Chief Executive Officer has been agreed and approved by the Board.
take a proactive role in the Audit & Risk Committee appointment of Directorsand, The Board currently comprises the following such appointments, oversee During the year, the Board agreed to Chairman, one Executive Director, five the development of individual rename the Audit Committee as the independent Non-Executive Directors and Directors: and Audit & Risk Committee to highlight two other Non-Executive Directors who, the emphasis that this committee develop the top management team, like the Chairman, are appointees of the has in managing the Groups risk.
in particular the GroupChief Executive majority shareholder, City Developments Officer, and establish a succession Limited.
Each Director is expected to plan for the Group Chief Executive fulfill his duties for the benefit of all The Chairman Officerposition.
The Companys Articles of The Chairman provides leadership for the Association contain provisions concerning There have been no changes to the Board on all aspects of its role.
His key the appointment and replacement of Chairmans other significant commitments duties are to: Directors.
formulate and set the strategic direction and organisational structure The Group Chief Executive Officer of the Group, subject to the Boards The Group Chief Executive Officer has approval: ultimate responsibility, reporting to set a clear vision for the Group: the Board, for the day-to-day running Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Further information Overview 49 with either the Chairman or the Group procedures and applicable rules and of the Group.
He is responsible for leading the management and the operational Chief Executive Officer.
He is also a regulations are observed.
In addition, sounding board for the Chairman and is the Directors are able, if necessary, to activities and performance of the Group, including the effective delivery of the an intermediary for other Board members take independent professional advice when necessary.
There is the strategy and the business plan, as agreed by the Board, while managing the risks.
opportunity for Non-Executive Directors Independent Non-Executive Directors to meet separately with the Chairman.
His duties are to: have rolling contracts and appointments are subject to termination by either party The Chairman, in conjunction with the receive the strategic vision of the Group from the Board of Directors and giving one months notice.
Appointment Company Secretary, is also responsible for and any subsequent re-appointment ensuring that Directors receive appropriate to implement such strategic vision, develop the strategic plan, business is subject at all times to the Articles of training at the Companys expense where Association of the Company and any specific expertise is required in the course plan and budget and deliver the same to the satisfaction of the Board: necessary shareholder ratification.
All Directors receive a BoardCompendium detailing lead and act as an advocate for the On appointment, each independent matters relating to Boardprocedures.
Global Management Committee: Non-Executive Director receives a letter An induction programme is established of appointment setting out theterms of for any new directors.
oversee the execution of the strategic their appointment, including committee vision and plans, and assess the memberships, fees to be paid, matters The Board has established agreed Groups performance in meeting them: such as confidentiality of information, procedures formanaging potential promote the growth of the Group: potential conflicts and share dealing conflicts of interest.
and any potential conflicts authorised develop the management team and in accordance with section 175 4 establish a succession plan for key The Board has reviewed the Companies Act 2006, aspermitted by management appointments: independence of each of the Companys the Companys Articles of Association, act on the feedback of the Chairman: Non-Executive Directors, taking into arereviewed by the Board at least account whether the Non-Executive annually.
The Boardissatisfied be responsible for the day-toDirector is independent in character and that the procedures for managing day management of theGroups judgement, and whether there are any potentialconflicts remain effective.
business and affairs and to ensure relationships or circumstances that are that significantissues that arise likely to affect, or could appear to affect, are resolved in an efficient and Evaluation process their judgement.
timelymanner: and During the year, an independent externally lead the management team to improve Each independent Non-Executive Director facilitated Board evaluation was conducted performance in every division.
is asked to confirm any relationships by Lintstock Limited, with the Directors based on the principles of UK Listing Rule completing on-line questionnaires.
The Role of the independent Non-Executive 13.8.
1.1 of the UK evaluation process focused on key themes Directors Corporate Governance Code.
Following including: a review of the responses, the Board The majority of the Board is made up of considers that their diverse business board composition, expertise and independent Non-Executive Directors who backgrounds, skills and experience dynamics: have wide ranging international experience enable all of them to continue to bring at senior levels in areas of finance, time management and Board support: independent judgement to bear on issues investment banking, fund management, of strategy, performance, resources, key the operation of Board committees: media, brands and international affairs.
appointments, standards of conduct and They bring strong, independent strategic oversight: other matters presented to the Board judgement to the deliberations of the and recommends that there is no change risk management and internal controls: Board, particularly in the areas of strategy, to the independent status of the current and finance andgovernance.
succession planning and human Nicholas George, as the Senior resource management.
Independent Director, is available to meet Training and information with our institutional shareholders and All Directors have access to the advice shareholder representative bodies and to of the Company Secretary, who is discuss any matters where it would be responsible for ensuring the Board inappropriate for discussions to be held Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Annual report and accounts 2014 50 Governance Corporate Governance Report continued A report was produced identifying a number of priorities to improve performance.
The Board discussed the report at the Board meeting in December 2014 and agreed on the following primary actions: Key areas Actions The Boards focus should be more strategic in nature and A structured Board strategy day is to be held in June 2015 their meetings should be less operational The matters reserved for the Board are currently being reviewed The Boards review of the Companys capital expenditure The implementation of post capital investment reviews programme could be improved The correct planning of the Group Chief Executive Officer A search for a new Group Chief Executive Officer was conducted and succession and enhancing the senior management structure Aloysius Lee Tse Sang was selected are priorities A tailored induction programme for Aloysius Lee Tse Sang is in progress Aloysius Lee Tse Sang has begun the process of reviewing the Groups management structure in conjunction with the Board Continued greater interaction between the Board and senior Increased structured opportunities for management to present to and management meet the Board Continued opportunities for Board members to visit the Groups operating regions and local management teams Lintstock Limited has no other significant executive management.
The effectiveness of of the overall objectives and management connection with the Group.
the operation of the internal control system of the primary risks of the Group.
is reviewed by an internal audit function The performance of Executive and Nonand, where appropriate, by the Groups Communication with shareholders Executive Directors is assessed annually by external auditor and external consultants, the Chairman.
During the year, the Chairman who report to management and to the Audit General presentations are made after the and independent Non-Executive Directors & Risk Committee.
In addition, responsibility announcement of final and half-yearly met without the Executive Director in is delegated to executive management to results.
There is a programme of meetings attendance to conduct such assessment.
monitor the effectiveness of the systems with institutional shareholders to review Evaluation of the Chairman is conducted by of control in managing identified risks as the Groups performance and business the independent Non-Executive Directors led established by the Board.
The internal audit model and objectives.
In addition, the Senior by the Senior Independent Director.
department reviews the effectiveness of key Independent Director has meetings with a internal controls as part of its standard work range of major shareholders during the year Internal control system programme, and individual reports are issued and other Non-Executive Directors also have to appropriate senior management.
These the opportunity to attend such meetings.
The Board is responsible for the Groups reports are summarised and distributed, as Regular feedback is provided to the Board of system of internal control, including the appropriate, to the Audit & Risk Committee, views expressed by shareholders.
Groups financial reporting process and the Group Chief Executive Officer, senior the Groups process for preparation of The Groups website provides regular management and the external auditors.
They consolidated accounts, and for monitoring updates for investors and contains all are subsequently reviewed by the Audit & its effectiveness.
In establishing this system, announcements made by the Group.
Risk Committee, which ensures that, where the Directors have considered the nature necessary, recommendations on appropriate At general meetings, there is the opportunity of the Groups business, with regard to corrective action aredrawn to the attention for all shareholders to question the the risks to which that particular business of the full Board.
Chairman and other Directors including the is exposed, the likelihood of such risks Chairs of the Audit & Risk, Remuneration occurring, their potential impact and the The main features of the Groups internal and Nominations Committees.
The costs of protecting against them.
However, control framework are: Company prepares separate resolutions such a system is designed to manage rather on each substantially separate issue put the Groups strategic direction is than eliminate the risks and can only provide to shareholders and does not combine regularly reviewed by the Board, which reasonable and not absolute assurance resolutions together inappropriately.
A sets business objectives for the Group.
The Groups schedule of the proxy votes cast is made Annual plans and performance targets significant risk factors are included on pages available on the Companys website at the for each region are set by the executive 36 to 40. conclusion of the proceedings and the management team and reviewed by the The Board confirms that, in accordance with Annual Report and Financial Statements is Board on a geographical basis in the light the Turnbull guidance, there is an ongoing laid before the shareholders at the annual of overall objectives: and process for identifying, evaluating and general meeting.
Notice of the annual within the financial and overall objectives managing the significant risks faced by the general meeting and related papers are for the Group, agreed by the Board, the Group.
This process is reviewed by the Audit sent to shareholders at least 21 working day-to-day management is delegated to & Risk Committee on behalf of the Board days prior to the date of the meeting, and the Group Chief Executive Officer and and has been in place for the year under the Company encourages all shareholders executive management.
The executive review, and up to the date of the approval of to make positive use of the opportunity to management team carries out regular the Annual Report.
operational reviews with business Primary responsibility for the operation of the managers to ensure appropriate pursuit system of internal controls is delegated to Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Annual report and accounts 2014
