Strategic report Governance Financial statements Further information Overview 69 Nominations Committee Report Tse Sang to swiftly familiarise himself the Board and how such requirements Dear Shareholders, with the business and also that Wong should influence succession planning for Hong Ren has agreed to act as Senior Directors and other senior executives.
The You will have already read in our Directors report about the changes to Adviser for an initial 12month period.
Committee is responsible for identifying and nominating candidates to fill Board the Companys Board of Directors and Icannot emphasise how important the Sean Collins notified the Board in vacancies when they arise and for the September 2014 that he intended to step subsequent approval by the Board.
process to recruit both a new Group Chief Executive Officer and an independent down as an independent Non-Executive Director and the Committee moved Membership Non-Executive Director has been.
The Committee has been involved during swiftly to recommend the appointment The Nominations Committee comprises of Gervase MacGregor in a similar every step of the process, setting the a majority of independent Non-Executive agenda, and ensuring that only the most capacity.
MrMacGregor is head of Directors and meets on such occasions litigation support at BDO LLP and brings suitable candidates have been appointed as necessary, but at least twice a year.
with him a wealth of experience.
He Kwek Leng Beng chairs the Committee has also assumed the role of Chairman except when the business of the meeting As a Committee our priorities during the of the Audit & Risk Committee and is concerns his succession.
The Company recognised to have recent and relevant year have been to: Secretary, the Group Chief Executive financial experience.
Officer and the Global Human Resources manage the succession process for Director are invited by the Chair of the the Group Chief Executive Officer and In last years report I highlighted a number Committee to attend meetings when of key senior management appointments ensure a smooth transition occurs in appropriate to do so.
External advisers 2015: below board level in 2013 which we had are also consulted as necessary to made.
I am very pleased to confirm that undertake the appointment of a new give advice or market perspective.
these appointments, along with further Senior Independent Director following All members have the experience recruits to the management team, are the decision of Sean Collins to step and expertise necessary to meet the working well as we create a focused, down from the Board: Committees responsibilities.
review more generally the skills and The Nominations Committees terms of Key priorities for 2015 diverse experience of the Nonreference are available at Executive Directors on the Board and The Committee will continue to review www.
com corporate make plans for any future rotation: and the structure of the Board and I am investors.
embed the senior management personally committed to ensuring that we continue to look for the right capabilities Evaluation process appointments made in 2013 so that change can be implemented as and competencies for the future, looking During the year, the Committee in particular in areas such as guest-facing smoothly as possible.
discussed the Board evaluation process technology and hospitality experience.
We Board and Management changes and considered that the use of external will monitor the transition of the Group assistance in that process continued to Chief Executive Officer role to ensure that The Company announced on 7 November make a valuable contribution.
the process is as smooth and effective 2014 that Wong Hong Ren would be as we currently envisage.
The Committee stepping down as Group Chief Executive Board diversity will also review the senior finance team Officer from 28 February 2015 and that in conjunction with the new Group Chief The Committee continues to recognise Aloysius Lee Tse Sang would replace Executive Officer.
The Committee engaged Inzito the value of diversity and that it can only serve to strengthen the Group.
We Partnership, in the preliminary stages, Kwek Leng Beng and also used internal resources in its continue to incorporate all aspects of Chairman of the Nominations Committee diversity as an objective criterion for the search.
It extensively reviewed a number of candidates and concluded that Mr Lee selection of future Board members and 9February 2015 also ensure that this is reflected at all Tse Sang had the skills and ambition best suited to the role.
We support the Role and responsibility aspirations of the UK Lord Davies Report I would like to thank Wong Hong Ren for on Women on Boards including the The Nomination Committees role is to representation of women at the highest his considerable contribution as a Director consider the skills and expertise that are of the Company since it was first listed on level in the organisation.
Selection of required by the Group in future, how such candidates to join the Board is based on the London Stock Exchange.
I am pleased skills and expertise should be reflected that a hand over period between the two merit and the contribution which they will in the structure, size and composition of bring to the working of the Board.
has been arranged to allow Aloysius Lee Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Annual report and accounts 2014
