Strategic Report Governance Financial 39 The Board Who are the Board members?
The members of the Board and their accompanying biographies are set out on pages 36 and 37.
All Directors are expected to allocate sufficient time to the Company to discharge their responsibilities effectively and, where possible, attend all Board meetings and the AGM.
Any time commitment matters are addressed by the Chairman with the Director concerned.
Chairman Roger Matthews Board members executive Ruby McGregor-Smith Suzanne Baxter Bill Robson Board members non-executive David Jenkins Crawford Gillies Larry Hirst Terry Morgan until 31 October 2013 Graeme Potts until 9 July 2013 Jack Boyer from 1 June 2013 What is the key purpose of the Board?
The Board provides leadership and direction to management and is collectively responsible for the sustainable long-term success of the Company.
Accordingly the Board reviews and agrees the strategy for the group, proposed by the Executive Directors, on an annual basis.
In setting the strategy, the Board takes account of matters such as: market trends: competitive environment: private public sector approach: international aspects of the business and opportunities: finance: people and talent: and the Mitie Model, ensuring at all times that sufficient consideration is given to risk and internal controls.
What are the key responsibilities?
There are key matters and responsibilities that are set aside to be exclusively dealt with by the Board.
These include: setting group objectives and strategies: approving business plans and budgets and monitoring performance against them: approving material acquisitions, disposals and business start-ups including any material transactions outside of the normal course of business : approving the groups Half-Yearly and Annual Report and Accounts: appointing and removing the Chairman, Directors and Company Secretary: management of the groups risk profile: and monitoring the groups corporate governance arrangements.
The Board recognises its overall responsibility for the group's system of internal control, which is designed to safeguard assets and ensure the reliability of the financial information for both internal use and external publication.
Responsibility for designing, operating and monitoring the system of internal control is delegated to the management of each division.
The Audit Committee monitors the effectiveness of these controls on behalf of the Board, through Internal Audit and the Group Enterprise Risk framework.
The Directors are mindful of their legal duties to act in the way they consider, in good faith, will be most likely to promote the success of the Company for its shareholders and having regard also to other stakeholders.
How many times did the Board meet?
During the year ended 31 March 2014, there were six scheduled Board meetings.
Additional unscheduled Board meetings were held to deal with the review and approval of material transactions, key contracts, acquisitions and issues relating to shares and other administrative matters.
Mitie Group plc 40 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 The Board Attendance Number of Board meetings held in the year: 6 Roger Matthews 6 Ruby McGregor-Smith 6 Suzanne Baxter 6 Bill Robson 4 Crawford Gillies 6 Larry Hirst 6 David Jenkins 6 1 Terry Morgan 2 of 3 2 Graeme Potts 2 of 2 3 Jack Boyer 5 of 6 Notes: 1 Terry Morgan retired from the Board on 31 October 2013.
2 Graeme Potts retired from the Board on 9 July 2013.
3 Jack Boyer was appointed to the Board on 1 June 2013.
An explanation of Board roles Division of responsibilities of our Chairman and Chief Executive Whilst maintaining a close working relationship, our Chairman and Chief Executive have clearly defined and separate roles divided between running the Board and the business.
They have an open dialogue and meet regularly between Board meetings to ensure a full understanding of business issues and to facilitate efficient decision making.
The Chairman The Chairman is a Non-Executive Director and is responsible for the effective running and leadership of the Board, ensuring its effectiveness.
He liaises with the Company Secretary on the annual Board plan and sets and agrees the Board agendas.
Key matters covered at each Board meeting include: strategy, enterprise risk management, financial and management reporting, investor relations and corporate governance, with updates received from each of the Committee Chairmen.
He ensures that sufficient time is allocated to promote healthy discussion and open debate, supported by the right level and quality of information to assist the Board in reaching its decisions.
The Chairman encourages openness and regular communication between Executive and Non-Executive Directors, a culture which has been facilitated throughout the year by meetings between the Chairman and individual Directors.
The Chairman ensures that the Non-Executive Directors contribute effectively and that the Executive and Non-Executive Directors are aware of the views of major shareholders.
The Chairman is also responsible for ensuring that the Board addresses major challenges faced by Mitie and for the effective performance of the Board and its Committees.
The Chairman is available to consult with shareholders throughout the year and will be available at the AGM.
The Chief Executive The Chief Executive is responsible for all aspects of the operation and management of the group and its business within the authorities delegated to her by the Board.
She is responsible for developing and effectively implementing strategy following approval of the strategic and financial plan by the Board.
The Chief Executives remit includes proposing investment into new business and geographical areas and ensuring at all times that the groups risk profile is appropriately considered.
She ensures the timely and accurate disclosure of information to the Board and to shareholders.
She leads the Executive Directors and senior management team in the day-to-day running of the groups business under clear delegation of authority from the Board.
The Chief Executive maintains regular dialogue with the Chairman on all important Company matters and together they provide coherent leadership of the group.
The Executive Directors Executive Directors oversee the entire operations of the group and in addition have specific responsibility for managing their own area of the business.
The Non-Executive Directors Non-Executive Directors are responsible for exercising their independent skill and judgement.
In reviewing the proposals for the strategic direction of the group, the Non-Executive Directors constructively challenge and probe the Executive Directors, offering a breadth of knowledge, experience and individual skills, and are responsible for contributing to the formulation and development of strategy.
The Non-Executive Directors monitor high level corporate reporting and satisfy themselves as to the integrity of financial information and the operation of key controls.
The Non-Executive Directors meet without the Executive Directors present during the year.
The terms of appointment of the Non-Executive Directors and the Executive Directors service contracts are available for inspection at Mities registered office, the head office and at the AGM.
Strategic Report Governance Financial 41 The Senior Independent Director The role of the Senior Independent Director is to make himself available to shareholders should they have concerns which have not been resolved through the normal channels of Chairman, Chief Executive or Group Finance Director or for which such contact is inappropriate in the circumstances.
The Senior Independent Director in particular reviews information on major shareholders and financial analysis to obtain a balanced understanding of the issues and concerns of shareholders.
Explained further below is the Senior Independent Directors role in succession planning and performance evaluation for the Chairman.
How we have evaluated the performance of the Board and the Committees During the year the Board, assisted by independent consultants, Condign Board Consulting, reviewed its performance, that of its Committees and individual Directors.
The review process included one-to-one meetings with each of the Directors and observation of the Board at the meeting in March.
Particular consideration was given to the balance of skills, experience, independence and knowledge of the Company on the Board.
Other key areas considered during the review were the Boards diversity including gender and how the Board performs as a unit.
The conclusions and recommendations of the review were shared with the Board at the meeting in May 2014.
Evaluation of the Chairman is passed to the Senior Independent Director to discuss with the Chairman.
The Board is comfortable with its effectiveness and that of its Committees and Directors.
In addition to reviewing performance and governance, the Board will continue to focus on the composition of the Board and the balance of its skills and experience and the implementation of the growth strategies for both core FM and Healthcare.
The Board will receive regular updates and management presentations during the year on the strategic development of the group.
Condign Board Consulting has no other connection with the Company.
Director re-election The performance of each Director has been reviewed as part of the annual board evaluation process and the Board is satisfied that they continue to operate effectively and demonstrate clear commitment to their roles.
All Directors will submit themselves for annual re-election at the 2014 AGM.
The Director Induction process All Directors receive a personally tailored induction to Mitie which includes visits to group and key client sites.
They receive an information pack, which includes: copies of Mities Memorandum and Articles of Association: the latest Annual Report and Accounts: the Committee terms of reference and copies of recent Board and Committee minutes: and supporting papers.
Directors are given access to the online board portal which, as well as holding all Board reports and Board minutes, has a reading room containing the Board Handbook detailing essential information about: the Company: Board and Committee terms of reference: Directors statutory duties: governance and regulatory guidelines: the groups approved delegated authorities: and an overview of the groups insurance arrangements.
The Handbook is reviewed and updated regularly.
Additional briefing notes are circulated where appropriate on matters such as changes in the regulatory and governance environment.
Our Board accountability and assurance explained Risk management approach The Board understands that effective risk management and a sound system of internal control is central to the achievement of the groups business strategy of delivering sustainable, profitable growth.
The Board, supported by the Audit Committee, has continued to drive improvements to better understand the nature of the risks the group faces as it continues to grow in size, shape and complexity.
The group has strengthened resource in risk management capability during the year and will continue to provide a focus on embedding risk management across all areas of the group to ensure the continued identification of risks and opportunities to the delivery of strategic objectives.
Our risk management approach was reviewed using third party external expertise during 2013 to ensure continual improvement in our processes.
Risk management processes The environment in which the group operates is dynamic and quickly evolving and so it is recognised that a flexible and adaptable approach to risk management is required.
Processes are in place to ensure that each operating division and support function identifies and assesses the risks to achieving its objectives, the associated mitigation measures and the potential impact of the crystallisation of those risks.
This process was reviewed during the year and refocused to ensure clarity of requirements were understood and formal risk management workshops were undertaken to provide consistency in the risk identification and assessment process.
Responsibility for specific areas of risk flows through the business, with accountability and responsibility assigned to specific risk owners.
The group risk profile is reviewed by the Chief Executive and Group Finance Director in advance of review and approval by the Board.
This information is captured in risk registers at business, divisional and functional level, which are subsequently consolidated into strategic, operational, financial and regulatory risk categories within the overall group risk register maintained by the Enterprise Risk function.
Mitie Group plc 42 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 The Board Risk identification and assessment To ensure a thorough identification process occurs, both internal and external perspectives are taken into account when considering the risks that pose a threat to the achievement of the groups strategy.
The external view will include the economic position, political factors, sector and geographical risks.
The internal view takes into account factors including our business profile, operational processes, technology and people.
Identified risks are then assessed using standard impact and likelihood ratings to quantify the risk to the achievement of business objectives.
This approach is consistent across all our operations and support functions and provides executive management and the Board with the ability to prioritise resources to manage risk.
Independent challenge and oversight of the risks identified within the divisional and functional risk registers is provided by the Enterprise Risk function, to ensure meaningful and consistent results are achieved via the process.
Risk mitigation The control and mitigation element of our risk management process was enhanced during the year to provide more robust information on the effectiveness of the identified controls in place.
Each identified risk has a defined control owner who is responsible for developing a plan to mitigate the risk.
Assessment of the effectiveness of this control environment is undertaken at divisional and group level, with the Audit Committee formally reviewing performance.
Risk monitoring and review The changing nature of our business profile means that the risk management process is dynamic, with principal risks monitored throughout the year to ensure the risk profile is accurate and the control environment remains effective.
Through this process, newly identified risks will therefore feature on the risk register and some risks may be removed.
Following the 2014 review, the overall risk profile has remained in line with that reported previously, although the definition of a number of risk events has been refined in order to more accurately reflect the potential challenges to achieving our strategic objectives as our business continues to develop.
It should be noted that there are other risks identified as part of our risk management process, but these do not have a material impact on the groups overall ability to achieve business objectives.
These risks are managed via the existing risk management process.
To further encourage a culture of risk management within the business, the Audit Committee, on behalf of the Board, regularly reviews the programme of risk management undertaken across the group to demonstrate the importance of the management and assessment of risk at a senior level, and to take ownership of mitigation improvements where required.
Ultimately the risk management framework is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failing to achieve the objectives and strategies of the group and can therefore only provide reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material risk and loss.
The Board, through the Audit Committee, considers the nature and extent of significant risks in setting the groups strategy.
Details of the principal risks of the group are set out on pages 32 and 33.
The Audit Committee confirms that this risk management process has been in place throughout the reporting year and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts.
Internal control and assurance The Board has established an appropriate system of governance throughout the group, with a framework of internal control based around the three lines of defence model.
The first line of defence is provided by line management, who are responsible for implementing and monitoring specific controls, the second line is provided by senior management within the divisions and specific functions such as Finance, Human Resources and Risk who provide assurance on the effectiveness of these controls, and the third line is provided by internal and external audit.
The Internal Audit function is structured by way of a co-source arrangement with in-house auditors working alongside specialists from Grant Thornton LLP to achieve the overall delivery of the internal audit programme.
The internal audit programme is designed to provide a level of assurance over the principal risks as identified in the group risk register and is developed by the Head of Internal Audit who reports independently to the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee supports the Board by monitoring and guiding the activities of the Internal Audit function, including review and approval of the internal audit programme, reviewing the findings of the internal audit reports from the Internal Audit function and reviewing plans to address identified areas for improvement arising from the audits.
The Audit Committee also receives regular reports from the Independent Auditor who contribute a further independent perspective on certain aspects of the internal financial control systems arising from their work.
The Audit Committee also receives an update from the Head of Internal Audit and the Executive Directors on the operation of controls within the business.
Committees of the Board The Board has five formally constituted committees: the Audit Committee, the Nomination Committee, the Remuneration Committee, the Investment Committee and the Results Committee, the work of which are set out on the following pages.
