Strategic Report Governance Financial 43 Audit Committee Chairmans introduction As Chairman of the Audit Committee I am pleased to present this report on the role and activities of the Audit Committee for the financial year ended 31 March 2014.
The primary role of the Committee is to oversee and assist the Board in its responsibility to discharge a set of fair, balanced and understandable group Annual Report and Accounts.
Such accounts should provide the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy throughout the year.
Over the past year, the Committee has ensured that the group has in place effective financial governance in respect of the groups financial results, the performance of both the Internal Audit function and the Independent Auditor, and the management of the groups systems of internal control, business risks and related compliance activities.
Who is on the Audit Committee?
The Audit Committee comprises independent Non-Executive Directors who are all considered appropriately experienced to fulfil their duties.
The Chairman of the Committee is David Jenkins, who continues to be deemed by the Board, as at the date of this report, to have significant, recent and relevant financial experience through his qualifications and ongoing positions.
Chairman David Jenkins Committee members Crawford Gillies Larry Hirst Terry Morgan until 31 October 2013 Graeme Potts until 9 July 2013 Jack Boyer from 1 June 2013 What is the key purpose of the Audit Committee?
The Audit Committee provides effective governance over the appropriateness of the groups financial reporting, and the performance of both the Internal and External Audit functions.
The Committee also oversees the management of the groups systems of internal control, business risks and related compliance activities.
The Audit Committee meets independently with the Independent Auditor and the Head of Internal Audit without the Executive Directors.
The Chairman of the Committee will be available at the AGM to answer any questions about the work of the Committee.
What are the key responsibilities of the Audit Committee?
During the year, the Audit Committee considered and reviewed general matters relevant to discharging its responsibilities, including: monitoring the groups corporate reporting process and the statutory audit of the Annual Report and Accounts: reviewing the Half-Yearly Financial Report and Annual Report and Accounts and recommending for Board approval: reviewing accounting policies and key areas of accounting judgement: reviewing the Independent Auditors audit plan, nature and scope of work and overall summary of key issues and judgements: reviewing the quality of the groups Independent Auditor services and the re-appointment of the Independent Auditor: assessing the effectiveness of the Independent Auditor including the appropriateness and skills of its audit team: reviewing and monitoring compliance with the Non-Audit Services Policy and maintenance of auditor independence: reviewing the groups consolidated risk register prior to its approval by the Board: approving the groups assurance framework and the internal audit plan: reviewing key internal audit reports and findings: Mitie Group plc 44 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Audit Committee reviewing the groups whistleblowing process and procedure: considering managements response to any major internal or independent audit recommendations: monitoring the effectiveness of the internal audit, independent audit and risk management systems and functions: and advising on and reviewing the fair, balanced and understandable statement.
The Audit Committees terms of reference are available at http: www.
com documents investors corporate-governance committee terms of reference.
pdf How many times did the Audit Committee meet?
During the financial year, the Audit Committee met three times.
Meetings may, by invitation, be attended by the Companys Independent Auditor, the Chairman, the Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director and the Group Enterprise Risk Director.
Attendance Number of meetings held in year: 3 David Jenkins 3 Crawford Gillies 3 Larry Hirst 3 1 Terry Morgan 0 of 1 2 Graeme Potts 1 of 1 3 Jack Boyer 2 of 2 Notes: 1 Terry Morgan retired from the Board on 31 October 2013.
2 Graeme Potts retired from the Board on 9 July 2013.
3 Jack Boyer was appointed to the Board on 1 June 2013.
The role of the Committee financial reporting The primary role of the Committee in relation to financial reporting is to review with both management and the Independent Auditor the appropriateness of the Half-Yearly and Annual Report and Accounts concentrating on, amongst other matters: the quality and acceptability of accounting policies and practices: the clarity of the disclosures and compliance with financial reporting standards and relevant financial and governance reporting requirements: material areas in which significant judgements have been applied or where there has been discussion with the Independent Auditor: and whether the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
To aid our review, the Committee considers reports from the Group Finance Director and also reports from the Independent Auditor on the outcomes of their Half-Yearly review and annual audit.
Significant issues considered by the Committee during the year The Audit Committee considered the following significant matters of judgement in relation to the accounting judgements contained in the Annual Report and Accounts.
In all cases, papers were presented to the Audit Committee by management, setting out the material matters of accounting estimates and the judgements associated with each item.
A separate paper was presented to the Audit Committee by the Independent Auditor that set out their views on each area of judgement.
The Audit Committee discussed the papers with management and sought the views of the Independent Auditor on each matter, and for each area of judgement concurred with the treatment presented by management and in the Annual Report and Accounts.
The presentation of the income statement The financial statements contain all the information and disclosures required by the relevant accounting standards and regulatory obligations that apply to the group.
Mitie has elected to provide some further disclosures and performance measures in order to present its financial results in a way that it considers best demonstrates the performance of its business.
In particular, Mitie adopts headline measures of its performance and separately discloses certain costs and income as Other items in its income statement in order to demonstrate the underlying performance of its business.
The Audit Committee considered the use of these non-statutory measures of performance and related reporting formats and disclosures in order to satisfy itself that the presentation of the groups results was transparent, fairly reflected the activity of the business during the reporting period and enabled a clearer understanding of the underlying performance of the business over time.
Strategic Report Governance Financial 45 Accounting for material contracts The group operates a broad portfolio of contracts and discloses revenue recognition as a critical judgement in the Annual Report and Accounts.
The methodology used for the recognition of contract revenue influences the amount of profit recognised on a contract as well as the inclusion and valuation of contract related assets and liabilities on the balance sheet.
The Audit Committee considered papers prepared by management on revenue recognition: on the accounting treatment applied to the groups larger integrated facilities management contracts, where judgements are required in respect of the percentage of completion of contracted work when recognising revenue and profit: on contract performance and the recognition and valuation of contract related assets and liabilities on certain construction contracts in Energy Solutions: and on the recoverability of certain specific contract receivables and the risk associated with their collection.
Accounting for business activities that are being exited or restructured In the last financial year, the group announced that it was exiting its cyclical mechanical and electrical engineering contraction business and in the current year it has taken the decision to reduce its exposure to the loss-making construction element of its Energy Solutions business.
In forming judgements on the accounting estimates in respect of these businesses, the papers presented to the Committee considered the performance of the contracts within each business area, the carrying value of contract related assets and liabilities in the balance sheet and the continuing obligations of the group in respect of those businesses.
The Committee also specifically considered the accounting treatment afforded to the groups 30% non-controlling equity interest in a joint venture company, to which Mitie has also extended subordinated debt.
The Energy Solutions division has a contract to construct and operate a renewable energy plant for the joint venture company and the project has been subject to delays and considerable cost overruns.
Consideration was given to the treatment that should be adopted for the joint venture on consolidation of the groups results, and whether it should therefore be considered to be a subsidiary or an associate.
The groups interest in that joint venture is accounted for as an associate and is held at nil value see Note 16.
Given the delays in the project, consideration was also given to the recoverability of receivables due from the joint venture company taking into account the planned timing of repayments from the joint venture company and the risks associated with their collection.
The full trading result of the cyclical mechanical and electrical engineering contraction business has been separately disclosed within Other items see Note 5 due to the significance of its scale to the group, along with the costs of closure of that business.
A number of contract provisions and costs have been incurred in the year in reducing the groups exposure to design and build construction contracts in the Energy Solutions business.
These are also separately disclosed as Other items on the face of the income statement.
The valuation of goodwill The group has undertaken a number of acquisitions in the past and carries goodwill as an intangible asset on its balance sheet in respect of the businesses acquired see Note 13.
The valuation and impairment review of goodwill is assessed for each individual cash generating unit CGU and considers the balance sheet value of the goodwill compared to the net present value of the post-tax cash flows that are expected to be generated by that CGU.
This involves an estimation of the future cash flows deriving from each CGU and also the selection of appropriate discount rates, which are then applied to the cash flows to calculate a net present value.
The assumptions underpinning the review were considered by the Audit Committee, particularly the discount rates applied.
The cash flow forecasts used in the review were derived from the most recent budgets which have been reviewed and approved by the Board and the long-term business plans of the group.
Sensitivities to changes in key assumptions were considered by management and presented to the Audit Committee.
Going concern The Audit Committee considered the evidence that supports the ability of the Directors to conclude that Mitie has adequate financial resources to continue in operation for the foreseeable future and can prepare its accounts on a going concern basis.
The Committee considered the future prospects and performance of the group including the potential impact of acquisition activity: the projected future cash flows of the group: the availability of core and ancillary financing facilities and compliance with related covenants: and the projected drawn positions and headroom available on the core committed financing facilities.
It also reviewed and considered the disclosures on the matter of going concern in the Annual Report and Accounts and considered them to be appropriate.
Accounting for acquisitions In the previous financial year, the group made the significant acquisition of Enara to support its strategy to enter the homecare market.
It also made other, smaller acquisitions in the current and prior years.
The accounting estimates made by the group in accounting for acquisitions were considered by the Audit Committee.
The fair value estimates established following the acquisition of Enara were reviewed and finalised during the current reporting period having taken into account the performance and experience of the business since acquisition and the conditions that existed at the acquisition date.
Mitie Group plc 46 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Audit Committee The role of the Committee external audit Each year the Audit Committee reviews the performance of the Independent Auditor in respect of audit related services and non-audit related services and is committed to ensuring the independence, effectiveness and objectivity of the Independent Auditor.
Deloitte LLP has been the Companys Independent Auditor since its market listing over 25 years ago.
However, Mitie tendered its full external audit services in the year ended 31 March 2012 and concluded that Deloitte LLP should be re-appointed as Independent Auditor given its relevant experience in both the PLC environment and the support services sector.
The independence of our Independent Auditor The Audit Committee has approved a Non-Audit Services Policy that ensures the Independent Auditor remains independent and objective throughout the provision of their independent audit services and when formulating their audit opinion.
In order to retain the flexibility of utilising the Independent Auditor to provide non-audit services, the following criteria must also be met.
These are such that the Independent Auditor does not: audit their own work: make management decisions for the group: create a conflict of interest: or find themselves in the role of advocate for the group.
The Non-Audit Services Policy identifies the various types of non-audit services and determines the analysis to be undertaken along with the level of authority required before the Independent Auditor can be considered to undertake such services.
Further, the policy is consistent with the Financial Reporting Councils ethical standards policy.
When considering the appointment of the Independent Auditor for non-audit services, the following factors are taken into account: the quality of work provided by the Independent Auditor: representations provided by the Independent Auditor regarding independence and objectivity, along with internal controls implemented by them when providing non-audit services: the level of the Independent Auditors understanding of the group: the nature of the work being performed: and the commercial and practical circumstances of particular types of work required.
Non-audit services provided to the group during the year included corporate finance services associated with the acquisition of Complete Care Holdings Limited, for reasons of commercial confidentiality and efficiency, taxation advice and compliance services.
The Audit Committee considered reports from both management and the Independent Auditor, none of which raised concerns about auditor independence.
A summary of the fees paid to the Independent Auditor is given in Note 6 to the financial statements.
The Audit Committee confirms that the requirements of the Non-Audit Services Policy have been met throughout the year.
Independent Auditor effectiveness and tendering The Audit Committee monitored the conduct and effectiveness of the Independent Auditor through its assessment of: the experience, expertise and perceptiveness of the auditor: the planning and execution of the agreed audit plan and quality of audit reports: and the conduct of the auditor including the Audit Committees experience of interaction with the auditor which included meetings held in the absence of management.
The Audit Committee is satisfied with the effectiveness of the independent audit and, in light of the audit tender conducted in the year ended 31 March 2012, has assessed and recommended to the Board the continued engagement of Deloitte LLP as the Companys Independent Auditor and has recommended their re-appointment at the AGM.
Deloitte LLP has expressed willingness to continue in office as our Independent Auditor and accordingly the Board is recommending their re-appointment as Independent Auditor at the forthcoming AGM.
The Audit Committee has noted the changes in relation to auditor rotation and will continue to give consideration to the timing of the next formal tender in light of guidance and changes in regulatory requirements.
There are no contractual obligations restricting the Companys choice of Independent Auditor.
