Governance 64 Corporate governance Introduction from joint chairmen Dear shareholder We have continued to focus on the application of good governance, sound risk assessment and sustainable practices throughout the Group.
We prioritise ensuring we operate with integrity, monitor standards of behaviour, enhance our business by being ethical and deliver on our promises.
While we know the dual listed company DLC structure presents us with some complexities, we continue to strive to follow best practice and work in a way that benefits shareholders of both Mondi Limited and Mondi plc as a unified organisation.
Governance and regulation in both South Africa and the UK have continued to develop during the past year, in particular with the publication in September of both the updated Listings Requirements of the JSE Limited JSE and the revised UK Corporate Governance Code.
With increased focus on the responsibilities of both the audit and remuneration committees, work has been undertaken to review and challenge our current practices to ensure they reflect the new requirements.
The directors ensure governance oversight of the Groups established framework of policies, practices and management systems in order to maintain the integrity of our business operations.
This is managed in a way that does not restrict the innovation and entrepreneurial spirit of our employees.
The directors ensure While there is a formal annual review of strategy, every discussion and decision made by the governance oversight of Boards takes account of, and informs the development of the Group strategy.
We are open the Groups established with ourselves and management to ensure we consider long-term sustainable value and framework of policies, regularly test that we are meeting the objectives we have set ourselves.
The industry and practices and management sector in which we operate is not without its challenges but we respond to those challenges systems in order to and the opportunities they present to demonstrate Mondis passion for performance.
maintain the integrity of our business operations.
While it was pleasing that the feedback from the external evaluation in 2013 was positive regarding the operation of the Boards, we have revisited this again through our internal review in 2014, explained in more detail on pages 72 and 73.
We are pleased to report that dialogue remains open and transparent with the directors working in a collaborative way, providing the required leadership to put into effect the Groups strategic aims.
Each committee plays a vital role in supporting the Boards as a whole in managing the stewardship of the Group.
Each with its own area of focus and accountability, together they ensure transparency and probity, enforcing the principles of sound governance.
In June this year the directors had the opportunity to visit the plant at tt in the Czech Republic.
The Boards were able to celebrate the success of the completion of the 70 million investment in a 155,000 tonne per annum bleached kraft paper machine with the local team, the new machine having been successfully started up in April 2014.
Another investment brought in on time and within budget.
We have not had any changes in directors during the year, providing a year of stability.
We have, however, spent time considering the future need to make effective and timely changes to the composition of the Boards, especially as the business continues to grow its various packaging interests.
Executive succession plans have also been an area of discussion.
We continue to believe in the appropriateness of shareholders having the opportunity to vote on the re-election of each director each year.
You will find resolutions to this effect being presented to you at the annual general meetings of both Mondi Limited and Mondi plc.
We endeavour to ensure we report to shareholders in a way that reflects the open and transparent way in which the Boards operate, and have carefully reviewed this integrated report to ensure that it presents a fair, balanced and understandable view of the Groups position and performance this is explained more fully in the audit committee report.
We hope that the following governance report provides you with a helpful insight into how we operate.
Fred Phaswana David Williams Joint chairman Joint chairman Mondi Group | Integrated report and financial statements 2014
