Governance Corporate Governance Report Darren Drabble Company Secretary The Board of Directors Board of Moneysupermarket.
com Group that these appointments do not conflict with the Chairmans PLC Company is committed to high standards of corporate ability to carry out his duties and responsibilities effectively for governance and supports the principles laid down in The UK the Group.
Corporate Governance Code published in September 2012 by the Financial Reporting Council Code.
This Corporate Governance The Board has reviewed the recommendations of the Davies Report describes how the principles of the Code are applied by Review as part of a wider diversity discussion and has endorsed the Company and reports on the Companys compliance with the aBoard Diversity Statement which is set out in the Nomination Codes provisions.
The Board supports the aims, objectives and recommendations of the Davies Review and in line with the Code will continue to make Board appointments on Compliance merit, against objective criteria and with due regard for the The Board considers that the Company has complied with the benefits of diversity on the Board, including gender.
provisions of the Code throughout the year ended 31 December 2014 and to the date of this report except as set out below.
Independence Non-Executive Directors The Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors bring wide and Board of Directors varied commercial experience to Board and Committee The Board currently has eleven members, comprising the deliberations.
The practice of the Company is to appoint Non-Executive Chairman, Bruce Carnegie-Brown, six Independent Non-Executive Directors for specified terms of three years, Non-Executive Directors, Michael Wemms, Rob Rowley, Sally subject to a maximum of up to three months notice within that James, Robin Klein, Andrew Fisher and Genevieve Shore, one period and also subject to re-election and to Companies Act non-Independent Non-Executive Director, Simon Nixon Deputy provisions relating to the removal of a Director.
Each of the Chairman, and three Executive Directors, Peter Plumb Chief Non-Executive Directors, including the Chairman, currently holds Executive Officer, Matthew Price and Graham Donoghue.
a letter of appointment reflecting this.
Michael Wemms has been designated as the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director.
The Board considers that Bruce Carnegie-Brown was independent on appointment as Chairman and considers At the Annual General Meeting held on 23 April 2014, Gerald Michael Wemms, Rob Rowley, Sally James, Robin Klein, Andrew Corbett stepped down as Chairman and as a Non-Executive Fisher and Genevieve Shore to be independent, being Director of the Company, and he was succeeded by Bruce independent in character and judgement and free from Carnegie-Brown as Chairman from that date.
Paul Doughty also relationships or circumstances which are likely to affect, or could stepped down as an Executive Director at the Annual General appear to affect, their judgement.
The Board does not consider Meeting on 23April 2014 and he was succeeded by Matthew Price Simon Nixon to be independent.
who was appointed an Executive Director on 1 April 2014.
At the Annual General Meeting to be held on 30 April 2015, Conflicts of interest Michael Wemms and Robin Klein will step down as Non-Executive The Companys Articles of Association were amended at the 2008 Directors of the Company.
Rob Rowley will become the Senior Annual General Meeting, in line with the Companies Act 2006, to Independent Non-Executive Director from that date.
allow the Board to authorise potential conflicts of interest that may arise and to impose limits or conditions, as appropriate, The Board normally meets on at least eight occasions in each when giving any authorisation.
Any decision of the Board to financial year including a two day strategy conference.
To authorise a conflict of interest is only effective if it is agreed enablethe Non-Executive Directors to more freely discuss the without the conflicted Directors voting or without their votes performance of the Groups management, the Chairman meets being counted.
In making such a decision, the Directors must act with the Non-Executive Directors at least once each year without in a way they consider in good faith will be most likely to promote the Executive Directors present.
the success of the Company.
The Board considers that all the Directors are able to devote The Company has established a procedure for the appropriate sufficient time to their duties as Directors.
Biographies of the authorisation to be sought prior to appointment of any new Board are set out on pages 30 and 31 including details of the Director or prior to a new conflict arising and for the regular significant commitments of the Chairman.
The Board is satisfied review of actual or potential conflicts of interest.
During the year, this procedure was adhered to and operated effectively.
32 MONEYSUPERMARKET ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements General Relationship Agreement The single largest shareholder of the Company is Simon Nixon.
The Company and Simon Nixon entered into a relationship agreement on 11July 2007 to regulate the ongoing relationship between them Relationship Agreement.
The principal purpose of the Relationship Agreement is to ensure that the Company is capable of carrying on its business independently of Simon Nixon, andthattransactions and relationships with Simon Nixon are at arms length and on normal commercial terms.
The Company and Simon Nixon have agreed in the Relationship Agreement that Simon Nixon is entitled to appoint such number including himself as a Director one Non-Executive Director for as long as he holds the beneficial interest in at least 15% of the ordinary shares of the Company, two Non-Executive Directors for as long as he holds the beneficial interest in at least 30% of the ordinary shares of the Company and three Non-Executive Directors for as long as he holds the beneficial interest in at least 50% of the ordinary shares of the Company.
The Relationship Agreement will terminate if Simon Nixon holds less than 15% of the ordinary shares of the Company.
The Relationship Agreement also includes a protocol to be observed in relation to any Non-Executive Director appointed by Simon Nixon to deal with potential conflicts of interest and the provision of confidential information.
Division of responsibilities The positions of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are not exercised by the same individual, ensuring a clear division of responsibility at the head of the Company.
The division of roles and responsibilities between the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer is clearly established, set out in writing and has been approved by the Board.
The Chairman is responsible for leadership of the Board, setting its agenda and monitoring its effectiveness.
He ensures effective communication with shareholders and that the Board is aware of the views of major shareholders.
He facilitates both the contribution of the Non-Executive Directors and constructive relations between the Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
The Chief Executive Officer is responsible for the day to day running of the Group, carrying out agreed strategy and implementing specific Board decisions.
Role of the Board The Board is collectively responsible for the Groups performance and meets regularly to review the operation and performance of theGroup.
The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved to it for decision making and matters delegated to Committees of the Board which are available on the investor relations section of the Groups website at www.
These include the Groups strategy: business plan and annual budget: acquisitions and disposals: and other major investments and capital projects.
There is an established procedure for the preparation and approval each year by the Board of business plans and the annual budget.
The Board receives reports on performance against the business plan and budget and reviews any significant variances each time it meets.
This information enables business performance to be monitored, evaluated, discussed and challenged where necessary and enables informed, sound decisions to be made.
At least one of the Boards regular meetings each year is devoted to reviewing and agreeing the Groups strategic direction.
Board Committees The Board has four principal Committees Audit, Nomination, Remuneration and Risk to which various matters are delegated.
TheCommittees all have formal written terms of reference that have been approved by the Board and are published on the investor relations section of the Groups website at www.
They are also available in hard copy form on application to the Company Secretary.
Details of the work of the Audit, Nomination, Remuneration and Risk Committees during the year are given in the reports of those Committees on pages 37 to 57.
The Directors who serve on each of the Committees are set outbelow: Committee Chairman Members Audit Rob Rowley Michael Wemms, Robin Klein, Sally James, Genevieve Shore Nomination Bruce Carnegie-Brown Michael Wemms, Rob Rowley, Robin Klein, Sally James, Andrew Fisher, Genevieve Shore Remuneration Andrew Fisher Michael Wemms, Sally James, Genevieve Shore Risk Sally James Rob Rowley, Michael Wemms, Genevieve Shore, Andrew Fisher With effect from Bruce Carnegie-Browns appointment as Chairman of the Board on 23 April 2014, Bruce Carnegie-Brown became Chairman of the Nomination Committee and he ceased to be a member of the Audit Committee.
With effect from Andrew Fishers appointment as a Non-Executive Director on 6 August 2014, Andrew Fisher became Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and Bruce Carnegie-Brown ceased to be a member of the Remuneration Committee.
MONEYSUPERMARKET ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 33 Governance Corporate Governance Report continued Board and Committee attendance The attendance record of the Directors at scheduled Board and Committee meetings during the year is set out in the following table.
The Board scheduled nine meetings during the year and ad hoc conference calls and committee meetings were also convened to deal with specific matters which required attention between scheduled meetings.
Audit Nomination Remuneration Risk Board Committee Committee Committee Committee Executive Directors Peter Plumb 9 3 Paul Doughty resigned on 23 April 2014 3 7 Matthew Price appointed on 1 April 2014 7 Graham Donoghue 9 Non-Executive Directors 1 3 Bruce Carnegie-Brown 9 1 4 3 3 1 2 2 Gerald Corbett resigned on 23 April 2014 3 1 2 2 Simon Nixon 8 Michael Wemms 9 4 4 4 4 Rob Rowley 8 4 4 3 3 Sally James 9 4 4 4 4 Robin Klein 8 3 3 1 1 1 1 Andrew Fisher appointed on 6 August 2014 3 1 1 1 1 2 1 1 1 Genevieve Shore appointed on 17 September 2014 2 1 1 1 Total number of scheduled meetings held 9 4 4 4 4 Note: The number in brackets is the number of meetings that the respective Directors were eligible to attend.
The Executive Directors of the Company may attend meetings of the Committees at the invitation of the Chairman of the respective Committee.
Bruce Carnegie-Brown attends meetings of the Audit, Risk and Remuneration Committees at the invitation of the Chairman of the respective Committees.
Directors The Companys Articles of Association require that new Directors appointed by the Board must retire and submit themselves for election by shareholders at the next Annual General Meeting following their appointment.
The Companys Articles of Association further require that all Directors must retire and submit themselves for re-election at least every three years.
In accordance with theCode, all of the Directors will retire at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting and, being eligible, will offer themselves for election orre-election, with the exception of Michael Wemms and Robin Klein who will be stepping down as Non-Executive Directors atthe AnnualGeneral Meeting.
The Company provides Directors and officers insurance cover for the benefit of Directors in respect of claims arising in the performance of their duties.
The Company has also granted indemnities to each of its Directors and the Company Secretary to the extent permitted by law and its Articles of Association.
Board evaluation The formal annual evaluation of the performance of the Board, its Committees and individual Directors was undertaken during the year.
This consisted of an externally facilitated evaluation undertaken by SCT Consultants Ltd in accordance with the requirements of the Code.
The evaluation output has been used to identify strengths and development areas and confirmed that the Board and its Committees were operating effectively.
Particular development areas that will be actioned in 2015 include a greater focus on the Groups talent strategy and a greater focus on effective investment appraisal.
Individual performance was also appraised, based on one-to-one interviews with the Chairman, or in the case of the Chairman, with the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director following consultation with each of the other Directors.
SCTConsultants Ltd has no other connection or relationship with the Group and has not provided any other services to the Group during the financial year ended 31 December 2014.
Development The Chairman and Company Secretary are responsible for preparing and co-ordinating an induction programme for newly appointed Directors, including business related presentations by senior management below Board level, as well as guidance on their duties, responsibilities and liabilities as a Director of the Company.
Every Director has access to appropriate training as required following theirappointment and is encouraged to develop their understanding of the Group.
34 MONEYSUPERMARKET ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements General Information Internal control and risk management Board members are given appropriate documentation in a timely The Board has established a continuous process for identifying, manner in advance of each Board or Committee meeting.
This evaluating and managing the principal risks the Group faces and normally includes a detailed report on current trading and for determining the nature and extent of the principal risks it is comprehensive papers on matters where the Board or willing to take to achieve its strategic objectives.
The risk Committee will be required to make a decision or give its management framework and a description of the Principal Risks approval.
Specific business related presentations are given by is provided on pages 24 and 25. senior management below Board level when appropriate.
In addition, the Board is responsible for the Groups system of The Directors have access to the advice and services of the internal control.
The system of internal control is designed to Company Secretary.
The Company Secretary is responsible for manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve ensuring that Board procedures are followed and providing business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not advice to the Board on corporate governance.
Both the absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
appointment and removal of the Company Secretary are matters for the Board as a whole.
The Board is responsible for performing an assessment of the effectiveness of the risk management framework and the internal Directors can, where they judge it necessary to discharge their control system on at least an annual basis.
responsibilities as Directors, obtain independent professional advice at the Companys expense.
No such advice was sought by The key features of the Groups system of internal control and any Director during the year.
Directors have the right to require risk management are: that any concerns they may have are recorded in the appropriate A comprehensive annual business planning and budgeting Board or Committee minutes.
process, requiring Board approval, against which the Groups actual performance and any significant variances are regularly reviewed by the Board.
Shareholder relations An annual two day strategy conference to discuss and approve The Board is committed to establishing and maintaining good the Groups strategic direction, plans and objectives and the communications with shareholders.
Senior executives, including risks to achieving them.
the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer regularly A schedule of matters reserved for the Boards approval to meet with analysts and institutional shareholders to keep them ensure it maintains control over appropriate strategic, informed of significant developments and to develop an financial, organisational, compliance and capital understanding of their views which are discussed with the Board.
Formal presentations are given to analysts and shareholders An organisation structure with clearly defined lines of covering the full year and half year results and the Company responsibility and delegation of authority.
seeks to maintain a dialogue with the various bodies which Formal risk and control policies with supporting procedures monitor the Companys governance policies and procedures.
TheCompany Secretary generally deals with questions from Regular reviews of the key risks facing the Group to individual shareholders.
ensurekey risks are being identified, evaluated and appropriately managed.
The results and results presentations, together with all A process for the regular assessment of key controls across information reported to the market via the regulatory the Group.
information service, press releases and other shareholder A risk and compliance function responsible for overseeing information, are published on the investor relations section of the implementation of the risk management framework.
the Groups website at www.
com to be An internal audit function providing assurance over key risks, viewed and accessed by all shareholders.
The Senior Independent Non-Executive Director is available to In addition, the Audit Committee receives: shareholders if they have concerns which contact through the Reports from the external auditor in relation to the Financial normal channels of Chairman, Chief Executive Officer or Chief Statements and the material financial reporting judgements Financial Officer has failed to resolve or for which such contact contained in them.
Reports from the internal and external auditors in relation to the system of internal control and the reviews by the internal All shareholders will have the opportunity to ask questions at the and external auditors of that system.
The Chairs of the Audit, Nomination, Remuneration and Risk Committees will be available The Audit Committee has reviewed the effectiveness of the to answer questions at that meeting.
Shareholders may also Groups system of internal control and risk management during contact the Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer or, if more the year.
The Board considers that in the context of the control appropriate, the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director to environment described above, the Groups system of internal raise any issue with one or all of the Non-Executive Directors of control and risk management is effective and satisfactory.
The Company will prepare separate resolutions on each Share capital substantially separate issue at the forthcoming Annual Details of the Companys share capital are set out in the GeneralMeeting.
The result of the vote on each resolution Directors Report on pages 58 and 59. willbepublished on the Groups website after the Annual GeneralMeeting and will be announced via the regulatory information service.
MONEYSUPERMARKET ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 35 Governance Corporate Governance Report continued Compliance with the Code The Directors consider that during the financial year ended 31 December 2014 and to the date of this report, the Company complied with the Code except as follows: C. 3.1 During the year, Gerald Corbett was a member of the Audit Committee until he stepped down as a Non-Executive Director and Chair of the Board on 23 April 2014.
Upon his appointment as Chair of the Board on 23 April 2014, Bruce Carnegie-Brown ceased to be a member of the Audit Committee.
Accordingly, with effect from 23 April 2014, the Company complied with the Code provision C. 3.1.
D. 2.1 Bruce Carnegie-Brown continued to chair the Remuneration Committee following his appointment as Chairman of the Board on 23 April 2014 until he stepped down as a member of the Remuneration Committee on 6 August 2014 when Andrew Fisher became a Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Accordingly, with effect from 6 August 2014, the Company complied with the Code provision D. 2.1.
E. 1.1 As a result of regular feedback provided to the Board by the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer following their dialogue with major shareholders, the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director believes he is aware of the views of major shareholders.
Unless requested by major shareholders, the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director does not attend meetings with them.
This report was approved by the Board and signed on its behalfby: Darren Drabble Company Secretary 2 March 2015 36 MONEYSUPERMARKET ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014
