Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements General Audit Committee Report Rob Rowley Chairman of the Audit Committee The Audit Committee presents a separate report in relation to the Reviewing the Audit Committees terms of reference, carrying financial year ended 31 December 2014. out an annual performance evaluation exercise and noting the satisfactory operation of the Committee.
Reporting to the Board how it has discharged its Composition of the Audit Committee responsibilities.
The Audit Committee comprises five of the Non-Executive Directors, Rob Rowley Chairman, Michael Wemms, Sally James, Genevieve Shore and Robin Klein.
Michael Wemms, Sally James, Operation of the Audit Committee Genevieve Shore and Robin Klein are considered by the Board to The Audit Committee met on four occasions during the year.
Rob Rowley was considered by the Board to be Details of attendance at Audit Committee meetings is set out in independent on appointment.
Biographies of the members of the the Corporate Governance Report on page 34.
Audit Committee are set out on pages 30 and 31.
Rob Rowley is a qualified accountant and was formerly finance director of Reuters The Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer, plc and chairman of the audit committee at Prudential plc.
He is ChiefFinancial Officer and Company Secretary, together with currently chairman of the audit committee at Taylor Wimpey plc appropriate members of the management team with and Morgan Advanced Materials plc.
The Board is satisfied that responsibility for risk and internal control, and the external Rob Rowley has recent and relevant financial experience.
auditor, will normally attend meetings at the invitation of the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
The external auditor is regularly invited by the Audit Committee to advise them of any Terms of reference matters which they consider should be brought to the Audit The terms of reference of the Audit Committee are published Committees attention without the Executive Directors present.
onthe investor relations section of the Groups website at The external auditor may also request a meeting with the Audit www.
com and are available in hard copy Committee if they consider it necessary.
form on application to the Company Secretary.
These include: Monitoring the integrity of the Financial Statements of the The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Audit Company, any formal announcements relating to the Committee.
The members of the Audit Committee can, where Companys financial performance and any significant issues they judge it necessary to discharge their responsibilities, obtain and judgements contained therein.
independent professional advice at the Companys expense.
Reviewing the Groups Financial Statements and the material financial reporting judgements contained in them.
Advising the Board on whether the Committee believes this Financial Statements and Significant Accounting Matters Annual Report and the Financial Statements contained within The Committee is responsible for reviewing the appropriateness it, when taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and of the Groups half-year reporting and annual financial understandable and provide the information necessary for statements.
It does this by considering, amongst other things, the shareholders to assess the Groups strategy, business accounting policies and practices adopted by the Group: the activities and financial performance.
correct application of applicable financial reporting standards Reviewing and monitoring the external auditors and compliance with broader governance reporting independence and objectivity and the effectiveness of the requirements: the approach taken by management to report the audit process, taking into consideration relevant UK key judgemental areas of reporting and the comments of the professional regulatory requirements.
external auditor on managements chosen approach.
Developing and implementing a policy on the level and amount of external auditor non-audit services.
During the year the Committee considered key accounting issues, Advising the Board on the appointment, re-appointment and matters and judgements in relation to the Groups Financial removal of the external auditor and the remuneration and Statements and disclosures relating to: terms of engagement of the external auditor.
Monitoring the effectiveness of the Groups internal financial Revenue controls and the internal control and risk management The majority of the Groups revenue is derived from successsystems.
based commercial deals which compensate the Group for each Reviewing the scope, activities and results of the Groups product sold by a provider to a customer referred to it by the internal audit function.
The Group recognises this revenue at the point at which a customer leaves one of the Groups websites, and clicks through to a provider site.
MONEYSUPERMARKET ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 37 Governance Audit Committee Report continued Management operates a number of key controls in relation to the provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess recording of revenue.
A completeness check is performed by the Groups performance, business model and strategy.
reconciling all click activity on the website and ensuring that an invoice has been raised, or revenue has been accrued, where External Auditor appropriate.
A review is performed to compare accrued revenue The external auditor attends all meetings of the Committee.
It is at the end of the previous month and actual revenue invoiced the responsibility of the Committee to provide oversight of the during the following month, with significant differences external audit process and assess the effectiveness, objectivity investigated to provide evidence that revenues are correctly and independence of the external auditor.
In addition a programme of revenue assurance is operated by the Groups internal audit function.
This helps The Audit Committee reviewed the following in order to provide provide assurance that revenues are correctly stated by oversight of the external audit process: reviewing provider systems and controls to ensure that sales The terms, areas of responsibility, associated duties and scope made by providers resulting from referrals made by the Group of the audit as set out in the external auditors engagement have been correctly identified and allocated in the provider letter for the forthcoming year: systems.
In addition management regularly reviews the quantum The external auditors overall work plan for the forthcoming year: and aging of any accrued revenue balances.
The external auditors fee proposal: The major issues that arose during the course of the audit and An assessment of the Groups information system which records their resolution: the clicks, together with the reconciliation of revenue to cash Key accounting and audit judgements and estimates: receipts, therefore form a key part of the audit.
The results of The levels of errors identified during the audit: and KPMGs testing are included in the audit report prepared for the Recommendations made by the external auditor in their Committee.
management letters and the adequacy of managements response.
Capitalisation of software and development costs As more fully described on pages 79 to 80 of the Groups Financial The Audit Committee reviewed the independence of the auditor Statements the Group holds intangible asset balances arising having regards to: from the capitalisation of certain software and development A report from the external auditor describing their costs.
The judgments in relation to software and development arrangements to identify, report and manage any conflicts of assets largely relate to the future economic benefits associated interest: and with the assets and that capitalisation is in accordance with the The extent and nature of non-audit services provided by the relevant accounting standards.
The Committee addressed these external auditor.
matters through examining investment appraisals on key IT projects received from management outlining the basis for the The Audit Committee is responsible for the development, key assumptions used and was comfortable with managements implementation and monitoring of policies and procedures on justification.
The Committee gains comfort that business plans in the use of the external auditor for non-audit services, in relation to the capitalised assets have received Board approval.
accordance with professional and regulatory requirements.
This is also a significant risk area for the audit, and therefore These policies are kept under review to meet the objective of KPMG provide to the Committee their comments on the approach ensuring that the Group benefits in a cost-effective manner from taken by management.
During the year ended 31 December 2014 the cumulative knowledge and experience of its auditor whilst the Committee critically reviewed the analysis performed on the also ensuring that the auditor maintains the necessary degree of capitalisation of software and development costs and agreed that independence and objectivity.
Consequently, any non-audit work the projected future cash flows from these assets supports their to be undertaken by the auditor in excess of 50,000 is required carrying values.
to be authorised by the Chairman of the Audit Committee and the Chief Financial Officer prior to its commencement.
Individual assignments of less than 50,000 are approved by the Chief Contingent Remuneration Financial Officer.
The aggregate expenditure with the external The Group acquired the business and assets of auditor is reviewed by the Audit Committee.
com and a sole trader business from Martin Lewis in September 2012.
As described more fully in note 3 to the During the year the value of non-audit services provided by Groups Financial Statements on page 73, the remuneration is KPMG amounted to 0.1m 2013: 0.2m.
Non-audit services contingent upon various non-financial performance criteria amounted to 66% of the value of the audit.
New EU legislation on together with a discretionary element and the continuing permitted non-audit services will come into effect from employment for a period of three years of Martin Lewis.
The 17 June 2016 which introduces a permitted non-audit services fee judgement involved in estimating the benefit payable relates to cap of 70% of the average audit fee over a consecutive 3 year several aspects of MoneySavingExpert.
This cap will come into effect for the Group in the financial Committee has reviewed the accounting valuations of the year ending 31 December 2020.
A significant proportion of contingent remuneration and, in light of the performance to date non-audit services relates to the following: and anticipated future performance reported by management, Reviewing the Groups half year reporting: agreed that the amount recorded in the Consolidated Statement The provision of tax compliance services in relation to direct of Comprehensive Income and the Consolidated Statement of taxation: Financial Position is appropriate.
In addition, since this is an area The provision of advice in relation to the preparation and of significant audit risk, the Committee also received reporting submission of claims for Research and Development R&D from KPMG, detailing their views on the judgements which Relief: and management have made.
The provision of regulatory advice in relation to documentation and control.
UK Corporate Governance Code The Board requested and the Audit Committee has advised that it The assurance provided by the external auditor on the items believes that the Annual Report and the Financial Statements, above is considered by the Group as strictly necessary in the taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable and 38 MONEYSUPERMARKET ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements General interests of the Group.
The level of non-audit services offered Internal Audit reflects the auditors knowledge and understanding of the Group.
The Group has an internal audit function which reviews financial, The Group has also continued with the appointment of other operational and regulatory matters.
The Group has continued to accountancy firms to provide certain non-audit services to the invest in this area during 2014 and will continue to do so in 2015 Group in connection with tax and regulatory advice and recognising that regulation in particular, as price comparison anticipates that this will continue in 2015. continues to become an ever more important part of the distribution chain of financial services, will become more The provision of tax advisory services, due diligence and important.
The Group is committed to fully meeting its regulatory regulatory advice is permitted with the Committees prior obligations.
A rolling twelve month internal audit plan is reviewed approval in line with the approval limits set out above.
The and approved by the Committee at each meeting, and defines the provision of internal audit services, valuation work and any other scope of the work which the internal audit function will undertake.
activity that could result in the external auditor reviewing and The results of this work are reported to the Committee at each relying on its own work and conclusions is prohibited.
KPMG was meeting, and will typically include an update against the audit plan, not engaged during the year to provide any services which may results from audits performed since the last meeting including any have given rise to a conflict of interest.
unsatisfactory audit findings and related action plans, and progress against findings from previous audits.
The Audit Committee considers the effectiveness of the external audit process on an annual basis, reporting its findings to the In addition the Committee meets with the head of internal audit Board as part of its recommendation.
This process is completed throughout the year as necessary.
through completion of a detailed questionnaire which includes consideration of the audit partner, the approach, communication, Compliance independence, objectivity, and reporting.
This is completed by The Group has a compliance function which reviews the Groups members of the Committee and senior members of the finance standards and values together with regulatory matters in relation team who regularly interact with the external auditor.
The results to the various bodies that regulate a number of the areas that the of the questionnaire are reported to and discussed by the Group operates in.
These include the Financial Conduct Authority Committee.
It also assessed the cost effectiveness and value for FCA, the Office of Fair Trading OFT, the Information money aspect of the audit.
Commissioners Office and the Office of Gas and Electricity Markets OFGEM which operates a voluntary code relating to The Audit Committee holds private meetings with the external energy price comparison that the Group subscribes to.
auditor at least twice each year after committee meetings to review key issues within their sphere of interest and responsibility.
In April 2014 those areas of the business previously under the regulatory regime of the OFT, namely unsecured lending KPMG have acted as the auditor to the Group since 2004 and including credit cards and personal loans, came under the were appointed as the auditor to the Company on its flotation in regulatory control of the FCA, in addition to those areas, namely 2007.
The lead audit partner rotates every five years to ensure the Groups insurance businesses, that were already regulated by independence.
The KPMG audit partner, Stuart Burdass, will be the FCA.
rotated off the audit on 30 April 2015 and the new audit partners five-year term will end in 2020, in accordance with the FRCs Ethics An annual compliance plan is reviewed and approved by the Standard 3 Revised.
The Committee considered the length of Committee and defines the scope of the work that the compliance KPMGs tenure and the results of the detailed questionnaire when team will undertake.
The results of the work are reported to the assessing their continued effectiveness, independence and Committee at each meeting and will typically include an update re-appointment.
The Committee continues to consider KPMG to against the compliance plan and the results of the work be independent and when considering the most suitable timing performed since the last meeting.
for a future audit tender, took account of FRC guidance concerning the alignment of the tender date with the rotation of The Group recognises that regulation in general, and in particular the audit partner and new EU legislation, which requires the regulatory regime imposed by the FCA, will become an mandatory rotation of the audit firm every ten years.
increasing feature of the price comparison market.
The Group has invested, and will continue to invest, in additional skills and The Committee continues to remain satisfied with the work of resources in this area in 2015.
KPMG and that they continue to remain independent and objective.
The Committee has therefore recommended to the Risk Committee Board that a resolution is put to shareholders recommending The Group established a separate risk function in 2014 headed by their reappointment together with their terms of engagement the Chief Risk Officer CRO.
A separate Risk Committee was also and remuneration at the Annual General Meeting of the established in 2014 which is chaired by Sally James.
This will continue to be assessed on an annual basis.
Committee operates separately but alongside the Audit Committee.
A separate report of the work and responsibilities of Internal Control the Risk Committee is set out on pages 41 and 42.
The Audit Committee monitors and reviews each year the effectiveness of, and the framework for, the Groups system of Audit Committee Effectiveness internal control and risk management.
The Board, as part of its general review of its overall ffectiveness, concluded that the Audit Committee was working effectively.
The Audit Committee undertook a review of the effectiveness of, and the framework for, the Groups system of internal control and This report was approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by: risk management, including financial, operational and compliance controls during the year.
In addition to this review, the external auditor provided the Audit Committee with comprehensive Rob Rowley reports of the results of their controls testing as part of the Chairman of the Audit Committee external audit.
2 March 2015 MONEYSUPERMARKET ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 39
