Governance Nomination Committee Report Bruce Carnegie-Brown Chairman of the Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee presents a separate report in relation During the year, the Nomination Committee reviewed the balance to the financial year ended 31 December 2014. of skills, knowledge and experience of the Board together with the size, structure and composition of the Board including Board diversity, and reviewed the succession plans for the Board.
Composition of the Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee comprises seven of the NonThe Nomination Committee, having followed the procedure Executive Directors, Bruce Carnegie-Brown Chairman, Michael outlined above for the appointment of new Directors to the Board, Wemms, Rob Rowley, Robin Klein, Sally James, Andrew Fisher and recommended to the Board during the year the appointment of Genevieve Shore.
Bruce Carnegie-Brown succeeded Gerald Andrew Fisher and Genevieve Shore as additional Independent Corbett as Chairman of the Nomination Committee when Bruce Non-Executive Directors.
In connection with these appointments, became Chairman of the Board on 23 April 2014.
Biographies of the Company used Russell Reynolds as the external search firm.
the members of the Nomination Committee are set out on pages Russell Reynolds has no other connection with the Company.
At the invitation of the Chairman of the Nomination Committee, Operation of the Nomination Committee the Chief Executive Officer, Human Resources Director and The Nomination Committee met on four occasions during the Company Secretary may attend meetings of the Nomination year.
Details of the attendance at Nomination Committee Committee.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the meetings are set out in the Corporate Governance Report on Nomination Committee.
The members of the Nomination Committee can, where they judge it necessary to discharge their responsibilities, obtain The Nomination Committees duties include: independent professional advice at the Companys expense.
Evaluating the balance of skills, knowledge, experience and independence of the Board.
The terms of reference of the Nomination Committee are Reviewing the size, structure and composition of the Board, published on the investor relations section of the Groups website including Board diversity.
com and are available in hard copy Where necessary, considering and recommending to the form on application to the Company Secretary.
Board persons who are appropriate for appointment as Directors.
Boardroom diversity Ensuring that succession planning for the Board is in place.
The Boards Statement on Diversity is as follows: The Nomination Committee has a formal, rigorous and The Board of Moneysupermarket.
com Group PLC welcomed the transparent procedure for the appointment of new Directors to publication in February 2011 of the Davies Review on Women on the Board.
The process involves the Nomination Committee Boards.
com Group PLC is committed to interviewing suitable candidates who are proposed by either ensuring that any Board vacancies arising are filled by the most existing Board members or by an external search firm.
qualified candidates and recognises the value and importance of diversity in the composition of the Board.
When Board positions Careful consideration is given to ensure proposed appointees become available, the Company will remain focused on ensuring have enough time available to devote to the role and that the that a diverse range of candidates are considered whilst ensuring balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board is that appointments continue to be based on merit, measured maintained.
against objective criteria and the skills and experience the individual offers.
The Board has targeted a minimum female When the Nomination Committee has identified a suitable representation on the Board of 25% by 2016. candidate, the Chairman of the Nomination Committee will make As at the date of this report, 18% of the Board are female.
a recommendation to the Board with the Board making the final decision.
This report was approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by: When dealing with the appointment of a successor to the Chairman, the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director will chair the Nomination Committee instead of the Chairman.
Bruce Carnegie-Brown Chairman of the Nomination Committee 2 March 2015 40 MONEYSUPERMARKET ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014
