Board of Directors and Company Secretary Bruce Carnegie-Brown Simon Nixon Peter Plumb Chairman of the Board and Chairman of the Non-Executive Deputy Chairman Chief Executive Officer Nomination Committee Bruce was appointed Chairman of the Board at the Simon co-founded the Groups business in 1993 Peter was appointed Chief Executive Officer in Annual General Meeting in April 2014.
He has been and since then has been involved in the February 2009.
Prior to joining the Group, Peter a Non-Executive Director of the Group since April management and development of the business was the UK managing director of dunnhumby 2010.
He has been non-executive chairman of Aon including the launch of MoneySuperMarket in 1999 Limited between 2006 and 2008.
Before that, he UK plc since September 2012 and a non-executive and TravelSupermarket in 2004. was general manager of Europe Disney Consumer director of Santander UK plc since October 2012.
Term of Office: Simon was appointed to the Board Products, international director of Dyson He was a non-executive director of Close Brothers as Chief Executive Officer in April 2007 and Appliances Limited and held senior commercial Group plc between 2006 and 2014 and a became Deputy Chairman in February 2009. roles at PepsiCo International.
Peter has an MBA non-executive director of Catlin Group Limited Simon became Non-Executive Deputy Chairman in from IMD in Switzerland.
Term of Office: Peter was appointed to the Board managing partner of 3i Group, chief executive Independent: No.
in January 2009 and became Chief Executive officer of Marsh Limited and a managing director External Appointments: Simon is a director of Officer in February 2009. of JP Morgan.
SNDC Ltd, Compara Online, Beaufort Capital Independent: Not applicable.
Term of Office: Bruce was appointed to the Board Management UK Ltd, Simon Family Office Limited, External Appointments: None.
as a Non-Executive Director in April 2010 and Atlantic Paradise Ltd, Atlantic Serenity Holding Ltd Committee Membership: Peter attends meetings became Chairman of the Board in April 2014. and Simon Escapes Properties SL.
of the Risk, Remuneration, Audit and Nomination Independent: On appointment.
External Appointments: Bruce is non-executive chairman of Aon UK plc and a non-executive director of Santander UK plc.
Committee Membership: Bruce chairs the Nomination Committee and attends meetings of the Risk, Remuneration and Audit Committees by invitation.
Matthew Price Graham Donoghue Michael Wemms Chief Financial Officer Chief Product Officer Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Matthew joined the Group in 2014 as Chief Graham joined the Group in 2008 as Managing Michael has been a non-executive director of Financial Officer.
Prior to joining the Group, Director, Travel and was appointed Managing Howden Joinery Group plc since 2006.
He was Matthew was finance director at Costa Coffee Director, Financial Services in January 2011.
He formerly a non-executive director of Inchcape plc between 2009 and 2014 and managing director of became Chief Product Officer in 2013.
Prior to between 2004 and 2011 and chairman of House of its business in China.
Matthew previously held joining the Group, Graham was new media Fraser plc between 2001 and 2006.
Michael was senior finance and commercial roles at Sodexo and director of TUI Travel plc between 2006 and 2008. previously an executive director of Tesco plc J Sainsbury including retail finance director and Term of Office: Graham was appointed to the between 1989 and 2000. property director.
Matthew is a qualified chartered Board in February 2009.
Term of Office: Michael was appointed to the accountant, having trained and qualified with Independent: Not applicable.
Board as a Non-Executive Director in July 2007.
Deloitte in its corporate finance practice.
Michael will step down as a Director of the Term of Office: Matthew was appointed to the Committee Membership: Graham attends Company at the Annual General Meeting on 30 Board in April 2014. meetings of the Risk Committee by invitation.
External Appointments: Michael is a nonCommittee Membership: Matthew attends executive director of Howden Joinery Group plc.
meetings of the Audit and Risk Committees by Committee Membership: Michael is a member of invitation.
the Remuneration, Audit, Nomination and Risk Committees.
30 30 M MO ON NEEYS YSU UPE PERRM MA ARRKKEETT A AN NN NU UA AL R L RE EP PO OR RT & A T & AC CC CO OU UN NT TS 2 S 20 01 14 4 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements General Rob Rowley Sally James Robin Klein Independent Non-Executive Director and Independent Non-Executive Director and Independent Non-Executive Director Chairman of the Audit Committee Chairman of the Risk Committee Robin is a venture partner of Index Ventures and a Rob has been a non-executive director of Taylor Sally has been a non-executive director of Rotork founding partner of The Accelerator Group.
He is a Wimpey plc since 2010 where he is the senior plc since 2012 and a non-executive director of non-executive director or board observer in a independent non-executive director and chairs its Towry Holdings Limited since 2011.
Sally was number of companies in which Index Ventures or audit committee.
He has been a non-executive previously a non-executive director of UBS Limited The Accelerator Group have invested, including director of Morgan Advanced Materials plc since between 2009 and January 2015 and before that Moo Print Limited, Zoopla Property Group Limited, 2014 where he chairs its audit committee and a held a number of senior legal roles in investment Adhunter Limited, Farfetch Limited, Osper Ltd, Just non-executive director of Greene King plc since banks in London and Chicago including EMEA Park Ltd and MyBuilder Ltd. 2014.
Rob was previously at Reuters plc from 1978 General Counsel at UBS Investment Bank from Term of Office: Robin was appointed a Nonto 2001 where he was finance director from 1990.
Robin will step Term of Office: Rob was appointed to the Board as Term of Office: Sally was appointed to the Board down as a Director of the Company at the Annual a Non-Executive Director in September 2007.
Rob as a Non-Executive Director in April 2013.
General Meeting on 30 April 2015. will become the Senior Independent NonIndependent: Yes.
Executive Director when Michael Wemms steps External Appointments: Sally is a non-executive External Appointments: Robin is a non-executive down as a Director of the Company at the Annual director of Rotork plc and Towry Holdings Limited.
director or board observer in a number of General Meeting on 30 April 2015.
Committee Membership: Sally chairs the Risk companies including Moo Print Limited, Zoopla Independent: Yes.
Committee and is a member of the Remuneration, Property Group Limited, Adhunter Limited, External Appointments: Rob is a non-executive Audit and Nomination Committees.
Farfetch Limited, Osper Ltd, Just Park Ltd and director of Taylor Wimpey plc, Morgan Advanced MyBuilder Ltd. Materials plc and Greene King plc.
Committee Membership: Robin is a member of Committee Membership: Rob chairs the Audit the Nomination Committee and the Audit Committee and is a member of the Nomination Committee.
Andrew Fisher Genevieve Shore Darren Drabble Independent Non-Executive Director and Independent Non-Executive Director Company Secretary and Group General Counsel Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Andrew is currently executive chairman and was Genevieve has been a non-executive director of Darren joined the Group as Company Secretary previously chief executive officer of Shazam STV Group plc since 2012 and a non-executive and Group General Counsel in May 2007.
Prior to that, Andrew was director of Next 15 Communications Group plc has a corporate and commercial law background European managing director of Infospace Inc and since February 2015, where for both companies originally qualifying as a solicitor with Addleshaw founder and managing director of TDLI.
she chairs their respective remuneration Goddard LLP before working as a senior legal Term of Office: Andrew was appointed to the committees.
Genevieve was appointed to the counsel at United Utilities Group PLC.
Board as a Non-Executive Director in August 2014. advisory board of Great Fridays in September Term of Office: Darren was appointed Company Independent: Yes.
She has previously held senior leadership Secretary in June 2007.
External Appointments: Andrew is executive roles at Pearson PLC including chief information chairman of Shazam Entertainment Limited.
officer and chief product officer.
Committee Membership: Andrew chairs the Term of Office: Genevieve was appointed to the Remuneration Committee and is a member of the Board as a Non-Executive Director in September Nomination and Risk Committees.
External Appointments: Genevieve is a nonexecutive director of STV Group plc and Next 15 Communications Group plc, and she is a member of the advisory board of Great Fridays.
Committee Membership: Genevieve is a member of the Risk, Remuneration, Audit and Nomination Committees.
M MO ON NEEYS YSU UPE PERRM MA ARRKKEETT A AN NN NU UA AL R L RE EP PO OR RT & A T & AC CC CO OU UN NT TS 2 S 20 01 14 4 31 31
