Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements General Risk Committee Report Sally James Chairman of the Risk Committee The Risk Committee presents a separate report in relation to the In relation to proposed strategic transactions including financial year ended 31 December 2014. material acquisitions or disposals, ensuring that a due diligence appraisal of the proposition is undertaken, which includes an assessment of risk aspects and implications for Composition of the Risk Committee the risk appetite and tolerance of the Group.
The Risk Committee was formed in 2014 and comprises five of the Considering and approving the remit of the Risk & Compliance Non-Executive Directors, Sally James Chairman, Rob Rowley, function and ensuring it has adequate resources and Michael Wemms, Andrew Fisher and Genevieve Shore.
appropriate access to information to enable it to perform its Biographies of the members of the Risk Committee are set out on function effectively and in accordance with relevant pages 30 and 31. professional standards.
The Risk Committee also ensures the function has adequate independence and is free from The Committee maintains close links with the Audit Committee, management and other restrictions.
with the Chairman of each Committee being a member of the other.
This cross-membership facilitates effective linkage between both Committees and ensures that any matters relating Operation of the Risk Committee to internal control and financial reporting are considered in an The Risk Committee met on four occasions during the year.
In addition, the Committee works with the Details of attendance at Risk Committee meetings are set out in Remuneration Committee to ensure that risk is properly the Corporate Governance Report on page 34. considered in setting the Groups remuneration policy and the Chairman is a member of the Remuneration Committee.
The Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Product Officer and Company Secretary, together with the Chief Risk Officer and other members of the Terms of Reference management team with responsibility for risk management and The Committee is responsible for assisting the Board in its regulatory matters normally attend meetings at the invitation of oversight of risk within the Group, including risk appetite, risk the Chairman of the Risk Committee.
tolerance and the risk management framework.
The Risk Committee holds private meetings with the Chief Risk The Committee operates under formal terms of reference which Officer at least once a year after Committee meetings to review are reviewed annually and are published on the investor relations key issues.
section of the Groups website at www.
com or are available in hard copy form on application to the Company The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Risk Committee.
The principal responsibilities are: The members of the Risk Committee can, where they judge it Advising the Board on the Groups overall risk appetite, necessary to discharge their responsibilities, obtain independent tolerance, strategy and culture.
professional advice at the Companys expense.
Overseeing and advising the Board on the current risk exposures of the Group and future risk strategy.
Reviewing and approving the Groups risk policies.
Principal activities in 2014 Reviewing the adequacy and effectiveness of the Groups The Committee has an annual schedule of work, developed from internal financial controls and other internal control and risk its terms of reference, with standing items that it considers at management systems in conjunction with the Audit each meeting in addition to any specific matters upon which the Committee.
Committee has decided to focus.
This schedule of work is Reviewing reports received from the Groups management on expected to evolve to reflect the Groups strategy and changes to the effectiveness of the internal control and risk management the economic and regulatory environment in which the Group systems established and, in conjunction with the Audit operates.
The Risk Committee receives regular reports from the Committee, the conclusions of any testing carried out by the Chief Risk Officer, the Chief Executive Officer and the Company internal or external auditors.
Secretary on current and emerging risks and issues arising in Reviewing the Groups procedures systems and controls for connection with the Groups activities.
detecting fraud, preventing bribery, identifying money laundering and ensuring compliance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements.
MONEYSUPERMARKET ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 41 Governance Risk Committee Report continued During 2014, significant progress has been made in developing Risk Committee effectiveness and improving the Groups risk appetite and risk management The Board, as part of its general review of its overall framework, supported by enhancements to the reports and effectiveness, concluded that the Risk Committee was working management information which the Committee receives.
Risk Committee activities have included the following: Overseeing the risk management framework across the The report was approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by: Group, including the assessment of key risks to the Group, analysis of the potential impact and resulting management actions.
Specific consideration has been given to the Risk Sally James Management and Internal Control requirements of the UK Chairman of the Risk Committee Corporate Governance Code.
Further details of the Groups 2 March 2015 risk management practices are provided in the Principal Risks on pages 24 to 25.
Overseeing the implementation of the Treating Customers Fairly and Conduct framework across the Group.
Assessing the identification and management of risks connected to the Groups capital investment programme.
Monitoring the interactions and relationship between the Group and regulatory bodies, in particular assessing the requirements arising from and managements response to the FCA Thematic Review of Price Comparison Websites issued in July 2014.
Receiving presentations on aspects of the business, for example, assessing the identification and management of IT risks across the Group, including data security.
The Board is committed to enhancing the risk management framework across the Group and the efforts and progress made during 2014 will continue.
Risk & Compliance Function The Group has a Risk & Compliance function, headed by the Chief Risk Officer, which provides oversight of strategic, financial and operational risk matters.
This responsibility includes regulatory matters in relation to the various bodies that regulate a number of the areas in which the Group operates.
These include the Financial Conduct Authority, the Information Commissioners Office and the Office of Gas and Electricity Markets which operates a voluntary code relating to energy price comparison to which MoneySuperMarket subscribes.
In April 2014, responsibility for the regulation of consumer credit transferred from the Office of Fair Trading to the Financial Conduct Authority.
This brought the Groups activities in respect of credit cards and personal loans under the regulatory control of the Financial Conduct Authority alongside those areas, namely the Groups insurance and mortgage businesses, which are already regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority.
A six-monthly Risk & Compliance plan is reviewed and approved by the Risk Committee and defines the work that the Risk & Compliance team will undertake.
The results of the work are reported to the Risk Committee at each meeting.
The Group recognises that regulation in general, and in particular the Financial Conduct Authority regulatory regime, will become an increasing feature of the price comparison market.
The Group has invested and will continue to invest, in additional skills and resources in this area in 2015.
