58 GOvernAnCe GOvernAnCe 59 report oF tHe AuDIt CoMMIttee Chairmans introduction I am delighted to have joined the Board and to have been appointed Chairman of the Audit Committee.
tHIS report gIVeS An oVerVIeW oF tHe I would like to thank Andrew given for his commitment reSponSIBIlItIeS oF tHe AuDIt CoMMIttee during his tenure as Chairman of the Committee and AnD HoW It DISCHArgeD tHeSe DurIng 2014, for his guidance in handing the role over to me, as well as his continued contribution as a member of the togetHer WItH InForMAtIon on ItS Committee until his departure at the year end.
the global spread of the group inevitably presents challenges in terms of ensuring consistent and robust financial controls and a strong framework for effective compliance and governance.
the existing management controls and review procedures, supported by Internal Audit, the responsible Business programme & risk Management function and the external auditor, provide mutually supportive resource to continually review, assess and develop this framework.
I see the effective integration of these resources to be a continued area of focus for the Audit Committee.
the main purpose of the Audit Committee continues to be to assist the Board in effectively discharging its responsibilities for financial reporting and corporate control.
I would like to highlight a number of key areas of focus for the Committee in 2014, as follows: During 2014, we continued to monitor our internal controls closely and received a series of presentations from the regions on their internal controls.
the presentations were delivered by rOB rOwley the regional Finance Directors, which gave the CoMMIttee CHAIrMAn Committee the opportunity to ask questions face-to-face and gain a real insight into the internal control environment of each region.
throughout 2014, the Committee monitored how the groups approach to risk management was CoMMIttee MeMBerS working.
We received progress reports in person at each meeting from the responsible Business rob rowley Chairman programme & risk Manager in relation to the douglas Caster implementation of risk management processes.
Between the Audit Committee and the Board, victoire fide Margerie during the course of the year we reviewed each Andrew reynolds Smith individual key risk by receiving a report containing information on the risk, controls and the J oined the Committee on his appointment as a Director on 14 February 2014 and appointed Chairman on 18 June 2014. effectiveness of those controls and any Joined the Committee on his appointment as a Director on 14 February 2014. recommended further actions.
undertook a specific review of talent and succession Andrew given was Chairman of the Committee until 18 June 2014 and a member of the planning in the finance function across the groups Committee until he stepped down from the Board on 31 December 2014. regions and central functions.
the review identified Simon Heale and Martin Flower served as members of the Committee prior to stepping down that work is required to effectively develop finance from the Board on 31 March 2014 and 9 May 2014 respectively.
resource to ensure that there is a strong pool of internal candidates available to fill positions that are All members of the Committee are independent non-executive Directors likely to become open in the short-to-medium term.
and rob rowley, the Chairman of the Committee, has the requisite financial Management are committed to making progress in experience.
this area in 2015 and this will be an important area of focus for the Audit Committee going forward.
reviewed the key accounting judgments made by executive management, taking into account the views of the external auditor.
Further details of the significant areas of judgment in relation to the 2014 Financial Statements are set out on page 60 of this report.
Morgan aDVanCED MaTErIaLS annuaL rEporT 2014 58 GOvernAnCe GOvernAnCe 59 At the end of 2014, the Committee reviewed a report r eviewing and monitoring the effectiveness of the groups benchmarking its activities against those of the Audit Committees internal financial controls and internal control, internal audit of a peer group of companies and as a result is considering a small and number of actions to further enhance its performance.
the Committee has begun to consider the changes required by r eviewing and monitoring the groups whistleblowing provisions in the uK Corporate governance Code which apply arrangements and systems and controls for the prevention to the 2015 financial year on the robust assessment of risk including of bribery.
solvency and liquidity, ongoing monitoring of systems, the new Making recommendations to the Board, for it to put to going concern and material uncertainties disclosure and the shareholders for their approval at the AgM, in relation to the business viability statement.
appointment, reappointment and removal of the external auditor and to approve the remuneration and terms of engagement of I am pleased to present the Audit Committees report for 2014. the external auditor.
r eviewing and monitoring the external auditors independence and objectivity.
rOB rOwley r eviewing the effectiveness of the process for the statutory audit of the annual consolidated accounts, taking into consideration CoMMIttee CHAIrMAn relevant uK professional and regulatory requirements.
Developing and implementing the policy on the engagement of the external auditor to supply non-audit services, taking into account relevant ethical guidance regarding the provision of Meetings non-audit services by the external auditor.
the Audit Committee met five times during the year.
At the end of reporting to the Board, identifying any matters in respect of which most meetings the non-executive Directors who are members of the it considers that action or improvement is needed and making Committee also meet the external auditor, the Head of Internal Audit recommendations as to the steps to be taken.
and the responsible Business programme & risk Manager without the executive Directors or other members of management present.
the Committee has the authority to investigate any matters according Between meetings the Chairman of the Audit Committee keeps in to its terms of reference and may obtain external advice at the cost of contact with the Chairman of the Board, the Chief executive officer, the Company, but did not do so during the year.
the Head of Internal the Chief Financial officer, the external auditor and the Head of Internal Audit has access to the Chairman of the Committee and regularly Audit as necessary.
meets with the Committee without other executives present, usually at the end of scheduled Audit Committee meetings.
information and support the Committee may request the attendance at meetings of any Main areas of work in 2014 Director or employee as may be considered appropriate by the During 2014, the Committee: Committee.
reviewed the groups 2014 half-year and full-year statements prior to Board approval.
the Committee identifies and ensures that it receives the information Made a recommendation to the Board that it is appropriate it needs to enable it to fulfil its responsibilities.
this is complemented to prepare the accounts for the year on a going concern basis.
by regular presentations made by the regional presidents and Finance reviewed the scope of the external audit, and confirmed the Directors on the internal control environment within their respective external auditors terms of engagement and fee structures.
training and development information is made available to the Assessed the effectiveness of the external audit process and all members of the Audit Committee when appropriate.
aspects of the service provided by the external auditor.
reviewed the groups key risks other than those reviewed by the Audit Committee terms of reference Board and the controls and assurance processes that are in place the Audit Committees terms of reference were reviewed during the to mitigate those risks.
year and remain wholly compliant with the September 2012 version reviewed the effectiveness of, and received reports from of the uK Corporate governance Code which applied to the 2014 management, on the groups internal audit and risk management financial year.
they are available on the Companys website and are systems and updates to the groups governance, risk and summarised below: compliance plans.
Monitoring and making appropriate recommendations to the Board reviewed and approved the plans and work of the Internal Audit with regard to the financial reporting process, the integrity of the function and monitored its progress against the plan.
Financial Statements of the group, preliminary announcements, reviewed the systems of internal controls of the regions.
half-year reports and any formal announcements relating to the Appraised the groups whistleblowing process and related groups financial performance, and reviewing significant financial procedures and policies.
reporting judgments contained in them.
reviewing accounting policies used by the group and their Monitored the level of non-audit work of the auditor, which in 2014 consistent application across the group.
included services amounting to 0.4 million, mainly in connection reviewing whether the group has followed appropriate accounting with tax services.
standards and made appropriate estimates and judgments, taking into account the views of the external auditor.
AnnuAl report 2014 MorgAn ADVAnCeD MAterIAlS FInAnCIAl StAteMentS goVernAnCe StrAtegIC report oVerVIeW 60 GOvernAnCe GOvernAnCe 61 report oF tHe AuDIt CoMMIttee continued tax provisions Public reporting Accounting for current and deferred tax involves a range of the Committee, on behalf of the Board, considered the Code judgments.
the Committee and the Board address these issues requirement to make a statement on whether the Annual report through reporting from the Chief Financial officer and the Director and Accounts is fair, balanced and understandable.
the Committee of group tax, supported as necessary by external professional approached this as follows: advice, including from KpMg llp.
Considered the questions which need to be answered in order to evaluate whether the Annual report and Accounts meets the the Committee reviewed the content of the Annual report and fair, balanced and understandable test.
Accounts and advised the Board on whether, taken as a whole, it is fair, reviewed the methodology used to construct the narrative balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary sections of the Annual report.
for shareholders to assess the groups position and performance, reviewed the disclosure judgments made by the authors of each business model and strategy.
section and considered the balance of good and bad news in the Annual report.
received confirmation from external advisers that all regulatory Audit Committee and the external auditor requirements are satisfied.
the Audit Committee has received confirmation from KpMg llp received confirmation of verification of content from the authors that its general procedures and practices support the auditors of each section.
independence and objectivity in relation to non-audit services.
After received confirmation from the Chief Financial officer that the considering such procedures the opinion of the Audit Committee was narrative reports and Financial Statements are consistent.
that the auditors objectivity and independence were safeguarded reviewed an advance draft of the Annual report and Accounts despite the provision of non-audit services by KpMg llp.
prior to the financial year end.
to help ensure the objectivity and independence of the external the significant areas of judgment considered by the Committee auditor, the policy implemented by the Committee for the provision in relation to the 2014 Financial Statements, and how these were of non-audit services by the external auditor is in summary as follows: addressed, were as follows: Certain non-audit services may not be provided by the external goodwill impairment testing auditor, including the review of their own work: they may not make Specific attention was given to the goodwill and intangible asset management decisions: their work must not create a mutuality of carrying value of the Composites and Defence Systems C&DS interest: and they may not put themselves in the position of advocate.
Based on the performance of the business Any permissible non-audit work proposed to be placed with the during 2014 and latest expectations for the future, which were external auditor with a fee between 50,000 and 200,000 must particularly informed by the reduced demand from the uK MoD, be approved in advance by the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
it was considered appropriate and prudent to record a significant projects in excess of 200,000 must be approved in advance by impairment charge against the customer relationship intangible the Audit Committee.
Work which includes multiple phases is asset and goodwill, a total impairment charge of 26.9 million.
treated as a single project for approval purposes.
the latest financial projections and other assumptions support the the prior approval of the Audit Committee is required for any nonvaluation of the remaining goodwill and intangible assets.
Further audit work which, when added to the fees paid for other non-audit information on the goodwill generally and the sensitivities work, would total more than 80% of the audit fee.
associated with the impairment calculations are given in note 11. provisions and contingent liabilities During the year the proportion of the auditors fees for non-audit work the level of provisioning for known and contingent liabilities, relative to the audit fee was 20% 2013: 13%.
including those arising from trading, environmental issues and litigation, is an issue where management and third-party judgments the Committees policy is to undertake an annual review of the are important.
these are addressed through the Committee and effectiveness of the audit process and of all aspects of the external the main Board discussing with various members of senior auditors performance and independence before determining whether management the key judgments made, supported, where to undertake a formal review of the auditor including a re-tender appropriate, by relevant external advice.
KpMg llp also reports presentation, or whether to put the groups audit work out to full thirdregularly on all material provisions and contingent liabilities.
group recorded redundancy and restructuring provisions in the ordinary course of business totalling 5.9 million, which are charged the external auditor has processes in place to safeguard its against underlying earnings but are disclosed separately to provide independence and has written to the Committee confirming that, in investors with additional information to assist in their assessment its opinion, it is independent.
the group last changed its auditor in late of the groups performance.
the group also disclosed separately 2001. the external auditor rotated the partner responsible for the further significant redundancy and restructuring provisions groups audit work in 2008 and 2013. the Code requires that FtSe associated with restructuring of the groups activities and the 350 companies should put the external audit contract out to tender at rationalisation of its portfolio as Specific Adjusting Items.
the Company notes the guidance issued by the Committee considered the timing of recognition and measurement FrC by way of transitional arrangements on tendering which permit of these items on the basis of reports presented by management KpMg llp to continue in office until 2018 without an audit tender.
and the external auditor, taking into account guidelines issued by Having reviewed the effectiveness of the audit process and all aspects the FrC and peer group disclosures of similar items of income and of the service provided by the auditor, and taking account of the expenditure.
Details of the nature and quantum of the amounts assurance given by the auditor as to its independence, the Committee concerned are given in note 6. recommended to the Board that the groups external audit work should not be put out to third-party tender during 2014 and will further review the situation during 2015.
Morgan aDVanCED MaTErIaLS annuaL rEporT 2014
