48 GOvernAnCe GOvernAnCe 49 CorporAte goVernAnCe CHAIrMAnS letter to SHAreHolDerS dear Shareholder As Chairman, I am pleased to comment on some of the significant governance matters that the Board has approved, discussed or overseen during the year as follows: Appointment and induction of Douglas Caster and rob rowley who were appointed as non-executive Directors in February 2014 to replace Simon Heale and Martin Flower, who both stepped down from the Board after having served nine years.
Douglas Caster became Chairman of the remuneration Committee and was appointed Senior Independent Director following Andrew givens departure from the Board at the end of 2014. rob rowley became Chairman of the Audit Committee during the year.
With the refreshing of the Board over the last two years, ensuring continuity of knowledge and experience on the Board and working on the Board dynamic have been priorities during 2014. establishment and completion of the process to select a new Chief executive officer after Mark robertshaw announced his departure.
As recently announced, the Board has appointed pete raby as Chief executive officer commencing in August 2015.
I look forward to welcoming pete to the group.
Stewardship of the group during the period following transition to the new regional one Morgan structure, including realignment of the portfolio of businesses within the new structure.
talent and succession planning, an area of focus identified in the 2013 Board evaluation process.
the way the Board implemented this recommendation is explained further below.
the performance evaluation process enables the Board to monitor its effectiveness against a backdrop of changing circumstances and to move forward to ensure it is effective.
the recommendations from the internal 2014 Board performance review are set out later in this report.
As explained below, the Board has decided to defer external evaluation of the Boards performance until 2015 to allow time for the new Board dynamics to settle.
Board visits to different sites which afforded Directors a good, close insight into our businesses.
In April 2014, the Board visited the technical Ceramics site at Stourport, uK.
the meeting in September 2014 was held at the Composites and Defence Systems site in Coventry, uK and, in november 2014, the Board visited the recently-acquired porextherm Dmmstoffe gmbH business in Kempten, germany.
these visits were organised around scheduled Board meetings and incorporated a meeting with the local management team as well as a tour of the operations.
I am looking forward to working together with the Directors during 2015 to further develop our effectiveness as a new Board.
Andrew ShilStOn CHAIrMAn AnnuAl report 2014 MorgAn ADVAnCeD MAterIAlS FInAnCIAl StAteMentS goVernAnCe StrAtegIC report oVerVIeW 50 GOvernAnCe GOvernAnCe 51 CorporAte goVernAnCe continued Statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Matters reserved there is a schedule of matters specifically reserved for the Board Governance Code including setting the groups strategic aims and objectives, approving throughout the year ended 31 December 2014 the Company has significant contractual commitments including the acquisition or disposal been in compliance with the relevant provisions of the September 2012 of companies businesses, and treasury and intellectual property version of the uK Corporate governance Code the Code which transactions, the review of the effectiveness of risk management applies to the 2014 financial year, with one exception.
With reference processes, major capital expenditure and corporate responsibility.
6.2 of the Code, the Board did not conduct an externally one meeting each year is specifically focused on strategy and the longer facilitated Board performance evaluation during 2014, notwithstanding term development of the group.
the Board reviewed and updated that the most recent externally facilitated evaluation was in 2011 and the schedule of matters reserved during 2013 to ensure that it accurately the Code requires an externally facilitated evaluation to be conducted reflected the work of the Board and the current version is available every three years.
given the significant Board changes during 2014, to view on the Companys website.
the Board also reviewed the as described above and in more detail below, the Board decided to limitations of authority in the group in 2013 following the transition defer the external evaluation to 2015 when Board dynamics have to the one Morgan structure.
settled and the new members of the Board will have had more time in post and more relevant knowledge and experience with the Delegation of authority Company on which to base their contributions to allow a more the Board has delegated responsibility for certain matters to three meaningful evaluation.
committees, namely the Audit, nomination and remuneration Committees.
the memberships, roles and activities of these As reported in the report of the Audit Committee on pages 58 to 60, committees are described in separate reports: the Audit Committee the group has not put the external audit contract out to tender during report is set out on pages 58 to 60: the nomination Committee report the last 10 years in accordance with provision C. 3.7 of the Code.
the is set out on pages 61 and 62: and the remuneration Committee Board has decided to take advantage of the Financial reporting Council report is set out on pages 63 to 85. the full terms of reference of the FrC s guidance on transitional arrangements which allow the group Board committees are available upon request and are also available to defer a formal third-party tender process until at the latest the end on the Companys website.
of the current external audit engagement partners tenure in 2018. the Board delegates the day-to-day management of the group and the main principles of the Code focus on leadership, effectiveness, operational matters to the Chief executive officer and the other Accountability, remuneration and relations with Shareholders.
this executive Directors the Chief Financial officer and the Chief operating statement describes how the Company has applied the main principles officer.
the executive Directors together with the group Human of the Code.
It should be read in conjunction with the Strategic report resources Director, the Company Secretary & general Counsel, the on pages 8 to 45 and the other sections of the Directors report on Director of Strategic programmes, the Chief technology officer, the pages 46 to 89.
Marketing Director and the Director of Finance form the executive Committee.
the biographies of the members of the executive the Code is published by the FrC and is available on its website Committee are set out on pages 46 and 48. www.
the Board has delegated authority for certain other matters including leadership routine approvals to a general purposes Committee which meets as The role of the Board required and at which a non-executive Director must be present.
the Board is collectively responsible to the Companys shareholders for the long-term success of the Company.
the Board is satisfied it has Board meetings met the Codes requirements for its effective operation.
It has set the In 2014, the Board met formally on nine occasions, of which eight were Companys strategic aims, which were reviewed by the Board at its scheduled meetings.
A summary of the matters dealt with at these dedicated strategy meeting during the year, and has ensured that there meetings is set out below.
the unscheduled meeting considered the is a framework of prudent and effective controls which enable risk to approach from Vesuvius plc.
the Board sets the Companys values and standards, which are contained in the Core Values Statement and ethics the June 2014 meeting included a dedicated session on group strategy.
policy, both of which are referred to on pages 22 to 24 of the Strategic During this extended meeting, the Board assessed the groups current report.
portfolio of businesses, considered the key drivers of future organic growth, assessed the competitor landscape and held in-depth reviews on specific strategic topics.
Morgan aDVanCED MaTErIaLS annuaL rEporT 2014 50 GOvernAnCe GOvernAnCe 51 Attendance at meetings the attendance of each Director at Board and Audit, remuneration and nomination Committee meetings is set out in the table below.
Should a Director have concerns about the running of the Company or a proposed action which are not resolved, their concerns would be recorded in the Board minutes.
An appropriate Directors and officers liability insurance policy is in place.
Board Audit remuneration nomination eligible eligible eligible eligible Director to attend Attended to attend Attended to attend Attended to attend Attended Andrew Shilston 9 9 4 4 2 2 Mark robertshaw 9 9 2 2 Kevin Dangerfield 9 9 Andrew Hosty 9 9 Douglas Caster 8 8 4 4 3 3 1 1 Victoire fide Margerie 9 9 5 5 4 4 2 2 Martin Flower 3 3 1 1 2 2 1 1 Andrew given 9 9 5 5 4 4 2 2 Simon Heale 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 Andrew reynolds Smith 9 8 5 5 4 4 2 2 # rob rowley 8 8 4 4 3 2 1 Indicates a Director deemed by the Board to be independent or, in the case of the Chairman, independent on appointment.
Stepped down from the Board on 31 December 2014.
Appointed to the Board on 14 February 2014.
Stepped down from the Board on 9 May 2014.
Stepped down from the Board on 31 March 2014.
Andrew reynolds Smith was unable to attend the Board meeting in February 2014 due to prior commitments with gKn plc.
# rob rowley was unable to attend the remuneration Committee and nomination Committee meetings in December 2014 due to prior commitments which were already in place at the time he was appointed to the Board in February 2014.
Summary of the Boards work during the year: Chairman and Chief executive Officer review of growth opportunities within the business against the roles of Chairman and Chief executive officer are separate, clearly a backdrop of low or no growth in the macro-economic established, set out in writing and agreed by the Board.
environment review of strategic organic growth strategy and initiatives the Chairman is responsible for the leadership and effectiveness of the review of bolt-on merger and acquisition opportunities and Board, including setting the Boards agenda and ensuring sufficient time approval of the acquisition of porextherm Dmmstoffe gmbH is available for all agenda items, particularly regarding strategic issues, review of the nil premium proposal from Vesuvius plc to acquire for promoting a culture of open debate and constructive challenge, the Company in exchange for shares in Vesuvius plc facilitating effective contributions by the non-executive Directors and review of technology and innovation within the business and ensuring constructive relationships between the executive and resulting business opportunities non-executive Directors.
the Chief executive officer is responsible In-depth briefings from the regional presidents for the management of the group, including the delivery of the groups review and approval of the groups half-year report, interim business plan, the formulation and implementation of strategy, chairing management statement, trading statement and preliminary the executive Committee and ensuring the implementation of the announcement of the final results groups policies.
Approval of the 2015 budget Approval of major capital expenditure and review of major capital Following Mark robertshaws departure on 31 December 2014, the investment projects Board appointed Kevin Dangerfield, Chief Financial officer, as interim review of group and regional business plans Chief executive officer from 1 January 2015.
As recently announced, review of the groups principal risks the Board has appointed pete raby as Chief executive officer and he review of environmental and health and safety performance and will commence in the role in August 2015.
Kevin Dangerfield will plans including thinkSAFe, the behaviour-based safety programme continue as Interim Chief executive officer until pete raby joins the launched in 2014 group.
Andrew Hosty continues as Chief operating officer with Consideration of major shareholders views on the groups responsibility for the groups operations supported by the regional performance and prospects presidents.
review of the senior management talent pipeline review of the groups It strategy Chairman Approval of the new 200 million revolving credit facility on appointment as Chairman on 1 August 2012, Andrew Shilston agreement, entered into in october 2014. met the independence criteria set out in the Code.
AnnuAl report 2014 MorgAn ADVAnCeD MAterIAlS FInAnCIAl StAteMentS goVernAnCe StrAtegIC report oVerVIeW 52 GOvernAnCe GOvernAnCe 53 CorporAte goVernAnCe continued Non-executive Directors effectiveness non-executive Directors are appointed for a term of three years, Board balance and independence subject to annual re-election in accordance with the Code.
the the size, structure and composition of the Board were reviewed independence, commitment and effectiveness of any non-executive during the year, taking into account succession planning and the need Director who has served for two three-year terms is subject to to progressively refresh the membership of the Board.
the Board was rigorous review prior to reappointment for a further three-year term.
aware of the need to recruit two non-executive Directors who would have the requisite knowledge and experience to be able to take over By the time of the 2014 AgM, Andrew given had served two from existing long-serving non-executive Directors as Chairmen of the three-year terms as a non-executive Director since first being elected Audit Committee and remuneration Committee respectively.
to the Board by shareholders.
the Chairman conducted a rigorous review prior to authorising Andrew given to seek re-election Douglas Caster and rob rowley were appointed to the Board as at the 2014 AgM.
this review took into account the need to retain non-executive Directors on 14 February 2014.
Further information experience on the Board given the departure during 2014 of two on the process used to appoint the new non-executive Directors is long-serving non-executive Directors and the appointment of one included in the nomination Committee report on pages 61 and 62. non-executive Director in 2013 and two non-executive Directors in February 2014.
Andrew given stepped down from the Board on Simon Heale, non-executive Director, resigned from the Board on 31 December 2014.
Martin Flower, non-executive Director, resigned from the Board on 9 May 2014.
Mark robertshaw, Chief executive officer, Martin Flower was the Senior Independent Director until his and Andrew given, non-executive Director and Senior Independent departure from the Board at the conclusion of the AgM in May 2014 Director, both resigned from the Board on 31 December 2014. when Andrew given became Senior Independent Director.
on Andrew givens departure on 31 December 2014, Douglas Caster As at 12 February 2015, the Board comprises Andrew Shilston, became Senior Independent Director.
Chairman: Kevin Dangerfield, Interim Chief executive officer and Chief Financial officer: Andrew Hosty, Chief operating officer, and four independent non-executive Directors: Douglas Caster, NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR TENURE % Victoire fide Margerie, Andrew reynolds Smith and rob rowley.
As at 31 December 2014 Biographies of the Directors, including details of their other main commitments, are set out on pages 46 and 47. throughout the year the Company complied with the requirement of the Code that at least half the Board, excluding the Chairman, should comprise non-executive Directors determined by the Board to be independent.
In addition to the factors set out in the Code, the Boards assessment of a non-executive Directors independence Serving first three-year term 83% and effectiveness covers their total number of commitments and any Serving second three-year term 0% relationships with major suppliers and with charities receiving material Serving third three-year term 17% support from the Company.
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR TENURE % As at 31 December 2013 Serving first three-year term 50% Serving second three-year term 17% Serving third three-year term 33% the Chairman and the non-executive Directors met without the executive Directors present on a number of occasions during the year.
In addition, the Senior Independent Director and the other non-executive Directors met without the Chairman present.
Morgan aDVanCED MaTErIaLS annuaL rEporT 2014 52 GOvernAnCe GOvernAnCe 53 Information and support BOARD BALANCE the Company Secretary, with the Chairman, is responsible for ensuring % the Board has full and timely access to all appropriate information to As at 31 December 2014 enable it to discharge its duties.
Board papers are generally made available electronically five working days before each meeting.
non-executive Directors also receive updates and information between formal Board meetings.
the Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary who, with the Chairman, is responsible for ensuring that Executive Directors 33% Board procedures are followed and that applicable rules and regulations are observed.
A procedure is in place to enable the Directors to seek Independent non-executive Directors 56% independent professional advice at the Companys expense in Chairman 11% connection with their duties as Directors.
Induction and professional development BOARD BALANCE new Directors receive a full, formal and tailored induction on joining % the Board.
A new Directors experience and background is taken into As at 31 December 2013 account in developing a tailored programme.
Following their appointment to the Board on 14 February 2014, Douglas Caster and rob rowley received comprehensive briefings to supplement the information on the groups business provided during recruitment.
the briefing for Douglas Caster and rob rowley included further information on the business and its products and markets, brokers reports on the group, the Companys corporate governance structure Executive Directors 33% and processes and key group policies.
the induction programme for Douglas Caster and rob rowley included meetings with executive Independent non-executive Directors 56% management, briefings from functional heads on governance, Chairman 11% responsible business, key risks, human resources and environment, health and safety, together with visits to a number of operational sites Commitment and meetings with regional and operational management.
prior to undertaking an additional external role or appointment, the Chairman and the non-executive Directors are asked to confirm that the Chairman considers the individual training and development they will continue to have sufficient time to fulfil their commitments to needs of each Director.
the Company Secretary keeps the suitability the Company.
For example, during the year, rob rowley indicated that of external courses under review and facilitates the ongoing training he wished to accept a non-executive Director role at greene King plc.
and development of all Directors as necessary.
prior to accepting the position, he confirmed that he would continue to have sufficient time to dedicate to his role at Morgan Advanced non-executive Directors have access to management and employees Materials and the Board concluded that acceptance would not at all levels and are encouraged to visit operating sites.
In addition to compromise his independence or impede the time available to visits by individual Directors and the Chairman, each year at least one carry out his duties for Morgan Advanced Materials.
Board meeting is held at an operating facility, and in 2014 Board visits were made to three sites including one outside the uK.
there was no change to the Chairmans other significant commitments during the year.
AnnuAl report 2014 MorgAn ADVAnCeD MAterIAlS FInAnCIAl StAteMentS goVernAnCe StrAtegIC report oVerVIeW 54 GOvernAnCe GOvernAnCe 55 CorporAte goVernAnCe continued Performance evaluation the main aspects of the Boards work which the Board believes offer With the aim of improving effectiveness, the Board undertakes a formal scope for further development include: annual evaluation of its own performance and that of its Committees external communication of strategy the need to better articulate and individual Directors.
the groups long-term strategy and sustainable growth drivers to the outside world, whilst using shareholder comments and external An externally facilitated performance evaluation was conducted in 2011 views to challenge Board views.
and an internal evaluation was conducted in 2012 and 2013. the 2014 Business leadership Building on progress made in 2014, there process was also conducted internally notwithstanding the requirement should be a continuing and increasing focus from the Board on in the Code to conduct an externally facilitated process every three business leader succession talent management as well as ensuring years.
As explained on page 50 of this report, given the changes to the continued development of leaders with the necessary skills to the Boards membership during 2014, the Board decided to defer the execute the groups long-term strategy.
A greater Board exposure externally facilitated evaluation to 2015. the 2014 process was led to key regional executives is required to facilitate this.
by the Chairman and carried out by the Company Secretary.
Management reporting Further improvements are required in relation to the Board receiving the right balance of information the process for the evaluation of the Board as a whole and its from management, delivered in a clear and concise way.
Committees was as follows: Development of tailored questionnaires, completed by all Alongside the Board and Committee evaluation, each Director Directors, which took into account the output from the 2013 completed an individual questionnaire which invited them to reflect performance evaluation process, the current dynamic of the Board, on their own performance and contribution to the Board.
the the work of the Board during 2014 and its current areas of focus.
questionnaires were reviewed by the Chairman, with any development Formulation of a report summarising the results of the needs being discussed with individual Directors.
questionnaires which was presented to the Board for discussion.
Individual follow-up reviews between the Chairman and each Director to discuss the report ahead of a Board discussion on the results.
Morgan aDVanCED MaTErIaLS annuaL rEporT 2014 54 GOvernAnCe GOvernAnCe 55 the recommendations made following the 2013 Board performance review were implemented during the year.
reCoMMenDAtIonS FroM tHe 2013 BoArD perForMAnCe reVIeW AnD ACtIonS IMpleMenteD DurIng 2014 recommendations from 2013 Action taken progress made during 2014 there should be increased focus on executive succession the Board considered an in-depth review of executive talent planning and improving the current bench strength in the and succession planning at its meeting in July 2014 and reviewed businesses as well as developing future leaders.
progress that had been made against targeted improvement in the areas of senior succession strength, talent management and recruitment.
the Board was satisfied that appropriate progress had been made and agreed priority actions to be undertaken over the course of the year.
there should be continuing focus on Board succession planning there has been particular emphasis during the year on shortto ensure that in the medium term there is structured Board and medium-term succession planning and, in light of this, Douglas refreshment.
Caster and rob rowley were appointed to the Board as nonexecutive Directors in February 2014.
Following the announcement of Mark robertshaws resignation as Chief executive officer and his departure on 31 December 2014, the Board focused on the recruitment of a new Chief executive officer.
Medium-term succession planning will continue to be an area of focus for 2015. the Board should take account of diversity in planning Board the Boards Diversity policy was published for the first time in the and senior management succession.
the search for new non-executive Directors which led to two appointments in February 2014 was broad, covered candidates from various backgrounds and included female candidates.
In respect of the search for a Chief executive officer, the Committee has sought candidates from a broad spectrum including candidates with an international background, reflecting the global nature of the business.
the prospect of recruiting candidates from a more diverse background has been considered by the nomination Committee as part of the medium-term success planning process.
there has been success in recruiting a diverse spectrum of candidates onto the graduate programme and graduates who have recently completed the programme have been promoted to positions within the business in locations outside of their home region.
Further consideration should be given to providing information executive management have made changes to the formatting to the Board in the most suitable format.
AnnuAl report 2014 MorgAn ADVAnCeD MAterIAlS FInAnCIAl StAteMentS goVernAnCe StrAtegIC report oVerVIeW 56 GOvernAnCe GOvernAnCe 57 CorporAte goVernAnCe continued the non-executive Directors, led by Andrew given, the Senior Internal control Independent Director at the time, met without the Chairman present the Board has overall responsibility for establishing and maintaining a to evaluate the Chairmans performance during the year, taking into sound system of internal control to safeguard shareholders investment account the views of the executive Directors.
and the groups assets and for reviewing the effectiveness of this system.
the groups system of internal control has been in place for Conflicts of interest the year under review and up to the date of approval of the Annual the Board has procedures in place to address the requirements of the report.
Companies Act 2006 concerning the duty of the Directors to avoid conflicts of interest.
Accordingly the Directors are required to: through the Audit Committee, the Board reviews the effectiveness Disclose proposed outside interests before they are accepted in of the internal control system annually and did so during the year.
order to enable a prior assessment of any actual or potential conflict.
the system of internal control accords with the FrCs guidance on Disclose without delay any situation which arises which gives rise the internal control requirements of the Code formerly known as the to an actual or potential conflict.
this review covered all material controls, including financial, operational and compliance controls, and risk management the Board reviews the outside interests of the Directors and any systems.
the Audit Committee and Board receive regular risk conflicts disclosed and authorisations annually.
Should an actual or management reports covering the full range of risks faced by the potential conflict be identified, the Board considers whether to group and together they ensure there are adequate systems in place authorise the situation in accordance with the Companys Articles of and that they are effective.
Association and, if so, the terms of any authorisation.
In the event of an actual conflict arising, the Director concerned is to notify the Chairman the Directors believe that the groups system of internal financial the Chairman would notify the Senior Independent Director and the controls provides reasonable, but not absolute, assurance in the Director would be excluded from the relevant information, debate and following areas: that the assets of the group are safeguarded: that decision.
transactions are authorised and recorded in a correct and timely manner: and that such controls would prevent and detect, within a timely period, material errors or irregularities.
the system is designed Accountability to manage, rather than eliminate, risk and to address key business and Financial reporting financial risks.
the internal control framework complements the In its reporting to shareholders, the Board is satisfied that the groups management structure.
Annual report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders the main features of the groups systems for internal control and to assess the groups position and performance, business model and for assessing the potential risks to which the group is exposed are strategy as required by the Code.
summarised as follows: Control environment A summary of the statement of Directors responsibilities in respect of the groups management processes include delegated authorities the Annual report and the Financial Statements is set out on pages 88 and the segregation of duties with documented policies and and 89 and the going concern statement is set out in the Strategic manuals.
these cover financial procedures, environmental, health report on page 45. and safety practice and other areas.
In addition, there is a schedule of matters reserved for the Board.
the groups Core Values Business model and strategy Statement, ethics policy and other supporting policies and Details of the groups business model, how it is working to generate procedures set out the groups commitment to the highest and sustain long-term value and details of the Boards strategy for standards of corporate and individual behaviour and provide ensuring the group meets its objectives are set out in the Strategic guidance for employees.
the groups responsible Business report on pages 8 to 45. programme includes relevant training and reporting and is part of the control framework.
the ethics Hotline is available to employees in this regard.
the regional presidents and other senior operational and functional management make an annual statement of compliance to the Board confirming that, for each of the businesses for which they are responsible, the Financial Statements are fairly presented in all material respects, appropriate systems of internal controls have been developed and maintained and the businesses comply with group policies and procedures.
In addition, the Audit Committee receives an annual presentation on internal controls from each of the regional Finance Directors.
Morgan aDVanCED MaTErIaLS annuaL rEporT 2014 56 GOvernAnCe GOvernAnCe 57 Financial reporting relations with shareholders risk management systems and internal controls are in place in During 2014, the Chairman and other non-executive Directors relation to the groups financial reporting processes and the attended the annual and half-year results presentations and other process for preparing consolidated accounts.
these include policies investor events.
this provided the opportunity to meet institutional and procedures which require the maintenance of records which shareholders and other attendees and to develop an understanding accurately and fairly reflect transactions and dispositions of assets, of their views.
provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to allow the preparation of Financial Statements in Following the announcement of the groups results and after other accordance with International Financial reporting Standards IFrS, significant statements and presentations, investor opinion is canvassed and the review and reconciliation of reported data.
As noted and any feedback is made available to the Board.
In addition, the Board above, representatives of the business are required to certify that is provided with brokers reports and feedback from any shareholder their reported information gives a true and fair view of the state meetings on a regular basis.
of affairs of the business and its results for the period.
the Audit Committee is responsible for monitoring these risk management to help facilitate dialogue with shareholders, the Investors section systems and internal controls.
of the Companys website includes details of london Stock exchange performance monitoring announcements, press releases, presentations, webcasts and other there are regular meetings of the Board and of the executive relevant Company and shareholder information.
A comparison of forecast and actual results is considered, including cash flows and comparisons against budget Constructive use of the AGM and the prior year.
regional management teams also meet regularly the AgM is normally attended by all members of the Board and by a to review performance.
In addition, regular site visits are made representative of the external auditor.
At the AgM held in May 2014, by members of the executive Committee.
the Chief executive officer made a short business presentation.
risk management Shareholders are invited to ask questions during the meeting and have the identification of major business risks is an ongoing process the opportunity to meet the Directors and other members of senior carried out in conjunction with operating management.
Steps management before and after the formal meeting.
the results of the are taken to mitigate or manage any material risks identified.
the proxy voting on all resolutions are provided for all attendees and are Board, either directly or through the Audit Committee, receives released to the london Stock exchange and published on the groups reports on financial, taxation, insurance, treasury, pension, legal, website as soon as practicable after the meeting.
environmental and ethical risks from management.
the regional presidents cover risk issues at their management meetings.
Details Information on share capital and other matters of the groups risk management system are set out in the risk the information about share capital required to be included in this management section on pages 18 to 21. statement can be found on pages 87 and 88 in the other disclosures risk factors section.
the groups businesses are affected by a number of factors, many of which are influenced by macro-economic trends and are therefore outside the Companys immediate control, although, as described above and in the Strategic report, the identification and management of such risks is carried out systematically.
these are further discussed in the risk management section on pages 18 to 21.
Internal audit the groups internal audit function reviews internal control and risk management processes.
the Audit Committee approves the plans for internal audit reviews and receives reports accordingly.
Actions resulting from internal audit reviews are agreed with management and the Audit Committee monitors progress against outstanding actions.
the Internal Auditor has direct access to the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
AnnuAl report 2014 MorgAn ADVAnCeD MAterIAlS FInAnCIAl StAteMentS goVernAnCe StrAtegIC report oVerVIeW
