60 GOvernAnCe GOvernAnCe 61 report oF tHe noMInAtIon CoMMIttee Chairmans introduction 2014 was an important year for the Committee with a number of changes to the Board.
the Committee tHe MAIn role oF tHe noMInAtIon has spent a great deal of its time evaluating the Boards CoMMIttee IS to leAD tHe proCeSS For successional needs, working closely with executive BoArD AppoIntMentS AnD to MAKe search agents to evaluate the skills and experience required to balance the Board and reviewing longreCoMMenDAtIonS to tHe BoArD on and short-lists of candidates.
three long-serving tHe AppoIntMent oF neW DIreCtorS.
non-executive Directors stepped down from the Board during 2014, and when selecting non-executive Directors the Committee was mindful of the need to appoint individuals who would be able to take over as Committee Chairmen and Senior Independent Director.
Douglas Caster and rob rowley were appointed as non-executive Directors in February 2014.
In September 2014, the Committee commenced the search for a new Chief executive officer following Mark robertshaws announcement that he would be stepping down from the Board.
this process concluded shortly before finalisation of this report with the announcement that pete raby will be joining Morgan as Chief executive officer in August 2015. pete joins from Cobham plc where he is currently president of its Communications and Connectivity sector, the companys largest sector with over 4,000 employees across 30 sites worldwide.
pete has a strong technical background and an impressive track record in planning and executing business strategy across global manufacturing operations and I am delighted that he will be joining the group.
Andrew ShilStOn CoMMIttee CHAIrMAn there is a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for appointments to the Board which is described in more detail below.
Appointments are made on merit and against objective criteria, having due regard for diversity, including gender.
CoMMIttee MeMBerS Andrew Shilston Chairman Andrew ShilStOn douglas Caster CoMMIttee CHAIrMAn victoire fide Margerie Andrew reynolds Smith rob rowley Meetings J oined the Committee on appointment as a Director on 14 February 2014. the Committee met formally twice during 2014.
In addition, a number of working groups of members Andrew given and Mark robertshaw served on the Committee throughout the year until of the Committee met frequently between scheduled they stepped down from the Board on 31 December 2014. meetings to progress the recruitment of two nonA majority of members of the Committee are independent non-executive executive Directors and a Chief executive officer.
information and support the Committee has the power to request the attendance of any other Director or member of management, for all or part of any meeting, as may be considered appropriate by the Committee.
nomination Committee terms of reference the Committees terms of reference were reviewed during the year.
the terms of reference are available to view on the Companys website.
AnnuAl report 2014 MorgAn ADVAnCeD MAterIAlS FInAnCIAl StAteMentS goVernAnCe StrAtegIC report oVerVIeW 62 GOvernAnCe GOvernAnCe 63 report oF tHe noMInAtIon CoMMIttee continued Main areas of work during 2014 the process to recruit the Chief executive officer is described below: the nomination Committee reviews the balance of skills, knowledge the skills and attributes required by an incoming Chief executive and experience on the Board, succession planning and the leadership officer were discussed and a job specification was agreed.
the work of the Committee in discharging those Following a selection exercise in which a number of external search responsibilities in respect of 2014 included: agents were considered and three firms were interviewed, Spencer led the search for new non-executive Directors, resulting in the Stuart were appointed and briefed.
Spencer Stuart has no other selection and recommended appointment of rob rowley and connection with the Company other than conducting psychometric Douglas Caster in February 2014. testing for senior executives in 2013.
Commenced the selection process in relation to the appointment the Committee agreed that the Chairman of the Committee, of a new Chief executive officer and recommended the the Senior Independent Director and Victoire fide Margerie should appointment of Kevin Dangerfield as Interim Chief executive continue to progress the search between formal meetings of the officer until pete raby joins.
reviewed the composition of the Board and its Committees the search was conducted globally and a long-list of candidates was and succession planning.
considered, including external and internal, international and female Selected a Senior Independent Director following Martin Flowers candidates.
the search agent travelled to meet candidates outside and then Andrew givens departure from the Board.
Considered the reappointment of the non-executive Directors Short-listed candidates were then interviewed by all members of at the conclusion of their specified time in office and the Directors the nomination Committee.
Spencer Stuart then conducted an independent assessment and references were taken up before the annual re-election at the 2014 AgM.
decision was made and announced on 30 January 2015 to appoint reviewed, for recommendation to the Board, the Boards policy pete raby as Chief executive officer commencing in August 2015. on diversity.
Following Mark robertshaws departure on 31 December 2014, the Appointments to the Board Committee recommended the appointment of Kevin Dangerfield, the Board discussed the groups approach to talent management Chief Financial officer, as Interim Chief executive officer with effect and succession planning at senior levels within the business in July 2014. from 1 January 2015 until pete raby joins the group.
the Committee also discussed executive Director succession planning in the context of the process to recruit a new Chief executive officer following the announcement of Mark robertshaws resignation.
In Board diversity Policy addition to the recruitment of a Chief executive officer, succession the Board firmly believes in the value of diversity of perspective, planning for appointments to the Board and for senior management including background, nationality, experience and gender, at all levels will be an area of focus for the Committee in 2015. of the Company as well as on the Board.
As is not unusual in engineering or manufacturing businesses, diversity in gender is the hardest to achieve.
the process for appointing Douglas Caster and rob rowley is described below: It is very gratifying, however, to see that at the graduate recruitment Following consideration of a number of leading firms, the level the group is now having great success in attracting good Committee appointed egon zehnder as external search agent.
candidates of both sexes and many nationalities.
In 2014, 32% of the egon zehnder has signed up to the voluntary code of conduct graduate intake 2013: 42% were female.
At the senior level, 5% for executive search firms which includes provisions on diversity.
of senior managers and one of the Board Directors are female.
In line with the Code, the Committee established that egon zehnder has no other connection with the Company.
new appointments to the Board are made on merit, with a focus In the light of its discussions on the balance of skills, knowledge, on international and industrial experience, but diversity of perspective experience and diversity on the Board, including the need to recruit and the mix of skills around the Board table are also taken into account a Senior Independent Director and Audit Committee and when selecting potential candidates.
During the selection process for remuneration Committee Chairmen, the Committee considered new non-executive Directors, the Committee has, and will, continue and formulated a candidate specification for the roles.
to use a search agent who has signed up to the voluntary code of the external search agent produced a long-list of candidates conduct which ensures that diversity is considered when developing for the roles.
the brief to the search agent is to put forward a Interviews were held with a short-list of candidates and members long-list of candidates from a wide range of backgrounds to ensure of the nomination Committee participated in interviews with the that the best candidate is selected.
the Committee selected its preferred candidates based on When monitoring the development of leadership and considering the objective criteria and recommended their appointment to the succession planning for executive management, the Board will take into Board.
account the need for talented leaders who will have the skills needed to lead a global company with a growing presence in the key world the terms and conditions of appointment of non-executive Directors economies.
non-executive Directors, including the Chairman, are asked to undertake that they will have sufficient time the Board will continue to monitor whether it is taking diversity into to meet their commitments to the Company and their other significant account when planning executive succession and appointing new Board commitments are disclosed to the Board before appointment, with members, and the Board effectiveness evaluation process addresses an indication of the time involved.
the Board is informed of any diversity.
subsequent changes with additional commitments disclosed before they are accepted.
the terms of appointment for non-executive Directors the Board has discussed whether a quota for female Directors should do not include a notice period.
be introduced by a certain date, but feels this is unrealistic given the current gender composition of senior executives, the nature of the business and the competition for female non-executive Directors.
Morgan aDVanCED MaTErIaLS annuaL rEporT 2014
