Corporate Governance Governance report Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code Chairmans responsibilities The Governance Report set out below is designed to provide Chairing and managing the business of the Board: shareholders with a summary of the Groups governance policies and practices and an explanation of how the Company has applied the main Together with the Group Chief Executive, leading the Board in principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code that was developing the strategy of the business and ensuring its effective published in 2012 by the Financial Reporting Council and which applied implementation by the Executive management team: to the Company for the whole of the financial year ended 31 December Ensuring effective dialogue with investors concerning mutual 2014.
The Directors believe that the Company has complied with the understanding of objectives: provisions set out in the Code during 2014 save as described below.
Acopy of the Code is available at www.
In conjunction with the Nomination Committee, taking responsibility for the composition and replenishment of the Board: As at 21 February 2014, Tim Score had served for more than nine yearson the Board meaning that, for a short period of time until the Periodically reviewing with the Board its working practices and appointment of Jane Kingston on 26 February 2014, the composition performance: and ofthe Board did not meet the requirements under provision B.
1.2 of Ensuring there is an effective contribution from the Non-Executive theCode.
Directors and a constructive relationship between Executive and As reported last year, Sir Andrew Foster has served on the Board for Non-Executive Directors.
more than nine years and is no longer deemed to be independent under The Chairmans other significant commitments are detailed in his the Code.
However, as part of the Boards succession plans and in order to ensure continuity, Sir Andrew was asked to remain a Director biography on page 44. until the conclusion of the AGM to be held on 6 May 2015.
Given his significant experience, he has continued to chair the Remuneration Committee until he steps down at the AGM when Jane Kingston will Group Chief Executives responsibilities become Chair of that Committee.
Sir Andrew remained a member of Communicating a shared purpose and the culture, vision and the Nomination and Audit Committees throughout 2014 and will values of the Group: continue to be so until he stands down as a Director as mentioned above: the composition of the Committees will then become in line with The development and implementation of management strategy: the Code requirements with Lee Sander joining as a member of the Audit Committee with effect from 6 May 2015.
As described in the The day-to-day management of the Group: Nomination Committee report on page 58, a search foran additional Managing the Executive management team: Non-Executive Director commenced during the latter part of 2014.
Fostering relationships with key stakeholders: Leadership Leading the Group Executive Committee: The role of the Board The Board provides leadership of the Group and direction for In conjunction with the Group Finance Director, communicating management.
It is collectively responsible and accountable to the the Groups financial performance to investors and analysts: and Companys shareholders for the long-term success of the Group and for Liaising with the Chairman to ensure effective dialogue with ensuring the appropriate management and operation of the Group in investors and stakeholders.
The Board is responsible for setting the Groups strategy, values and standards and ensuring that the necessary controls and resources are in place to deliver these.
The Chairman and the Group Chief Executive The roles of the Chairman and Group Chief Executive are held separately and the division of responsibilities between these roles is clearly established as shown below.
The Chairman is responsible for leading the Board and ensuring its effectiveness.
The Group Chief Executive is responsible for running the business of the Group and implementation of the strategy and policies adopted by the Board.
46 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information To help discharge its responsibilities, the Board has a formal schedule Non-Executive Directors ofmatters specifically reserved for its decision, which forms the core of The Non-Executive Directors collectively represent a robust element of the Boards agenda.
The Board has also delegated certain aspects of the Board and each brings with them his or her own expertise gained its responsibilities to the following principal Committees: the Audit ina variety of business sectors.
They constructively challenge and Committee, the Remuneration Committee, the Nomination Committee scrutinise the performance of management and help develop proposals and the Safety & Environment Committee.
More details on each of these on strategy as well as ensuring high standards of financial probity and Committees can be found in this report.
The terms and conditions of appointment of the Non-Executive Directors are available for inspection at each AGM, on the Companys website and at its registered office during normal Key matters reserved for Board approval business hours.
The Non-Executive Directors disclose to the Board Group strategy and risk management theirother significant commitments.
The procedure adopted by the Formulation and approval of long-term objectives Company in relation to Directors conflicts of interest is detailed on Approval of changes to capital structure page84.
Approval of major changes to management and control structures Senior Independent Director Jackie Hunt became the Senior Independent Director SID on Approval of extension of activities into new businesses or 26February 2014 replacing Tim Score.
As well as being available to geographical areas shareholders whose concerns have not been resolved through normal Financial and internal controls channels or when such channels would be inappropriate, the SID Oversight of risk management and internal control framework provides a sounding board for the Chairman and serves as an intermediary for the other Directors, where necessary.
Following Approval of financial statements and results announcements JackieHunts stepping down from the Board at the 2015 AGM, Approval of shareholder communications, circulars and notices LeeSander will become Senior Independent Director.
ofmeetings Executive Directors Approval of the auditors remuneration and recommendations The Executive Directors are responsible for the day-to-day management fortheir appointment removal of the Groups businesses, implementation of its strategy, policies andbudgets and its financial performance.
Executive management Recommendation and declaration of dividends meetings comprise the Executive Directors and senior management Monitoring the Groups businesses against plan and budget from the divisions and are held regularly to discuss current issues.
Approval of major capital expenditure projects Company Secretary The Board has access to the advice and services of the Company Approval of material contracts Secretary, Sandra Forbes, who has held this office since 2 June 2014.
The Company Secretary supports the Board membership and Committees Chairman in the delivery of the corporate governance framework and Appointment of Directors isresponsible for advising the Board, through the Chairman, on all Approval of remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors governance matters, including the planning of agendas for the annual cycle of Board and Committee meetings so that all key issues are Setting of Board Committees terms of reference considered at the appropriate times.
Every effort is made to ensure that Approval of new share incentive plans information reported to the Board is of high quality in terms of accuracy, quality, appropriateness, comprehensiveness and currency.
Directors Corporate governance are able to seek clarification or amplification from management where Undertaking formal performance reviews of the Board, necessary.
The Company Secretary also facilitates the induction Committees and individual Directors process and assists with professional development for Directors as Determining the independence of Directors required.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Board and each of its Committees.
The appointment or removal of the Company Receiving reports from the Companys major shareholders Secretary is a matter for the Board as a whole.
As well as the support of Policies the Company Secretary, there is a procedure in place for any Director to Review and approval of Group policies, for example: take independent professional advice where considered necessary.
health and safety Corporate governance framework The Board discharges its responsibilities for the leadership and control risk management strategy of the Group by: environment providing strategic direction and support in a manner which charitable and political donations maximises opportunities to develop the business profitability, whilst at the same time assessing and managing associated risks: workplace rights engaging at Board meetings with, and challenging, the Group Chief human rights Executive, Group Finance Director and other members of the senior management team, as appropriate, on the financial and operating performance of the Group and external issues material to the Groups prospects: and ensuring that the financial, management and other resources required to meet its objectives are in place.
com 47 Corporate Governance Governance report continued Committed to high standards of governance Reporting framework Remuneration Audit Committee Committee Group Board Nomination Safety & Environment Committee Committee Group Executive Committee UK Spanish North American Executive Executive Executive Only members of the Board are entitled to attend Board meetings, with Board meetings the Company Secretary in attendance to formally record each meeting.
The Board and its Committees have regular scheduled meetings and This is also the case in respect of Committee members and meetings.
hold additional meetings as and when required.
Directors are expected, The Executive Directors and representatives of management, together where possible, to attend all Board meetings, relevant Committee with the Companys advisors, are also invited to attend Committee meetings, the AGM and any general meetings.
The Board met eight meetings as required.
Directors have the right to raise any concerns times during 2014: six meetings were held in the UK including a theymay have about the running of the Company, or a proposed course strategic review, one in Spain and one in the US.
The table below sets ofaction which cannot be resolved, and have them recorded in the out the number of meetings of the Board and its Committees during the relevant meeting minutes and may also provide a written statement to year and individual attendance by the Board and Committee members the Chairman for circulation to the Board, setting out such concerns.
During the year the Chairman met on several occasions with the If a Director is unable to attend a Board or Committee meeting, he or she Non-Executives without the Executive Directors present to allow still receives all the papers and materials for discussion at the meeting.
informal discussions on a variety of issues.
Heor she will review them and then advise the Board Chairman or Board agenda, oversight and benchmarking Committee Chairman of their views and comments on the matters to The Chairman and the Company Secretary are responsible for ensuring bediscussed so that they can be conveyed to others at the meeting.
that the Directors receive accurate, timely and clear information on all relevant matters so that they are properly briefed in advance of meetings Number of Board meetings The Board Audit Nomination Remuneration Safety & Environment Board meetings of Directors Committee Committee Committee Committee Total meetings in 2014 8 4 3 2 3 Executive Directors Dean Finch, Group Chief Executive 8 Jez Maiden, Group Finance Director 8 Non-Executive Directors Sir John Armitt 8 3 3 Joaqun Ayuso 5 2 2 Jorge Cosmen 8 3 3 Sir Andrew Foster 7 3 3 2 2 Jackie Hunt 8 4 2 Chris Muntwyler 8 3 3 Lee Sander 8 2 3 Jane Kingston 6 6 1 1 2 2 Tim Score 2 2 2 2 1 1 1 1 Group General Counsel and Company Secretary, Sandra Forbes, also acts as Secretary to the Board Committees.
Appointed to the Board on 26 February 2014.
Eligible meetings are shown in brackets.
Resigned from the Board on 25 February 2014.
48 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information and the information is of sufficient quality to assist Directors in making comprising the Chairman, Group Chief Executive and Group Finance informed contributions and decisions.
This Committee meets as required to deal with the control of price sensitive information within the Group and to ensure that timely The Board regularly and rigorously reviews and benchmarks operational announcements are made in accordance with the Companys and functional performance.
At each meeting the Board receives a obligations under the Listing Rules and the Disclosure and Transparency report from the Group Chief Executive on operational performance, Rules.
Its terms of reference are also available on the Companys andfrom the Group Finance Director on the financial performance of website at www.
theGroup as a whole and each of the Groups businesses individually.
Other regular reports forthe Boards consideration at its meetings All Board Committees are authorised to obtain legal or other include capital expenditure requests, key project reviews, summary professional advice as necessary, to secure the attendance of external activities of the Board Committees and human capital, legal, advisors at their meetings and to seek information required from any governance and investor relations reports.
Presentations from either employee of the Group in order to perform their duties.
abusiness Managing Director or a functional head are also given at Reports of each of the principal Committees are provided on pages 54 each meeting.
to 83, and include information on each Committees membership, duties The core activities of the Board and its Committees are documented and activities throughout the year.
and planned on an annual basis and a list of matters arising from The Group Chief Executive heads the Group Executive Committee eachmeeting is maintained and followed up at subsequent meetings.
which meets on a monthly basis and is tasked with approving The timeline below shows the main items of business addressed by the operational business matters.
In addition, the UK, Spanish and North Board during the year.
American Executives meet on a monthly basis and matters dealt with atthese meetings are reported to the Group Executive Committee.
Principal Committees of the Board The main Committees established by the Board are the Audit The reporting framework of the Board Committees and of the Group Committee, the Remuneration Committee, the Nomination Committee Executive Committee and its sub-committees is shown on page 48. and the Safety & Environment Committee.
Each Committee operates within defined terms of reference, the full versions of which can be Effectiveness foundon the Companys website at www.
Composition of the Board Each Committee reports its proceedings to the Board through the We seek to build an effective and complementary Board which submission of reports and minutes as appropriate.
A Disclosure comprises the correct balance of individuals whose capabilities are Committee of the Board is also established with its membership appropriate for the scale, complexity and strategic positioning of our Board activity throughout 2014 excluding standing items January June Review of the Group Strategic Plan for 2014-2016 Capital investment Rail bids update Presentation on the Spanish and Moroccan businesses Bus bids update July February Rail bids update Capital investment Approval of the Half Year Results Announcement and interimdividend Succession planning Approval of the Preliminary Results Announcement, Annual Report September and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2013 and Notice ofAnnual General Meeting Capital investment Recommendation of the final dividend for financial year 2013 Presentation on the North American business North America Safety and Maintenance Audit update April North America HR Strategy Review Rail bid ScotRail Financing structure Bank facility amendment and extension May Capital investment November Update on UK and German Coach businesses 2015 Budget Rail update Executive Directors Remuneration www.
com 49 Corporate Governance Governance report continued business.
The Board consists of an appropriate balance of Executive As part of their continuing development, and recognising the significant and Non-Executive Directors who collectively bring a strong and benefits to be derived to both the Company and the individual, Executive in-depth mix of business skills and experience and considerable Directors are permitted to accept one external non-executive knowledge to assist with Board decisions.
The process for Board directorship with a non-competing company provided they first obtain appointments is led by the Nomination Committee and is described Board approval.
During the year, Dean Finch was appointed a Nononpage 58.
Executive Director of the Royal Free London NHS Foundation Trust.
JezMaiden continued to hold an external directorship with Synthomer A list of the individual Directors, their biographies and Committee PLC throughout 2014. memberships as at the date of this report are set out on pages 44 and45.
Induction of new Directors On appointment, Directors are offered training as appropriate and are Independence thereafter encouraged to keep abreast of matters affecting their duties The Board considers all of the Non-Executive Directors to be as a Director and to attend training courses relevant to their role.
independent other than Jorge Cosmen and Sir Andrew Foster.
SirJohnArmitt was considered to be independent prior to his An induction process is in place for new Directors, the aim of which is to: appointment as Chairman.
build an understanding of the nature of the Group, its businesses As at 21 February 2014, Tim Score had served for more than nine and the markets in which it operates: yearson the Board meaning that for a short period of time until the establish a link with the Groups employees: and appointment of Jane Kingston on 26 February 2014 the composition of the Board did not meet the requirements under provision B.
1.2 of the build an understanding of the Groups main relationships including Code.
For the remainder of 2014, at least half of the Board, excluding stakeholders and customers.
the Chairman, comprised independent Non-Executive Directors in The following information is provided as part of the induction and accordance with the Code.
ongoing training and development of Board Directors.
Jorge Cosmen is not considered to be independent by the Board due On appointment tohis close links with the ALSA business and significant interests in Governance information in relation to the Group, including the terms theshares of the Company which are held through European Express of reference of the Board and its Committees: Enterprises Limited.
Despite his non-independence, the Board feels thatit benefits greatly from Jorge Cosmens extensive local market Guidance for Directors of UK public companies generally including knowledge and experience.
under the law, the Code and the rules of the UK Listing Authority: As at 1 August 2013, Sir Andrew Foster had served on the Board as Board minutes covering the previous year: and aDirector for more than nine years.
As reported last year, Sir Andrew Information on key Group policies.
agreed to remain on the Board until the 2015 AGM and the Board believes that it has been in the best interests of the Company and Following appointment shareholders that he has done so, given his wealth of experience Business briefing meetings with the Chairman, the Group andtoensure continuity following the recent changes to the ChiefExecutive and the Group Finance Director: Boardscomposition.
Meeting with the Company Secretary to discuss the Group structure, Non-Executive Directors do not participate in any of the Companys the Companys constitution and Board procedures and terms of share option or bonus schemes and their service is non-pensionable.
reference of the Board and its Committees: Time allocation Meetings with senior management in the five divisions: It is in the Boards interest to ensure that all Directors have sufficient time to commit to their responsibilities as Directors.
The Chairman monitors Meeting with the Director of Safety for an overview of the Groups the extent of Directors other interests to ensure that the effectiveness of health and safety policy and safety record: and the individual and the Board is not being compromised.
Meeting with the Groups auditor.
In respect of the appointment of new Non-Executive Directors to the Board, candidates are made aware of the time commitment expected of them which is reflected in their individual letters of appointment with the Company.
The Board considers that all the Directors are currently able to devote sufficient time and attention to their duties and responsibilities to the Company.
50 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Performance evaluation An evaluation of the effectiveness of the Board and its Committees is conducted annually.
In 2012 and 2013, internal evaluations of Board effectiveness were conducted by the Group HR Advisor, via a questionnaire circulated to all theDirectors.
Actions implemented from the 2013 evaluation are detailed below.
2013 recommendations Actions Improve timing of delivery of Board papers to Directors.
Changes in process were made to ensure more time between delivery of the Board papers and the actual meetings.
Allow sufficient time for discussion of complex issues.
When producing agendas and during meetings, as directed by the Chairman, more time has been allocated to such agenda items.
Ensure the Board has the right balance of skills.
This has been addressed through the NED search process that resulted in the appointment of Jane Kingston in February 2014.
A search for an additional NED with a marketing and digital bias was commenced towards the end of 2014.
Provide the Board with greater contact with The Board continues to meet the North American and Spanish management seniormanagement.
teams once a year and more opportunities have been created to give the Board increased exposure to the UK management teams.
For 2014, the Board engaged Advanced Boardroom Excellence ABE to undertake an independent external evaluation of the performance of the Board comprising the stages and elements shown below.
ABE has no other connection with the Company.
Scoping: ABE engaged with the Chairman and Company Secretary to set the context for the evaluation and to tailor the questionnaires to the specific circumstances of the Company.
Interviews: In-depth, structured, face-to-face interviews were conducted by consultants from ABE with each Board member and the Company Secretary.
The structure of the interviews was based on the Financial Reporting Councils criteria for Board Effectiveness.
Boardroom observation: ABE undertook an observation of the November Board meeting.
This provided an opportunity to gain a clearer understanding of the Board dynamics, enabling greater development insight for the Board beyond theprocedural aspects of the Boards functioning.
Documentation review: A review of the documentation of the Board and its four principal Committees covering a years worth of meeting packs was undertaken in order to ensure acomplete picture of the interrelationship of the Board and Committees.
Report, presentation and discussion: The information gained from the interviews, documentation review and boardroom observation was analysed to provide structured conclusions for the Board Review Report which was initially submitted to and reviewed by the Chairman.
ABE then presented its final Board Review Report and feedback to the Board including appropriate recommendations and discussion of benchmark information and areas for Board development to meet the Companys underlying strategic aims.
The conclusions and recommendations for the Boards development have been reviewed by the Board and an Action Plan and priorities for 2015 agreed.
The key areas are set out below.
The Action Plan also covers areas of Board processes and procedures to be tightened and documented.
Non-Executive Director composition: NED skills Board information: the Board to build further on exemplary tobe kept under review in relation to future digital Boardinformation provision.
Strategy: the Board to further enhance its processes Risk assessment: the Board to continue its pro-active approach forstrategy setting.
Communication to shareholders: the Board to Documentation: the Company Secretary to action the appropriate continue to develop a more structured shareholder recommendations on tightening the terms of reference, agenda engagement plan following on from recent direct developmentsfor the Board and its Committees.
Succession: the Board to have enhanced engagement with the scheduled regular review of the executive succession pipeline.
The outcomes arising from this external evaluation process will be further reported on in next years Annual Report.
com 51 Corporate Governance Governance report continued Risk management reporting process Each division and operating Re-election of Directors company evaluates its internal control environment and key risks, and In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, and the the results are reviewed at management level and passed to the Audit Code, all Directors of the Company, with the exception of Sir Andrew Committee before being presented to the Board.
This process is Foster and Jackie Hunt, both of whom will be stepping down from the reviewed on a regular basis to ensure the validity and relevance of the Board, will offerthemselves for either election or re-election at this years key risks included in reports.
The review covers strategic, financial, AGM.
Non-Executive Directors are appointed for specific terms, subject compliance and risk management controls.
Non-Executive Directors will only be put forward for mandated and designed to manage the risk in order to ensure that re-election if, following performance evaluation, the Board believes the theoperations achieve their business objectives.
Directors performance continues to be effective and demonstrates commitment to the role.
Internal audit The internal control system is independently monitored and supported by a Group internal audit function.
The Group internal Accountability audit function reports to management and the Audit Committee on the Internal control statement Groups financial and operational controls, and monitors and reviews the The Boards responsibilities extent to which its recommendations have been implemented.
The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The Board maintains full Board-level reporting on internal control control and direction over appropriate strategic, financial, operational During the year the Audit Committee reviews regular reports from and compliance issues and has put in place an organisational structure theinternal audit function, the external auditor and Group Executive with formally defined lines of responsibility, delegated authorities and management on matters relating to internal control, financial reporting clear operating processes.
The systems that the Board has established and risk management.
The Audit Committee provides the Board with an are designed to safeguard both the shareholders investment and the independent assessment of the Groups financial position, accounting assets of the Group, and are described as follows: affairs and control systems.
In addition, the Board receives regular reports on how specific risks that are assessed as material to the Key elements of the control framework Groupare being managed.
Financial reporting process Management and specialists within the Finance Department are responsible for ensuring the appropriate Review of internal control effectiveness maintenance of financial records and processes to ensure that all The system of internal control and risk management, described above, information is relevant, reliable and in accordance with the applicable has been in place for the year under review and up to the date of laws and regulations, and distributed both internally and externally in a approval of this Annual Report and Accounts.
Such a system is timely manner.
A review of the consolidation and financial statements designed to manage, rather than to eliminate, the risks inherent in iscompleted by management to ensure that the financial position achieving the Groups business objectives, and can therefore provide andresults of the Group are appropriately reflected.
All financial only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material information published by the Group is subject to the approval of misstatement or loss.
The effectiveness of this system has been theAuditCommittee.
regularly reviewed by the Directors in line with the Guidance on Audit Committees published by the Financial Reporting Council.
Where Performance management The performance of each division and significant control failings or weaknesses have been identified, operating company against its plan is closely monitored by a formal appropriate corrective action has been taken.
monthly reporting process and by the attendance of the relevant Executive Directors at monthly divisional Executive meetings.
Going concern The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect Annual fitness check process Group internal audit undertakes an its future development, performance and position are set out in the annual review at each operating company to assess the integrity of the Strategic Report.
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, balance sheet and to check the effective operation of key financial liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in the Group reporting and information systems controls.
The results of the reviews Chief Executives Review on pages 8 to 11 and the Group Finance are presented to both divisional and Group finance with any required Directors Review on pages 28 to 31.
In addition, note 29 to the financial actions agreed with the relevant divisional Finance Director.
statements includes the Groups objectives, policies and processes for Strategic and financial planning An annual budgeting and managing its capital: its financial risk management objectives: details of strategic planning process has been established whereby each division its financial instruments and hedging activities: andits exposure to credit and constituent operating company assesses its competitive position risk and liquidity risk.
and goals, taking account of the strategic risks faced.
This strategy The Group has a formalised process of budgeting, reporting and istranslated into a financial plan with clear milestones and review, which provides information to the Directors which is used to .
ensure the adequacy of resources available for the Group to meet its Capital investment A clear process is in place for the approval of business objectives.
capital expenditure, which includes detailed appraisal of the benefits of The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the the proposed investment and any associated key risks.
Material capital Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for expenditure requires Board approval.
a period of at least 12 months from the date of signing the accounts.
Health and safety Health and safety standards and benchmarks Accordingly they continue to adopt the going concern basis of have been established in all of our businesses and the performance of accounting in preparing the annual financial statements.
operating companies in meeting these standards is closely monitored.
The Board is mindful of the changes made to the UK Corporate Governance Code in 2014 with regard to the longer term viability statement, compliance with which will apply to the Company for the financial year ended 31 December 2015.
The Directors are ensuring that processes are in place in order to be in a position to report in compliance with such enhanced disclosure in next years Annual Report.
52 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information perception of the Groups performance and strategy.
Formal written Remuneration responses are given to correspondence received from shareholders, as The Directors Remuneration Report, including details of the revised well as bilateral engagement through the Group Chief Executive, Group Remuneration Policy and service contracts, is set out on pages 60 Finance Director and the Companys investor relations function.
Analyst coverage Relations with shareholders The Company is aware of 14 analysts who have published equity The Board recognises the importance of maintaining good research notes covering National Express Group PLC during 2014 and communications with the Companys shareholders to ensure we provide names and contact numbers of their firms on our website.
mutualunderstanding of the Groups strategy, objectives, governanceand performance.
Private shareholders We welcome contact from our private shareholders and are pleased to During the year shareholders are kept informed of the progress of the answer their queries.
We encourage our shareholders to make use of Group through regular corporate communications: the Preliminary our website to access Company reports, Notices of meeting and Results Announcement, the Annual Report and Accounts, the Half Year general shareholder and dividend information.
The website also Results Announcement, the Notice of Annual General Meeting, Interim provides a direct link to Shareview www.
co. uk which Management Statements and press releases regarding any other enables shareholders to view and manage their shareholder significant developments, as well as the dissemination of regulated accountonline.
Such communications are made available to the London Stock Exchange and are simultaneously available on the Companys Annual General Meeting website, www.
Notice of the Annual General Meeting and related papers are sent to shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
Last years The Companys website houses a wide range of information about the Annual General Meeting included a presentation by the Group Chief Group, including the Annual Report and Accounts, press releases, Executive on the progress of the business and an opportunity for share price data and links to subsidiary company websites.
All of our Directors were available From time to time the Company invites research analysts and formally to answer questions during the meeting and many circulated institutional investors to presentations and site visits that are designed and talked to shareholders informally afterwards.
Voting on the toprovide more understanding of the strengths and capabilities of its resolutions was conducted by poll.
Some 83% of the shares in issue business operations and strategy.
were voted and all the resolutions were passed.
Shareholders can receive documentation such as the Annual Report The results were published on the Groups website shortly after the and Accounts electronically and are also able to cast their votes by meeting.
We look forward to welcoming shareholders to our 2015 proxy electronically.
The Company also has an electronic proxy Annual General Meeting and updating them on the progress of the appointment service for CREST members.
Institutional shareholders The Board is committed to maintaining an open dialogue with shareholders and recognises the importance of that relationship in thegovernance process.
A focused and proactive investor relations programme is place.
The Chairman, Group Chief Executive and Group Finance Director have held a number of meetings with existing and prospective institutional shareholders during the year as well as having given presentations following the full year and half year results.
They have also met and given presentations to research analysts and stockbrokers sales teams.
The Companys appointed brokers and investor relations advisors in turn have provided regular confidential feedback to the Company on the views of the major institutions.
The Chairman, Senior Independent Director and other Non-Executive Directors are also given the opportunity to meet institutional shareholders and are available by contact through the normal channels.
During 2014 the Chairman met with major shareholders to discuss the governance and direction of the Company.
In response to the 36% vote against the resolution on the Annual Report on Remuneration at the 2014 AGM, members of the Remuneration Committee engaged with the Companys key institutional shareholders and representative bodies in order to gain a greater understanding of their views on Executive Directors remuneration.
As a result of this open dialogue, a restructured remuneration package for the Executive Directors and a revised Remuneration Policy have been devised to address the specific concerns raised by shareholders.
The Directors Remuneration Report on pages 60 to 83 provides full details of the revised Directors Remuneration Policy which will be put to shareholders www.
com investors for a binding vote at the 2015 AGM.
The Board is provided with regular updates on the views and issues raised by the Companys investors.
During the year the Board received external presentations from advisors on shareholder and market www.
com 53 Corporate Governance Governance report continued Role and responsibilities Audit Committee overview The primary role of the Audit Committee is to assist the Board in fulfilling its oversight responsibilities with regard to financial reporting, risk management and internal controls procedures and the work of its internal audit function and external auditors.
The Committees terms of Dear shareholder, reference are reviewed annually and are available on the Companys During the year, the Audit Committee the Committee has website, www.
continued to play a key role as an independent oversight body in ensuring the integrity of our financial reporting, the appropriateness The Committees main duties and responsibilities in advising the Board of our system of risk management and internal controls, and the include the following: effectiveness of both our internal and external audit processes.
I am overseeing the process for selecting the external auditor, assessing pleased to report that the regular challenge and engagement with the continuing independence of the external auditor and management, internal audit and the external auditor, together with recommending approval of the audit fee to the Board: the timely and clear receipt of reports and information, has enabled the Committee to discharge its duties and responsibilities effectively.
responsibility for ensuring that provision of non-audit services does Ihope you find this report helpful in understanding the work of the not impair the external auditors independence or objectivity: Audit Committee.
liaising with the external auditor on matters relating to the nature and Membership scope of the audit and any issues or concerns arising from the The membership of the Committee during the year ended auditprocess: 31December 2014 is set out below.
Attendance at meetings heldduring the year is shown on page 48. reviewing the effectiveness of the Companys internal control and risk management systems, including the internal audit programme and Member Position Member since major findings identified from internal audit investigations and Jackie Hunt Committee Chair and 13 September reviews: and Senior Independent 2012 reviewing the half-year and annual financial statements including Director accounting judgements and policies.
Sir Andrew Foster Non-Executive Director 23 November The Audit Committee routinely considers a number of standing items 2004 during the year such as consideration of the internal and external audit Chris Muntwyler Non-Executive Director 21 November reports, review of the Annual Report and Accounts, review of the 2011 Preliminary and Half Year Results Announcements, and review of the Governance Report.
Tim Score Senior Independent 21 February Director 2005 Meetings Four Committee meetings were held in 2014.
Details of attendance at Appointed Committee Chairman 26 February 2014.
Resigned 25 February 2014. these meetings can be found on page 48.
Outside of the meeting process the Committee Chair has regular contact with the Executive Biographies appear on pages 44 and 45.
Directors, other Committee members and the auditor on a variety of topics.
The Committee itself meets with both the Head of Group Internal Other attendees at Committee meetings: Audit and the external auditor at least once a year without the Executive Attendee Directors being present.
Company Secretary At the invitation of the Committee, and as appropriate to the matters as Secretary to the Committee under discussion, meetings may be attended by the Executive Directors and internal and external auditors.
Full minutes are kept by the Secretary Company Chairman of the matters considered and decisions taken by the Committee.
Group Chief Executive Main activities during the year Group Finance Director During the year and through to the date of this report, the activities of the Committee included: Head of Group Internal Audit a review of the 2013 and 2014 Preliminary Results and Annual Group Financial Controller Report and Accounts including consideration of the going concern External Auditor: Deloitte LLP statement, accounting policies and key areas of financial judgement and of theassociated reports from the external auditor regarding their auditfindings : Qualifications of Audit Committee members a review of the 2014 Half-Year financial statement and the report from Following Tim Scores stepping down from the Board, I took on the external auditor regarding their review findings: therole of Chair of the Committee from 26 February 2014.
I am considered by the Board to meet the requirements of the Code thatat least one Committee member has recent and relevant financial experience.
54 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information a review of the effectiveness of the external audit process and Financial Reporting and significant financial assessment of the performance, continued independence and judgements for 2014 recommendation to the Board of the re-appointment of the external Goodwill impairment: as it is required to do annually, the auditor, and consideration of any external audit tendering: Committee considered whether the carrying value of goodwill and approval of the 2014 external audit plan and fees: intangible assets held by the Group should be impaired.
The judgements largely related to the assumptions applied in calculating approval of the Internal Audit Charters: the value in use of the Spanish Coach and Bus and the North approval of the internal audit plans for 2014 and 2015: American School Bus businesses.
When testing for impairment, the key considerations were the underlying cash flows, the discount consideration of the results of internal audit compliance testing of rates and the future growth rates.
The Committee received a detailed financial controls Annual Fitness Checks within the subsidiaries: report on the outcome of the impairment reviews performed by management and took into account the views of the external auditor.
a review of the effectiveness of the Groups internal audit function The Committee concluded that the goodwill and intangible assets of and internal controls including feedback from divisional the Spanish Coach and Bus and the North American School Bus ManagingDirectors: businesses were not impaired and it approved the disclosures a review of the Group Risk Register: included in the 2014 financial statements.
a review of the Groups IT Disaster Recovery strategy: Spanish receivables: the Committee considered the assessment of the recoverability of the Spanish Coach and Bus nettrade approval of the updated Group Treasury Counterparty Risk Policy: receivables.
Considerations were given to the nature of overdue a review and approval of the Audit and Non-Audit services and fees: balances and the ageing of trade receivables along with the associated provisions.
The Committee received a report on the a review of corporate governance and legal and regulatory analysis of the net aged receivables from management and took compliance: intoaccount the views of the external auditor.
The Committee an external review of the effectiveness of the Committee concluding concluded that the Spanish Coach and Bus net trade that it continued to operate effectively: and receivableswere fairlystated.
a review and approval of the Committees report for inclusion in the Insurance and other claims: the Committee considered the Annual Report.
adequacy of the provisions associated with insurance and other claims risks particularly in North America.
The assessment focused on the advice received from a third party actuary in connection with the Groups exposure to auto and general liability and workers compensation insurance claims.
Consideration was also given to the most likely outcome, and associated financial effect, of other claims and exposures facing the Group.
The Committee received a report from management on North American insurance and other claims and considered the views of the external auditor.
The Committee concluded that the insurance and other claims provision was fairlystated.
Exceptional items: the Committee considered the treatment and disclosure of exceptional income and expenditure.
The assessment focused on the nature of the costs and the appropriateness of presenting them as exceptional following the Financial Reporting Council guidance issued in December 2013.
The Committee received a report on the Groups exceptional items from management and took into account the views of the external auditor.
Consideration was given to the Groups success in winning new contracts in the year, that the Group is not anticipating there being any exceptional costs for reorganisation and restructuring in 2015 and also that bid costs willbeincluded within operating costs from 2015.
Other matters: the Committee also considered the key assumptions underpinning the Groups defined benefit pension obligations, the adequacy of the liabilities arising from uncertain tax positions and the accounting for the Groups financial derivatives andthe associated tests for hedge effectiveness.
The Committee How the Committee spent its time received reports from management and considered the views of theauditor on the appropriateness of the defined benefit pension Financial statements and reports 25% n assumptions with reference to the latest market assumptions and External audit 13% n employee pension benefits.
Similarly, reports were received from Internal audit and risk management 34% management and the auditor on the taxation charge and the n adequacy of the taxation liabilities in the context of uncertain tax Tax Treasury 10% n positions.
Reports were also received from management and the Corporate governance 18% n auditor on the fair value of the Groups financial derivatives and support for the tests for hedge effectiveness, particularly on the Groups fuel derivatives following recent changes in market values.
com 55 Corporate Governance Governance report continued Following consideration, the Committee concluded that the defined Anti-bribery policy benefit pension assumptions were reasonable and the taxation A Group anti-bribery policy has been established and issued to all liabilities and financial derivatives were fairly stated.
Group companies and is also available on the Groups website at www.
The policy prohibits any inducement At the request of the Board, the Committee undertook a formal review of which results in a personal gain or advantage to the recipient or any the annual report process in terms of preparation, quality of content, key person or body associated with them, and which is intended to themes and messages, consistency of information and presentation.
influence them to take action which may not be solely in the interests From the information and assurance provided by management and the ofthe Group or of the person or body employing them or which they review conducted by the external auditor, the Committee was able to represent.
The prevention, detection and reporting of bribery is the confirm to the Board that the 2014 Annual Report, taken as a whole, responsibility of all employees throughout the Group.
Employees can isfair, balanced and understandable and provides the necessary report confidentially any suspicion of bribery via an externally facilitated information for shareholders to assess National Express performance, whistleblower helpline.
Whistleblowing policy Risk management and internal controls Whistleblowing policies are in place in each of the Groups The Board as a whole, including the Committee members, considers businessesand are also available on the Groups website, www.
the nature and extent of National Express risk management framework nationalexpressgroup.
The Board supports the highest standards and the risk profile that is acceptable to achieve the Companys strategic of corporate governance and ethical practices within all its operations objectives.
As a result, it is considered that the Board has fulfilled its and continues to review its policies on an ongoing basis.
The Board has obligations under the Code.
endorsed a set of principles which establish the framework for how its The Committee continues to be responsible for reviewing and businesses operate.
Key to these is working in an open and honest monitoring the adequacy, design and effectiveness of the Groups manner.
The Group is committed to the highest standards of quality, ongoing systems of internal control and risk management.
In that honesty, openness and accountability.
Employees are encouraged to regard, the Committee received reports from management, the Head raise genuine concerns under the policy either by contacting their line ofInternal Audit and the external auditor.
manager or telephoning a dedicated external helpline.
Any concerns raised are investigated carefully and thoroughly to assess what action, Further details of the internal controls are set out on pages 52. ifany, should be taken and confidential records are maintained.
The Asummary of the Companys risk management framework and an Company Secretary reports any matters of significance to the overview of its principal risks are detailed on pages 26 and 27. appropriate committee.
In 2014 there have been no cases relating tofraud or financial misconduct.
Internal audit The Committee has oversight responsibilities for the internal audit function which is led by the Head of Group Internal Audit.
External audit The external auditor is engaged to express an opinion on the The purpose of the internal audit function is to provide an independent, Companys financial statements.
The audit includes the review and test objective assessment of the effectiveness of internal controls, risk of the systems of internal financial control and the data contained in the management and governance processes throughout the Group.
financial statements to the extent necessary to express an audit opinion Thefunction adds value by: on the truth and fairness of the financial statements.
contributing to the continuous improvement of internal control and The Committee has responsibility to review and make related processes, including identifying and sharing good practice recommendations with regard to the appointment, re-appointment and across the Group: removal of the external auditor.
In making such recommendations, the addressing the safeguarding of assets, compliance with Committee considers auditor effectiveness and independence, partner applicablelaws and regulations and achievement of rotation andany other pertinent factors which may impact the external  objectives: auditorsappointment.
promoting business processes that deliver effective internal control External audit tendering atreasonable cost: and The Committee currently has no set policy on the tendering frequency of the external auditor or the tenure of the external auditor.
The Committee providing alignment with the Groups risk management process.
is aware of the audit tendering provisions in the Code and regularly An Internal Audit Charter sets out the responsibilities of both the internal considers the marketplace, benchmarking the current level of audit audit function in terms of its focus, programme of activity, scope of services that the Company receives along with the fees it pays and the investigations and reporting lines and management in terms of it value being delivered.
The Company last put its external audit contract providing support and co-operation at all levels of the business.
out to tender in 2011, following which Deloitte LLP was appointed as the Companys auditor.
The Committee is satisfied that Deloitte LLP During 2014, a targeted internal audit plan was agreed and undertaken continues to provide an effective external audit service andit will on certain of the Groups operations, systems and support functions continue to review the same each year in parallel with the Committees with subsequent reports, including management responses and review and determination as to when would be the most appropriate recommended actions plans, considered by the Audit Committee time to tender the external audit contract.
The performance of the Group internal audit function itself continues to be assessed on an ongoing basis and we believe it is effective in the role it carries out.
56 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information The majority of non-audit work undertaken by the external auditor Assessment of the effectiveness and independence during the year relates to advice in respect of tax advisory and other ofthe external auditor and external audit process regulatory services.
The Audit Committee assesses and reviews on a regular basis the independence and effectiveness of the external auditor.
As part of their The split between audit and non-audit fees for the year ended determination, the Audit Committee reviewed the scope, materiality 31December 2014 appears in note 6 to the consolidated accounts.
threshold and fees for the external audit plan and received and considered the external auditors assessment of the significant risks affecting the Group as detailed above.
The Committee also considers areport by the external auditor on the firms independence which is required in order to carry out their professional duties and responsibilities as auditor.
Additionally, the effectiveness of the 2014 external audit process was formally assessed by the Committee to meet the expectations set out Jackie Hunt inprovision C3.2 of the Code.
This was carried out through the use of Audit Committee Chair asurvey and analysis approach taking into account the views and 26 February 2015 opinions of the Group Finance team and divisional finance directors.
In so doing, the Committees review and qualitative assessment focused on: feedback and insights, process and communication, handling of issues and quality of team.
The Committee is satisfied that the external audit process continues to be effective and provides an appropriate independent challenge to the Groups senior management.
A few minor areas were identified for further focus and improvement as a result of the assessment and these will be addressed during the current year.
Having completed its assessment of both the external audit process and the external auditor for the financial period under review, the Committee is satisfied that the auditor has performed satisfactorily in 2014, that the audit process implemented was effective and that the external auditor remains independent.
Re-appointment of auditor The auditor is re-appointed on an annual basis.
Based on Deloittes work during the year, the Committee concluded that it was satisfied with its performance and we were happy to recommend to the Board that it be put forward to be re-appointed at the 2015 AGM.
Non-audit services The Committee has an approved policy on the provision of non-audit services by its auditor for the following types of service: services that are considered to have general pre-approval by the Audit Committee, by virtue of the approval of the policy: services that require specific pre-approval, on a case-by-case basis, before any work can commence: and services that cannot be supplied by the external auditor prohibitedservices.
The services that have general pre-approval are tax, transaction investigation and advisory and corporate finance services.
The fees forthese services are pre-approved up to 50,000 for each non-audit assignment undertaken and subject to an overall limit of 75% of the total fees paid to the external auditor.
For services exceeding this limit specific pre-approval is required.
In deciding whether or not to grant approval forthe provision of specific services by the external auditor, the Audit Committee includes in its consideration the following factors: i whether the external auditor is best placed to provide an effective andefficient service, given its knowledge and understanding of the Companys processes, systems and people: and ii the level of non-audit fees paid to the external auditor in the year asaproportion of the annual external audit fee.
com 57 Corporate Governance Governance report continued Role and responsibilities Nomination Committee overview The primary role of the Nomination Committee is to ensure that theBoard is appropriately structured and has in place the correct balance of individuals to discharge its duties effectively, and to lead the process by which new Board members are appointed.
Italso advises Dear shareholder, the Board on succession planning for Directors.
I am pleased to report on the work undertaken by the Nomination Committee the Committee during 2014.
The main focus of the The Committees terms of reference are reviewed annually and are Committee this year has been to continue to review the composition available on the Companys website, www.
of our Board both Executive and Non-Executive and to ensure that The Committees main duties and responsibilities in advising the Board succession planning for both Directors and senior management are summarised below: remains high on the agenda.
I am delighted to report that the recent responsibility for identifying and nominating, for the approval of the appointment of a new Group Finance Director, as detailed in this Board, candidates to fill Board vacancies as and when they arise: report, together with the search for an additional independent giving full consideration to succession planning and keeping under Non-Executive Director is progressing well: we will further strengthen review the leadership needs of the organisation, both Executive and our Board and its alignment to the Companys long-term operational Non-Executive: needs and governance oversight.
reviewing the time required from and spent by a Non-Executive Membership Director in fulfilling his or her duties: and The membership of the Committee during the year ended leading the process for Board appointments and making 31December 2014 is set out below.
Attendance at meetings recommendations to the Board: preparing a description of the role heldduring the year is shown on page 48. and requirements for any particular appointment based on its evaluation of the Board as a whole.
Member Position Member since Activities Sir John Armitt Committee Chair and 1 January 2013 During the year the Committee: Company Chairman reviewed succession plans across the Group: made a formal recommendation to the Board for the appointment Joaqun Ayuso Independent 26 February 2013 Non-Executive Director ofJane Kingston as a Non-Executive Director with effect from 26February 2014 following a search conducted by JCA Group: Jorge Cosmen Deputy Company 2 June 2008 recommended to the Board that Jackie Hunt succeed Tim Score Chairman both as Senior Independent Director and as Audit Committee Sir Andrew Foster Non-Executive Director 15 December 2004 Chairman with effect from 26 February 2014: evaluated the balance of skills, experience, independence, diversity Biographies appear on pages 44 and 45. and knowledge on the Board and then prepared a description of therole and capabilities required for the recruitment of a new Other attendees at Committee meetings: independent Non-Executive Director: Attendee oversaw the appointments process for a new independent NonExecutive Director and interviewed shortlisted candidates: and Company Secretary oversaw the process for the search for the vacant role of Group as Secretary to the Committee Finance Director and interviewed shortlisted candidates both internal Senior Independent Director and external following which the appointment of Matthew Ashley was subsequently recommended to the Board.
Group Chief Executive Diversity Group Human Resources Director Our goal at National Express is for our people to reach their full potential and to give their best as individuals and in teams.
In this context, we are External advisors: as appropriate committed to never discriminate on the grounds of race, colour, creed, disability, religion, ethnic origin, sex, sexual orientation or age.
We Full minutes are kept by the Secretary of the matters considered and maintain a policy of selecting the best available candidate for any decisions taken bythe Committee.
position and, with respect to Board appointments, take into account the guidance issued by the Equality and Human Rights Commission on Advisors appointments to boards and equality law.
Whilst National Express has During the year, the Committee appointed search consultants, set the aspirational target that, by the end of 2015, 30% of the Board will theZygos Partnership, to undertake a search for an additional be women, we are conscious ofthe ongoing debate regarding quotas independent Non-Executive Director in view of Sir Andrew Fosters and opportunities and the risks created by adhering to such quotas.
retirement from the Board with effect from the end of the Recognising that good progress has been made towards reaching our forthcomingAGM.
target with, as at the date of this report, 20% of our Board being female, we shall take the opportunity, when available, to increase the diversity of Russell Reynolds was also appointed to identify candidates forthe our Board further.
role of Group Finance Director to replace Jez Maiden who stepped down from the Board as an Executive Director with effect from 31December 2014.
Neither the Zygos Partnership nor Russell Reynolds has any other connection to the Company.
Sir John Armitt Nomination Committee Chair 26 February 2015 58 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Role and responsibilities Safety & Environment The Committees key responsibilities are summarised below: Committee overview responsibility for reviewing and challenging constructively the structure, content and operation of the safety management Dear shareholder, arrangements put in place by members of the Executive Safety is one of our Values: we only do what is safe and stop any management of the Groups operating companies: unsafe behaviour.
The management of the Groups environmental reporting, after every Committee meeting, to the Board on its impact on the communities it serves also forms a key component of observations on the safety management arrangements in place our Community Value.
The Safety & Environment Committee the andreviewing and making recommendations to the Board on any Committee, comprised solely of Non-Executive Directors, plays a specific safety management issues relating to the Company or any fundamental role in reviewing and challenging the structure, content subsidiary company: and and operation of the safety management arrangements which have been put in place by the Executive and in monitoring environmental reviewing and monitoring the Companys environmental performance and targets.
I am pleased to report that in 2014 we performance and targets.
continued to make good progress in our safety performance with Main activities during the year a17% improvement in responsible harm reported during the year.
Withrespect to the management of the Companys environmental During the year the Committee: responsibilities, I am particularly pleased to report that the Group reviewed the findings and recommendations of the comprehensive received external recognition by the Carbon Disclosure Project for external annual Audit of Corporate Governance of Safety undertaken itssignificant improvement in environmental performance and by Arthur D Little for 2013 in line with our Global Safety Standard: sustainability as a UK public company.
reviewed the findings and recommendations from the 2013 Membership independent review of the Groups Driving Out Harm programme: The membership of the Committee during the year ended monitored progress of the divisional action plans arising from the 31December 2014 is set out below.
Attendance at meetings held Driving Out Harm review: during the year is shown on page 48. reviewed the findings and actions arising from a comprehensive Member Position Member since auditof maintenance processes across the Group: Chris Muntwyler Committee Chair 11 May 2011 reviewed activity in health and wellbeing in the divisions: Sir John Armitt Company Chairman 1 January 2013 reviewed environmental policy, strategy, management and key Jorge Cosmen Deputy Company Chairman 14 December 2005 environmental performance indicators across the Group: and Joaqun Ayuso Independent 1 June 2011 monitored safety practices and procedures across the Group.
Non-Executive Director Sir Andrew Non-Executive Director 9 November 2004 The Companys detailed mandatory report on greenhouse gas Foster emissions in all of its businesses during 2014 can be found on pages20 and 21.
Lee Sander Independent 1 June 2011 Non-Executive Director The safety of our employees and customers is of critical importanceto the Board, as is the responsible management of our Jackie Hunt Senior Independent Director 13 September 2012 environmental obligations.
I would like to thank Dean Finch and his team for the leadership they show in these areas.
Tim Score Senior Independent Director 23 March 2005 Jane Kingston Independent 26 February 2014 Non-Executive Director Biographies appear on pages 44 and 45.
Chris Muntwyler Appointed Senior Independent Director on 26 February 2014.
Safety & Environment Committee Chair Resigned 25 February 2014.
Other attendees at Committee meetings: Attendee Company Secretary as Secretary to the Committee Group Chief Executive Group Finance Director Group Safety Director Group Property and Environment Director Full minutes are kept by the Secretary of the matters considered and decisions taken by the Committee.
The Committees terms of reference are reviewed annually and are available on the Companys website, www.
