Strategic Report Business review: Spain and Morocco Challenging year but revenue management driving improvement in the second half Underlying revenue for ALSA including Morocco increased by 1% when adjusting for the one-off impact of the industrial action.
Revenue in Spain fell 1.3% on a like-for-like basis and revenue in Morocco increased by 22%, primarily due to growth in Tangier.
Normalised operating profit on a local currency basis was 94.1 million 2013: 96.0m and 75.8 million in Sterling terms 2013: 81.5m, with a return to operating profit growth on a local currency basis in the second half of the year.
The operating margin of 14.1% 2013: 14.4% remains the best in class for a Spanish bus and coach operator.
Operational excellence ALSA is recognised as an excellent operator in public transport and in 2014 we received the Merit Award in Land Transport from the Ministry ofPublic Works.
The economic environment remains challenging in Spain, which is impacting demand for travel, particularly long-distance travel.
At the Javier Carbajo same time we are experiencing increased competition from rail on eight Chief Executive, ALSA corridors, with more aggressive regional pricing.
In response to this, we have developed a strategic action plan to improve our competitive position and the customer travel experience.
2014 2013 This plan includes some additional services on certain routes, journey Year ended 31 December m m time improvements, on-board entertainment and the introduction of revenue management on 90 intercity routes.
This prompt response in Revenue 538.1 564.6 mid-2014 drew on the experience and expertise from within the Group, Normalised operating profit 75.8 81.5 especially UK Coach.
With a determination to ensure we retained price leadership on these routes, we changed our organisational structure and strengthened our pricing capability to enable a quicker response Revenue 667.7 665.0 onpricing decisions and the use of dynamic fares.
This has been Normalised operating profit 94.1 96.0 combined with higher profile and more focused marketing emphasising our low cost services and we have also introduced new lower cost Operating margin 14.1% 14.4% distribution channels.
Significantly, following these initiatives we have seen passenger volumes grow 4% in the second half, with revenue only Overview of 2014 2% lower, on routes where we have introduced revenue management.
ALSA saw a decline in normalised operating profit of 2% over the year on a local currency basis.
This performance reflects the ongoing impact We remain focused on delivering further cost efficiencies in order of challenging economic conditions and rail competition on intercity tomitigate the impact of lower fares and cost inflation.
In 2014 we coach patronage, together with the effect of industrial action in Spain consolidated our intercity and urban transport operations into a single inthe first half the year.
Despite these challenges, overall revenue grew transport division and began centralising other business functions on a local currency basis, with growth in the second half of the year including purchasing.
We have also achieved further efficiencies in our more than offsetting the headwinds and one-off events in the first half.
sales network with a greater number of activities now being undertaken Thisgrowth has been driven by contract wins in Spain, including the by our agents.
Over the past year we have also increased our efficiency successful retention of our largest concession to come up for renewal on fuel consumption, resulting in a 2% reduction in fuel consumption, todate, together with strong growth in Morocco, where revenues driven by a programme of consumption improvement measures, increased by 22%.
Our Moroccan performance has been driven by including fuel efficient driver training.
additional services on our existing operations in Marrakech and Agadir, These actions are already delivering efficiencies and we are working coupled with the first time contribution from our operations in Tangier, onother opportunities for further savings: in fuel: removing unprofitable with the official launch of our fleet of 120 new buses in September.
mileage: and consolidating corporate teams and functions.
Drawing on Total revenue for the year in local currency grew by 0.4% to 667.7 the success of the North American up or out strategy, we have taken million 2013: 665.0m, although reported revenue declined by 5% to asimilar targeted approach with uncommercial Spanish contracts.
538.1 million 2013: 564.6m, reflecting the appreciation of Sterling These actions will continue to deliver cost savings in 2015. over the year.
Our inter-city coach business has experienced growing m competition on eight key corridors, with five corridors competing against 2013 normalised operating profit 96.0 high speed rail, while the other three are competing with aggressively priced regional rail.
Together these eight corridors account for 24% of Net impact of changes in fares and ALSAs total revenue.
As we reported at the half year, Renfe has been services increased competition 7.4 particularly aggressive on pricing with fare reductions of around 25% Revenue management 4.0 while simultaneously increasing the quota of discounted tickets Other cost inflation 2.2 available.
While this activity has continued throughout the second half ofthe year, we have taken action to respond rapidly and effectively to Cost efficiencies 5.7 changes in the market, implementing revenue management which has Strike 2.0 helped to drive an improved revenue performance in the second half ofthe year.
2014 normalised operating profit 94.1 32 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Cash and returns In 2014, ALSA delivered another strong performance, generating operating cash of 122 million with operating cash conversion of 130%, reflecting improvement in working capital of 11 million, mostly driven byaction taken to reduce receivables.
We have maintained our disciplined approach to capital investment.
In2014 we invested 26 million, mainly in fleet, including new buses forour contract renewal in Bizkaia.
Creating new opportunities We believe there are further opportunities to be gained from the programmes we started in 2014.
We will extend the revenue management system and are determined to ensure we maintain our price leadership.
Our up or out strategy has further to run and our ongoing cost efficiency programme will continue to deliver savings.
Partnership: Muvete employment programme Our focus is to ensure we are well placed for the upcoming concession Gloria Aza renewal process.
The main contract renewal process starts this year Director of the MA in Transport and Logistics Management with any impact from new terms for our larger concessions unlikely University of Oviedo, Spain tobefelt until 2017.
We are determined to maintain our significant marketshare.
Our bidding team is industry-leading and has already ALSA has introduced a work experience programme which is helping demonstrated its effectiveness in retaining and growing our significant young people into work.
In addition, we have negotiated a five-year extension until2024 to the Madrid Consortium contracts, securing 350 million The Muvete work programme for young people launched by ALSA is ofadditional revenues.
We expect some pressure on margins from the an excellent initiative.
It provides Spanish university students with an concession renewals, which is why we already have cost efficiency opportunity to have their first contact with the world of work and a real andrevenue management programmes in place.
We will also look to working experience within a company.
This will undoubtedly grant again leverage the Group expertise and experience in customised them access to more job opportunities in the future.
e-marketing: building on UK Coachs leadership similar programmes willbe rolled out across the businesses.
Building on the success of our operations in a third Moroccan city While the Spanish market is clearly changing, it is moving towards Tangier we believe there continue to be good opportunities for further models we already operate under and have a significant level of growth.
This is both through organic growth and in other cities across expertise in.
Morocco, where our services excellent reputation is opening up We will also analyse bolt-on acquisitions in Spain as far as they meet newopportunities.
We continue to monitor future prospects for private sector development in the domestic rail market while the liberalisation of the bus market in Portugal could also present attractive opportunities.
Excellence Master Driver The National Express Master Driver programme was created across the Group to encourage and recognise excellence in driving.
It provides a framework to measure the performance of drivers and identify those with an impeccable safety record and outstanding driving skills.
But it goes beyond just driving skills to recognise those drivers who are ambassadors for customer service, who impress customers each and every day through consistent and exceptional demonstration of National Express customer service standards.
The programme is being followed throughout the Groups businesses, but ALSA has made particularly good progress in introducing it.
The programme is based on an ongoing assessment of the results from each driver.
Depending on their score they are classified into three categories Professional Driver, Advanced Driver and Master Driver.
Drivers are incentivised to work on improving their scores, enabling them to reach higher levels.
During 2014, more than 1,300 drivers from ALSA took part in the Master Driver programme, achieving excellent results and 800 more will participate in 2015.
ALSA drivers who participated in one of the Master Driver training courses www.
