Strategic Report Managing our resources and relationships Living our values Four years on from their launch, our Vision and Values continue to Our vision is to earn the lifetime loyalty of our provide the foundation for our business.
customers by consistently delivering frequent, high Our Vision is to earn the lifetime loyalty of our customers by consistently performing public transport services which offer delivering frequent, high performing public transport services which excellent value.
This provides a clear focus both in running our coreoperations and in developing new opportunities.
Our five Values continue to underpin the Vision and help us to prioritise what we focus on.
The recent addition of Excellence as a fifth value reflected a desire to be excellent in everything we do.
It is increasingly clear that our future success depends on it.
Excellence is what our Excellence Safety existing customers demand.
As our most recent successes in German We constantly strive We only do what to be excellent in all is safe and stop any rail and Bahrain demonstrate, a reputation for operational excellence that we do unsafe behaviour hasbeen crucial in winning contracts in new markets.
Excellence That is why during 2014 the business focused on embedding Excellence in all our business, with efforts particularly channelled intoachieving external accreditation for our approach to quality management.
Commuinty Customers We are active in We place them at the the communities we heart of our business Across the Group, work has progressed towards the goal of continually serve to generate and relentlessly meet delivering sustainable excellence.
In Europe we are working towards economic, social and their expectations environmental value the European Foundation for Quality Management EFQM Excellence Model, which provides a benchmark to compare ourselves against other leading companies.
Accreditation is granted after a rigorous People We develop the talents, review by external assessors.
In North America we are working to reward the exceptional thecomplementary Baldrige excellence model.
performance and respect the rights of all our employees c2c was the first of our businesses to gain a five star quality rating, in 2013, and the experiences gained during that process have helped the UK Bus and UK Coach businesses in seeking accreditation.
c2c continues to lead performance in the rail industry with three successive years at the top of the UKs rail punctuality league table.
It also holds both the annual and four week punctuality records.
Our plans for the new franchise we began operating in November 2014 will extend this approach to excellence and embrace new levels of customer service and technology to further enhance our operation.
During 2014, UK Coach had its first EFQM assessment and was awarded four stars by the British Quality Foundation, the body which grants accreditation in the UK.
This was an excellent result Partnerships deliver business benefits Our ability to build and maintain strong relationships with our partners is a key driver of our success, both in delivering consistent, high performing public transport services and in winning new contracts in both new and existing markets.
Throughout this report we provide examples of how working in partnership is helping to deliver benefits to our customers and the wider communities we operate in: Providing work experience opportunities in Spain p33 Donating surplus school buses to help the community p35 Transforming bus travel in the West Midlands p37 Creating an innovative partnership with the HighwaysAgency p39 Working with local authorities to improve rail services p41 c2c continues to lead performance in the rail industry with three successive years at the top of the UK rail punctuality league table 16 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information We have reviewed our safety performance since the 2010 launch oftheDriving Out Harm programme using this new index.
Although safety requires a relentless focus this has helped identify the good progress we have made.
Our external safety auditors Arthur D Little have concluded that total responsible harm has reduced by 54% in fouryears.
Individual divisions have also recorded particular highlights in the year.
c2c, for example, had zero signals passed at danger SPADs during the year.
This was achieved through continual driver dialogue, including driver and signaller workshops, and targeted safety communications and training throughout the year.
UK Coach was awarded the maximum five stars in the British Safety Councils Five Star Health and Safety Audit and was certified as meeting the OHSAS 18001 international occupational Health and Safety Management Standard.
This award recognises the quality of our processes and systems.
You can find out more about this in our Safetycase study on page 39.
In Morocco the continuing focus on driver training, including the use of bus simulators and twice yearly training and assessment days for drivers, has delivered sustained improvements in safety performance.
You can read more about our safety performance in our Keyperformance indicators section on page 22.
Continual training for our drivers in Morocco has delivered sustained improvements in safety The Driving Out Harm programme and recognised UK Coachs approach to quality management and excellence.
UK Coach is determined to emulate c2c and secure a aims to ensure that safety is always five star rating at its next assessment.
front of everyones mind so that we Both ALSA and UK Bus are currently actively preparing for their first EFQM assessments in the summer of 2015.
North America expect achieve a safety record which is best theirfirst Illinois Performance Excellence assessment in autumn 2015. in class among transport operators.
Apart from achieving formal accreditation we are pleased to have gained external recognition during the year for a number of initiatives.
UK Bus won awards at both the National Transport Awards and UK Bus Awards for its work with Centro on Transforming Bus Travel in the West Midlands.
Our ability to manage disruption at c2c was recognised at the Golden Whistles Awards, and we picked up two Golden Merit Awards from the National School Transportation Association in the USA.
ALSA also won a Merit Award in Land Transport from the Ministry of Public Works in recognition of its reputation as an excellent public transport operator.
Safety Safety is our highest priority in whatever we do as a business and we have appropriate management systems in place across the Group.
Overall responsibility for safety sits with our Group Chief Executive, Dean Finch, and our divisional Managing Directors who set out annual plans and priorities for improved performance.
The Driving Out Harm programme, launched across National Express Group in 2010, aims to ensure that safety is always front of everyones mind so that we achieve a safety record which is best in class among transport operators.
Our aim is to drive out all risks of harm to our customers, our colleagues and others affected by our business.
Alongside our standard safety key performance indicators KPIs, during 2014 we introduced a new Fatalities and Weighted Injuries index providing a measure of total responsible harm.
This new index is based on the well-established harm index used across the UK rail industry.
This has been adapted to more accurately reflect the way the bus and coach industry records incidents, with greater weighting being given toLost Time Injuries compared with the rail-only methodology.
Our reputation for delivering great service is reflected in a 97% retention rate for North American school bus contracts www.
com 17 Strategic Report Managing our resources and relationships continued Customers People We never forget that without our customers we would not have a We continue to run employee surveys to measure the engagement of business, so getting things right is critical.
Our five Customer Golden our people.
Every year, we use the results to influence how we make Rules set out the standard we expect all employees to follow.
National Express a better place to work.
We believe this is really delivering results with the benefit evident in our As in previous years we used an external research company, customer satisfaction scores where most of our operations are leaders VaLUENTiS, to conduct the UK surveys.
Using the same company in their markets.
North American School Bus, for example, has retained makes it easier to make comparisons across divisions.
The results show 97% of the contracts it bid for, significantly ahead of its peers.
Over 93% that in 2014 we made further progress in terms of engagement.
Many of customers would also recommend us to other school boards, with of our business units are the highest in VaLUENTiS database: quality of service, safety and value being the key considerations.
Our corporate functions have again registered the highest official A particular highlight is our UK Coach business being named the engagement score in VaLUENTiS database.
The score of 782 is countrys most trusted ground transportation company by the Institute well ahead of the UK norm of 668. of Customer Service, with customers more likely to recommend it to UK Coach has again achieved the highest score in the Bus Coach others compared with competing rail, bus and coach providers.
section of the VaLUENTiS database.
The retention of the new Essex Thameside franchise provided an c2c has the highest score for any train operating company opportunity to launch a range of new customer initiatives, including in VaLUENTiS database.
The new c2c Smart card allows c2c season ticket holders to switch from paper tickets to an Oyster-style tap-and-go Our North America employee survey is also run by an independent smartcard ticket they can use anywhere on the c2c route.
In addition, company, in this case TNS.
In 2014, 91% of employees said they enjoy c2c and Barclaycard have launched a pilot of the contactless c2c bPay working for the business, two percentage points ahead of the 2013 wristband which allows passengers to pay for their travel without buying score.
Similarly, there was a two percentage point increase in people a separate ticket.
If successful, passengers will be able to travel using saying they would recommend the business as a good place to work, the c2c bPay wristband and all forms of contactless payment across up to 84%.
Referring to our results, Mike Schroeder, CEO of TNS the entire c2c route.
Employee Insights, said: National Express continues to demonstrate exceptional performance when it comes to employee satisfaction and Apart from smart ticketing, c2c customers now benefit from the new engagement.
travel app, c2c Live, which provides the latest travel information and free Wi-Fi at stations.
Across the Group we employ 42,000 people.
We want every one of them to reach their full potential and give their best.
We aim to reward Listening to our customers helps shape the services we deliver.
All exceptional performance and respect the rights of all our employees.
of our businesses survey their customers, with, for example, ALSA increasing its activity in this area last year with 30,000 surveys One of our aims for 2014 was to introduce a common employee benefits completed, 10,000 comments received and 100 face-to-face interviews package for our UK employees.
This was to ensure all our people could completed.
This activity helps increase customer loyalty, and provides benefit from the same discounts and offers.
This was launched using useful insights to improve service delivery.
the My National Express banner, and was well received.
For example, in UK Bus, we have developed this During the year, each business has progressed local initiatives to build key relationship by getting all 27 elected members of Centro to adopt employee engagement.
The councillors regularly travel on the routes In UK Coach, a coaching programme was introduced to help managers and see for themselves the issues which customers raise.
Another get the most from their teams and develop new ideas and revenue.
initiative to get closer to passengers is the launch of our first customer The programme covered 135 managers across UK Coach.
The panel comprises eight customers who have a cross-section of user experiences, and will be used to discuss concerns A new way of engaging with employees was piloted in UK Bus.
and provide feedback on new products and services.
AGarage Council was set up at the biggest garage in Birmingham, Centro members have adopted bus routes across the West Midlands to get A common benefits package for UK employees has been developed and closer to customer issues promoted under the My National Express banner 18 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information creating a forum for employees to discuss concerns and be consulted The National Express Foundation completed its third year of operation on changes.
The Garage Council has proved a success at bringing supporting young people with challenging financial circumstances.
together people from different functions to debate shared issues.
Awards were made to 13 community groups and three educational establishments, bringing the total of young people to benefit from the One of the challenges for c2c in preparing for its new franchise was foundation since its inception to 2,700. the need to move everyone over seamlessly to a new company.
This involved transferring everyone through TUPE, including re-organising Our National Express Giving Foundation in North America is now the management structure, in time to meet all the committed obligations established and providing grants to staff.
It is awaiting final approval for launch.
from the US tax authorities to begin awarding external grants.
In 2014 it provided $10,000 in grants to staff.
ALSA, like all our divisions, recognises long service with the company.
During 2014, ALSA recognised 130 employees for long service of 20, A highlight of the year was the launch of UK Coachs Youth Promise 30 and 40 years.
The commitment of these employees is clear.
They an industry-leading package of commitments shaped by members of have chosen to stay with ALSA for the long term, and we are pleased the UK Youth Parliament.
The package includes the creation of new tobe able to celebrate their service to the company.
apprenticeships, roll out of a structured work experience scheme and investment of thousands of employee hours in young peoples causes.
National Express has a number of policies in place to protect Every member of UK Coach staff has been granted one day of paid leave andpromote employee welfare, such as the workplace rights and a year to volunteer to help achieve this.
The Youth Promise also includes human rights policies, as well as disability, equal opportunities and specific partnerships with The Princes Trust, Scouts and Whizz-Kidz.
Any alleged breaches of these policies are The centenary of the start of the First World War was marked by UK Bus fullyinvestigated by the Company and appropriate action taken with a special remembrance service at the business own war memorial wherenecessary.
Wherever our employees choose to be represented in Birmingham.
To support this event the business funded the creation by unions, National Express actively seeks to maintain relationships of a special book which traced the history of all the former employees based on mutual respect and transparency.
who are named on the memorial.
The Employee Charity Panel continues to support UK employees who Employee, senior management and director numbers are engaged in volunteering or fundraising.
During 2014, 65 groups by gender at end 2014 benefited from grants from the panel.
Male Female Our support for the Special Olympics continues in North America.
Directors 8 2 Employees offer up their time to volunteer at events and we provide shuttle buses for the events.
This support was recognised by Special Senior managers 47 14 Olympics Illinois in June when they presented Durham School Services All employees 24,400 17,853 with an Outstanding Organisation Award.
Across the Group, we made charitable donations totalling 582,012 Community during 2014 2013: 356,000.
We recognise that we have a number of important responsibilities towards the communities in which we operate, be that delivering vital transport services to get people about, managing our environmental impact or providing job opportunities for young people.
We have a strong record of community involvement and in 2014 this continued.
We are a major employer, and recognise our role in promoting new job opportunities for those in the communities we serve.
In the last year our UK Bus and Coach businesses took on 42 apprentices.
Our groundbreaking West Midlands Routes to Work partnership with the Department for Work and Pensions has seen over 1,850 new job opportunities filled over the last three years.
As well as hiring new staff, we hoped the partnership would broaden the diversity of our workforce.
We are pleased, therefore, that it has helped bring the average age of our workforce down by six years and also seen a record number of women apply for jobs.
Our ground-breaking West Midlands Routes to Work partnership with the Department for Work and Pensions has seen over 1,850 new job opportunities filled over the last threeyears.
Scouts is one of the organisations supported by the Youth Promise in UK Coach www.
com 19 Strategic Report Managing our resources and relationships continued Another external measure is the Carbon Saver Standard.
Our work to Managing our environmental impacts cut energy costs has continued to deliver carbon emission reductions, One of the key deliverables under our Community value is meeting resulting in our UK divisions achieving the top Gold Standard.
Under the guidance of our Group Property and Environment Director each division is challenged with In 2014, we made a new voluntary commitment to work towards the taking the necessary actions to meet ambitious environmental targets.
production and use of climate change related information in our Annual Report.
This commitment, developed by the Climate Disclosure In 2014, we delivered a strong environmental performance and set new Standards Board, highlights the importance we place in considering targets for the next new three-year period.
Expectations on businesses every opportunity associated with climate change.
in this area have increased since the previous targets were set in 2010.
Only fuel, site energy and waste were considered as key indicators then, One of our goals to achieve Excellence in our management of but in setting the targets for 2014-2017 we have included additional environmental performance is to work towards the relevant international indicators water and total carbon emissions.
These new targets apply standards for this activity.
Significant progress was made in 2014 with to all areas of our business and each Managing Director isaccountable our Spanish division, achieving both the ISO 14001:2004 Standard for delivering them.
for environmental management and the ISO 50001:2011 Standard for energy management standards in all its transport and maintenance The new targets were set after considerable research into which companies and depots.
Certifications were also obtained for four major environmental parameters have a significant impact on our carbon coach stations in Spain.
Our other businesses are committed to emissions and the climate change agenda.
We set targets on reducing achieving these standards as part of achieving external accreditation our consumption of fuel, site energy, water and waste with the aim forexcellence.
ofreducing our total carbon emissions.
The targets set will stretch our divisions, ensuring we meet our corporate ambition of demonstrating In 2013 we reported the greenhouse gas GHG emissions for the whole excellent global environmental performance.
We consider factors such Group for the first time.
Our continued focus on reducing emissions has as our supply chain, available investment and what our competitors are resulted in a further reduction in emissions in 2014.
This excellent doing in our sector.
The uniformity of reporting environmental KPI data in performance was delivered in a year which saw a growth in our the transport sector is poor.
Whilst competitors look to report the same business and an increase in the number of vehicles we operate.
key areas such as fuel, site energy, waste, water and carbon, they do not do itconsistently across their businesses.
National Express Group total emissions Group environmental KPI targets 2014-2017 2013 vs 2014 tCO e 2 1 Fuel: 3% reduction in fuel consumption 900,000 per passenger kilometre 750,000 2 Site energy: 20% reduction in total consumption 3 Waste: 80% reduction in non-hazardous waste to landfill 600,000 3 4 Water: 10% m reduction in total consumption 450,000 5 Total carbon emissions: 4% reduction in carbon emissions per passenger kilometre 300,000 All KPIs from 2013 baseline 150,000 We value external validation of our environmental performance as it 0 provides assurance that our strategy is delivering and the opportunity 2013 2014 to benchmark against our peers.
One of those external measures is the Carbon Disclosure Project CDP, which helps us to manage our carbon usage.
The CDP is In 2014, we delivered a strong anindependent assessment of a companys strategy, approach, environmental performance achievements and performance in all environmental matters.
In October2014, the CDP released its formal assessment of over 2,000 andsetnew targets for the UKcompanies.
We were awarded a performance band of B with a disclosure score of 85, a significant increase on our previous score nextthree-yearperiod.
andthe largest improvement in the sector.
This significant improvement in the scoring was due to the efforts of all our divisions, with each having its performance data independently assessed.
Our score provides evidence that our strategy is working andproviding tangible results in making us more efficient and sustainable.
Further information on our carbon performance can befound on ourGroup website.
20 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information In 2015 we are committed to ensuring that the GHG accounting system, Greenhouse gas emissions reporting for 2014 results and accompanying reports remain robust, continue to enhance our Group level emission performance and are in compliance with the Tonnes of Emissions from: mandatory requirement for carbon reporting.
CO e 2 Combustion of fuel and operation of facilities 750,523 The Safety & Environment Committee reviews and monitors our GHG Protocol Scope 1 environmental systems and processes, makes recommendations on specific issues, and was responsible for setting the new Group targets Electricity, heat, steam and cooling purchased for 66,677 for 2014-2017.
A priority for improvement is the consistency of our own use GHG Protocol Scope 2 internal environmental reporting and these new targets will fully Other upstream emissions 7,853 incorporate our Spanish and North American businesses for the GHG Protocol Scope 3 first time.
Further information about the role and responsibilities oftheCommittee can be found on page 59.
Total 825,053 Greenhouse gas emissions reporting for 2014 tCO e Intensity metric tonnes CO e million 2014 2013 % 2 2 revenue tonnes CO e million revenue 442 441 0.19 2 13% Group totals million pass.
km 23.27 22.95 1.40 2 17% Revenue million 1,867.4 1,891.3 0.01 Methodology 5% National Express has reported on all of the emission sources required under the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and 36% Directors Report Regulations 2013.
These sources fall within our consolidated financial statements.
We do not have responsibility n Coach owned and third party 104,381 forany emission sources that are not included in our .
Metro 142,312 n Trains c2c 44,724 The method we have used to calculate GHG emissions is the GHGProtocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard n Leased vehicles and business travel UK 443 revised edition, together with the latest emission factors from n ALSA 296,214 recognised public sources including, but not limited to, the n North America 236,979 Departmentfor Environment, Food and Rural Affairs, the International Energy Agency, the US Energy Information Total 825,053 Administration, the US Environmental Protection Agency  panel on Climate Change.
We have used a materiality threshold of 5% and have accounted forall material sources of GHG emissions.
Our continued focus on reducing emissions has resulted in a further reduction in emissions in 2014.
Youngsters from Arc Theatre set up in Basildon Station to deliver their National Express Foundation funded performance about anti-social behaviour www.
