Strategic Report Business review: UK Bus Strong performance with the partnership approach drivingfurthergrowth m 2013 normalised operating profit 31.2 Net impact from revenue growth 5.3 Fuel cost 0.6 Other cost inflation 5.6 Cost efficiencies 4.2 Other 0.5 2014 normalised operating profit 34.0 Operational excellence We believe our partnership approach is a key driver for delivering a combination of superior service standards and customer offering together with profitable growth.
In 2014, our Transforming Bus Travel partnership with Centro won two industry awards including the National Peter Coates Transport Award for the Top Transport Team Partnership of the Year, Managing Director, UK Bus recognising our industry leading relationship with Centro the West Midlands Passenger Transport Executive.
We are making excellent progress towards meeting all of our commitments, particularly with regard to safety and security.
2014 2013 Year ended 31 December m m Operational delivery is crucial for achieving profitable growth.
In 2014, Revenue 281.0 273.4 our service delivery has continued to improve, with increased punctuality and a reduction in customer complaints.
This has been Operating profit 34.0 31.2 reflected in customer satisfaction of 86% in the 2014 Passenger Focus Operating margin 12.1% 11.4% survey, an 8% increase on the 2013 score.
After a strong performance last year, we have seen punctuality improve by 2%, despite Overview of 2014 unprecedented levels of roadworks in the second half of the year.
UK Bus delivered a strong performance with revenue growth driven Ongoing network improvements have driven further growth in byacombination of increased passenger volume and price inflation.
Our network reviews enable us to drive further growth Passenger growth has reflected our continued investment in fleet, inpassengers as we meet new customer demand, for example, service and technology.
working closely with Jaguar Land Rover at their factories, on the new Total revenue grew by 3% to 281.0 million 2013: 273.4m with i54business park near Wolverhampton and in Birmingham and Solihull.
like-for-like commercial revenue growth of 3%.
In the West Midlands The i54 development is an excellent example of how we have worked commercial passenger journeys rose by nearly 1% in the year, whilst closely with employers, local councils and Centro by adapting our concession and other income increased by 3%.
commercial services to support economic growth, while delivering excellent value to both customers and the taxpayer.
Growth % New route-branded buses have been introduced on key corridors, Like-for-like commercial revenue 3 supported by marketing campaigns, driving higher levels of passenger volume growth on those routes.
We continue to drive improvements in Mileage operational performance through the use of technology.
In 2014, we Underlying commercial revenue 3 rolled out our Automatic Vehicle Location tracking system to iPads used by every roadside inspector, allowing more responsive management of Concession and other revenue 3 our services, and improved customer information.
In addition, over Total revenue 3 250,000 mobile users downloaded our West Midlands bus app and wehave launched a new app for customers in Coventry.
Normalised operating profit was strong, with growth of 9% to Our increasing number of ticket options and focus on value is driving 34.0million 2013: 31.2m, reflecting both revenue growth and cost growth in passenger volumes.
We have seen further growth in travelcards efficiencies.
The operating margin has now risen to 12.1% 2013: 11.4%, and day tickets, both of which reduce cost to the passenger and increase and we believe this level of margin is sustainable supported by our loyalty to National Express services.
In 2013, we helped introduce industry strong partnership relationships.
leading multi-operator smartcards, in partnership with Centro, and wehave seen a huge increase over the past year, with over 1 million smartcard passenger journeys taken and rapid expansion continuing, driving revenue growth.
In 2015 we will reinforce our leadership credentialswith the launch of a Pay As You Go smart ticketing option.
We have also made significant improvements in safety, both for customers and employees, resulting in a lower number of injuries andassaults and reduced cost of claims.
36 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Cash and returns The UK Bus business generates an excellent return on capital, delivering good asset utilisation and profitable returns on investment.
In 2014, we delivered a strong performance generating operating cash of 45 million.
We continue to maintain our disciplined approach to investment, targeting areas which will deliver the greatest returns.
Capital expenditure will rise in 2015, predominantly due to the investment in new buses as described below, which in turn will drive growth in passenger volumes.
Creating new opportunities UK Bus is a stable, strong return on capital business, with opportunity for organic revenue growth and margin improvement within its existing footprint.
Through investment in fleet, technology and structural costreduction, we are seeking to improve passenger volume growth and profitability.
Partnership: Transforming bus travel with Centro Via our ground-breaking Transforming Bus Travel partnership with Cllr.
John McNicholas Centro, we are jointly committed to a range of initiatives and investments Chairman, Centro to enhance bus services in the West Midlands.
In 2015, we will make a record level of investment of 37 million, of which 34 million is in 171 Since 2009 we have worked in partnership with the West Midlands new, high-quality vehicles.
Importantly, this investment has unlocked integrated transport authority, Centro, to improve the experience of local authority commitment to make significant highways investment in buscustomers.
bus priority schemes on key routes in Birmingham and Solihull.
These Our award winning partnership with National Express has led to big schemes will enable our new Platinum buses to deliver faster journey increases in customer satisfaction, record levels of investment and an times as well as superior passenger comfort, helping to drive further industry leading smartcard.
We have delivered 100% of the objectives growth in passengers.
We believe there is real opportunity to continue set in our last two partnerships and are on course to complete all of growing passenger numbers through this approach where our those set in our current agreement.
increased investment in improved services is complemented by local authority investment in improved road conditions and punctuality.
Our tram service will be extended through the centre of Birmingham In 2015 we will complete delivery of the 83 Transforming Bus Travel in2015, with new longer trams now in service, adding nearly 50% partnership commitments, and plan to sign the fourth generation of additional capacity.
thepartnership, building upon our award-winning achievements.
Finally in 2014, we won a number of private tender contracts including We will also make further enhancements to our industry-leading business with John Lewis, Amazon and DHL, and we will look to build multi-operator smartcards, which will be extended to our tram operation, on this success in 2015. and we will launch and roll out a Pay As You Go option, both of which will promote greater customer loyalty and growth in passenger journeys.
People Health Bus A purpose built health bus, complete with a fully trained nurse and consultation rooms, is now visiting National Express bus garages offering free health advice and support to all employees.
The bus was created following comments in our annual employee survey which praised our employee safety awareness but asked for similar support in health and wellbeing.
The Health Bus was designed and constructed by our own engineers and fitters who adapted a redundant bus into a modern, mobile health facility offering two consultation areas and a waiting room.
Confidential advice is offered during each 20-minute appointment by a fully qualified nurse who also performs checks on blood pressure, eyesight and cholesterol.
Our innovative and industry-leading Health Bus now offers prebookable appointments with visits planned to ensure that it covers both day and night workers.
It has already supported over 1,000 employees who have overwhelmingly given this new facility their full support via feedback.
This initiative has also been welcomed by Unite union representative Noel Mulvey, who said Were really pleased that National Express has invested in the Health Bus.
There is nothing more important than your health and it is great that the Company is The Health Bus provides a well equipped, quiet environment looking after us in this way.
