D e l i v e r i n g P n e o e p w l e o p p o r t u n i t i e s y t e f a S e c n e l l l e e d c x o e m y l a g C e n s t o o s a i m r t e t Strategic Report Our business model and strategy Delivering long term shareholder value Our markets Bus, Coach, School Bus, Rail Economic returns Increasing numbers Resources and of passengers and relationships contracts, organic Shareholder Customers, Employees, revenue and profit value creation Government, Communities, growth, cash Know-How generation, increasing return on capital employed Operational excellence Safety, Customer Service, Operational efficiency Resources and relationships Risk management Corporate governance Four years on from their launch, our Vision The Group has a well established governance Governance provides a framework within andValues continue to provide the foundation structure with internal control and risk which the Board sets its values and delivers for our business.
Our Vision, to earn the management systems.
The risk management long term success for the Company and its lifetimeloyalty of our customers by consistently process provides a framework to identify, investors whilst recognising its duties towards delivering frequent, high performing public assess and manage risks to the Groups overall the wider stakeholder community.
The transport services which offer excellent value, strategy and the contribution of its divisions.
NationalExpress Board is committed to provides a clear focus both in running our Italso gives business unit management formal ensuring that high standards of good corporate coreoperations and in developing new tools to identify and manage risk and allows governance, values and behaviours are opportunities.
Our five Values continue to Group management to identify and manage consistently applied throughout the Group.
underpin the Vision and help us to prioritise the risks that are likely to have a more TheCorporate Governance section of the what we focus on.
The addition of Excellence significant impact on the financial results and Annual Report and Accounts sets out our as a fifth value in 2013 reflected a desire to strategy.
In addition, it allows the Board to fulfil approach with regard to the various aspects of beexcellent in everything we do.
During 2014 its governance responsibilities by making a the governance of the Company and includes Excellence has become embedded in all balanced and understandable assessment of reports from each of the Board Committees ourbusinesses.
the risk management process and outputs.
Read more p16 Read more p24 Read more p42 12 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 m a s n r u r i e n i u s t p y O u o b g n r i u r e O v i l e D G e e c n n e e l r l a e t c i x n E g s u p e r i o r c C a u s s t h o m a e n r s d r e t u r n s Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Our business model The Group uses its operational expertise, experience and accumulated We are driving cost efficiencies across the Group to protect and know-how to provide best in class transport services.
value our safe, punctual and frequent services that are available at Most of all, we will ensure that our customers and employees are affordable prices.
Private transport operators can provide a higher standard of service The Group has a relatively decentralised management structure, with a andbetter value for money than public or state management.
National strong degree of autonomy for each divisions leadership, working within Express is able to leverage this expertise across different modes of our framework of operational and financial strategic objectives.
There transport and different geographies.
Our focus on operational are some economies of scale in procurement, insurance, overhead excellence allows us to deliver long-term sustainable growth: costs and financing.
Through the constant improvement of high standards in customer The structurally cash-generative nature of the business enables us service we will grow revenue by increasing passenger and contract tocombine sustainable investment in both existing operations and new volumes as well as providing the credentials for growth in markets with the opportunity to build value through high-return growth newmarkets.
Spain and Morocco UK Bus How we build long-term value How we build long-term value ALSA is the largest private operator of buses and coaches in Spain.
Its Revenue and profitability are driven by the scale of operations delivering portfolio provides a balance between long distance coach operations, frequent, reliable and affordable services across a broad network.
which receive no subsidy and take revenue risk in return for flexibility Passenger growth is supported by sustainable investment in a high over the number of services operated and a regulated maximum fare: quality fleet, ticketing and operational technology.
We have a marketand regional coach operations, which may be partly subsidised by the leading initiative to improve bus travel in the West Midlands in autonomous Governments.
partnership with Centro, our local Passenger Transport Executive.
We carry out urban bus operations in a number of smaller regional Key risks to manage Spanish cities and on suburban routes in Madrid, where we are paid to Regional economic recovery remains fragile fulfil defined service obligations.
In Morocco we operate in three cities, Local authority funding risk to concessions taking revenue risk that is supported by high passenger demand.
ALSA Student and college funding has won a number of new contracts in both countries in recent years.
Read more p36 Key risks to manage Intercity concession renewal Margin on renewals Rail competition UK Coach How we build long-term value Read more p32 National Express has a flexible, outsourced business model, where third party providers supply 80% of the coaches and responsibility for sales lies with the Company.
With 90% brand recognition, the National Express coach business benefits from its integrated network and scale, North America offering breadth and interconnectivity, where competitors offer only How we build long-term value point-to-point services with limited infrastructure.
We are the second largest private school bus operator in North America.
We achieve high contract retention through our relentless Key risks to manage focus on customer service and safety.
Management of capital is key as Competition rail asset utilisation is low, due to the part time usage of these specialised vehicles.
Scale is beneficial but not overarching economies can be Read more p38 achieved through procurement, centralisation of administration and locally tailored standard operating procedures.
Rail The Group acquired its initial Paratransit contracts as part of the How we build long-term value Petermann school bus purchase in 2012.
Since then the transit c2c is the UKs best performing franchise for both punctuality and businesshas won a further five contracts using its credentials as an passenger approval, which is an excellent credential to drive value in the excellent operator of relevant transport services.
We continue to bid UK and overseas.
The Group is now starting to exploit its rail expertise onasubstantial pipeline of opportunities and have renewed and grown inderegulating markets outside the UK, particularly in Germany where our largest transit contract in 2014.
Going forward, we are looking to ithas been selected to run its first two contracts which commence augment our school bus business with targeted bolt-on acquisitions.
National Express has successfully retained Essex Thameside through to 2029 and is preferred bidder Key risks to manage forthe Nuremberg S-Bahn franchise in Germany commencing in Further healthcare and social security taxes December 2018, with the intention to make bids for further German External labour pressure railfranchises in the coming year.
Severe weather Transit contract churn Key risks to manage Successful mobilisation in UK and Germany Read more p34 Read more p40 www.
