Strategic Report Market overview Drivers of market growth Urbanisation and demographic changes Here we give an overview on how the megatrends are Our services benefit from increasing urbanisation around the world, in shaping business and society today and how they particular driving demand for bus operations.
Existing towns and cities shape future performance are expanding, in addition to the creation of new centres of population.
These trends are driving the requirement for additional transportation Economic environment services, both within and between locations, so our bus, coach and rail The propensity to travel is generally affected by levels of economic operations are increasingly in demand.
In addition population growth activity, as represented by GDP growth.
Although levels of inthe UK and North America will drive further demand for public transportation and mobility remain relatively stable through the transportservices.
economic cycle, periods of GDP growth generate additional volume demand and pricing benefit.
Opportunity: UK population growth is forecast to grow by 10% through to 2030 driving the need for further public transport services, whilst the Opportunity: The global economy is emerging from recession and combination of an ageing and increasingly social and ethnically diverse demand for public transport is likely to improve as the economy grows population will drive the need for new products and services to meet and employment levels rise.
Deregulation, liberalisation and outsourcing Share of global population living in cities Our markets are created when state provision of public transport is transferred to the private sector.
There are different models for this, 100% withexamples ranging from the deregulated markets of our UK Bus 29 51 70 90% andUK Coach divisions, through the concessions and franchises of Spain, Morocco and Rail, to the school board and transit contracts 80% ofNorth America.
70% 71 This is supported by a trend towards market liberalisation, such as 60% European Union directives focused on opening up rail networks.
Cost 50% saving is increasingly a factor too, through recognition of the superior 49 efficiency of privately operated services.
40% Opportunity: The current size of the European public transport market is 30% 30 estimated to be approximately 150 billion, of which around 50 billion 20% is at present outsourced.
Liberalisation of the German and Spanish rail 10% markets present opportunities for growth.
0% UK North South 2010 Public transportation market Ireland Europe Europe Total transport market: 150bn 27bn 27bn 16bn 10bn 7bn 5bn 29bn 25bn Source: OECD Rural areas Urban areas 100% 8 7 15 4 4 2 4 3 90% Modal shift 22 80% 25 Modal shift is the move by individuals from one form of transport to 70% another.
For National Express, the relevant move is from the private car 20 19 to bus, coach and rail travel.
The biggest reason for this is an increase in 60% 6 3 the cost of motoring, such as insurance pricing, and the increasing use 50% of mobile devices, such as tablets and smartphones, while travelling, 40% although other factors such as environmental concerns and congestion 3 can also be important.
Geopolitical and demographic changes in the 30% Middle East are increasing demand for affordable, safe public transport.
20% Opportunity: The proliferation of real-time travel information and mobile 10% devices improves the customer experience making public transport 0% 1 increasingly more attractive compared with the car.
Germany France UK Benelux North East South Other Ireland Europe Europe Europe Europe Environment and congestion Environmental concerns continue to have an influence on customer behaviour.
Bus, coach and rail services are significantly more Source: OECD Closed Open environmentally friendly forms of transport than the private car or air travel, reducing both the level of carbon emissions per person travelling and travel congestion.
Society as a whole and individuals are becoming increasingly concerned about the effect of emissions on the environment and are explicitly choosing public transport as an alternative.
Opportunity: Improved access to city centre locations, such as priority bus lanes, for environmentally friendly transport.
6 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information UK: Coach Here we put each of our markets into context and National Express has the only nationwide network of services with other highlight the main drivers across all our divisions competitors tending to focus on specific regions or corridors.
Selective competition comes from rail, particularly on discounted fares, and Spain and Morocco fromlarge bus operators and localised services.
Drivers for demand ALSA holds the market-leading position in the regulated and highly includethe level of fare discount to rail, cost of private motoring and segmented bus and intercity coach market in Spain and also operates environmental friendliness.
Customer satisfaction is also an important inthree cities in Morocco.
Three levels of government regulation apply in driver for longer term loyalty through consistent service and high Spain: national long distance coach, regional regional coach and city customer safety standards.
Each concession is exclusive to the operator, based on compliance with the public service obligation.
Intercity competition comes Market size Destinations from state-backed rail and low cost airlines.
Bus and coach concessions are awarded through competitive public tender, typically every ten years.
300m 1,000 Market size Concessions of contested revenues in the UK scheduled coach scheduled coachmarket market leader 3.8bn 160 Revenue growth through competitive pricing, better distribution 160 concessions: 115 intercity coach concessions, channels and greater understanding of customers and their needs 34 urban bus contracts, 11 others Longer term implementation of improved retailing systems Concessional renewal and new urban contract wins in SpainandMorocco Read more p38 Continuing urbanisation of the Moroccan economy with rapidmigration to the major cities Rail The UK rail market is a regulated market and is broadly dispersed Read more p32 between UK private train operators and overseas state market participants.
In the past ten years, growth has been driven by passenger North America volumes with the levels of economic activity and employment also National Express is the second largest player in the North American drivers.
A new framework for future UK franchises is likely to see school market with a 12% share of the outsourced school bus market.
franchise durations settle between seven and 15 years with the 32% of the market is outsourced with recent increases in outsource introduction of aquality element alongside pricing.
Meanwhile the conversion being driven by pressure on public funding.
This trend is German rail market isliberalising and offering growth opportunities.
likely to continue as school district budgets remain constrained.
Typically Market size customers are local school boards where local relationships are key andservice delivery is very important.
8.5bn 9bn Market size Operates of UK franchise revenues currently accessible German regional per annum, with over andurban market $24bn 21,700 5billion of franchise school buses revenues up for renewal over the next four years Bolt-on acquisition opportunities in school bus based on proposed New business growth from winning contracts in school bidding Department for season and through new Transit contracts Transportpipeline Read more p34 c2c rail franchise secured until 2029 Our first two German rail franchises commence in December 2015 for 15 years with two more commencing in December 2018 for UK: Bus 12years The largest five operators represent around 70% of the UK deregulated Growth through further bid wins in Germany and the UK bus market, with the remainder of the market made up of a large Liberalisation of Spanish rail market a future opportunity number of private operators.
Active competition comes from national and local bus operators, as well as private car and rail.
In the short term Read more p40 the market has been impacted by economic pressures from austerity and local unemployment, but longer term, economic regeneration and environmentally driven public transport present growth opportunities over the car.
Market size Operates 4.8bn 1,640 UK excluding London of buses, focused in the West Midlands which 97% is privatised andDundee markets Increase passenger volumes through investment in vehicles, technology and people and through delivering high quality services Low barriers to entry flexibility and scale of operations is key Read more p36 www.
