Strategic Report Business review: Rail A year of significant progress in both the UK and Germany We continue to expand our offering to customers and are at the leading edge of new flexible ticketing systems, having been previously selected by the DfT to trial and then subsequently launch and roll-out the use ofsmartcards across the route, together with the introduction of contactless payment systems.
The launch of new discounted advanced fares enhances the offer to customers whilst at the same time enabling us to increase the utilisation of our off-peak capacity, driving further growth in passenger volumes through modal shift and the creation of new demand.
We are also delivering a technological revolution for our customers with the introduction of Wi-Fi in all of our stations, together with a new mobile c2c Live app which will allow customers to access live, personalised information, coupled with online purchase of tickets and car parking.
As we move into 2015, we will continue to strive for operational excellence with the introduction of a new timetable later in the year, which will improve capacity throughout the network and increase Andrew Chivers connectivity options in London.
We will refurbish all 26 stations across Managing Director, Rail the network, whilst the installation of smart meters will drive a reduction in energy consumption, in line with our commitment to improving environmental performance.
2014 2013 December 2015 will see the commencement of our first two German rail Year ended 31 December m m contracts in North Rhine-Westphalia.
We are making excellent progress Revenue 151.6 143.0 with our mobilisation plans, including the public launch of new trains in November 2014, establishing a new operational team, and the Operating profit 9.7 9.8 recruitment and training of train drivers.
Operating margin 6.4% 6.9% Cash and returns Rail offers a capital-light model with lower margins but high returns on Overview of 2014 capital.
In 2014 c2c converted 141% of normalised operating profit into National Express Rail division has had a successful year.
successfully retained the long-term contract for the operation of the Essex Thameside franchise through to 2029 and recently secured our Creating new opportunities third and fourth contracts in Germany, winning the Nuremberg S-Bahn c2c is the best performing rail franchise in the UK and this strength in contract which will start in December 2018.
Over the coming year we operational performance is helping to drive growth in new rail markets.
will continue to leverage our UK rail expertise to bid for further selective Our strategy in rail is to secure smaller, lower risk German rail franchises franchise opportunities in both the UK and Germany.
where the risk is acceptable and meets our capital-light investment Total revenue in 2014 increased by 6% to 151.6 million 2013: 143.0m criteria.
We will also continue to monitor the UK market and consider supported by passenger growth of 2%.
Normalised operating profit was competitions as they arise and will bid for new franchises where they 9.7 million 2013: 9.8m, reflecting an increase in franchise premiums meet our strict financial criteria.
In addition, we will regularly monitor the coupled with a rise in train maintenance costs under the terms of the regulatory environment across Europe and may look to enter other interim franchise extension, resulting in a planned decrease in the markets as they liberalise.
In 2014 c2c successfully retained the Essex Thameside franchise whichis expected to generate 4 billion of future revenue over the next Operational excellence 15 years.
We are encouraged by the passenger response so far to the Our Rail division is at the forefront of the Groups drive for operational new franchises focus on customer service.
Investment in Wi-Fi and excellence.
In 2014 c2c retained its position as the top rated performer newadvance purchase off-peak tickets are already proving popular.
of all UK rail franchises with an annual average punctuality of 96.6%.
With new flexible ticketing and pioneering automatic delay-repay Significantly, c2c has also improved its Right Time punctuality compensation being introduced in due course, we are confident this performance and is now rated the second best performing UK rail enhanced customer service offer will continue to be popular.
In addition, we now have a total of four long-term contracts in During the year we have demonstrated our ambition and capability Germany, having recently been awarded preferred bidder status for tobeat the forefront of international standards for customer service.
twocontractsfor the Nuremberg S-Bahn, covering five rail lines in Wehave introduced a number of industry-leading initiatives, including Bavaria.
This significant contract is expected to generate 1.4 billion the ground-breaking Personal Performance Promise which lies within offuture revenues over 12 years, starting in December 2018, whilst the Passengers Charter.
Our industry leading consumer friendly ouroperations in North Rhine-Westphalia will commence in December compensation framework will significantly enhance the offer to all 2015and are expected to generate future revenues of 1.6 billion over customers, including season ticket holders.
In a relatively short period of time, we have built a business which will generate revenues of 3 billion and we expect to see further growth having successfully pre-qualified for three other franchises.
With up to 30 contracts coming to market in the next two years in German rail, we see a strong pipeline of opportunities and we will continue to be selective in our bidding approach in order to drive the best returns.
40 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Our 2014 Strategic Report, from page 1 to page 41, has beenreviewed and approved by the Board of directors on 26February 2015.
Dean Finch Group Chief Executive 26 February 2015 Partnership: Thurrock Council John Kent Chief Executive, Thurrock Council Thurrock Council and c2c have formed a ground breaking partnership to improve rail services for people living in the district.
This partnership is really good news for everyone who uses public transport in Thurrock and those who have to cross the lines whether on foot or in a vehicle.
We have been doing a great deal of preparatory work, but now we can ensure things start moving forward on all the projects.
The idea of a smartcard that works on c2c as well as Thurrock bus journeys is a tremendous plan and I want to see us meeting with all the public transport providers to take that forward as soon as possible.
Customer c2c Live app and free Wi-Fi The successful retention of the c2c franchise has enabled the launchof a raft of new customer benefits.
The c2c team worked hardto deliver many of these for the start of the new franchise on 10November 2014.
We were able to introduce a new app called c2c Live which provides aone-stop-shop for passengers with everything from personalised journey information to buying tickets, and even paying for car parking.
Developed with IBM, this is the first app made by a UK rail company toinclude nationwide door-to-door public transport journey planning, enabling users to plan a route for any journey anywhere in the UK.
Infuture, customers will also be able to use their c2c Live app to register for automatic refunds, which will be paid out whenever they are delayed by as little as two minutes.
Supporting the launch of c2c Live, we introduced free Wi-Fi at all stations, and will be extending this in future to operate on board trains.
Withdownload speeds of up 50mb s, the service is the fastest in theUK rail network.
Welcoming these new benefits, Rail Minister Claire Perry said: Passengers deserve the best from our railways, and they will see real Rail Minister Claire Perry tries out the new app with benefits from this franchise, with new and improved trains and extra c2c Managing Director, Julian Drury services.
The technology improvements that I have seen will also make planning journeys and buying tickets easier than before.
com 41 Corporate Governance Chairmans introduction to governance Committed to the values of good corporate governance I should like to share with you a few key areas which have received increased focus during the year as the Board puts into practice its governance procedures.
Strategy oversight The Boards role in the oversight of strategy continues to be fundamental.
The Board sets the Groups three-year forward looking strategy at its January meeting each year.
Through challenge and the application of objectivity in considering proposals on strategy, the Board ensures that, once strategic aims are agreed, the necessary capital, resources and performance monitoring processes are in place in order to achieve the objectives required for driving forward our business in both established territories and those that are new to us.
Leadership and effectiveness The Board is committed to ensuring that it provides leadership to the business as a whole, having regard to the interests and views of its shareholders and other stakeholders whilst also promoting high ethical standards.
As Chairman, I am responsible for leading the Board and ensuring its effectiveness: it is therefore important that the Board comprises the right balance of skills and experience and that Board Dear shareholder, members work together effectively.
As a UK company with a premium listing on the London Stock During the year, we have refreshed the Board whilst making continued Exchange, National Express is subject to the UK Corporate Governance progress with succession planning.
At the end of the year, Jez Maiden Code the Code.
stepped down as Group Finance Director after six years service on the Governance provides a framework within which the Board sets its Board.
We are very sorry to lose Jez and are very appreciative of the values and delivers long-term success for the Company and its significant contribution he has made during his period of tenure.
As investors whilst recognising its duties towards the wider stakeholder reported in the Nomination Committee Report, a thorough search community.
The National Express Board is therefore committed to wasconducted to identify candidates, both internal and external, to ensuring that high standards of good corporate governance, values and succeed him to this role.
Upon the recommendation of the Nomination behaviours are consistently applied throughout the Group.
This section Committee, on 28 January, the Board appointed Matthew Ashley as of the Annual Report and Accounts sets out our approach with regard Group Finance Director.
Matthew was formerly the Finance Director of to the various aspects of the governance of the Company and includes the UK Bus business, having also previously held the position of Group reports from each of the Board Committees on their activities in 2014.
I am delighted that Matthew has joined the Board: he brings with him significant financial, corporate and operational experience and I look forward to continuing to work with him.
Audit Committee Nomination Committee The Audit Committee plays a key role in the governance I am pleased to report to you on the work undertaken ofthe Company and I am pleased to report to you on bythe Committee during 2014. thework undertaken by the Committee during 2014.
Sir John Armitt, Nomination Committee Chair Jackie Hunt, Audit Committee Chair How the Committee spent its time How the Committee spent its time Financial statements and reports 25% New NED appointments 55% n n External audit 13% Election Re-election of Directors 16% n n Internal audit and risk management 34% New Executive Director appointment 12% n n Tax Treasury 10% Succession planning 17% n n Corporate governance 18% n Read more p54 Read more p58 42 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information We are also sorry that Sir Andrew Foster will be retiring as a NonGood governance helps us Executive Director at the forthcoming AGM after more than nine years service.
I would like to thank Sir Andrew for his support and guidance to the Board and, in particular, to the Remuneration Committee.
Jackie toimplement our strategy, Hunt is also stepping down as a Non-Executive Director after nearly three years on the Board and will not be seeking re-election at the AGM.
achieve our objectives for Jackie has brought great insight to Board discussions during her time with us.
I am very pleased to say that Lee Sander has agreed to thebusiness and create become Senior Independent Director with effect from 6 May 2015.
Asearch for an additional independent Non-Executive Director is valueforour investors and approaching its conclusion and we hope to be in a position to announcean appointment shortly.
otherstakeholders External Board performance evaluation During 2014, the performance evaluation of the Board and its Committees was undertaken by an external facilitator in accordance with the Code.
With the objective of the independent review being to ensure that the Boards structure, governance and processes are appropriate for our current and future business, the findings concluded that the Board continues to operate effectively.
Details of the external review process, analysis and recommendations are given on page 51.
Shareholder engagement on Directors remuneration In response to the relatively low margin of support for the resolution passed at the 2014 AGM on last years Annual Report on Remuneration, members of the Remuneration Committee undertook to engage with significant institutional investors in order to gain a greater understanding oftheir views on the Executive Directors remuneration.
As a result of this open dialogue, a restructured remuneration package for the Executive Directors was devised to take into account shareholder expectations inthis area.
A fuller explanation and the details of this restructuring are provided within the letter from the Remuneration Committee Chairman and in the Directors Remuneration Report from pages 60 to 83.
This year our AGM will be held at 2.00pm on 6 May 2015 in the Purcell Room at the Queen Elizabeth Hall, Southbank Centre, Belvedere Road, London SE1 8XX and I would encourage you to attend to meet me and the Board.
Sir John Armitt Chairman 26 February 2015 Safety & Environment Committee Remuneration Committee I am pleased to report that in 2014 we continued I am pleased to be given the opportunity to introduce tomakegood progress in our safety performance theDirectors Remuneration Report for the year ended andinthemanagement of the Companys 31December 2014. .
Sir Andrew Foster, Remuneration Committee Chair Chris Muntwyler, Safety & Environment Committee Chair How the Committee spent its time How the Committee spent its time External audit of corporate Bonuses 30% n n governance of safety 15% LTIP awards and vesting 20% n Driving Out Harm annual review 13% Remuneration Report review 10% n n Safety performance review 25% Remuneration market practice 5% n n Environment review 20% Executive Directors remuneration 25% n n Maintenance audits 10% Chairmans fee 5% n n Specific site and topic reviews 10% Good leaver approval 5% n n Health and wellbeing 7% n Read more p59 Read more p60 www.
