Strategic Report Business review: North America Strong recovery in the second half We have maintained our relentless focus on costs and the streamlining of operations.
Within school bus we have reorganised some support staff and head office functions and we have also consolidated our transit business into our Warrenville headquarters.
With the upturn intheUS economy and the associated fall in unemployment, there areearly signs of some upward pressure on drivers wages.
$m 2013 normalised operating profit 97.9 Exchange movement CAD to USD 0.9 2013 normalised operating profit at constant currency 97.0 Net impact of revenue growth 2.5 Acquisitions 4.7 Fuel cost 0.8 David Duke Other cost inflation 15.0 Chief Executive, National Express Corporation Cost savings including synergies 17.5 Weather 6.1 2014 2013 Other 1.8 Year ended 31 December m m 2014 normalised operating profit 98.0 Revenue 620.2 645.0 Operating profit 59.5 62.6 Operational excellence Our North American operation already delivers best in class margin, following the successful completion of our margin improvement Revenue US$1,021.8 US$1,009.4 programme between 2010 and 2012.
Traditionally, the school bus industry is a capital-intensive, low cash generation business.
Over the Operating profit US$98.0 US$97.9 past two years, our focus has been to increase the return on capital Operating margin 9.6% 9.7% across our portfolio of 500 contracts and generate a strong cash flow.
By focusing on contracts which generate adequate capital returns, we Overview of 2014 have more defensible, relationship-based contracts where our service Our North American business has more than doubled profits over the quality is valued by the customer.
Where we are not able to obtain last five years 2009: 25.3 million and has delivered another year of financial returns above our minimum criteria, we have exited the contract growth in revenue and operating profit, offsetting significant headwinds in the 2014 15 school year bid season we relinquished 11 contracts, seen during the first half of the year.
On a constant currency basis leading to a reduction, net of bid wins, of more than 550 buses revenue grew by 2% with operating profit increasing to $98.0 million operated.
We have continued to cascade buses where they meet 2013: $97.0m.
A strong performance in the second half more than theappropriate age criteria, thereby increasing fleet utilisation.
offset the one-off impact of $6.1 million in lost profit in the first half from We continue to deliver superior service standards, with over 93% of our the extreme cold weather and snow.
customers willing to recommend us on the basis of quality of service, We continued to focus on increasing profitable growth and improving safety and value.
This is also reflected in our industry leading contract the quality of our portfolio, exiting those contracts that fall below our retention rate which remains very high, achieving over 97% again for minimum return criteria and winning new business which generates thelast bidding season, excluding those contracts which we have not more attractive returns.
In the last bid season we achieved price contested as they do not meet our minimum returns criteria.
We have increases on these contracts of nearly 5% and this trend of increasing invested further in improving our maintenance standards in the past prices has continued into the current bid season.
year, with enhanced training and skills testing programmes resulting inan increased number of quality assured Automotive Service This growth has been boosted by the first time contribution from Excellence certified technicians.
Inaddition, we are utilising our ourbolt-on acquisition in Philadelphia where we were able to deliver GPStracking technology across all ourlocations, enabling on-time synergybenefits through the seamless integration of the acquired performance measurement for our businesses, and are currently piloting business into our existing operations, together with the largest a Wheres My Bus app which provides parents with real-time tracking conversion we have made to date.
We were able to leverage our information.
And we are pleasedthat our employee survey has again previously existing 275 bus contract in Memphis, significantly growing demonstrated , with over 90% saying they the contract with an additional 440 buses.
We have also seen overall enjoy working for the company.
Our North American foundation has positive price movements on contract renewals of over 4%, with over also given its first grants within our business.
200 contracts renewed throughout the year.
Revenue and operating profit at constant currency, adjusting for Canadian Dollar toUS Dollar foreign exchange rate movement in the year.
34 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Cash and returns Operating cash flow represented a conversion of 119% of operating profit with $117 million of operating cash delivered in the year, with the normal pattern of strong working capital collection at the school and calendar year-ends continuing.
As we commented last year, our ongoing programme to improve contract capital returns has resulted in lower capital investment requirements, as we look to increase asset utilisation, actively managing spare capacity within our fleet together with cascading fleet from exited contracts.
This drive for more efficient capital deployment has delivered a significant improvement in return on assets over the past two years rising from 17.2% in 2012 to 23.8% in 2014.
We are targeting year-onyear improvements in our operating margin as our more disciplined contract management and bidding and asset management programmes continue to deliver benefits.
We expect to return to a Partnership: School bus donation constant fleet replacement level in 2015 in line with depreciation.
Dr. Charles B. Jackson Creating new opportunities Senior Pastor, Brookland Baptist Church, West Columbia, Our transit business provides a good business development opportunity South Carolina in a growing market.
In most bids, vehicles are funded eitherby the Local organisations are benefiting as a result of our programme of Federal Government or the customer, resulting in a low capital donating surplus buses in North America.
investment requirement and high returns on capital.
Using our operational expertise and superior track record of service delivery, we This bus makes possible transportation for young people and will continue to seek further bid opportunities in this attractive market.
provides not only encouragement but huge momentum in our efforts We see attractive growth opportunities in the North American school to reach out to them.
Transportation has been a problem in terms of bus market as it remains highly fragmented and the trend towards the services that our church wants to provide, but these needs have conversion continues.
With over 10,000 private school bus businesses been met by the contribution of the very beautiful bus that National in the US, we see significant opportunity for consolidation.
Better pricing Express has made to us.
National Express cares about people: discipline in the market, combined with our ongoing focus on efficient National Express cares about communities.
capital deployment, means we are optimistic about our prospects in North America.
Building on our recent successes we will continue to focus on further exceeding original expectations and as we enter 2015 and beyond, we selective bolt-on acquisitions where we can leverage our existing expect to increase our level of investment in these attractive growth operations and deliver synergy benefits.
We will also continue to seek further conversion opportunities, strong track record of success here, from the acquisition of Petermann building on our recent success in Memphis.
through to our more recent purchase of a school bus business in Philadelphia.
We have a successful track record of acquiring and seamlessly integrating new businesses with all of our acquisitions Community Blue Valley School The school buses we run in North America are part of the fabric of the local communities they operate in.
They provide a vital link which ensures students reach school safely.
The exceptional work carried out by our employees does not go unrecognised.
An example of this last year was when we were honoured by the Blue Valley School District in Overland Park, Kansas as a 2014 Friend of Education for its excellent service to the district in providing student transportation.
Durham School Services sees transportation as an extension of Blue Valleys educational efforts.
Durhams attention to detail, customeroriented approach, and willingness to go above and beyond the call of duty has helped to bring Blue Valleys mission of Education Beyond Expectations to life, said Steve Davis, Director of Business Operations for Blue Valley School District.
Each year, the Blue Valley Board of Education recognises organisations and individuals who have played a critical role in bringing leadership and quality in education to the district.
According to Steve Davis, recipients ofthe Friend of Education awards understand that student Blue Valleys Friend of Education Award success depends on the combined efforts of the community.
