Strategic Report Business review: UK Coach Strong revenue and margin performance m 2013 normalised operating profit 24.5 Net impact of growth and new routes 4.4 Cost inflation 4.3 Cost efficiencies 3.4 2014 normalised operating profit 28.0 Operational excellence Our customer service strategy has continued to focus on providing frequent coach services at low prices.
Lower prices were sustained throughout the year and passenger volume growth has been achieved by flexing prices in response to market conditions.
This has been supported by increasing our sales distribution through the development of existing partnership arrangements with Ryanair, the Post Office and Wizz Air and creating new partnership arrangements with companies Tom Stables such as easyBus.
Managing Director, UK Coach During 2014 we enhanced the sophistication of our customer offers andmarketing activities.
We have analysed our database of 14 million customers to create segments that then receive customised offers.
2014 2013 Ofthe emails we send to our database, 69% are now targeted Year ended 31 December m m compared with 18% in 2013.
Revenue 275.2 263.5 Following the success of Christmas Day services, launched in 2013, Operating profit 28.0 24.5 both routes and services were further expanded in 2014, enhancing our customer offer and delivering additional revenue growth.
Operating margin 10.2% 9.3% We have also focused on building on our contract capabilities, retaining Overview of 2014 airport work at Stansted and Gatwick and carrying a record number of UK Coach has delivered another year of excellent performance, with passengers to the Glastonbury Festival.
The Kings Ferry also expanded profit growth of 36% since 2012 20.6 million.
The business has its contract work, which included the provision of transportation at the continued to build a strong financial and operational foundation which NATO Summit in Gwent.
has enabled further revenue growth and margin improvement and Investment has been made in customer facing systems with enhancements continues to generate momentum for the future.
to the web and mobile sales channels and improvements in customer Total revenue increased by 4% to 275.2 million 2013: 263.5m.
Core relationship management CRM capabilities, allowing better targeting network revenue increased by 4% with new partnership agreements and ofmarketing communications.
dynamic pricing achieving passenger volume growth.
This was supported by a strong performance at The Kings Ferry where revenue increased by Punctuality of services improved during the year and National Express over 20% as it successfully grew its contract hirebusiness.
was rated number 1 in the UK Customer Service Index within the ground transportation sector.
Safety also improved with lower levels of vehicle Growth incidents and employee injuries during 2014.
The business has been % awarded a five-star rating by the British Safety Council and also gained Passenger yield certification to BS OHSAS 18001 for safety management standards.
Passenger volume 4 In 2014, UK Coach was awarded a four-star rating by the EFQM in Change in core express revenue 4 recognition of our high operational and service delivery standards, demonstrating our commitment to constantly drive operational Other revenues 6 excellencethroughout our network.
UK Coach is determined to Total revenue 4 emulatethe achievement of our UK Rail operator, c2c, and secure afive-star rating at our next assessment.
Normalised operating profit increased by 14% to 28.0 million 2013: 24.5m and operating margin showed a further increase following on from the strong gains in 2013, rising to 10.2% 2013: 9.3%.
We provide passengers with easy access to lower fares thereby growing volumes and improving load factors, together with more frequent and punctual services and this, combined with investment in new coaches and greater cost efficiency, all contributed to this strong performance.
38 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Cash and returns The UK Coach business model has a particularly strong return on capital and cash generation, outsourcing the majority of fleet provision and services to its partner operators in a capital-light model.
In 2014, wedelivered another strong performance, generating operating cash of37 million with operating cash conversion of 133% of profit.
Capital expenditure remains primarily focused on technology and retail systems aimed at delivering improved CRM capabilities together with enhanced mobile and online booking options for customers.
Creating new opportunities Attractive pricing, coupled with improved yield management, will allowthe division to continue to grow volume, improve load factors anddrive profitability.
We are investing further in CRM and targeting andbelieve there are good opportunities for growth.
The data we gatherfrom this more sophisticated approach not only allows us to Partnership: Highways Agency continually improve our targeting but also provides valuable inputs in Graham Dalton toour reviews of network efficiency.
We are better able to match our Chief Executive, Highways Agency stops and service patterns to geographical concentrations of particular customer segments.
UK Coach became the first commercial organisation to sign a formal agreement with the Highways Agency.
The agreement, a formal By leveraging the strength of our brand, we will continue to grow the commitment to work collaboratively, is the first of its kind and marks the number of distribution channels to customers, together with an ongoing start of accelerated partnership working between the organisations to focus on operational efficiency.
We remain committed to maintaining our improve the experience of road users.
competitive position against rail, our key competitor.
Our partnership with National Express is one which puts customers Contract services will also continue to provide growth with further first.
Our joint aim is to make the experience of using the Strategic opportunities to expand airport services including the provision of Road Network a better one, working together on important topics transportation services for British Airways at Heathrow from mid-2015, such as punctuality and communication to improve journeys.
which was recently awarded in a competitive tender process.
The unique UK Coach model with its low price, modern, frequent services is well placed to continue to grow both revenue and margin.
Safety BS OHSAS 18001 certification UK Coach has achieved a major milestone in its approach to managing safety during the year by being awarded 96% the highest mark ever given on a first audit by the British Safety Council.
We also gained five out of five stars and an Excellent rating for our approach to safety management as a result of the review.
The auditor conducting the review commented that in his seven years working for the British Safety Council he had never come across an organisation as advanced as National Express at a first audit, adding that he had been auditing some companies annually for seven years and they were yet to gain a five star status.
Gerard Hand, Past President of the Institute of Occupational Safety and Health, said: In the world of safety, business leaders often use thewords passion, priority, morals.
To have it demonstrated in a pragmatic way, which starts from the boardroom and infiltrates throughout all areas of the UK Coach division, gives me a great sense of pride to be part of their journey.
National Express UK Coach division doesnt just say the words, it believes them, practises them and, most importantly, delivers in all aspects of safety.
Their strategic strapline istoDrive Out Harm.
In everything they do, my experience of them Craig Barker, Head of Safety, UK Coach, receives the five star award from shows they clearly deliver.
Marianne Phillips, Products and Services Director at the British Safety Council www.
