Group Financial Overview Strategic Report Governance Statements CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK The Company operates within a traditional governance framework CHAIRMAN Board Executive Vice Chairman & Group Company Board Senior Independent CEO and senior management Secretary Committees Non-Executive Director Clinical Governance Nominations Remuneration Audit Committee Committee Committee Committee The roles and responsibilities of each of the individuals and groups above, and their role in the overall governance framework, are set out in the remainder of this Governance section.
HOW THE BOARD OPERATES THE ROLE OF THE BOARD The Board is responsible to shareholders for the overall conduct of the Groups business and the performance of management and of the Group.
The Board has the powers and duties as set out in the Companys articles of association and the relevant regulations applicable to the Company as a registered public listed company registered in England and Wales.
The Board is primarily responsible for: determining the strategic direction of the Group: approving major capital projects, acquisitions and divestments: setting the annual budget: monitoring the financial performance of the Group against its targets: approving annual and half-year results and monitoring shareholder communications: reviewing the risk management process in place within the Group to ensure that significant risks are monitored and mitigated where possible: promoting good governance within the Group, and seeking to ensure that the Company meets its responsibilities towards all stakeholders: and demonstrating leadership and focussing on matters that affect shareholder value.
The Board seeks at all times to ensure that there is an appropriate balance between short term and long term considerations and objectives of the Group.
The Company has an agreed formal schedule of matters reserved for the Board which includes approval of strategic plans, financial statements, budgets, material investment decisions, acquisitions and divestments.
The Board has overall responsibility for the effectiveness of the Groups systems of internal control and the mitigation of the Groups significant risks and is assisted by the Audit Committee in this respect.
As part of the terms of their appointment, each director agreed that they will act collectively with the rest of the Board to ensure the success of the Group.
The Board delegates authority in relation to matters which it has not reserved to the Executive Vice Chairman & CEO who is responsible for delivering the Companys strategic objectives.
NMC Health plc Annual Report 2014 49 Governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED BOARD COMPOSITION The names of the directors and their biographical details are set out on pages 36 to 41.
The Board of the Company comprises twelve directors, five of whom have served throughout the year: the Non-Executive Chairman who is considered to be Independent two Executive Directors six Independent Non-Executive Directors three Non-Independent Non-Executive Directors The Senior Independent Director is Jonathan Bomford, who is available to shareholders should they have any concerns that they do not wish to raise with the Company or the Chairman directly.
The Senior Independent Director can be contacted through the registered office of the Company at 23 Hanover Square, London W1S 1JB.
PROCESS UNDERTAKEN FOR BOARD APPOINTMENTS DURING THE YEAR Seven new Directors were appointed to the Board in 2014.
Of these appointments, a formal Nominations Committee process was followed in relation to the appointment of three new Independent Non-Executive Directors and two additional Executive Directors, one of whom has subsequently become a Non-Executive Director.
Given NMCs desire to enhance the Boards cultural, geographic and gender diversity, to reflect among other things, the Groups home business market diversity, the Groups search for the new Independent Non-Executive Directors revolved around informal discussions with a number of professional firms and individuals in the UAE from which a list of potential candidates, and subsequently proposals, were produced.
This approach ensured that the highest calibre and experienced local professionals could be attracted to become Directors of the Company.
These were considered by the Nominations Committee and recommendations for the appointment of Directors to the Board were approved.
The decision to appoint the other two non-Independent Non-Executive Directors during the year was considered by the Board as a whole, which included all members of the Nominations Committee.
Both Mr Abdulrahman Basaddiq and Mr Keyur Nagori were appointed at the request of the Companys Principal Shareholders under the terms of the Relationship Agreement in place with the Company.
BOARD DIVERSITY In considering the structural change to the Board during 2014, the Board were keen to ensure that consideration was given to: The cultural and racial mix of the Board considering the Companys listing in the UK and operations in the UAE, as well as global drivers and practice in healthcare related services: The conclusions of the Davis Report on Women on Boards and in particular the benefits of significant male and female representation on the Board: and The new skills and experience that additional Directors could bring to complement the existing Board.
The constitution of the current Board is diverse in terms of gender and in relation to its experience and cultural and racial mix.
Four of the Board Members 33% are female: Four of the Board Members 33% reside and have significant experience in UK businesses: Seven of the Board members 58% are resident in the UAE, the Groups home market, and have significant business experiences in the Middle East and Asian markets: One member of the Board is resident in the USA and has experience of the US healthcare market and in relation to investment in healthcare assets: Seven of the Board members 58% have significant operational or regulatory experience of healthcare services, contributing experience from different parts of the World Individual Directors also bring a number of other attributes and experiences.
The Board will continue to consider appropriate skills, gender and cultural balance when reviewing future Board appointments.
50 NMC Health plc Annual Report 2014 Group Financial Overview Strategic Report Governance Statements The Board considers that the extensive and diverse business, cultural and operational experience of all the Directors, both Independent and non-Independent, ensures a good balance in all aspects of Group decision making and control.
The above attributes also enable the Board to take account of diverse and independent judgement to bear on key issues of: strategy, including constructively challenging the strategic direction of the Group: scrutinising and challenging the performance of the Group: assessing risk and controls operating within the Group and in its decision making: and standards of conduct and governance and other matters presented to the Board.
Similar practices to ensure a diverse employee base is also operated within the Groups businesses and this is summarised in the Corporate Social Responsibility report on pages 27 to 33.
BOARD INDEPENDENCE The Board considers the following Directors to be independent: Mark Tompkins Dr Ayesha Abdullah Jonathan Bomford Lord Clanwilliam Heather Lawrence Salma Hareb Dr Nandini Tandon Independent Non-Executive Directors met separately to the other directors during the year.
During their meetings the Independent Non-Executive Directors discussed various board related matters and other matters which, given their position as Independent Directors, they considered were of interest to them.
The Board does not, or in the case of previous Directors of the Company, did not, classify the following as Independent for the reasons stated: His Excellency Saeed Bin Butti until his resignation from the Board on 24 February 2014 because of his significant shareholding in the Company.
Khalifa Bin Butti until his resignation from the Board on 25 March 2014 because of his significant shareholding and his Executive role in the Company.
Dr B. R. Shetty because of his significant shareholding and his Executive role in the Company.
Abdulrahman Basaddiq, because he was nominated to be appointed a Director by one of the Companys Principal Shareholders.
Keyur Nagori, because he was recommended for appointment as a Director by one of the Companys Principal Shareholders and is an employee of a company in which that Principal Shareholder has a Controlling Interest.
Prasanth Manghat because of his Executive role in the Company.
Binay Shetty because of his previous Executive role in the Company.
The Board considers that it is Independent.
TENURE OF INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Provision B.
1.1 of the Code suggests that length of tenure is a factor in determining the independence of non-executive directors.
The table below therefore shows how long each of the Independent Non-Executive Directors have been members of the Board.
Considered to be independent Date of appointment Full Term years to 2015 AGM by the Board H. J.
Mark Tompkins 7 March 2012 3 Yes Dr Ayesha Abdullah 26 June 2014 1 Yes Jonathan Bomford 27 June 2013 2 Yes Lord Clanwilliam 7 March 2012 3 Yes Heather Lawrence 19 March 2012 3 Yes Salma Hareb 26 June 2014 1 Yes Dr Nandini Tandon 26 June 2014 1 Yes NMC Health plc Annual Report 2014 51 Governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED KEY ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES IN THE GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer CEO are separate.
Chairman The Chairman was appointed to the Board in March 2012 in anticipation of the Companys IPO.
He was independent at the time of his appointment and is considered to be independent by the Board.
The Chairman is responsible for the proper functioning of the Companys Board of directors who oversee the strategic direction of the Group including: the effective operation and governance of the Board setting the agenda and coordinating the style and tone of Board discussions ensuring the directors receive accurate and timely information Chief Executive Officer The Chief Executive Officer is responsible for identifying, with the senior management team, opportunities that are deemed appropriate and in line with the Boards strategic objectives.
He is also responsible for delivering the key strategic objectives set by the Board.
The Chief Executive Officer is assisted in this task by the senior management team who meet regularly to review the performance of the business, the progress of key capital projects, new development opportunities as well as other material matters arising within the business.
Senior Independent Director The Senior Independent Director acts as a sounding board for the Chairman and serves as an intermediary for the other Directors as required.
The Senior Independent Director is available to shareholders if they have concerns which they have not managed to resolve through the normal channels of the Chairman or the Executive Directors, or who feel that such contact is inappropriate for the concerns that they may have.
Group Company Secretary The Group Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Board and to the Board Committees.
He assists the Chairman in ensuring that all Directors have full and timely access to all relevant information and in organising induction programmes for new Directors.
The Group Company Secretary is responsible for ensuring that the correct Board procedures are followed and advises the Board on corporate governance matters.
The appointment and removal of the Group Company Secretary is a matter for the Board as a whole.
The biographical details of the Chairman, Executive Vice Chairman & CEO and Senior Independent Director can be found on pages 36 to 41.
The biographical details of the Group Company Secretary can be found on page 44.
CONFLICTS OF INTEREST Given the previous history of the Group as a private business, the Board is aware of the interest that some Directors have in other businesses in which they have invested.
Any conflicts of interest and related party transactions that may arise are monitored by: A list of the other interests of each Executive Director being circulated to the Board at each of its Board Meetings: Each of the Directors are asked to confirm that they have no other interests which would conflict them for the purposes of any item to be discussed at the meeting: where such conflict is reported, the respective Director is not permitted to take part in the consideration of that matter by the Board: Each Director discloses to the Board any related party transactions in which they are connected, and such transactions are reported in the Groups financial statements.
Whilst Directors on the Board have other business interests, the Board do not consider that these, nor the time commitment that they require, affect the ability of such Directors to undertake their role or comply with their statutory obligations.
BOARD MEETINGS The Group Company Secretary supports the Chairman in finalising an agenda for each Board meeting and ensuring that appropriate papers are provided from the management team in a timely manner for circulation in advance of Board and Board Committee meetings.
This is to ensure that fully informed decisions can be reached.
52 NMC Health plc Annual Report 2014 Group Financial Overview Strategic Report Governance Statements The Board considers the following standard matters at each of its Board meetings: Operational performance through the Executive Vice Chairman & CEOs report Financial performance, including monitoring current and forecast trading, cash and debt levels against its expectations presented through the CFO report Progress being made on the Groups key capital development projects and other potential growth opportunities Legal and regulatory matters Investor relations, including an update in relation to activity in the Companys shares and principal movements of its shareholders During the course of the 2014 financial year the Board has also considered, as appropriate: the Groups half-year and full-year results interim management statements updates from the Chair of discussions held at each of the Board Committees the proposed budget for the following financial year the Groups future strategy and potential developments and growth opportunities the changes made in the Corporate Governance environment Ongoing review of progress in relation to the implementation of the groups new IT systems Monitoring of progress in relation to the Groups capital development projects Risk Management and the Groups approach to risk.
BOARD EFFECTIVENESS Director Induction On appointment, directors have the benefit of a personalised induction programme which is undertaken during the first few months of their tenure as a director.
Each induction programme covers a number of different areas including: briefings and presentations from management to understand the business operations and financial drivers their legal and regulatory responsibilities as directors and the governance environment in which the Company operates opportunities to visit the Groups key facilities and new capital development project locations meetings with the Companys key advisors Board information and professional development The Directors maintain an appropriate dialogue amongst themselves and with senior management, which ensures that NonExecutive Directors are kept up to date with major developments in the Groups business.
Following an initial induction process, it is important that the Non-Executive Directors meet with management and undertake visits to operational facilities each year in order to further understand the way the business operates and any change within the business.
Each of the Non-Executive Directors who have been in office for the full financial year have visited Company facilities a number of times in 2014, with particular emphasis on monitoring progress in relation to the Companys key capital projects and to oversee the implementation of improving controls and governance within the Group.
As part of their overall training and development needs, all of the non-executive directors who have served for the full year agreed a 2014 training and professional development plan with the Chairman and have attended externally provided seminars and discussion forums during the year relating to their general responsibilities as Directors or areas of specific responsibility, in particular in relation to the Board Committees on which they serve.
The Directors appointed during the year have undertaken an induction program as outlined above.
Development plans for all board members will be agreed for 2015.
Performance evaluation As mentioned above, the Board did not undertake an evaluation of its own performance during the year to 31 December 2014.
Given that the enhanced Board has been in office since mid-2014, the Board will consider appropriate processes to formally evaluate the performance of directors individually and collectively during 2015.
Election and re-election of directors All of the directors of the Company submit themselves for re-election at the annual general meeting of the Company to be held on 16 June 2015, with the exception of Mr Keyur Nagori, who will seek election at his first annual general meeting as required by the Companys articles of association.
Each resolution for re-election or election of a retiring director will be proposed as a separate resolution.
Whilst a formal performance evaluation has not taken place, the Board confirms that the contribution made by each director to board deliberations continues to be effective and that the shareholders of the Company should support their re-election or election.
NMC Health plc Annual Report 2014 53 Governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Independent advice Each of the directors is permitted to obtain independent legal advice at the Companys expense in the performance of their duties as directors.
This would normally be managed through the Group Company Secretary.
All directors, and the Board as a whole, also have access to the advice and services of the Group Company Secretary who, under the Chairmans direction, is responsible for ensuring that good Board procedures are followed.
Indemnification of directors The Company has put in place a Directors and Officers Liability Insurance policy which provides all Board members with insurance cover in respect of liabilities that may arise against the Directors collectively or individually.
The Directors do not benefit from any form of qualifying third party indemnities made by the Company.
BOARD COMMITTEES The Board has established an Audit Committee, a Clinical Governance Committee, a Nominations Committee and a Remuneration Committee.
The terms of reference of each committee are available on our website at www.
Further details in relation to these Committees are set out below.
Board and Board Committee attendance in the 2014 financial year During the period under review, the Board met on nine occasions: six of these meetings were scheduled as full periodic board meetings and three meetings were either brief meetings on matters requiring board approval or ad-hoc matters which arise.
Scheduled periodic Board Meetings are planned in each financial year to be split, where possible, evenly between London and Abu Dhabi.
The attendance of the Directors at each of the Board and Committee meetings during the period was as follows: Clinical Governance Board Meetings Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Committee Nominations Committee H. J.
Mark Tompkins 9 9 - 2 2 1 1 4 4 Dr B. R. Shetty 8 9 - - - - Dr Ayesha Abdullah 3 4 2 2 - 2 2 - Abdulrahman Basaddiq 6 7 - 3 3 - 1 1 Jonathan Bomford 9 9 5 5 5 5 1 1 3 3 Lord Clanwilliam 8 9 3 3 5 5 1 1 4 4 Salma Hareb 2 4 - 2 3 - - Heather Lawrence 7 9 5 5 2 2 3 3 3 3 Prasanth Manghat 4 4 - - - - Keyur Nagori 3 4 - - - - Binay Shetty 4 4 - - 2 2 - Dr Nandini Tandon 3 4 - - 0 2 - His Excellency Saeed Bin Butti 0 3 - - - - Khalifa Bin Butti 0 3 - - - - Note: The number of meetings that each director could have attended during the period under review is noted in brackets.
Enhancement of Board Committee membership and structure Prior to June 2014, all of the Board Committees, with the exception of the Audit Committee, had a similar structure with all of the Independent Non-Executive Directors being a member of each Board Committee, although each of the Committees had a different Chair Person.
The Audit Committee was an exception as the Chairman of the Company had resigned as a member of that Committee in December 2013.
Following the increase in the number of Directors appointed to the Board, the Board decided that a change in the structure of each Board Committee be undertaken.
Each of the Board Committees has retained the same Chair Person, but since June 2014 the constitution of each Committee has changed such that they have a different membership structure to the other Committees.
The Board consider that the different experience and cultural diversity of each Committee benefit the work and oversight of each Committee and therefore the governance structure of the Board as a whole.
54 NMC Health plc Annual Report 2014 Group Financial Overview Strategic Report Governance Statements AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT Audit Committee Chairman foreword This is my second Audit Committee report since my appointment as Audit Committee Chairman in June 2013.
2014 has seen further changes in various aspects of UK listed company reporting and governance requirements, and I am pleased to report that both management and the audit committee have been committed to ensuring that they have a good understanding of these new requirements as they arise.
This report sets out the work of the Committee, significant matters addressed by the Committee during the year and the responsibilities of, and work undertaken by, the external and internal auditors.
THE AUDIT COMMITTEE Membership The Audit Committee has consisted entirely of independent non-executive directors during the year under review.
The Audit Committee members who have served during the year are: Audit Committee Member Position Period of membership during 2014 Audit Committee Chairman and financial Member and Chairman of Audit Committee Jonathan Bomford expert throughout the year Member of Audit Committee since 26 June Dr Ayesha Abdullah Independent Non-Executive Director 2014 Member of Audit Committee throughout the Heather Lawrence Independent Non-Executive Director year Member of Audit Committee until 26 June Lord Clanwilliam Independent Non-Executive Director 2014 During the 2014 financial year, the Chairman of the Committee and the Committees financial expert is Mr Jonathan Bomford.
Mr Bomford is a Chartered Accountant and his biographical details and experience are set out on page 38 of the annual report.
Key role and responsibilities The key role of the Committee is to ensure that the integrity of published financial information by the Company, and the effectiveness of both external and internal audit processes, are appropriate to ensure that the interests of all shareholders are protected.
The Audit Committee assists the Board in: discharging its responsibilities with regard to financial reporting, external and internal audits and controls: reviewing the Companys financial results announcements, Annual Report and audited financial statements: monitoring the independence and extent of the non-audit work undertaken by the external auditors: making recommendations to the Board on the appointment of external auditors and the level of their remuneration: reviewing the effectiveness of the Companys internal audit activities and internal policies: overseeing the Groups compliance processes: and undertaking reviews of the Groups internal controls and risk management systems.
The Audit Committee is required to report regularly to the Board of Directors in relation to its findings on the above.
The ultimate responsibility for reviewing and approving the Companys Annual Report and audited financial statements and the half yearly reports remains with the Directors of the Company.
Committee meetings The Audit Committee met formally five times during the year.
The Meetings are scheduled to align with the Groups reporting timetable with planning meetings in advance of both the half-year review and full-year audit, and approving meetings shortly in advance of the announcement of the Groups half-year and full-year results.
Meetings are normally attended by the Chief Executive Officer, the Deputy Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer.
The Chairman and some other Non-Executive Directors also attend some meetings.
The Group Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee.
The Committee also meets separately with the external auditors, the internal auditors and management with the other parties not present.
NMC Health plc Annual Report 2014 55 Governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Main activities of the Committee during the year During the year, the Committee has focussed significantly on areas of corporate governance and management of risk.
Specific items which the Audit Committee discussed during the year included: The implementation of the new ERP financial accounting system.
The Group is in the process of implementing a new accounting IT system which is designed to ensure a less manual working environment than has previously been in existence when the Group was in private ownership.
Implementation of the new system commenced in 2013 and has been delayed as a result of a number of technical issues arising which have had to be resolved.
Implementation is now being progressed on a phased basis as regards the specific functions of the new system and also the facilities into which the system is being implemented.
The Committee has monitored implementation progress and asked for the independent verification of certain aspects of the implementation plan for assurance.
Capitalisation of Work-In-Progress The capital expenditure programs were reviewed by the Committee regularly.
The Committee looked into the costs incurred, costs versus budgets, accounting of capitalisation of work in progress and finally the re-classification of such costs to the relevant asset category when the project is completed and its disclosure in the financials.
During the current year, the Group had re-classified three of its projects under development based on the extent to which it was completed and commenced operations.
The Committee also reviewed the technical paper on the impairment assessment on the capital projects.
Risk Management In addition to the evolution of governance processes within the Group, the external focus and increasing Board responsibility in relation to risk has resulted in the Committee considering the Groups approach to risk, its risk appetite and the process through which management mitigate the Groups key risks and uncertainties.
These considerations were in the form of either direct discussion on risk or indirectly whilst other matters were being discussed.
The Committee, on behalf of the Board, will monitor the new strategic risk management process that the management team has implemented from 2015, further details of which are set out below.
Internal Audit Reports are presented at Committee meetings twice a year.
During 2014, the internal audit plan has been more focussed and has been set to ensure that those areas of key and strategic risks are more closely and independently monitored.
As part of their work during the year, and given its importance to the Groups future Control Environment, the Committee instructed the Internal Auditors to undertake a review of the implementation plan for the Groups new ERP Financial system and asked them to review and confirm that all principal manual business processes are fully reflected in the new system.
Given the lack of robust IT systems in place fully across the Group, the Committee continues to monitor closely the Groups Internal Control Environment and this, and connected issues, were therefore the subject of specific discussions during the year.
In particular the Committee has been keen to understand the extent to which non-automated processes provide assurance to the Board that the Control Environment is effective.
The Committee is also keen to ensure that management reflect all good and efficient business practices and processes which the businesses have operated under are fully reflected in the implementation of the Groups new IT systems.
During the 2015 financial year, the Audit Committee is intending to continue to closely monitor the roll-out of the Groups new financial system, which the Committee sees as the one key element of the Groups future internal control environment.
Other considerations in review of Financial Statements In addition to the above main activities on which the Committee focussed during the year, the following matters were also reviewed as part of the Committees consideration, and approval, of the FY2014 Interim Results and this 2014 Annual Report: Revenue recognition The Group has a number of revenue streams across both its Healthcare and Distribution businesses.
Whilst the Group ordinarily acts as principal in relation to its sales, there are a number of areas within both businesses where the recognition of revenue has been reviewed to ensure that the correct treatment of principal versus agency revenue has been adopted in all business areas.
There is a risk that incorrect accounting treatment could be adopted within a particular business unit, for example agency revenue being treated as principal revenue.
Any error of this nature would affect the Revenue and not the EBITDA of the Group.
The Committee has reviewed the different treatment adopted by management in each relevant business unit and is comfortable with the accounting for revenue across the Group.
Trade receivables and other receivables The time taken for payers to settle invoices in the UAE is generally longer than would normally be expected in other parts of the world.
In addition, within the Healthcare division, the vast majority of healthcare customers settle their invoices through medical insurance claims.
The Group therefore experiences delays in payment as a result of the time taken to process claims through insurance companies and to arrange settlement of the claim.
In the distribution business, payment delays are experienced from bulk retail sales customers and delays in processing bulk discounts and rebates achieved from key suppliers have an additional effect on receivables and working capital.
The level of both trade and other receivables has been improving following a number of actions undertaken by management, but this will continue to be a key focus for the Committee particularly to ensure that adequate bad debt provisioning is made.
56 NMC Health plc Annual Report 2014 Group Financial Overview Strategic Report Governance Statements Internal control The Committee has reviewed the process by which the Group evaluates its control environment.
The CFO provides a report to the Audit Committee on the effectiveness of internal controls and confirms to the Committee whether or not he is aware of any significant fraud that may have occurred within the business.
The internal auditors also undertake a review across a wide range of control areas to give the Audit Committee and the Board assurance on the internal control environment.
Risk Management The Committee has previously reviewed and monitored a detailed register of risks which is produced by management and reviewed in conjunction with the Internal Auditors.
This risk register is produced in discussions with the Groups operating facilities.
As detailed below in the section on risk mitigation, the Audit Committee has considered an enhanced risk management structure recommended by management under which the Groups key risks are reviewed alongside the macro-economic environment within which the Group operates to establish a Strategic Risk Register.
This register will be reviewed by the Audit Committee and the Board as part of their standard processes.
Further details on strategic risks are set out on page 26.
Internal audit A review of the work undertaken by the Groups internal auditors is an agenda item for the majority of Audit Committee meetings.
The internal auditors report to the Committee their findings together with action plans to resolve any matters which they believe require to be addressed.
Action plans are graded with key high risk matters taking priority to be resolved.
External audit and auditor independence The Committee believes that the effectiveness of the external audit is dependent on the identification of key risks during the financial year under review.
EY produces and discusses with the Committee a detailed audit plan identifying these key risks, the focus of audit procedures and the work to be done to test managements assumptions and accounting treatment in these areas.
The Committee meets separately with the External Auditors to ensure that an independent dialogue is maintained in relation to monitoring key business and financial risks and to ensure that management have not restricted the scope of their audit.
The Audit Committee Chairman also meets with the lead audit partner on a number of occasions during the year outside the formality of Audit Committee meetings.
The Committee discusses separately with management matters arising from the audit process and also to assess their view of the effectiveness of the audit work being undertaken.
The Committee did not undertake a formal review of the effectiveness of the external audit during the year although the Audit Committee and the external auditors discussed the audit process in detail, including matters which had worked well and areas of improvement in audit process for FY2014.
Auditor fees and appointment EY were appointed as auditor to the Company at the time of the Companys IPO in April 2012.
The Company agreed a basis for audit fees for the three year period of 2012, 2013 and 2014 and agreed that, subject to their annual re-appointment by shareholders, EY would remain as Auditors to the Group for those financial years.
The level of audit fees paid in relation to the 2014 financial year is set out in note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Non-Audit fees During FY2014, the level of non-audit fees, excluding the fees for the half-year review, amounted to a total of US$0.19m.
The Audit Committee has adopted a non-audit fees policy whereby it will only permit such fees in circumstances where they feel that use of the auditor firm is necessary, appropriate or efficient, and has delegated authority to the CFO to agree such projects subject to a strict cap on fees in relation to each financial year.
NMC Health plc Annual Report 2014 57 Governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Auditor Independence The Audit Committee formally reviewed the independence of the Companys auditor, EY, during the period under review.
The review took account of the relationship between management and the audit team, the processes that EY have in place internally to ensure objectivity and independence and also the level of non-audit fees incurred during the year.
As part of this review the Committee reviewed the potential threats to auditor independence as a result of: auditor self-interests, being those areas where the auditor may have a financial or other interest in the Company: auditor self-review, being areas where the results of non-audit services are reflected in the amounts included or disclosed in the financial statements: management threats, which may occur if partners or employees of the auditor take decision on behalf of management: and Other threats, such as familiarity and intimidation.
The Audit Committee is satisfied that in all areas sufficient safeguards were adopted by the auditor and that the independence of EY and of the audit engagement partner had not been compromised.
There is no limitation of liability in the terms of appointment of the Auditor for the audit of the Companys financial statements.
Jonathan Bomford, FCA On behalf of the Audit Committee 58 NMC Health plc Annual Report 2014 Group Financial Overview Strategic Report Governance Statements CLINICAL GOVERNANCE COMMITTEE Clinical Governance Committee Chair foreword The Clinical Governance Committee was established in June 2013 and has met regularly to provide independent Board oversight in the key area of Clinical Governance.
The Committee works with the Group Medical Director and Vice President Quality and Standards to ensure that the governance structure within the healthcare business is appropriate to ensure that clinical care is enhanced and that clinical quality indicators are monitored.
This oversight is designed to mitigate as far as possible the risks associated with operating a healthcare organisation.
Dr G. V. J. Prabhakar joined NMC Healthcare towards the end of 2013 and during 2014 he has focussed on enhancing the monitoring of quality and standards within the Healthcare Division.
Good progress has been made during the year with the majority of key clinical care indicators improving, a wider range of clinical care indicators being monitored and a governance structure being implemented in each of the Groups new healthcare facilities.
The rate of progress in the evolution of healthcare regulation in the UAE has also increased and the Committee is delighted with the determination of management to keep up to date with regulatory change ensuring that the Group is well positioned in its compliance with all regulatory requirements.
The Quality team and clinical care monitoring within the business is being further enhanced which will give further assurance to management and the Board in relation to clinical risk mitigation.
I would like to thank my fellow Committee members for their contribution during the year and Dr C. R. Shetty, Dr G. V. J. Prabhakar and the NMC Quality and Standards team for the excellent work which they continue to do.
Clinical Governance Committee The Committee was established by the Board to provide assurance to shareholders that the key risk of clinical care and quality associated with the Groups healthcare business is independently monitored.
The Committee consists of a majority of Independent Non-Executive Directors during the period under review.
The Clinical Governance Committee members who have served during the year are: Clinical Governance Committee Member Position Period of membership during 2014 Member and Chair of Clinical Governance Heather Lawrence Clinical Governance Committee Chair Committee for the full financial year Member of Clinical Governance Committee Dr Ayesha Abdullah Independent Non-Executive Director since 26 June 2014 Member of Clinical Governance Committee Binay Shetty Non-Executive Director since 26 June 2014 Member of Clinical Governance Committee Dr Nandini Tandon Independent Non-Executive Director since 26 June 2014 Member of Clinical Governance Committee Lord Clanwilliam Independent Non-Executive Director until 26 June 2014 Member of Clinical Governance Committee H. J.
Mark Tompkins Independent Non-Executive Chairman until 26 June 2014 Member of Clinical Governance Committee Jonathan Bomford Independent Non-Executive Director until 26 June 2014 Meetings of the Committee are scheduled three times per financial year.
In addition to the Clinical Governance Committee members, the Group Medical Director and Vice President Quality and Standards attend each meeting.
The Group Company Secretary is Secretary to the Committee.
NMC Health plc Annual Report 2014 59 Governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Key role and responsibilities The key role of the Committee is to oversee governance structures, processes and controls in relation to Clinical matters in place within the Group healthcare operations.
This is to ensure that the risks associated with clinical care are mitigated in the interests of the Company and its stakeholders, including shareholders.
Specific responsibilities of the Committee, and work undertaken by it during the year, include: Ensuring processes and controls are in place across the NMC Healthcare hospitals to promote safety and excellence in patient care and manage risks arising from clinical care on a continuing basis: Review the systems of clinical governance, monitoring that they operate effectively and that action is being taken to address any areas of concern: Review clinical performance indicators quarterly to gain assurance: Reviewing the governance structures and KPI monitoring put in place in the Groups new healthcare facilities, Brightpoint Royal Womens Hospital and NMC General Hospital in DIP, including KPIs and clinical guidelines used to monitor performance: Consideration of the procedures in place within NMC facilities and implemented by the Health Authorities in the UAE to deal with any incidence or outbreak of Ebola in the country: and Review compliance to local Health Authority requirements and standards as well as reviewing the implications of any new regulations which are adopted from time to time.
An outline of the Clinical Governance and Quality framework in place within the Healthcare division, and the primary initiatives that the business has undertaken during the year to improve the level of quality and patient care are set out in the Corporate Social Responsibility Statement on pages 27 to 33.
The establishment of the Clinical Governance Committee was undertaken as a result of an appreciation of the clinical risks faced by the Group.
As a result the Committee is a key aspect of the Groups internal control environment.
The Chair of the Clinical Governance Committee is also a member of the Audit Committee which assists in ensuring that the two committees interact providing an overall control and governance framework to manage the Groups key clinical risks.
Heather Lawrence, OBE For and on behalf of the Clinical Governance Committee 60 NMC Health plc Annual Report 2014 Group Financial Overview Strategic Report Governance Statements REMUNERATION COMMITTEE Details of the Remuneration Committee, its membership and its role and responsibilities, is set out in the Remuneration Report on pages 67 to 85.
NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE The Nominations Committee has consisted of a majority of Independent Non-Executive Directors during the year under review.
The Nominations Committee members who have served during the year are: Nominations Committee Member Position Period of membership during 2013 Member and Chairman of Nominations H. J.
Mark Tompkins Nominations Committee Chairman throughout the year Member of Nominations Committee since Abdulrahman Basaddiq Non-Executive Director 26 June 2014 Member of Nominations Committee Lord Clanwilliam Independent Non-Executive Director throughout the year Member of Nominations Committee until Heather Lawrence Independent Non-Executive Director 26 June 2014 Member of Nominations Committee until Jonathan Bomford Independent Non-Executive Director 26 June 2014 The Nominations Committee has a role to assist the Board in: reviewing and making recommendations to the Board in relation to its structure, size and composition: reviewing succession planning in place for senior management: determining the appropriate skills and characteristics required of directors: identifying individuals qualified to become Board members and recommending such individuals to the Board: recommending individuals to be considered for election as Directors at the next Annual General Meeting of the Company or to fill vacancies: and preparing a description of the experience and capabilities required for a particular Board appointment.
The Committee will also undertake annual reviews of the composition of the Board and assess various attributes of each Board member.
Whilst the composition of the Board was considered by the Committee during 2014, reviews have not yet been undertaken in relation to the attributes of each Board member.
Such reviews will be part of the Boards appraisal and effectiveness review program when this commences.
The Nominations Committee met four times during 2014.
The matters considered by the Committee included: The recommendation for the appointment of new Directors to the Board in June 2014.
The change in the senior management structure announced by the Company in October 2014.
Other than in relation to specific matters which the Nominations Committee will be required to discuss, it is expected that the Nominations Committee will meet at least once in each financial year, or otherwise as requested by any member of the Committee.
The Committee would expect to meet to consider appropriate candidates to fill any vacancy created on the Board should such a vacancy arise or be considered appropriate given other skills and experience on the Board.
The Committee will also meet to review progress on the implementation of a new board appraisal and effectiveness review and any effect the results of such review has on the structure of the Board.
The duties and activities of the Committee during the year will be disclosed in the Companys Annual Report and audited financial statements each year.
NMC Health plc Annual Report 2014 61 Governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED SHAREHOLDER ENGAGEMENT The Company is committed to communicating with shareholders and stakeholders and to be available to meet with shareholders who require additional explanation of any matter which is of concern to them.
The Chairman and Senior Independent Non-Executive Director are also available, either through contacting the Company Secretary or at the Companys Annual General Meeting, to discuss any matters within their areas of responsibility or where individuals do not feel it is possible to discuss these matters with management.
During 2014, the Company has continued to focus on its formal program of investor interaction including one-to-one meetings with institutional investors, investor days and attendance at investor conferences.
Mr Roy Cherry, who is the Head of Strategy & Investor Relations and a member of the senior management team leads these efforts.
In relation to the financial year ended 31 December 2014, the Company issued its half year unaudited results, two interim management statements and a pre-close trading update prior to entering the close period at the end of the first half of the financial year.
Aside from direct shareholder meetings, the principal ongoing communication with shareholders will be through the publication of the Companys Annual report and audited financial statements, Interim Results and Interim Management Statements, together with the opportunity to question the Board and Committees at the AGM.
Financial Results presentations are made available on the Companys Investor Relations website.
Shareholders are encouraged to attend the AGM and if unable to do so are encouraged to vote by proxy.
The Chairman and other board members meet regularly with the Companys brokers and or other healthcare sector specialists to remain up to date with shareholder views and sector developments.
The Company has an investor relations section on its corporate website, www.
This has been updated regularly with information that the Company considers relevant to its investors.
Additionally, the number of analysts monitoring the Company and issuing notes in relation to their forecasts and expectations for the group continues to increase.
INTERNAL CONTROL AND RISK MANAGEMENT Financial and operational controls The Group has for nearly 40 years grown into a substantial business and a leader in the provision of private healthcare, as well as operating a substantial distribution business, in the United Arab Emirates.
The Group is a regulated business operating many clinical and quality controls processes.
Not unusually for a Group which was until recent years a private business, the financial and operational performance was monitored closely by a senior management team prior to IPO without the benefit of formal written policies and governance procedures.
Following the Companys IPO in 2012, the management team has been progressively: incorporating additional key internal controls into its financial and operational processes: implementing new policies and procedures covering all aspects of the Groups accounting policies and controls: extending its Quality Team and the Groups Quality and Clinical Governance processes: ensuring that Groups Internal Audit function reviews and monitors key business processes: and developing new financial and hospital management IT systems.
All of these changes are part of an overall process to improve the Governance structure within the Group and to improve further the Groups formal internal control processes.
The key elements of the Groups internal controls are as follows: An annual budget and updated long-term forecasts for the Group that identifies risks and opportunities which are reviewed and approved by the Board.
Monthly meetings at which the senior management team review Group financial and operational performance, progress on capital projects and other principal functional areas of the business.
A system of internal monthly operational and financial reporting which includes monthly comparison of results and against budget and forecast, a review of KPIs, each discussed with additional management commentary and the reporting of key matters arising within the business during the month under review.
The Group has a very flat organisational hierarchy resulting in an easy flow of information throughout the organisational structure.
Communication of exceptional items happens naturally.
A defined process for controlling capital expenditure, including appropriate authorisation levels, which is monitored and approved by the Board as appropriate.
Medical Directors meetings to monitor clinical governance procedures.
The production of quarterly and annual Quality reports.
62 NMC Health plc Annual Report 2014 Group Financial Overview Strategic Report Governance Statements An effective externally provided internal audit programme which independently assists management in identifying key risks to the Group and monitors those risks through a programme agreed with both management and the Audit Committee.
The independent oversight provided by the Companys Board Committees, in particular the Audit Committee in relation to financial related matters and the Clinical Governance Committee in relation to clinical matters.
An appropriate approach to decentralisation within the Group.
Each healthcare facility has a Medical Director and Head of Administration who are accountable for the operation of the facility.
Both Healthcare and Distribution divisions have Financial Controllers and a finance team and are managed through fundamental activities of planning, executing and checking.
The strategic direction of all operations is governed by the corporate office.
All banking, treasury, procurement and payment processing is centralised within Group functions, but accounting for payments is decentralised.
The management team believes that these divisions of responsibility provide a natural check and balance across all internal control areas.
A delegation of authority which provides that very few individuals within the organisation have payment approval authority.
Access to cash is also restricted to very few individuals.
All material payments are restricted to the senior management team.
Risk appetite As there are multiple risks associated with the healthcare sector, the process of risk management is an essential mechanism to enable risk based decision making process.
The Board of Directors at NMC recognizes that complete risk control avoidance is impossible, but that risks can be reduced by putting the right controls and mitigations in place as well as agreeing on a threshold for risk taking risk appetite.
Risk appetite provides a structure within which opportunities can be pursued by setting out which, why and how much risk NMC is willing to take.
The NMC leadership team has approved a set of risk appetite statements covering different views on the risk landscape surrounding NMCs business environment whilst addressing various risk classes.
For each risk class, Key Risk Indicators KRIs were articulated to alert against unacceptable loss events.
The purpose of setting limits and triggers is to avoid concentrations of risk which would be out of line with internal or external expectations and to: keep business activities aligned to the strategic goals of NMC: ensure activities remain of an appropriate scale relative to the underlying risk andreward: ensure risk-taking is supported by appropriate expertise and capabilities.
General Risk Appetite Statement The Board of Directors will not accept any risks that would cause losses due to: malpractice, significant decline in patient satisfaction rate, brand damages, hospital acquired infections, decrease in the utilization rate for outpatient clinics, uncontrolled discharge for inpatients, downtime of life saving sustaining systems, inaccuracy of patients records, non-compliance with internal and or external controls and standards regulatory bodies, sensitive information patient record confidentiality breach loss, loss of sole distribution partnership agreement, loss of key staff key specialities in NMC, acquisitions, which are expected to be accretive and not dilutive.
NMC Board of Directors has approved a set of thresholds which relates to multiple business dimensions in the Healthcare and Distribution divisions to protect shareholders value.
Any areas falling short of the agreed indicators should be highlighted to management for action.
NMC Health plc Annual Report 2014 63 Governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Approach to risk mitigation As a regulated business, the Group operates within a framework of managing all elements of risk which arise within the Group.
As a result there are a number of ways in which the Company monitors its keys risks and considers independent review of such risks to be beneficial to the Group.
Internal Audit The Group have appointed Crowe Horwath as Internal Auditors to the Group.
The Internal Auditors report directly to the Chairman of the Audit Committee but work in conjunction with the CFO.
Their reports to the Audit Committee are received and discussed at Audit Committee meetings twice a year, in June and December.
Following the completion of each review, the internal auditors identify areas for remedial action and the required action plans are discussed and agreed with management.
The internal auditors present the reviews and the agreed management action plans for any remedies to the Audit Committee and then monitor the implementation of any required changes on behalf of the Audit Committee.
The consideration by the management team of the key risks faced by the Group is crucial to the work to be undertaken by the Internal Auditors.
Management consider such risks before discussing with the internal auditors their planned areas of focus for reviews in each financial year.
The Internal Audit plan for each year is agreed with the Audit Committee.
Risk Management Process The Groups risk management process has primarily been driven by scrutiny of a register of significant risks which is produced by management and reviewed in conjunction with the Internal Auditors.
Towards the end of 2014, management decided to enhance the Groups risk management process by engaging with PwC to independently review the Groups key risks alongside the macro-economic environment within which the Group operates and to work with management and the Board in establishing a Strategic Risk Register.
The Strategic Risk Register, which is the basis for the list of principal risks and uncertainties which are set out on page 26, will be reviewed and maintained on an ongoing basis by management, with the Board retaining oversight over the Register and the risk management process.
Quality and Regulatory oversight Aside of financial risks, the Board is aware that as a significant healthcare business it is subject to a range of risks related to clinical care and quality.
The Healthcare division, and elements of the Distribution division, are regulated by governmental and non-governmental organisations.
The key regulatory framework is set out in the UAE Economy and Healthcare Market section of the Group Strategic Report.
In summary: Each Healthcare facility is licensed by one of four regulatory bodies which exist in the UAE.
The regulatory bodies monitor performance and clinical procedures against its regulations, key metrics and guidelines: Each of the Groups three Specialty Hospitals is accredited by Joint Commission International, an internationally renowned organisation monitoring clinical metrics and quality of patient care: The distribution of pharmaceuticals is controlled through the UAE Ministry of Health: The majority of the Groups healthcare revenue results from medical insurance arrangements.
The Groups contractual arrangements with insurance providers include the monitoring of claims processing and clinical outcomes.
The Group has a Quality Team which operates in both the Healthcare and Distribution divisions.
Quarterly and annual Quality reports monitor performance against a range of key KPIs based on clinical quality and safety metrics.
The Board has created a Clinical Governance Committee which independently monitors at Board level the work of the Quality Department and the clinical team within the Healthcare business.
Further detail in relation to the approach of the Healthcare division in relation to Quality and Safety is set out in the Corporate Social Responsibility section on pages 27 to 33.
The work of the Clinical Governance Committee is set out on pages 59 to 60.
Independent Audit Committee The Audit Committee is an independent committee of the Board and reviews, directly and indirectly, key risk factors and how those risks are mitigated.
The work of the Audit Committee is set out on pages 55 to 58.
64 NMC Health plc Annual Report 2014 Group Financial Overview Strategic Report Governance Statements Effectiveness of Internal Controls The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups systems of internal control and on behalf of the Board, the Audit Committee has been engaged in the process of ensuring that management have established continuous processes for identifying, evaluating and managing the risks the Group faces.
These processes include the reporting from the finance department on Group performance, the work of the internal auditors and issues identified by the external auditors to the extent covered by their audit work.
The Board is responsible for monitoring the ongoing effectiveness of these systems and for conducting a formal annual review of the effectiveness of the Groups internal controls.
A system of internal controls is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to meet business objectives and is designed to provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
In reviewing the effectiveness of the internal controls in place during the year, the Audit Committee considered, amongst other matters, manual controls in place, the independence of the separate operating units, the delegation of authority, the balance of centralised and decentralised systems and the reporting process in relation to exceptional items.
The Audit Committee has noted that the Group does not operate under a fully integrated high end IT environment and therefore an element of manual intervention is prevalent within the Group.
The Board has approved the implementation of a new Hospital Information System which, together with the implementation of the new ERP financial system, will result in a new integrated IT system becoming fully functional across the Group.
The Board notes that the implementation of new IT systems will not change the level of controls inherent in the business, but they will remove elements of manual intervention from financial and operational processes.
Management have taken time to ensure that all previous business processes are captured within the new IT systems.
The roll out of the new ERP system into the Healthcare division is progressing.
There have been challenges in relation to the roll out of the ERP system into the Distribution division as a result of the volume and types of transactions to be captured, but these challenges are in the process of being resolved.
The full roll-out of the new ERP system has therefore been delayed from its original target date in the interests of ensuring that the system is compatible with the best standards of assurance.
The completion of the implementation of the ERP system is expected in 2015.
The Group continues to enhance its Internal Control practices and environment and as part of that progression has also revised its Delegation of Authority matrix keeping in line with the current requirements.
In November 2014, the group carried out a strategic risk management review with the assistance of a third party, PwC, the findings of which, including the mitigating factors and its ongoing review, were discussed and deliberated by the Board.
The Groups strategic risks are included in the Principal Risks and Uncertainties section on page 26 and the description of the Groups risk appetite on page 63.
The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups systems of internal controls for the 2014 financial year, in light of the key elements of the Groups internal controls outlined above.
Given the additional internal controls that have been incorporated into the Groups financial and operational reporting process, such that sufficient internal controls were in place to monitor the Groups key risks, the Board believes, having evaluated the effectiveness of the internal controls and procedures, that these were effective during the period covered by this report.
The Board also believes that the process undertaken by the Board and its Committees to monitor the internal control environment, accords with the guidance provided in Internal Control: Revised Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code.
OTHER GOVERNANCE MATTERS Whistleblowing Policy A confidential whistleblowing procedure is in operation allow employees to raise concerns of possible improprieties in relation to either operational or financial conduct.
Employees have been provided with a copy of this policy and are aware of the significance of it.
New employees receive training on all company policies and procedures as part of their induction program.
A copy of the policy is included on the Companys employee intranet.
NMC Health plc Annual Report 2014 65 Governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Bribery Act 2010 The Group has an Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Policy which applies to all directors and employees of all Group Companies.
The Policy, which has been communicated to all employees, includes clear statements setting out the Groups Anti-Bribery measures and Anti-Corruption culture.
Practical guidance has been issued in relation to specific circumstances considered to be most relevant to Group employees.
These include guidance notes for clinical staff attending pharmaceutical and training and development conferences in relation to entertainment and other possible inducements, as well as guidance notes in relation to the receipt of free products and equipment and how such products and incentives may affect clinical judgement.
Specific guidance has also been provided in relation to the provision of sales incentives to senior sales and marketing staff within our Distribution division.
The Corporate Governance Report set out on pages 49 to 66 has been approved by the Board and is signed on its behalf by: H. J.
Mark Tompkins Chairman 66 NMC Health plc Annual Report 2014
