Report of the audit and risk committee Role Meetings The Audit and Risk Committee is appointed by, and reports The Committee is required to meet at least three times a to, the Board.
Details of attendance at meetings held in the year ended 30 April 2014 are given on page 54.
The Committees terms of reference, which include all matters referred to in the UK Corporate Governance Code Due to the cyclical nature of its agenda, which is linked to the Code, are reviewed annually by the Committee events in the Groups financial calendar, the Committee and are available on the Companys website.
In summary will generally meet four times a year.
The other Directors, these include: together with the head of internal audit and the external auditor, are normally invited to attend all meetings.
monitoring the integrity of financial reporting, reviewing the Groups internal controls and risk management systems and Activity monitoring the effectiveness of the Groups internal audit function: Since May 2013, the Committee has: making recommendations to the Board regarding the reviewed the financial statements for the years ended appointment of the external auditor including responsibilities 30 April 2013 and 2014, the half yearly report issued in for the statutory audit tender process and approving their December 2013 and Interim Management Statements remuneration and terms of engagement: issued in September 2013 and March 2014.
As part of this review process, the Committee received reports from monitoring the independence and objectivity of the external Deloitte LLP on the full and half year results: auditor and developing a policy for the provision of nonaudit services by the external auditor: reviewed and agreed the scope of the audit work to be undertaken by Deloitte LLP and agreed their fees: monitoring the audit process and any issues arising therefrom, and monitored the Groups risk management process and business continuity procedures: all aspects of Group risk.
reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups system of The terms of reference have recently been amended to take internal controls: account of the Committees additional responsibilities arising from the FRC revisions to the UK Corporate Governance reviewed the Groups whistleblowing procedures: Code and Guidance on Audit Committees, which will impact reviewed a report on completeness of income: on the work of the Committee in respect of the financial year ending 30 April 2014 and future years.
reviewed the Groups depreciation policy: reviewed the Groups corporate taxation arrangements: Membership monitored and reviewed the activities of the Groups The members of the Committee, who are all non-executive internal audit department: Directors of the Company, are: reviewed a report on impairment: Date of appointment Qualification monitored the Groups going concern status: AJ Allner Chairman 26 September 2007 FCA THP Brown 8 June 2005 MA Oxon, MBA IMD approved the reappointment of PwC as the Companys G Caseberry 10 December 2012 adviser on tax compliance in place of Deloitte LLP: reviewed the Groups Code of Business Conduct, including The Code requires that at least one member of the the requirements of the Bribery Act 2010, and the effective Committee should have recent and relevant financial monitoring of the giving and receiving of gifts and experience: currently, the Chairman of the Committee hospitality, and fulfils this requirement.
All members of the Committee are expected to be financially literate.
reviewed its own effectiveness and terms of reference.
Jan Astrand stood down from the Committee in November 2013.
52 Northgate plc Annual report and accounts 2014 c109372.
indb 52 15 07 2014 12:59 Significant issues considered in relation to the financial account input from management, consideration of statements responses to questions from the Committee and the audit findings reported to the Committee, including conducting During the year the Committee considered, discussed with one-to-one meetings with the audit partner.
Based on all of the external auditor and concluded on what the significant this information the Committee concluded that the external risks and issues were in relation to the financial statements audit process was operating effectively.
and how these would be addressed: Consequently, the Committee has recommended to the Determining appropriate depreciation rates for Board the reappointment of Deloitte LLP at the Annual vehicles available for hire in addition to a monthly General Meeting.
review of profits on disposal or profits per unit, the Committee reviewed formal papers prepared by Fees paid and payable to Deloitte LLP in respect of the year management at each reporting date which included a under review are as shown in Note 5 on page 77. qualitative assessment of the current and forecast trends in the used vehicle market.
After due challenge and debate, Re-appointment of the external auditor the Committee were content with the assumptions and The re-appointment of Deloitte LLP as the Groups external judgments made: auditor incumbent since 1988 was reviewed during the The recoverability of aged debtors throughout year.
The Group intends to put the audit out to tender to the period, ageing analysis is reported in the monthly allow appointment for the year ending April 2016 audit, management accounts and commentary against prior year coinciding with the requirement for the Group audit partner and plan is provided, with specific assessments of at risk to rotate off.
The Group intends to then put the audit out customers.
The Committee ensured that management to tender at least every ten years as required by the UK dedicated sufficient resources to mitigate bad debt risk Corporate Governance Code.
across the Group: Internal audit Presumed risk of fraud in revenue recognition and management override of controls the Committee In fulfilling its duty to monitor the effectiveness of the considered the presumed risks of fraud as defined by internal audit function, the Committee has: auditing standards and was content that there were no reviewed the adequacy of the resources of the internal issues arising, and audit department for both the UK and Spain: Financial statements the Committee considered the ensured that the head of internal audit has direct access presentation of the financial statements, and in particular, to the Chairman of the Board and to all members of the the analysis between underlying and statutory disclosures.
Committee: We were satisfied with managements presentation.
conducted a one-to-one meeting with the head of External auditor internal audit, approved the internal audit programme and reviewed quarterly reports by the head of internal audit.
The Boards policy on non-audit services provided by the external auditor, developed and recommended by the The Chairman of the Committee will be available at the Committee, is: Annual General Meeting to answer any questions about the work of the Committee.
Certain audit related work, being work that, in its capacity as auditor, it is best placed to carry out and will generally be Andrew Allner asked to do so.
Nevertheless, where appropriate, it will be Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee asked for a fee quote, and 24 June 2014 Tax compliance, tax advisory and other non-audit related and general consultancy work: this type of work will either be placed on the basis of the lowest fee quote or to consultants who are felt to be best able to provide the expertise and working relationship required.
Generally, the external auditor will not be invited to compete for this type of work.
During the year, the Committee reviewed the effectiveness and independence of the external auditor, taking into 53 Northgate plc Governance Annual report and Report of the audit accounts 2014 and risk committee c109372.
