Corporate governance UK Listed Companies are required by the Financial Conduct The external auditor and the head of internal audit attended Authority the designated UK Listing Authority to include all Audit and Risk Committee meetings.
a statement in their annual accounts on compliance with Before appointment, non-executive Directors are required to the principles of good corporate governance and code of assure the Board that they can give the time commitment best practice set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code necessary to properly fulfil their duties, both in terms of the Code.
availability to attend meetings and discuss matters on the The provisions of the Code applicable to listed companies are telephone and meeting preparation time.
divided into five parts, as set out below: Jan Astrands appointment in December 2011 as nonexecutive Chairman of the Board of our Spanish subsidiary, 1 Leadership Northgate Espaa Renting Flexible S. A. is ongoing.
It is The business of the Company is managed by the Board of a role for which Jan is ideally suited, as he is permanently Directors, currently comprising two executive and five nonresident in Spain and fluent in Spanish.
He receives no executive Directors, details of whom are shown on pages 6 additional remuneration for this appointment.
The Board considers that the above appointment is in the The offices of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are best interests of the Company and of the shareholders and, separate.
The division of their responsibilities has been set whilst Jan cannot be considered to be independent in terms out in writing, approved by the Board and is available on the of the Code or by the National Association of Pension Funds, Companys website.
the Board is satisfied that it does not affect his independence of judgment when carrying out his duties as a Director of the The Board meets regularly to review trading results and has Company.
responsibility for the major areas of Group strategy, the annual Business Plan, financial reporting to and relationships The Board has established a Nominations Committee, which with shareholders, dividend policy, internal financial and is chaired by Bob Mackenzie.
All the non-executive Directors other controls, financing and treasury policy, insurance are members except for Jan Astrand.
Its main function is to policy, major capital expenditure, acquisitions and disposals, lead the process for Board appointments by selecting and Board structure, remuneration policy, corporate governance proposing to the Board suitable candidates of appropriate and compliance.
The Committee would normally expect to use the services of professional consultants to help in the search for candidates.
2 Effectiveness The Chairman ensures that all Directors are properly briefed The Committee has written terms of reference which are to enable them to discharge their duties.
In particular, available on the Companys website.
detailed management accounts are prepared and copies sent Pursuant to those provisions of the Companies Act 2006 to all Board members every month and, in advance of each relating to conflicts of interest and in accordance with the Board meeting, appropriate documentation on all items to authority contained in the Companys Articles of Association, be discussed is circulated.
the Board has put in place procedures to deal with the Directors attendance at Board and Committee meetings notification, authorisation, recording and monitoring of during the year is detailed below.
Directors conflicts of interest and these procedures have operated effectively throughout the year and to the date of Board Audit and risk Remuneration signing of this report and accounts.
of Meetings 9 4 5 Diversity RD Mackenzie 9 5 The Board has considered the recommendations of the AJ Allner 9 4 5 Davies Review into Women on Boards in the light of the JG Astrand 9 2 2 provisions of both section B.
2 of the Code, with which we THP Brown 9 4 5 are compliant, and of our existing policies and procedures.
G Caseberry 8 4 4 The Board recognises the benefits of diversity at all levels RL Contreras 9 of the business and in order to reinforce the Boards CJR Muir 9 commitment to equality, the Board has endorsed an Equal Jan Astrand stood down from the Audit and Remuneration Committees in Opportunities Policy which may be found on our website.
Whilst the overriding criteria for Board appointments will All Directors in office at that time were present at the Annual always be based on merit, so as to encourage an appropriate General Meeting held in September 2013.
54 Northgate plc Annual report and accounts 2014 c109372.
indb 54 15 07 2014 12:59 balance of skills, experience and knowledge on the Board planner, to ensure that the right topics are being covered at all times, for all future appointments we will only use at the right times and to flag opportunities for further input executive search firms who have committed to the Voluntary from the directors: the board reporting is to be overhauled Code of Conduct on gender diversity.
At the same time the to reduce its length and to inject more narrative and Board recognises that, particularly given the nature of its improve selectivity of information: in addition to current business, the development of a pool of suitably qualified arrangements, the board will meet with the CEO alone candidates may take time to achieve and therefore do not once a year and once as an occasion for non-executive believe it is appropriate to set targets, however aspirational, Directors only: and there will be an ongoing emphasis at at the present time.
the Nominations Committee and at the Board on formal succession planning to ensure the composition of the Board is progressively refreshed over the next two years to reflect Board review the needs of the Group as it develops and expected rotation.
The Board undertook a formal evaluation of its own performance and that of its committees and individual 3 Accountability Directors during the year.
The Code requires that the Company conduct an externally facilitated evaluation every An assessment of the Companys position and prospects is three years and accordingly after a thorough competitive included in the Chairmans Statement on pages 4 and 5 and process the 2014 Board performance evaluation was in the Strategic report on pages 9 to 32. facilitated by Duncan Reed of Condign Board Consulting Ltd, a company which specialises in board effectiveness work.
Internal control Mr Reed and Condign have no other connection with the Provision C. 2.1 of the Code requires the Directors to conduct Company.
an annual review of the effectiveness of the Groups system The evaluation process consisted of a structured interview of internal controls.
The Turnbull guidance provides relevant with the Chairman, each Director, the Company Secretary guidance for Directors on compliance with the internal and the Managing Director of the Spanish business, with control provisions of the Code.
an outline of the topics to be covered in the interview sent to each in advance.
The evaluation also included the review Corporate governance of relevant board papers and Mr Reed attended both board The Directors are responsible for the Groups system of and board committee meetings.
The outcome of the review internal controls which aims to safeguard Group assets, was initially discussed with the Chairman and the Senior ensure proper accounting records are maintained and that Independent Director, followed by a presentation to the full the financial information used within the business and board and an open discussion.
Although no system of internal The review concluded that basic board governance is in controls can provide absolute assurance against material good repair and that the board was notably commercial misstatement or loss, the Groups system is designed to and business-focussed.
Robust and challenging discussions provide the Directors with reasonable assurance that, should are had, in an open and cooperative environment.
The any problems occur, these are identified on a timely basis engagement by the board with new strategy development at and dealt with appropriately.
The key features of the Groups a group level was highlighted and accepted as an increasing system of internal controls, which was in place throughout priority, alongside the need to set risk appetite appropriately, the period covered by the accounts, are described below: as was the boards proactive succession planning function through the Nominations Committee.
Control environment The Group has a clearly defined organisational structure The non-executive Directors, led by the Senior Independent within which individual responsibilities of line and financial Director, will shortly evaluate the performance of the management for the maintenance of strong internal Chairman with input from the externally facilitated controls and the production of accurate and timely financial evaluation.
The Chairman will do the same in relation to the management information are identified and can be Directors.
The Board continues to believe that the Directors monitored.
Where appropriate, the business is required to have strong familiarity with the Group and its businesses and comply with the procedures set out in written manuals.
contribute multiple perspectives and, importantly, ongoing independent judgment.
To demonstrate the Boards commitment to maintaining the highest business and ethical standards and to promote a Recommendations which will be implemented following culture of honesty and integrity amongst all staff, the Board the 2014 Board performance evaluation include making has established a confidential telephone service, operated by time available for the board to discuss the forward agenda 55 Northgate plc Governance Annual report and Corporate governance accounts 2014 c109372.
indb 55 15 07 2014 12:59 Corporate governance continued an independent external organisation, which may be used by and compliance matters and risk management, for the all staff to report any issues of concern relating to dishonesty period covered by these accounts in accordance with the or malpractice within the Group.
All issues reported are Turnbull guidance.
Audit Identification of risks An account of the work of the audit and risk committee is The Board and the Groups management have a clearly given in the Report of the audit and risk committee on pages defined responsibility for identifying the major business risks 52 and 53. facing the Group and for developing systems to mitigate and manage those risks.
The control of key risks is reviewed by 4 Remuneration the Board and the Groups management at their monthly The Companys policy on remuneration and details of the meetings.
The Board is therefore able to confirm that there is remuneration of each Director are given in the Remuneration an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing Report on pages 37 to 51. the significant risks faced by the Group, that it has been in place for the year under review and up to the date of 5 Relations with shareholders approval of these accounts and accords with the Turnbull guidance.
Throughout the year the Company maintains a regular dialogue with institutional investors and brokers analysts, providing them with such information on the Companys Information and communication progress and future plans as is permitted within the The Group has a comprehensive system for reporting guidelines of the Listing Rules.
In particular, twice a year, financial results to the Board.
Each operating unit prepares at the time of announcing the Companys half and full monthly accounts with a comparison against their business year results, they are invited to briefings given by the Chief plan and against the previous year, with regular review by Executive and Group Finance Director.
management of variances from targeted performance levels.
A business plan is prepared by management and approved The Companys major institutional shareholders have by the Board annually.
Each operating unit prepares a two been advised by the Chief Executive that, in line with the year business plan with performance reported against key provisions of the Code, the Senior Independent Director and performance indicators on a monthly basis together with other non-executives may attend these briefings and, in any comparisons to plan and prior year.
These are reviewed event, would attend if requested to do so.
Forecasts are updated regularly All shareholders are given the opportunity to raise matters throughout the year.
for discussion at the Annual General Meeting, of which more than the recommended minimum 20 working days Control procedures notice is given.
In compliance with the Transparency Rules, The Board and the Groups management have adopted a the Company publishes Interim Management Statements in schedule of matters which are required to be brought to it March and September each year.
for decision, thus ensuring that it maintains full and effective Details of proxies lodged in respect of the Annual General control over appropriate strategic, financial, organisational Meeting will be published on the Companys website and compliance issues.
Measures taken include clearly immediately following the meeting.
defined procedures for capital expenditure appraisal and authorisation, physical controls, segregation of duties and routine and ad hoc checks.
Compliance with the Code The Board considers that the Company complied with the Monitoring provisions of the Code throughout the year.
The Board has delegated to executive management By order of the Board implementation of the system of internal control.
The Board, including the Audit and Risk Committee, receives reports D Henderson on the system of control from the external auditor and Secretary from management.
An independent internal audit function 24 June 2014 reports quarterly to the Audit and Risk Committee primarily on the key areas of risk within the business.
The Directors confirm that they have reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal controls covering financial, operational 56 Northgate plc Annual report and accounts 2014 c109372.
