80 Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC Annual Report 2014 Corporate governance Nomination and Governance Committee Report Letter from the Chairman Membership Sir Christopher Codrington, Bt.
Name Membership status Independent Member since non-executive director Sir Christopher Codrington, Bt.
19 May 2014 Member since Frank Monstrey 19 May 2014 Member since Eike von der Linden 19 May 2014 Role of the Nomination and Governance Committee The key responsibilities of the committee are to: OHDG WKH SURFHVV IRU %RDUG DSSRLQWPHQWV DQG PDNH recommendations to the Board regarding candidates forappointment or reappointment as directors: PRQLWRU DQG PDNH UHFRPPHQGDWLRQV WR WKH %RDUG RQ board governance and corporate governance issues, to enable the Board to operate effectively and efficiently: Chairmans introduction I am pleased to report on the Nominations and UHJXODUO UHYLHZ WKH VWUXFWXUH VL]H DQG FRPSRVLWLRQ Governance Committee, which I chair.
including skills knowledge and experience required ofthe Board: As the Nomination and Governance Committee was NHHS XQGHU UHYLHZ WKH OHDGHUVKLS QHHGV RI WKH established in June 2014, following the premium listing Company, both executive and non-executive, with of the Company, it has met once this year.
However, aview to ensuring the continued ability of the Company going forward, it is intended that it will meet at least to compete effectively in the marketplace: and twice a year and more frequently if required.
UHYLHZ DQQXDOO WKH WLPH UHTXLUHG IURP QRQ H[HFXWLYH directors.
Committee meetings Only members of the committee have the right to attend committee meetings.
However, other individuals such asthe chief executive, the head of human resources and external advisers may be invited to attend all or part of any meeting, as and when appropriate.
Main activities of the committee during the year At its initial meeting in 2014 the committee began to consider the desired profile of candidates for future Board appointments.
This is a topic that the committee considers important and on which the committee intends to focus its attention throughout 2015, laying down criteria and key attributes for potential new directors, especially in terms of the experience and diversity of Board members.
In the year ahead the committee will continue to assess the performance of the Board and what changes, if any, should be made to the composition of the Board and its committees in order to maximise their effectiveness, and will continue to monitor developments in corporate governance to ensure that the Board is operating efficiently and in compliance with its obligations.
On behalf of the Nomination and Governance Committee 24 March 2015
