74 Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC Annual Report 2014 Corporate governance Audit Committee Report Letter from the Chairman Eike von der Linden Chairman, Audit Committee Senior independent non-executive director Chairmans introduction In 2014 the committee continued to focus on the I believe that the committee consists of members with appropriateness of the Groups financial reporting, the correct balance of skills and experience to allow the which involved reviewing the adequacy of related committee to perform its tasks effectively whilst being disclosures, reviewing the Groups assessment and supported by management, external auditor and the management of key risks, reviewing the Groups Groups internal audit manager.
systems of internal control, establishing an internal Eike von der Linden audit function, and overseeing the relationship with Chairman, Audit Committee Ernst & Young LLP, the Groups external auditor.
Senior independent non-executive director The committee has also focused on the effect that the significant decline in oil prices is likely to have on any ofthe committees key areas of focus.
I would like to take this opportunity to formally welcome Sir Christopher Codrington, Bt.
who joined the committee on 19 May 2014 and who brings with him a wealth of experience in the oil and gas industry.
The committee has met four times during 2014.
AsChairman of the committee I also meet regularly with our external auditor and theGroups internal audit manager to obtain their independent views on the Groups potential risk areas and to discuss any areas of concern identified by the committee.
Subsequent to the monthly management reports, discussions took place between the audit committee members and conclusions have been drawn and, when considered necessary, recommendations have been made to the executive management.
Meetings of the committee usually take place just prior to a Board meeting to maximise the efficiency of the committees interaction with the Board and, as Chairman of the committee, it is my responsibility to report to the Board on key topics discussed at committee meetings to ensure that all Directors are informed of the committees work.
Annual Report 2014 Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC 75 Role and responsibilities of the Audit Committee Activities of the Audit Committee during the year The primary role of the committee is to assist the Board Below is a summary of the major activities of the committee infulfilling its responsibilities in achieving the Groups during the year, which include: compliance with corporate strategic objectives and protecting stakeholder interests.
governance standards, financial reporting, external audit: internal audit, internal controls and risk management, The key areas of responsibility of the committee are significant issues and related actions and the committee categorised as follows and are described in more detail in review.
the committee terms of reference available on the Groups website at www.
The committee held four meetings in 2014 and three between the beginning of 2015 and the publication date UHYLHZ RI WKH URXSV DQQXDO DQG LQWHULP UHSRUWV LQFOXGLQJ of this annual report.
Committee members were present financial statements as well as formal announcements inperson at four of the meetings, while three meetings ofthe financial results and other information: were conducted by conference call.
UHYLHZ WKH HIIHFWLYHQHVV RI WKH URXSV LQWHUQDO FRQWUROV Compliance with corporate governance standards and risk management systems including impairment Nostrums approach to corporate governance is primarily testing, by assessing the consistency and clarity of related based on the UK Corporate Governance Code published disclosures and conducting operating and financial by the Financial Reporting Council FRC and the Listing reviews: Rules of the UK Listing Authority.
PRQLWRU FRPSOLDQFH ZLWK DSSOLFDEOH OHJDO DQG UHJXODWRU As of 31 December 2014, Nostrum complied with all the requirements and the Groups Code of Conduct: principles and provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code, in relation to the work of the committee.
PRQLWRU DQG UHYLHZ WKH HIIHFWLYHQHVV RI WKH URXSV internal audit function: The Chairman of the committee and external auditor participated in an annual reporting and accounts workshop PDLQWDLQ WKH UHODWLRQVKLS ZLWK WKH &RPSDQ V H[WHUQDO organised by the Finance Team together with other auditor and oversee their appointment, remuneration departments in October 2014.
As part of the workshop and terms of engagement whilst continually assessing anexperienced partner from Ernst & Young LLP gave their independence and objectivity: and anoverview of best practice strategic and governance UHYLHZ DXGLW ILQGLQJV DQG DVVHVV WKH VWDQGDUG DQG reporting as well as changes in related standards.
effectiveness of the external audit.
Nostrum has also established a Group whistle-blowing The members of the committee during 2014 were: policy and has appointed two compliance liaison officers: one Russian speaking compliance liaison officer based Nostrum inKazakhstan and a further Dutch and English speaking Oil & Gas plc membership compliance liaison officer based in Brussels, to ensure Name start date thatall Group employees have access to someone who Eike von der Linden 19 May 2014 canprovide them with support and guidance on their rightsand obligations regarding whistle-blowing.
The Atul Gupta 19 May 2014 auditcommittee has close contact with the compliance Sir Christopher Codrington, Bt.
The membership of the committee has been selected Financial reporting withthe aim of providing a wide range of financial and While reviewing the draft quarterly and annual financial commercial expertise necessary to meet its responsibilities statements as well as the annual report the committee and all members of the committee are considered to have focused on challenging: the required recent and relevant financial experience.
WKH FRPSOLDQFH RI WKH DFFRXQWLQJ SROLFLHV DSSOLHG DQG The committee meets on a quarterly basis or additionally disclosures made with financial reporting standards and asand when required.
The chief financial officer and the relevant corporate governance requirements: internal audit manager are also invited to the meetings WKH VLJQLILFDQW MXGJHPHQWV DQG HVWLPDWHV DSSOLHG E together with the external auditor.
management, which are discussed in more detail in the In addition to these activities, on a monthly basis the section entitled Significant issues and related actions members of the committee are updated by management below: and and the internal audit manager on key issues and ZKHWKHU WKH DQQXDO UHSRUW WDNHQ DV D ZKROH LV IDLU developments including the status of the Groups strategic balanced and understandable and provides the initiatives, financial performance, risk management and information necessary for shareholders to assess the internal controls.
In the last quarter of 2014, the oil price Groups performance, business model and strategy.
impact on the financial results were assessed by the audit committee.
Additional disclosures Regulatory information Financial report Corporate governance Strategic report 76 Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC Annual Report 2014 Corporate governance Audit Committee Report continued Any questions and comments arising from such review Appointment of external auditor aswell as significant issues raised by the external auditor Ernst & Young LLP Kazakhstan was the auditor of were discussed with management at meetings of the thepredecessor group of companies since 2007, committee.
Subsequently, based on its overall assessment andcontinued auditing Zhaikmunai LLP in 2014, while the committee recommended that the Board approve Ernst& Young LLP UK was appointed as an auditor of the thefinancial statements.
Group on 19 May 2014 based on the recommendation ofthe committee and upon approval by the Companys The committee continuously provides feedback to shareholders.
management on ways to improve the effectiveness and clarity of the Groups corporate reporting and has Mr Richard Addison assumed the role of lead audit partner encouraged management to support and adopt initiatives from Ernst & Young LLP UK for the 2014 Group audit in by regulatory bodies which would enhance the Groups compliance with the requirements for the rotation of lead reporting.
audit partners once every five years.
External audit In 2015 the Group intends to adopt a policy on the Groups 'XULQJ 4 WKH FRPPLWWHH UHYLHZHG DQG GLVFXVVHG external audit, which details the Groups requirements for, the detailed audit plan prepared by Ernst & Young LLP UK amongst other things, external auditor selection and which identifies the audit scope, and their assessment non-audit services.
The committee also considered and of key risks.
The key risks monitored by the committee took account of the guidance contained under provision coincide with those identified and assessed by C. 3.7 of the UK Corporate Governance Code that provides management and the external auditor.
These risks and that companies should put their external audit contract remediating actions are explained in detail in the section outto tender at least once every ten years.
entitled Significant issues and related actions below.
Non-audit services Allmembers of the committee support the application The committee monitors the external auditor to ensure that ofprofessional scepticism by the Groups external auditor.
it does not provide non-audit services that are prohibited During 2014 and 2015 the members of the committee held by the UK Auditing Practices Board APB, and limits such several private meetings with the external auditor, which services to due diligence services, other assurance services provided a mutual opportunity for open dialogue and and tax compliance and advisory services.
feedback without management being present.
Topics In 2014, non-audit fees totalled US$1,089 thousand covered at such meetings include: the external auditors 2013:US$397 thousand including US$730 thousand assessment of significant risks and related management forassurance and due diligence services related to the actions, confirmation that there has been no restriction in premium listing 2013: US$252 thousand, US$319 thousand the scope placed on them by management, the adequacy 2013: US$105 thousand for quarterly reviews of the interim of the audit fees, the independence of their audit and how financial statements, US$40 thousand for tax compliance they have exercised professional scepticism.
Notwithstanding a relatively significant amount of The effectiveness of the external auditor will be evaluated non-audit fees, the audit committee is satisfied that adequate by thecommittee each year and takes into account the safeguards to ensure Ernst & Youngs independence are in quality of the work and communication undertaken by place.
The committee concurred with the external auditors the external auditor and the level of audit fees.
position that the majority of non-audit services have been of a one-off nature and do not impair the external auditors The committee reviewed the 2014 H1 interim and 2014 independence.
annual auditors reports giving particular consideration to the audit procedures and findings in the areas of significant In 2015 the Group is formalising its procedures relating to judgements and estimates.
The committee also reviewed non-audit services in the abovementioned policy regarding the letter of representation to be signed by management the Groups external audit.
It is expected that the policy will inrespect of both the interim review and the annual require that non-audit services may only be provided by audit.
Lastly, the committee, together with the relevant theexternal auditor where the external auditor maintains management, considered the external auditors the necessary degree of independence and objectivity management letter following the 2014 audit, and reviewed and standard supplier selection procedures are carried out.
the steps proposed by management in response to the Thepolicy will be under review and may be amended from findings.
time to time as necessary.
Annual Report 2014 Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC 77 Internal audit The committee also reviewed and challenged the Groups The committee receives quarterly reports and monthly significant risks identified by the external auditor, and updates from the Groups chief financial officer and internal reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups risk management audit manager throughout the year.
The monthly report framework related to such risks.
summarises current business performance and issues The Committee review andthe quarterly report provides information on internal The committee undertakes an annual evaluation of its audit findings and any action to be taken bymanagement performance and effectiveness.
Concerns were raised in May 2014 evaluation as to During 2014 the Group developed its internal audit theadequacy of the induction material.
Therefore, during function and hired an internal audit manager.
In connection the year suitable and detailed induction material was with this an internal audit charter has been adopted, which prepared and provided to Sir Christopher Codrington, Bt.
develops a three-year internal audit plan and sets out the as the newest member of the committee.
responsibilities of the internal audit function.
The primary role of the internal audit function is to help the Board and In March 2015 the committee used a survey which executive management to protect the assets, reputation examined governance processes such as the mix of and sustainability of the organisation.
This is intended experience and skills amongst members, meeting content, tobeachieved through: information, training and resources.
Areas of focus for 2015 arising from the evaluation include monitoring the length EXLOGLQJ VWURQJ DQG HIIHFWLYH ULVN DZDUHQHVV ZLWKLQ ofcommittee papers, the inclusion of broader business theGroup: topics on the agenda and suggestions for further FRQWLQXRXVO LPSURYLQJ ULVN PDQDJHPHQW DQG FRQWURO committee training.
Aside from this observation, the processes so that they operate effectively and efficiently committee concluded that its mandate and oversight and reflect leading practice: and performance were appropriate.
VKDULQJ EHVW SUDFWLFH ZLWK UHJDUG WR ULVN PDQDJHPHQW andassurance across the Group.
The Companys ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group accords with the FRCs Internal Control: Revised Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code formerly, the Turnbull Guidance.
The system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Groups aim during 2015 is to develop the internal auditfunction further by hiring additional staff and refining the terms of the internal audit charter in consultation with the committee to ensure that it is effective and meets the requirements of the business.
Internal controls and risk management The committee has been focusing on the Groups risk assessment and management system.
A comprehensive financial procedures report dated 20 May 2014, was developed by the Group during the process of the premium listing and was reviewed by the committee.
The committee adopted the directors risk register and actively participates in further enhancing it.
The Group is in the process of developing the internal controls manual and formalising the risk management policy.
Particular attention is paid by the committee to the areas of risk management related to ensuring adequate maintenance of accounting records and accurate recording of transactions, which permit the preparation of financial statements in accordance with IFRS.
In view of the oil price fluctuation, thecommittee focused on the review of impairment testing and going concern.
Additional disclosures Regulatory information Financial report Corporate governance Strategic report 78 Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC Annual Report 2014 Corporate governance Audit Committee Report continued Significant issues and related actions The following are the key risks and issues that the committee focused on during 2014: Significant issues Committee actions Recoverability of non-current assets carrying values The Group performs impairment testing of goodwill on an annual basis as The committee continuously reviewed the detailed reports on impairment required by IFRS.
Moreover, the continuing fall in market oil prices since testing prepared by management and challenged the appropriateness 4 ZDV FRQVLGHUHG DQ LPSDLUPHQW WULJJHU HYHQW IRU RLO JDV DVVHWV ofthe assumptions made.
Areas of focus were the achievability of the and exploration & evaluation assets.
The impairment testing issubject business plans, as well as assumptions in relation to oil prices and to application of management judgement and various assumptions, discountrates, which have been subject to volatility given the current underlying the calculation of the value in the use of this single cash macroeconomic conditions.
Special consideration was also given to the generating unit, being the achievability of the long term business plan sensitivity analysis in relation to these assumptions.
This has also been one andthe macroeconomic and related modelling assumptions underlying of the main areas of audit focus and Ernst & Young LLP provided detailed the valuation process.
reporting on these matters to the committee.
Oil & gas reserves estimation and accounting Oil & gas reserves, which are estimated by the Groups reserve The committee reviewed judgemental aspects of the reserve estimation engineersand audited by the independent reserve engineers, are used report as part of the Groups annual due diligence process.
It also to calculate the depletion of oil & gas assets, and also used as input data examined the governance framework for the oil and gas reserves for impairment testing models.
Judgements and estimates are used when process, training for staff and developments in regulations and controls.
estimating the oil & gas reserves.
Revenue recognition The timing of revenue recognition in accordance with Incoterms, the The committee has reviewed the Companys policy and controls in relation recognition of revenue on a gross or net basis, and the treatment of to revenue recognition and specifically compliance with PSA.
discounts are complex areas of accounting.
Related party transactions and disclosures This has been assessed as a significant risk area due to the inherent The committee has been monitoring the procedures in place for the complexity of identifying related parties and the extensive disclosure identification of related parties and ensures that pre-approvals are requirements of IAS 24 regarding related party disclosures as well as obtained before entering into contracts with them.
Also the committee thepast history of significant related party transactions carried out considered any observations made by the auditor as part of their reporting bytheGroup.
GTU3 construction and well drilling There are internal and external factors threatening the ability of the Group The construction of GTU3 and the drilling programme were one of the key to achieve its strategic objectives such as the construction of GTU3 and areas of focus for the committee in 2014, particularly in light of the decline well drilling.
These include, but are not limited to, inadequate project in oil prices.
The committee has been reviewing monthly reports prepared management, supplier delays, availability of financial and other resources by management and meeting regularly to discuss and identify potential and cost overruns.
problems and to provide advice on future steps to be taken bythe Group.
Tax contingencies and compliance with PSA The Group is subject to risks associated with uncertainties surrounding The committee considered management reports setting out the results theapplication of tax laws in Kazakhstan as well as the uncertainties ofassessments in relation to significant taxes and other contributions andcomplexities of the calculation of taxes and other obligatory tothe government.
Having received input from the external auditor and contributions under its production sharing agreement.
As a result, challenging decisions made, the committee agreed with managements management is required to make judgements and estimates in relation assessment of the provision to be recognised in respect of taxes and toprovisioning for related taxes and contributions.
uncertain tax positions, Transfer pricing and social commitments andtheassociated disclosures.
Provisions and contingencies The recognition of provisions for the future decommissioning of oil & The committee reviewed managements reports on the Groups gasassets at the end of their economic lives requires managements decommissioning, environmental remediation and litigation provisioning, judgement when estimating settlement dates, the scope of work, including key assumptions used, the governance framework applied, technology and legal requirements.
Also the level of provisioning for discount rates and the movement in provisions overtime.
contingent and other liabilities is an issue where management and legal judgements are important.
Annual Report 2014 Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC 79 Significant issues Committee actions Going concern The determination that the Group will continue on a going concern basis The committee considered the reports prepared by management and for the foreseeable future requires management to exercise judgement.
their assumptions and concluded that managements recommendation toprepare the accounts on a going concern basis was appropriate.
Thecommittee also discussed these reports and assumptions with theexternal auditors.
Derivative financial instruments The estimation of the fair value of derivative financial instruments involves The committee reviewed managements report on the valuation of the use of judgement and estimations in relation to oil price volatilities by derivative financial instruments and the respective disclosures made in both external service providers and management.
In addition, there are the notes to the financial statements.
The external auditors conclusions risks associated with the complexity of accounting and disclosures related on the valuation models were also discussed at committee meetings.
Information security risks Given its public nature the Group needs to ensure that its environment At its quarterly meetings, the Committee pays attention to information issufficiently secure to protect it against the risk of loss or corruption security related matters and discusses with the management past and ofsensitive information.
Failure to adequately protect such information planned actions directed at addressing the recommendations from could have a material adverse effect on the Groups reputation and may external consultants.
lead to legal action against the Group.
Environmental compliance Given the changing nature of environmental regulations in Kazakhstan, As part of the monthly management reports the committee reviewed the there is a risk that the Group will not be in full compliance with all Groups activities to ensure an appropriate level of protection for health, regulations at all times.
The committee has also reviewed the annual report prepared by the independent environmental auditor outlining the Groups compliance and the environmental auditors recommendations for improvement.
On behalf of the Board Kai-Uwe Kessel Jan-Ru Muller Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer 24 March 2015 24 March 2015 Additional disclosures Regulatory information Financial report Corporate governance Strategic report
