C h i e f E x e E c x u e t i v c e u 68 Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC Annual Report 2014 Corporate governance Corporate governance approach Introduction Corporate governance is very important to Nostrum Governance framework andthe Board promotes high standards of corporate governance.
The Company fully complies with all provisions Board of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code Remuneration with the exception of those matters set out on page 71, Committee Board inrespect of which the reasons for the divergence from Board Audit Nomination the Code position is explained.
Committee & Governance Committee The Board considers all of its non-executive directors, otherthan Piet Everaert and Pankaj Jain, to be independent within the meaning of such term as defined in the Code.
Piet Everaert and Pankaj Jain are not deemed to be independent as a result of having been nominated by Claremont Holdings C. V. a Dutch limited partnership Board indirectly controlled by Frank Monstrey, the chairman of theCompany, and his spouse and Mayfair Investments B. V. respectively, who are the two largest shareholders in the Company.
The Code recommends that the Board should appoint one of its independent non-executive directors to act in the capacity of senior independent director.
Eike von der Linden serves in such capacity as the Boards senior independent director.
The Board has appointed an audit committee, a remuneration committee and a nomination and governance committee.
The members of these committees How the Board works are appointed principally from among the independent The Board schedules four regular meetings during the directors and all appointments to these committees are for course of the year and in addition meets when appropriate a period of one year.
The terms of reference of the various to review trading performance, budgets and funding, set committees have been drawn up in accordance with the and monitor strategy, examine acquisition opportunities provisions of the Code.
Each committee and each director has the authority to The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved for seekindependent professional advice where necessary itsdecision which cover decisions relating to: todischarge their respective duties, in each case at the VWUDWHJ DQG PDQDJHPHQW Companys expense.
In addition, each director and committee has access to the advice of the Company VWUXFWXUH DQG FDSLWDO Secretary, Thomas Hartnett.
ILQDQFLDO UHSRUWLQJ DQG FRQWUROV LQWHUQDO FRQWUROV FRQWUDFWV DQG H[SHQGLWXUH FRPPXQLFDWLRQ %RDUG PHPEHUVKLS DQG RWKHU DSSRLQWPHQWV UHPXQHUDWLRQ GHOHJDWLRQ RI DXWKRULW FRUSRUDWH JRYHUQDQFH PDWWHUV DQG DSSURYDO RI FHUWDLQ URXS SROLFLHV C t i o v m e m i O t t e f e f i c e r Annual Report 2014 Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC 69 The schedule is reviewed annually and is available on The Boards nomination committee and governance ourwebsite.
Other specific responsibilities are delegated committee keeps the balance, independence and to Board committees.
succession plans of the Board under review so as to maintain an appropriate balance of skills and experience The Board is responsible for considering all important within the Company and on the Board in accordance management and policy matters in relation to the Company withthe UK Corporate Governance Code.
and the Group and has the powers and duties set out in therelevant laws of England and Wales and the Companys Board diversity articles of association.
The Board has due regard for the importance of, and benefits from, diversity in its membership, including The key responsibilities of the Board include: gender diversity, and strives to maintain an appropriate VHWWLQJ WKH &RPSDQ V VWUDWHJLF DLPV balance in the Board.
The Board is comprised of individuals with diverse sectoral experience, ages and geographic HQVXULQJ WKDW WKH QHFHVVDU ILQDQFLDO DQG KXPDQ andethnic backgrounds.
resources are in place for the Company to meet its objectives: Appointment and tenure All executive directors have service agreements with the UHYLHZLQJ URXS PDQDJHPHQW SHUIRUPDQFH DQG Company and all non-executive directors have letters of VHWWLQJ WKH URXSV YDOXHV DQG VWDQGDUGV WR HQVXUH WKDW LWV appointment with the Company.
For all executive directors obligations to all shareholders are understood and met.
there is no term limit on their services, as the Company proposes all executive directors for annual re-election Board composition ateach subsequent AGM of the Company.
The Board consist of nine directors.
As at 31 December 2014, in addition to the Chairman, Frank Monstrey, there The appointment of each of the non-executive directors were two executive directors and six non-executive commenced on 19 May 2014.
Each appointment is for an directors.
initial term of three years, subject to being re-elected as adirector at each subsequent AGM of the Company.
The Within the Board, the roles of chairman and chief executive letters of appointment for non-executive directors do not are separate, with each having distinct and clearly defined set a fixed time commitment as it is anticipated that the responsibilities.
The chairman, Frank Monstrey, is time required of directors may fluctuate depending on responsible for leadership of the Board and for ensuring its demands of the Companys business and other events.
effectiveness in all aspects of its role.
The chairman sets the It is expected that directors will allocate sufficient time to agenda for Board meetings in consultation with the chief the Company in order to discharge their duties effectively.
executive, the chief financial officer and the general counsel and company secretary.
The chairman is also responsible Copies of the service agreements of the executive for ensuring that the directors receive accurate, timely and directors and the letters of appointment for the clear information and that there is effective communication non-executive directors are available for inspection at with the directors.
The chief executive provides leadership theCompanys registered office.
to the Group, which enables the successful planning and Whilst there are currently no women on Nostrums Board, execution of the objectives and strategies agreed by the gender diversity is important to us.
The chief executive is also responsible for care governance committee will be taking this into account of the Groups assets and, jointly with the chairman, when considering succession planning and suitable representation of the Group to third parties.
Eike von der Linden as senior independent non-executive director provides a sounding board for the chairman and serves as an intermediary for the other directors when necessary.
He is available should the need arise to convey concerns to the Board other than through the chairman or the chief executive.
Additional disclosures Regulatory information Financial report Corporate governance Strategic report 70 Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC Annual Report 2014 Corporate governance Corporate governance approach continued Introduction Board activities in the 2014 financial year Board activities are structured to assist the Board in achieving its goal to support and advise executive management on the delivery of the Groups strategy within a transparent governance framework.
The diagram below shows the main areas of focus by the Board during 2014. Business performance Diversity and talent &KLHI [HFXWLYHV EXVLQHVV UHSRUW 6XFFHVVLRQ SODQQLQJ &RPPHUFLDO SHUIRUPDQFH 7DOHQW FDSDELOLW DQG in local markets diversity %XVLQHVV GHYHORSPHQW [SORUDWLRQ 2SHUDWLRQV XSGDWHV Business risks 6WUDWHJLF DQG operational risks 6DQFWLRQV Business strategy 5XVVLD 6WUDWHJ DQG operations report Governance %RDUG SHUIRUPDQFH and evaluation Being responsible %RDUG FRPPLWWHH HDOWK DQG VDIHW reports HJDO DQG FRPSOLDQFH Board &RUSRUDWH 5HSXWDWLRQ governance updates 5HYLHZ &RPPLWWHH membership Shareholder focus Financials 5HWXUQV WR &KLHI LQDQFLDO shareholders Officers report &RPPXQLFDWLRQ ZLWK 4XDUWHUO DQG Sustainability shareholders full year results 6XVWDLQDEOH EXVLQHVV, QYHVWRU UHODWLRQV, QWHUQDO DXGLW practices Annual Report 2014 Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC 71 Board evaluation The Company held a reservoir management workshop on In line with the requirements of the Code, the Company 17 February 2014 in Berlin, which covered topics such as aims to review Board effectiveness annually, with Board production performance, key subsurface events in 2013, effectiveness also being reviewed through an external geology and reservoir engineering and the Groups drilling performance evaluation every three years.
and wellwork plan for 2014 in relation to the Chinarevskoye field.
In addition, a training day was held for directors In 2014 a detailed questionnaire was prepared by the on24March 2014 in Frankfurt, Germany, which covered Company Secretary and distributed to directors for their corporate governance topics including inside information feedback regarding the Boards performance and and compliance with the Companies Act 2006, the Listing effectiveness.
The directors were asked to provide their Rules and the Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
views on a range of subjects, including multiple questions in four principal areas: leadership, effectiveness, In response to requests from directors, a training day was accountability and engagement.
also organised for 19 March 2015 and covered business andgovernance topics including but not limited to: i crisis Key findings and action items coming out of the management: ii self evaluation of directors performance: self-evaluation include the following: and iii regulatory updates.
&HUWDLQ GLUHFWRUV IHOW WKDW PDWHULDOV IRU FRQVLGHUDWLRQ E Shareholder engagement the Board in Board meetings had not been distributed Nostrum is in regular contact with its shareholders.
sufficiently in advance of meetings and that Weregularly issue press releases, we attend investor communication between Board meetings could be conferences globally and our quarterly, half-yearly and improved.
The Company has entered into a contract annual results are always followed by an investor call.
We with an external service provider for the creation of are available for shareholder meetings with management a board portal designed to improve the efficiency of and welcome enquiries.
We are continually reacting to the information-sharing process and timeliness of the feedback to ensure our communications are in line with distribution of Board materials and other information requests.
Extensive information is available on our website, andprovide an additional platform for communication where shareholders or those with an interest in the between directors.
Group can log their details to receive email updates.
All shareholders are encouraged to attend the AGM to discuss 2QH GLUHFWRU VXJJHVWHG WKDW WKH &RPSDQ V ULVN management and internal control systems function could the progress of the Group.
The Company hired an Internal Audit Availability of the relevant corporate governance code Manager in 2014 who is responsible for this function, The UK Corporate Governance Code is publicly available which includes providing the Board with quarterly internal on the website of the UK Financial Reporting Council.
In addition, the hiring of an internal audit manager at the level of the Companys principal operating UK Corporate Governance Code Compliance company has been adopted as an action item for 2015.
Nostrum complied throughout 2014 with the provisions ofthe Code, except in the following aspects: 7KHUH ZDV D VXJJHVWLRQ WKDW WKH &RPSDQ GHYHORS PRUH formally agreed goals and objectives for the review and A.
3.1 The chairman does not meet the independence monitoring of managements performance.
This has criteria set out in B.
1.1 of the Code, in part given his been adopted as an action item for 2015. executive position in the Company.
Companies owned andcontrolled by the chairman acquired the Groups Director induction and training assetsoutright in 2004 and the chairman has been a Each individual joining the Board receives a full, formal leading driver behind the successful development of the induction package with materials on the Groups business business since that date.
As such, the other members of the and operational, financial and legal matters.
They also Board consider that the chairmans continued involvement participate in discussions with members of the Board and as an executive director is important for the future of the representatives of major shareholders in order to obtain a business, given the chairmans experience and expertise good understanding of the challenges and opportunities inthe development of the Groups oil and gas assets faced by the Group.
Directors are often given the inKazakhstan.
opportunity to discuss their training and development needs and to make recommendations to the chairman regarding topics on which they would like to receive training.
Additional disclosures Regulatory information Financial report Corporate governance Strategic report 72 Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC Annual Report 2014 Corporate governance Corporate governance approach continued Introduction B.
1.2 Given that the chairman fulfils an executive role The committees are provided with all necessary resources andPiet Everaert and Pankaj Jain are not categorised as to enable them to undertake their duties in an effective independent directors as a result of having been nominated manner.
The company secretary acts as secretary to the by Claremont Holdings C. V. Claremont and Mayfair committees.
The minutes of the committee meetings are Investments B. V. Mayfair, respectively, five of the nine circulated to all directors.
directors on the Board are not considered independent for Meetings of the Board and its committees are scheduled the purposes of the Code.
Mayfair, whilst not considered for March, May, August and November each year.
Directors independent for the purposes of the Code, is independent unable to attend a Board meeting because of another of the other shareholders in the Company.
Mayfair has engagement are provided with the briefing materials and noalignment with any other major shareholder and hence can discuss issues arising in the meeting with the chairman Mayfairs nominee to the Board is considered to be or the chief executive.
In addition to scheduled Board independent in character and judgement with no meetings, there are generally other ad hoc meetings called relationships that directly affect his judgement and no to deal with specific matters as and when they arise.
single group is therefore able to exercise majority influence over the Board as a whole.
Attendance at meetings of the Board and its committees inthe 2014 financial year: In order to provide additional protections to the Company Audit Remuneration Nomination in respect of these areas of non-compliance with the Code, Board Committee Committee Committee in 2014 the Company entered into relationship agreements A B A B A B A B with each of Claremont and KazStroyService Global B. V. Executive directors KSS Global.
On 30 January 2015 Mayfair an affiliate Frank Monstrey 7 7 1 1 ofKSS Global acquired 48,333,300 ordinary shares in the Kai-Uwe Kessel 7 7 Company from KSS Global and pursuant to a deed of Jan-Ru Muller 7 7 adherence of the same date undertook to the Company Non-executive directors tobe bound by the terms of the relationship agreement previously signed between the Company and KSS Global Eike von der 1,4 Linden 6 6 4 4 2 2 1 1 and to observe and perform all of the provisions and 4 Piet Everaert 6 6 2 2 obligations of such relationship agreement in so far as 4 Atul Gupta 6 4 4 2 theyfall to be observed or performed on or after the date 4 of the transfer.
Pankaj Jain 6 3 2,4 Mark Martin 6 6 2 2 Policies Sir Christopher The Company has adopted a share dealing code, which 3,4 Codrington, Bt.
6 5 4 4 2 2 1 1 incorporates the Model Code as published in the Listing A Total number of meetings the director was eligible to attend.
Rules and applies to the directors, senior management B Total number of meetings the director did attend.
andother relevant employees of the Group.
1 Chairman of the Audit Committee.
2 Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Bribery and corruption are significant risks in the oil and gas 3 Chairman of the Nomination and Governance Committee.
industry and as such the Company operates a group-wide 4 Appointed as non-executive director of Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC on 19 May 2014. anti-bribery and corruption policy, which applies to all Group employees and contractor staff.
The policy requires annual bribery and corruption risk assessments: risk-based due diligence on all parties with whom the Company does business: appropriate anti-bribery and corruption clauses in contracts: and the training of personnel in anti-bribery and corruption measures.
In addition, the Companys code of conduct requires that employees or others working on behalf of the Company do not engage in bribery or corruption in any form.
In addition, the Company has adopted a whistle-blowing policy that takes account of the Whistle-blowing Arrangements Code of Practice issued by the British The Corporate governance approach has been approved Standards Institute and Public Concern at Work.
by the Board Board Committees The Board has a nomination and governance committee, an audit committee and a remuneration committee.
Further details on each of these committees can be found in their reports on pages 74 to 91.
The terms of reference of each of these committees can be found on ourwebsite at Kai-Uwe Kessel Jan-Ru Muller http: www.
Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer 24 March 2015 24 March 2015 Annual Report 2014 Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC 73 Additional disclosures Regulatory information Financial report Corporate governance Strategic report
