Report of the Nomination Committee Membership and attendance The members of the Nomination Committee, together with details of their individual attendance at meetings held during the year ended 31 December 2014, are set out below: Meeting Committee members attendance Nicholas Smith Committee Chairman 4 4 Nicholas Smith, Nick Cooper 3 4 Nomination Committee Ronald Blakely 4 4 Chairman Lyndon Powell 4 4 The Board considers a majority of the members of the Committee who served during the year to be independent, including the Chairman of the Report of the Nomination Board, who was independent on appointment.
There were no changes CommitteeChairman to the Committees membership during the year.
Lyndon Powell will step down from the Committee on retiring from the Board at the conclusion Dear Shareholder of the 2015 AGM.
Elsewhere in the Annual Report we have set out the Companys Role and responsibilities of the Nomination Committee strategic objectives and discussed the changing commercial During 2014, the Committee reviewed its Terms of Reference to ensure environment in which we operate and the associated risks.
The Terms of Reference of the Committee With these contexts in mind, the principal role of the Nomination are available on the Companys website at www.
com Committee is to ensure the Board has the right balance of skills, about-us board-committees nomination and are fully compliant experience, independence and knowledge of the Company to with section B.
ensure the future success of the Company.
This involves more than just filling vacancies as they arise.
The composition is Appointment of Chief Operating Officer continually considered by the Committee to ensure it is fit for During the period under review, the Committee together with the purpose now and in the future.
Chief Executive Officer worked with Preng & Associates, an executive search agency, in its search for suitable candidates for the role of In view of this, there were three areas of focus for the Committee Chief Operating Officer.
Preng & Associates has no other connection during 2014.
Restructuring the executive management team at with the Company.
Board level: undertaking a search process for the newly-created role of Chief Operating Officer: and recommending to the Board An appropriate job description and requisite skills for the role were on its composition.
first agreed with the Committee and the Chief Executive Officer which led to a short list of suitable candidates being recommended.
Nicholas Smith The candidates identified from the search were interviewed and met Nomination Committee Chairman with each member of the Board.
Owing to his extensive experience 18 March 2015 in global exploration and having recently served as a Chief Executive Officer of Mediterranean Oil & Gas plc, the Committee recommended to the Board that Bill Higgs be appointed as Chief Operating Officer with effect from 10 September 2014.
On appointment to the Board, Bill Higgs was provided with a formal induction programme tailored to his role as Chief Operating Officer of the Company.
This included visits to the Tanzania and Perth offices to understand the drilling 64 Ophir Energy plc Governance Financial Supplementary Strategic report report statements information operations, attending investor roadshows, Board strategy meetings, of Carol Bell as a Non-Executive Director of the Company on and also attendance at offsite Leadership events.
She will stand for election to the Board at the 2015 Bill Higgs was provided with background information concerning AGM.
An external search firm was not used as the appointment the Group to assist his understanding of the nature of the Company, was recommended to preserve the knowledge and understanding its business and the markets in which it operates.
Details of Board of Salamander and its operations amongst the Board.
procedures and other governance-related matters were also provided Succession planning as part of his induction process.
The Committee assessed succession planning of the Executive Board composition Directors during 2014.
The Committee agrees that the Company This year, in the context of the appointment of the Chief Operating has good internal candidates to succeed in more senior roles as the Officer, the management of costs and the senior resource available Company continues to grow.
The formal Board Evaluation undertaken below Board level, the Board focused on the level of Executive leadership in 2014 highlighted the increasing importance of succession planning that should be represented on the Board going forward.
It concluded at Board level to ensure the Companys future success and continuity that there was sufficient financial and strategic experience on the of talent.
This will be an area of focus and a matter for the Committee Board to make it no longer necessary for the roles of Chief Financial to evaluate again in 2015.
In 2016 Nicholas Smith will have served nine Officer and Director of Corporate Strategy to remain as Board positions.
years on the Board and therefore, in line with the Code, Ron Blakely, The Chief Executive Officer was seen as highly competent in his the Senior Independent Director, will be leading a succession planning knowledge of the Companys finances.
He had also previously served process during 2015. as a Chief Financial Officer of a FTSE 250 listed company in the same Diversity policy sector and it was further felt that the skills and experience of some The Board and Committee are committed to equal opportunities of the Non-Executive Directors complemented this.
As part of the in recruitment and succession planning policies and continue to streamlining of the Board, the Committee also evaluated the welcome the current emphasis on diversity in general.
The Company appropriateness of the role of the Director of Corporate Strategy, remains dedicated to encouraging diversity at all levels of the given the evolution of the Company since inception.
The Committee business, acknowledging that a more diverse workforce, with the in its recommendation to the Board agreed that the Board would right mix of skills, experience, culture, ethnicity, nationality, gender be more effective in appointing a Chief Operating Officer, thereby and knowledge can make a valuable contribution to the Company.
resulting in the stepping down of the Director of Corporate Strategy A statement of the Companys policy on diversity is set out in the from the Board in November 2014.
Non-Executive Directors The Committee also has due regard to the benefits of diversity on the With the appointment of Vivien Gibney, Alan Booth and BillSchrader in Board, including gender, but also takes into account other aspects of 2013, together with the skills and experience they bring to the Board, diversity to achieve a proper balance.
When searching for candidates the Committee did not consider it necessary to recommend any for Board positions, the Committee will only use the services of those further Non-Executive Directors to be appointed to the Board during executive search firms who have signed up to the Voluntary Code of the period under review.
Conduct for Executive Search Firms as recommended by Lord Davies However, as part of the completion of the acquisition of Salamander Report.
The overriding criterion is always, however, merit.
Energy plc, the Committee considered the effectiveness and value of The Committee stresses that Board appointments are majorly based appointing Dr Carol Bell to the Board.
Her relevant skills and experience on the contribution each member brings to the Board and not to in the oil & gas sector and continuity of knowledge surrounding the merely satisfy any prescribed quota requirements.
As at the date business of and the assets held by Salamander Energy plc were regarded of this report, women constitute 22% of the Board.
The Board hopes as highly desirable.
Following due consideration, the Committee to retain or improve this level in the future.
recommended, and the Board in turn approved, the appointment Annual Report and Accounts 2014 65
