Report of the Audit Committee Report of the Audit Committee Chairman Dear Shareholder Im very pleased to report to shareholders on the focus and deliberations of the Audit Committee for the past year.
Ronald Blakely, The membership of the Committee during 2014 has remained Audit Committee constant after a number of changes witnessed in prior years.
Chairman Bill Schrader and Alan Booth have now served since their respective appointments in 2013, bringing a strong commercial and operational acumen to the Committee.
Membership and attendance The members of the Committee, all of whom are independent Last year, I outlined areas of the Committees focus, which was Non-Executive Directors, together with details of their individual directed at strengthening the internal control framework within attendance at meetings held during the year ended 31 December the Company.
An internal 2014, are set out below: audit function was appointed via a third party service provider, Meeting Mazars LLP, and has now been in operation for a full year.
The Audit Committee members attendance Committee receives regular internal audit updates and Mazars Ronald Blakely Committee Chairman 3 3 attend all Committee meetings.
Another milestone achieved by Alan Booth 3 3 the Company was the implementation of a new financial system Bill Schrader 3 3 in 2014 which will serve to provide many benefits, such as the use John Lander resigned from the Committee on leaving the Board on 28 February 2014. of automated controls thereby eliminating a high dependency No Committee meetings were held in the year before his retirement from the Board.
As the Company grows in size and complexity, the new system will allow more efficient data flows, The Board considers all members of the Committee to be independent better management of information and reporting across the and that, as Chairman, Ronald Blakely has recent and relevant Group and a much improved control environment.
financial experience and competence in accounting as required by section C. 3.1 of the Code and section 7.1.
1 of the Disclosure In addition to the foregoing, the Committee, in support of the Board, and Transparency Rules, respectively.
The Chief Executive Officer, conducted two reviews of IT infrastructure security.
Given the growing Director of Finance, and representatives of the external auditor risks associated with cyber attacks and the geographical spread of the and internal auditor attend Committee meetings on a regular basis.
Companys infrastructure, several improvements were implemented In addition, the Group Financial Controller and Company Secretary to strengthen IT systems security both internally and to the external may be invited to attend all or part of Committee meetings as required.
In the coming year, it is planned to further test the Companys The external auditor also met with the Committee on several occasions ability to withstand security breaches through the use of third parties throughout the year without executive management being present.
that specialise in simulating cyber attacks.
This area of activity will continue to remain of focus to the Board.
Role and responsibilities of the Audit Committee During 2014, the Committee reviewed its objectives and Terms of Through the two external reporting periods related to the 2014 Reference to ensure that they remained appropriate.
The Committees accounts, the Committees focus, in consultation with management full Terms of Reference are available on the Companys website at and the external auditors, was essentially on the same accounting www.
com about-us board-committees audit and matters as in prior years, namely asset impairments and going are fully compliant with section C. 3.2 of the Code.
The outcomes of these deliberations are described in detail in the full report that follows this letter.
I would only highlight the 56 Ophir Energy plc Governance Financial Supplementary Strategic report report statements information Areas of focus in 2014 Financial Reporting including going concern 43% External Audit 18% Risk and Internal Control 16% Internal Audit 18% Other 5% Financial reporting additional steps taken as part of the final review of the financial The Committee has the responsibility of assessing the integrity of statements which involved testing the near-term liquidity of the the financial statements of the Company on behalf of the Board.
Company incorporating Salamander Energy plc into the going The Committees approach to achieving this includes ensuring concern assessment, given the recent acquisition of Salamander appropriate accounting standards are applied, reviewing in depth in early 2015.
This will provide the Company with a revenue stream any material areas where accounting judgements have been used for the first time since inception.
However, long-term solvency of and or new accounting policies or procedures have been applied.
the Company will remain dependant on one of: monetising assets In addition, the Committee reviews and assesses the Annual Report from exploration success: securing further capital from financial to determine whether it can advise the Board that, taken as a whole, markets: or acquiring more revenue producing assets.
the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable and provides shareholders with the information they need to assess the Companys During the course of the year, steps have been taken to assess the performance, business model and strategy as required by provision effectiveness of the external auditor which are detailed later as part C. 1.1 of the Code.
The Committee considers the external auditors of this report.
I have personally maintained regular communication proposed approach to their review of the interim results and their audit with EY LLP throughout the year both in London and from the Groups of the full-year financial statements, to ensure that the scope of relevant other operating locations to discuss their various audit activities.
review or audit was appropriate.
The Committee also reviewed and Proactive measures have been taken in the past year to reduce discussed the external auditors report on the full and half-year financial the use of non-audit services from EY.
However, one area with prior results with EY LLP, prior to agreeing to recommend each set of financial approval by the Committee, was the use of EY services beyond the statements and associated reports to the Board for approval.
defined audit role of the Reporting Accountant, concerning certain One of the more significant areas of accounting judgement is the matters relating to the Prospectus and Shareholder Circular for carrying value of capitalised exploration and evaluation expenditure the Salamander acquisition.
Here the Committee concluded that to ensure that expenditure is appropriately expensed to the P&L should it would be considerably more expensive and take much longer to impairments arise.
Impairment reviews are undertaken by the Company use an alternate firm, not previously familiar with the preparation in accordance with IFRS 6 and assessed by the Committee.
If necessary, of the Companys financial statements.
the Committee can receive advice from the Technical Advisory Committee, Looking ahead to 2015, a major focus of the Audit Committee will and in 2014 did so regarding the most appropriate level of impairment be on the integration of Salamanders operations with those of Ophir.
The external auditor also reports on this It is well understood and our plans recognise that the integration most prominent area of accounting risk to the Audit Committee and activities, particularly financial reporting integration, introduce the Committee has been satisfied that exploration has been treated elevated risk to the Company, which will be closely followed.
in the correct and consistent way in the financial statements.
My last comment is directed at the transition of finance staff during Impairment review the year.
Lisa Mitchell, formerly Chief Financial Officer, stood down A significant area recognised by the Committee as subject to from the Board as part of the re-structuring in October.
On behalf management judgement is the determination of impairments of the Committee I wish to acknowledge and thank Lisa for her of the Groups exploration and evaluation assets.
The Committee contribution in progressing the professional standards of the received a report from management on the status of each asset Groups finance function during her tenure.
and along with their technical, as well as commercial knowledge and expertise on the assets, challenged management on their proposed Ronald Blakely impairment recommendations.
Accordingly, the Committee reviewed Audit Committee Chairman each of the Groups assets for impairment in accordance with IFSR6 18 March 2015 and concluded that full impairment of certain of the Groups Tanzania assets was appropriate given the outcome of Groups 2014 drilling programme and the Groups future plans for those assets.
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 57 Report of the Audit Committee continued Additionally, the Committee reviewed the carrying value of the External Auditor Groups remaining assets and either ascertained that, given the In 2013 the Committee decided, in accordance with best practice, Groups future plans the carrying values of those assets were more that the Companys external audit services should be put out to than supported by the underlying fair value of the assets, or that tender, as EY had been the Companys auditor since Ophirs inception impairment was appropriate.
As reported in last years Annual Report, having carried out a thorough tender process, the Committee concluded that, on balance, Going concern assessment there was not a compelling case to engage a new auditor.
An important element of review by the Committee is the appropriateness of preparing the accounts on a going concern The Committee has approved the Companys policy governing the basis.
The Committee receives a report setting out the going concern provision of audit and non-audit services provided by the auditor and review undertaken by management which forms the basis of the their associates.
The policy clearly identifies permitted and prohibited Boards going concern conclusions.
The going concern review includes services and sets out the procedure to be followed for the approval of consideration of forecast plans and supporting assumptions, as well all audit and non-audit services.
All engagements with an expected as the options available to the Company for obtaining additional fee in excess of $100,000 require the prior approval of the Committee.
funding, such as portfolio management and equity.
As portfolio The Committee reviews statements on the independence and objectivity management is a key strategic activity of the Company there is of the external auditor at least twice a year in order to satisfy itself a regular review of the financial impacts and flexibility available to that independence and objectivity have been met.
At both full and half-year, the Committee agreed that is satisfied that there are no relationships between the Company the Companys financial position was such that it continued to be and the auditor, its employees or its affiliates that may reasonably appropriate for the accounts to be prepared on a going concern basis.
be thought to impair the auditors objectivity and independence.
The Company adds value through its ability to find, develop and During the year ended 31 December 2014 the Company committed eventually monetise early stage oil and gas assets, which invariably expenditure of $411,000 on audit services 2013: $435,000 and are non-revenue generating.
It follows from this that the principal $601,000 on non-audit work 2013: $722,000.
The non-audit work focus of the Committee, when considering the financial reporting undertaken by EY related to audit-related assurance services and of the Company, is to ensure that the exploration expenditure corporate finance services and these fees were reviewed and approved commitments of the Company are appropriately funded.
by the Committee under the terms of the policy.
Further details This results in major focus being placed on forward spending plans as to the nature of the services provided are set out in note 6 to the and working capital models as much as retrospective scrutiny of consolidated financial statements.
There is no limitation of liability financial reporting.
Prior to approving both the full-year financial in the terms of appointment of EY as auditor to the Company.
statements for 2013 and the interim financial statements for Effectiveness of external auditor 2014, the Committee considered the Companys forward plans To assess the effectiveness of the external audit process, the external for fund-raising and drilling commitments being the most significant auditor provides information on the steps they have taken to ensure forward financial commitments that the Company makes as part objectivity and independence, including in relation to the provision of its assessment of the going concern basis of preparation of of any non-audit services.
The Committee monitors the external the accounts further detail on the going concern statement is auditors performance, behaviour and effectiveness during the set out on page 68.
Additionally this year with the completion exercise of their duties, and this informs the Committees decision of the acquisition of Salamander Energy plc on 2 March 2015 the on whether or not they should recommend reappointment on an Committee took additional steps in assessing going concern for annual basis.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee meets with the 2014 accounts.
the Companys audit partner at EY, apart from formal scheduled meetings, between three to four times during the year to discuss matters of process, relationships between the country audit teams 58 Ophir Energy plc Governance Financial Supplementary Strategic report report statements information as well as review of plans and completion progress.
Further comfort and to undertake further asset visits to some of the Companys was provided by the 2013 external audit tender process, which main operational offices.
provided considerable opportunity to compare points of auditor Risk management and internal controls effectiveness between firms.
The Board has delegated its responsibility for monitoring the Re-appointment of external auditor Companys system of internal control and for reviewing its The Committee has reviewed the independence and effectiveness effectiveness on a continual basis to the Committee.
of EY and is satisfied they have remained independent throughout The Companys system of internal control is designed to safeguard the year.
The Committee has recommended to the Board that the the Companys assets and to ensure the reliability of financial re-appointment of EY as the Companys auditor is proposed to information for internal and external use.
Any system of control shareholders at the AGM in May 2015. can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that assets Internal audit are safeguarded, transactions are correctly authorised and recorded As reported last year, in 2013 the Committee agreed that the and that any material errors and irregularities are detected within a Company had reached the stage of its development where it was reasonable timeframe.
The Companys internal controls are therefore appropriate to appoint an internal auditor.
It was agreed that initially designed to manage, rather than to eliminate, risk, recognising that the role of internal auditor could be on an outsourced basis and not all risks can be eliminated and the cost of control procedures following a detailed tender process, the Company appointed Mazars should not exceed the expected benefits.
An internal audit needs assessment was conducted in the first The Committee regularly reviews the effectiveness of the Companys quarter of 2014 which focused on the Companys objectives and system of internal controls which covers financial, operational and operational risks to the business over a three-year period.
To ensure risk management processes.
Lines of responsibility have been the effectiveness of the function, the Committee reviewed and clearly defined and a delegated authority schedule approved and approved the 2014 Internal Audit Plan.
The Committee considers the draft papers prepared by Mazars LLP during the period under review included: for the annual review of effectiveness of the risk management review and control testing of a new accounting system procedures adopted by the Company prior to being submitted implemented during the year: to the Board for approval.
review of the payroll system function: and The Company operates a risk management process under which review of processes and control surrounding the treasury function.
significant risks are identified, their likelihood and impact considered Additionally in December 2014, Internal Audit undertook its first asset and actions taken to manage those risks.
The Committee also review in Libreville, Gabon.
The purpose of this review was to assess receives regular updates on operational risks from the Corporate the management of key operational activities and to establish Responsibility Committee.
The Committee reviews the Companys whether these were in accordance with the Groups policies and risks every six months prior to a Board review, from which particular procedures and were effective, both in terms of design and operation.
risks may be identified for further detailed presentation and discussion The scope of this review included financial controls, governance at the Board meetings.
In particular, during 2014 the Committee met frameworks, compliance, information systems including disaster with the Executives responsible for evaluating country risks and IT recovery and business continuity plans and human resources.
risks and cyber security and reviewed the respectively policies on The findings from the review will be followed up during 2015 and them.
The principal risks identified by the Company are set out on reported to the Audit Committee.
Key actions to be undertaken as part of the internal audit plan in The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the internal control 2015 include reviewing risk management controls and processes, systems in operation during the financial year and, where necessary an assessment of Production Sharing Contract PSC compliance and appropriate, action has been taken to remedy any identified Annual Report and Accounts 2014 59 Report of the Audit Committee continued failings or weaknesses.
The following illustrates how the risk management Anti-bribery and whistleblowing process and the system of internal control operated during 2014: The main emphasis during the year has been the development and roll-out of an improved online system for conducting due diligence Matter Action on third parties with whom we do business.
This online programme Establishment During the year management implemented the enhances our ability to identify risks and captures the analysis of those of a single introduction of an improved financial accounting risks, as well as approval decisions at the management level.
Another fully-integrated system so that there was an integrated and area of focus has been on the development of an enhanced due accounting auditable authorisation process for procurement.
diligence process for high-risk new business partners and opportunities.
system The Committee closely monitored the process and The Company is committed to the highest standards of business conduct any risks in the transition to the new system and and has adopted a whistleblowing hotline to support the achievement any undue delays in implementation.
All Company staff are encouraged to raise concerns with Schedule of Management had undertaken its annual their line manager initially or, alternatively, the Compliance Officer delegated review of the Groups delegation of authority.
who is the General Counsel, Lyndon Powell Independent Non-Executive authority Appropriate modifications and improvements Director, or the Director of HR.
Concerns are carefully considered in to the authority levels were made to reflect order to decide what action, if any, should be taken.
For those who the Groups current operations.
do not wish to raise a concern within the Company, they may report it through Safecall, an independent company which provides an alternative Year-end A formal process exists for year-end risk method of reporting concerns, using specially trained call operators.
compliance management compliance reporting, requiring The service is available 24 7 for all staff as well as business partners.
the Executive Directors together with the It also allows for anonymous reporting.
The Company will not tolerate senior management team to confirm their any retaliation or victimisation against anyone who has raised a responsibilities for risk management and concern in good faith.
Ultimate compliance reporting is required from each Boardmember.
During the year ended 31 December 2014, no whistleblowing issues wereraised.
Internal audit The internal audit function has been formalised function during the year.
A partner of Mazars LLP attends all meetings of the Committee and reports to the Director of Finance and has direct access to the Executive Directors and the Chairman of the Committee.
