Board of Directors The Board brings a broad range of skills and experience to the Company, across the oilandgas industry, commercial and financial sectors and capital markets.
Name Nicholas Smith Dr Nick Cooper Dr William Bill Higgs Ronald Blakely and title Chairman of the Board Executive Director & Executive Director & Senior Independent Chief Executive Officer Chief Operating Officer Non-Executive Director Biography Nicholas Smith was appointed Dr Nick Cooper was appointed Dr Bill Higgs was appointed as Ronald Blakely was appointed as a as a Non-Executive Director in as an Executive Director and Chief an Executive Director and Chief Non-Executive Director in July 2011 October 2007 and as Chairman Executive Officer in June 2011.
Operating Officer on 10 September and as Senior Independent Director in September 2009.
He is a member Nick Cooper is a member of the 2014.
Bill Higgs is a member of the in February 2013.
He is Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee.
of the Audit Committee and a and Chairman of the Nomination to joining Ophir, he was Chief He has over 25 years of global member of the Remuneration and Committee.
Nicholas Smith trained Financial Officer and co-founder exploration, development and Nomination Committees.
Ronald as a chartered accountant before of Salamander Energy plc.
operations experience, the majority Blakely spent over 38 years working joining the Jardine Fleming Group, He began his career as a with Chevron Corporation.
His roles for Royal Dutch Shell companies.
becoming Chief Financial Officer geophysicist with BG and Amoco at Chevron included Senior Vice On his retirement in October 2008, from 1993 to 1997.
He is Chairman before joining Booz-Allen & President of Operations for Saudi he held the role of Executive Vice of Aberdeen New Thai Investment Hamilton.
From 1999 to 2005, Arabia Chevron, Reservoir Manager President Global Downstream Trust plc and Senior Independent he was a member of the oil and for Tengizchevroil in Kazakhstan, Finance, while previous roles Director of Schroder AsiaPacific gas team at Goldman Sachs.
Asset Manager for the BBLT included CFO of Shell Oil Products Fund plc.
In September 2014 Nick Cooper development in Block 14 Angola in the USA and CFO of Shell Canada.
was appointed as Non-Executive and General Manager for Strategy Ronald Blakely is a member of Director of Siccar Point Energy for Chevron Corporation.
In his time the Society of Management Limited.
Dr Nick Cooper has a BSc at Chevron he was also a member Accountants of Alberta, Canada.
and PhD in Geophysical Sciences of the Corporate Reserves Audit and an MBA from INSEAD.
Committee and the Decision Review Boards for the Gorgon and Wheatstone LNG developments in Australia.
Before joining Ophir, he was Chief Executive Officer of Mediterranean Oil & Gas plc acquired by Rockhopper Exploration plc.
Dr Bill Higgs has a BSc in Geological Sciences from the University of Leeds and a PhD in Structural Geology from the University of Wales.
Year appointed 2007 2011 2014 2011 Committee Nomination Committee Chairman, Nomination Committee Technical Advisory Committee Audit Committee Chairman, Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee, membership Remuneration Committee 48 Ophir Energy plc Governance Financial Supplementary Strategic report report statements information Other Officers of the Company Directors who retired or resigned during the reporting period Chandrika Kher John Lander Position Company Secretary and Committees Secretary Position Non-Executive Director Appointed March 2014 Retired 28 February 2014 Lisa Mitchell Position Executive Director and Chief Financial Officer Stepped down 17 October 2014 Dennis McShane Position Executive Director of Corporate Strategy Stepped down 4 November 2014 Dr Carol Bell Alan Booth Vivien Gibney Lyndon Powell William Bill Schrader Independent Independent Independent Independent Independent Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Dr Carol Bell has over 30 years of Alan Booth was appointed as a Vivien Gibney was appointed Lyndon Powell was appointed Bill Schrader was appointed experience in the energy industry Non-Executive Director in April as a Non-Executive Director in as a Non-Executive Director in as a Non-Executive Director in having enjoyed a successful career 2013.
He is the Chairman of the August 2013.
She is the Chairman October 2007.
He is a member in the City, most recently as a Technical Advisory Committee of the Remuneration Committee spent the majority of his career in of the Audit, Corporate Responsibility Managing Director of Chase and member of the Remuneration, and member of the Corporate the armed services, gaining a wide and Technical Advisory Committees.
Manhattan Banks Global Oil Corporate Responsibility and Responsibility Committee.
Vivien spectrum of experience in operational Bill Schrader has over 30 years & Gas Group, Dr Carol Bell currently Audit Committees.
Alan Booth has Gibney has 25 years experience as and strategic management.
This experience working at BP plc, sits on the Boards at Petroleum 30 years experience in oil and gas counsel in the upstream oil and gas included providing protection to the including as Chief Executive Geo-Services ASA, Bonheur ASA exploration at Amerada Hess, Oryx industry, including roles with Mobil Foreign & Commonwealth Office of several country operations, and Ganger Rolf ASA and until Energy and Encana.
Most recently, Oil and Enterprise Oil plc.
Whilst at and commanding several major as President of the Azerbaijan completion of the transaction, Alan Booth was Founder and Chief Enterprise Oil, Vivien Gibney set up units.
He is a director and owner International Operating Company was a Non-Executive Director at Executive Officer of EnCore Oil plc the legal department and held of Barbican Global Ltd, specialising and as Chief Operating Officer Salamander Energy plc.
She is also and is now the Founder and Director the positions of General Counsel, in providing independent security of TNK-BP.
In December 2014 a Non-Executive Director of the of EnCounter Oil Ltd. Alan Booth Company Secretary and Head advice to the corporate sector.
Bill Schrader was appointed BlackRock Commodities Income is a Non-Executive Director of of HR.
Vivien Gibney has held a Lyndon Powell was Chairman of the Non-Executive Director of CHC Investment Trust plc and sits on InfraStrata plc.
Alan Booth holds a number of Non-Executive Board Corporate Responsibility Committee Group Ltd, he is also Non-Executive the board of Finance Wales, the BSc in Geology from the University positions in the voluntary sector and and a member of the Remuneration Chairman of Bahamas Petroleum venture capital arm of the Welsh of Nottingham and MSc.
in listed companies More recently, and Nomination Committees until Company plc and Non-Executive Government.
Dr Bell holds an MA in Petroleum Geology from the she was a member of the Board his retirement from the Board at the Director of the Hess Corporation.
in natural sciences from the Royal School Mines, Imperial of Directors of Encore Oil plc where AGM on 20 May 2015.
Bill Schrader holds a BSc in Chemical University of Cambridge and a College.
He is a former president she chaired the Remuneration Engineering from the University PhD in Archaeology from University of the UK Offshore Operators Committee.
Vivien Gibney is a of Cincinnati and an MBA from College London.
Dr Carol Bell is a Association UKOOA and currently barrister with an LL.
B. and received the University of Houston.
trustee of the Renewable Energy a director of the Oil and Gas an Honorary Fellowship in Petroleum Foundation a UK think tank Independents Association OGIA.
law from the University of Dundee.
the National Museum of Wales, The Wales Millennium Centre, The British School at Athens, and the Institute for Archaeometallurgical studies.
She is also a member of the S4C Authority and the Council of Cardiff University.
2015 2013 2013 2007 2013 Technical Advisory Committee Remuneration Committee Corporate Responsibility Committee Corporate Responsibility Chairman, Audit Committee, Chairman, Corporate Chairman, Nomination Committee, Audit Committee, Remuneration Committee, Responsibility Committee Committee, Remuneration Technical Advisory Committee Corporate Responsibility Committee Committee Annual Report and Accounts 2014 49
